02.22.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C. – The Trump administration issued a final new rule today aimed at barring health care clinics that provide abortion services from participating in a $236 million federal family-planning program, known as Title X. The newly finalized rule not only prohibits health care clinics that receive Title X funds from providing abortion services, it also prohibits them from even referring a patient to receive such services. It’s the latest in a series of attacks on women’s reproductive rights by the Trump administration, which has long stated its ultimate goal of ending legal abortion in the U.S. The rule’s most immediate effects would be felt by groups such as Planned Parenthood, which currently receives about $60 million a year from the Title X program, but would no longer receive any federal funding from the program if it doesn’t agree to stop providing abortion care. Immediately after the rule was announced, leaders of the Congressional Pro-Choice Caucus – U.S. Reps. Diana DeGette (D-CO) and Barbara Lee (D-CA) – issued a joint statement condemning the rule and blasting the White House for inserting itself between providers and their patients. “This is a gag rule, plain and simple,” DeGette and Lee said. “And it’s being put in place by an administration determined to stop providers from even using the word abortion when talking to their patients. The White House has no business censoring what a doctor says to their patients. Despite being touted as a political win by this administration and its supporters determined to eliminate women’s reproductive rights, this rule will do irreparable harm to millions of women and families across the county by limiting their access to safe, comprehensive reproductive health services.” Title X is the nation’s only federally funded family planning program, and opponents of the Trump’s administration’s new rule argue that it will undermine health care access to the four million women, men and children who receive their health care at centers that receive Title X funding. As a result of the administration’s newly finalized rule, any clinic that continues providing abortions, discussing abortion as an option, or referring a patient elsewhere to receive such services will no longer be eligible to receive grant funding through the Title X program. Opponents of the rule say it will force health care providers, who treat underserved communities nationwide, to choose between continued federal funding or helping women exercise their constitutionally-protected rights to reproductive choice. They also argue it will disproportionately hurt minority populations because the majority of patients who receive care at a Title X-funded center are low income or people of color. Among the groups who have publicly voiced opposition to the changes are some of the most prominent health care groups in the country – including the American Medical Association, the American Academy of Family Physicians, the American Academy of Pediatrics, the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists, American College of Nurse-Midwives, and the American College of Physicians. Also opposed are hundreds of federal, state and local elected officials, including more than 200 members of Congress, 15 governors, 13 Attorneys Generals, 80 mayors and 274 state Legislators. Title X was established in 1971 to ensure that all women in the country have access to birth control and other family planning services. Each year, roughly four million people rely on Title X-funded health centers for basic preventive health care such as Pap tests, breast exams and HIV tests. While many of the changes announced today by the administration won’t take effect for at least another 60 days, several Congressional committee leaders are already working closely with members of the Congressional Pro-Choice Caucus to determine what Congress can do to block the new rule from taking effect.
02.15.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (D-CO) sponsored legislation filed today to ban the sale, manufacture or possession of any new military-style assault weapons. The legislation – known as the Assault Weapons Ban of 2019 (H.R.1296) – would ban 205 specific firearms by name, including the AK47 and AR-15 assault rifles. It would also ban any semi-automatic rifle, pistol or shotgun that accepts a detachable magazine and has one or more “military-style” features, such as a pistol grip, threaded barrel or folding stock. “With Democrats once again in control of the House, now is the time to enact commonsense gun safety legislation,” DeGette said. “We can’t allow what happened in Aurora, or Columbine, or Parkland, or Newtown, or Las Vegas, to ever happen again. We need to get these assault weapons off of our streets and we need to do it now.” The bill seeks to ban the military-style assault weapons that have been used in some of the nation’s most high-profile mass shootings, such as the AR-15 rifle used by the shooter at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Florida, the Smith & Wesson M&P15 rifle used in Aurora, Colorado, and the Sig Sauer MCX used at the Pulse Nightclub in Orlando. Specifically, the legislation prohibits the sale, transfer, production, and importation of: Semi-automatic rifles and pistols with a military-style feature that can accept a detachable magazine; Semi-automatic rifles with a fixed magazine that can hold more than 10 rounds; Semi-automatic shotguns with a military-style feature; Any ammunition feeding device that can hold more than 10 rounds; And 205 specifically-named and listed firearms. The legislation, however, would not ban the sale, possession or transfer of any semiautomatic weapon that’s lawfully possessed before the bill is signed into law. Research shows that when a shooter uses a military-style assault weapon or a high-capacity magazine that holds more than 10 rounds to carry out one of these horrific attacks, the number of victims who are killed increases substantially. In 1994, Congress passed and President Bill Clinton signed the Federal Assault Weapons Ban, which prohibited the manufacturing of 18 specific semiautomatic weapons, along with the manufacturing of high-capacity magazines that hold more than 10 rounds. That ban, however, expired in 2004 – and Congress has, so far, failed to reenact it. A 2004 study found that gun crimes involving assault weapons declined by as much as 72 percent while the ban was in effect. Another study found that in the 10 years immediately after the ban expired, mass shootings that resulted in the deaths of six or more people increased by 183 percent. The Assault Weapons Ban of 2019 is co-sponsored by 190 members of the U.S. House. It is endorsed by the American Federation of Teachers, Brady Campaign to Prevent Gun Violence, Center for American Progress, Coalition to Stop Gun Violence, March for Our Lives, Newtown Action Alliance, NoRA, and Everytown for Gun Safety.
02.15.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (D-CO) today released the following statement on the president’s decision to declare a national emergency: “Congress did its job when it reached an agreement to fund the government and avoid another government shutdown. The president, on the other hand, did what he has done many times before – that’s ignore the will of the people, abuse his power, and embarrass us in front of the rest of the world. “While I fully support enhancing security at our borders, building this ridiculous wall is not the right solution. And the president’s decision today, to declare a fake national emergency so he can take money away from other important projects and spend it on his wall, is beyond the pale – and, I believe, an abuse of power.”
02.13.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Reps. Diana DeGette (D-CO) and Scott Tipton (R-CO) introduced bipartisan legislation today to make permanent an existing national parks program that allows U.S. fourth-grade students, and their families, to visit any federally-managed parks, lands or waters for free for an entire year. The popular, low-cost program was first established in 2015 by U.S. Department of the Interior to encourage children and their families to visit America’s public lands. In the program’s first year alone, more than two million fourth-grade students downloaded the Every Kid in a Park pass. However, despite its popularity, the program has not yet been established into federal law, making it vulnerable to future budget cuts or the whims of a future administration. If approved, the legislation – known as the “Every Kid Outdoors Act” – would codify the program into law, making it permanent and irrevocable by any future administration. “Children are our future,” DeGette said. “If we’re able to get them more interested in our public lands now, research shows that they are much more likely to become good stewards of these national treasures later on down the road.” “As a life-long resident of Western Colorado, National Parks and Monuments have been the backdrop of countless memories, and I want to make sure that all kids have the same opportunity to experience these treasures,” Tipton said. “Economic barriers should not prevent children and their families from visiting these sites that belong to every one of us.” The Every Kid in a Park program allows U.S. fourth-grade students to print a pass online and present it to a park ranger for free entry into any of the more than 2,000 federally managed lands and waters throughout the nation. The pass also grants free entry to up to three adults and any other children under the age of 16 who are visiting with that fourth-grade student. Research shows that children ages nine to 11 are beginning to learn about the world around them and are most likely to connect with nature and our history. Research also shows that time spent outdoors increase physical and mental health, improves academic performance and encourages public lands stewardship. The pass can be used to enter any of Colorado’s four national parks – Black Canyon of the Gunnison, Great Sand Dunes, Mesa Verde and Rocky Mountain – as well as sixty other nationally designated sites throughout the state. In addition to DeGette and Tipton, the bill is sponsored by Reps. Mike Quigley (D-IL), Elise Stefanik (R-NY), Stephen Lynch (D-MA) and Tom Graves (R-GA). A nearly identical version of the bill was approved by the House last year, by a vote of 383 to 2. That bill, however, was not voted on by the Senate. The bill has the support of the Outdoors Alliance for Kids, Alliance of Childhood, Seed Your Future, National Recreation and Parks Association, National Park Trust, NatureBridge and Wilderness Inquiry. “The Every Kid Outdoors Act is great, low cost way to connect children and their families to America’s parks, forests, refuges and other public lands and waters. The Outdoors Alliance for Kids thanks Representatives DiGette, Tipton, Quigley, Stefanik, Lynch and Graves for their leadership in making this popular program permanent,” said Paul Sanford with the Outdoors Alliance for Kids. “The Alliance for Childhood is thrilled about the reintroduction of the Every Kid Outdoors Act and appreciates the commitment of Congresswoman DeGette and all of the co-sponsors supporting this legislation. This bill will help ensure equitable opportunities for fourth graders to experience active, child-directed play in our natural world. Anchoring the Every Kid in a Park program with legislation will support life changing developmental opportunities for the children who need it most,” said Linda Rhoads with the Alliance for Childhood. “Seed Your Future wholeheartedly supports the Every Kid Outdoors Act, and all programs that encourage kids and families to learn about, enjoy and play together in the natural world. For the next generation to appreciate, preserve and protect our parks – and consider careers in the industry — they need frequent, affordable opportunities to discover the joys of nature. We encourage the swift passage of the EKO Act and continuing the opportunities to connect young people with a world that fosters their creativity, provides physical and mental health benefits, and helps them understand the world that provides life, food and wonder,” said Susan E. Yoder with Seed Your Future. “At NRPA, we believe everyone deserves a great park. That’s why we’re proud to support the ‘Every Kid Outdoors Act,’ which increases access to parks and open space for children nationwide. Thank you to Congress for introducing this important piece of legislation. Increased access to parks provides communities everywhere with greater health and wellness opportunities, and a better understanding of the value of conservation,” said Barbara Tulipane with National Recreation and Park Association. "On behalf of 4th graders and their families across the country, we support the passage of the Every Kid Outdoors Act. Through our national Buddy Bison Program and our work with hundreds of teachers across the country, we have seen first hand how powerful this program is in providing an “access trail” for children, especially those who live in under-resourced communities. These children are our future outdoor enthusiasts and advocates of these important landscapes and historic and cultural sites,” said Grace Lee with National Park Trust. “As the largest residential education partner of the National Park Service, NatureBridge’s mission is to connect young people to the wonder and science of the outdoors. The Every Kid Outdoors Act is an extension of that mission, and we support any opportunity to connect even more kids to the natural world,” said Autumn Saxton-Ross with NatureBridge. “Wilderness Inquiry applauds the reintroduction of the Every Kids Outdoors Act. We know the power of bringing people of all ages, backgrounds, and abilities into our National Parks, and through this legislation thousands of young people will get the opportunity experience these special places firsthand,” said Greg Lais with Wilderness Inquiry.
02.12.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Just days before the one-year anniversary of the tragic mass-shooting that took place at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Florida, a group of federal lawmakers is introducing legislation aimed at preventing another similar attack from occurring elsewhere in the U.S. U.S. Reps. Diana DeGette (D-CO), whose Congressional district includes Columbine High School, and Ted Deutch (D-FL), whose district includes Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School, introduced legislation today that would ban the sale or transfer of any high-capacity magazine that holds more than 10 rounds of ammunition. “It’s past time for Congress to act on commonsense gun safety measures,” DeGette said Tuesday in introducing the bill, “and one of the most commonsense things we can do, right now, is ban these high-capacity magazines that hold more than ten rounds. There is no legitimate reason for anyone, other than law enforcement, to need a semi-automatic assault rifle with a high-capacity magazine.” One common thread found to unite some of the nation’s most high-profile mass shootings in recent years has been the use of high-capacity magazines that hold more than 10 rounds and enable a shooter to fire dozens of rounds without having to stop and reload. Six-and-a-half years ago, for example, at a crowded movie theater in Aurora, Colorado, a gunman carrying a semi-automatic assault rifle with a high-capacity magazine that held 100 rounds, opened fire and killed one dozen people, and injured dozens more. The shooter responsible for killing 20 children at Sandy Hook Elementary in Newtown, Connecticut, and the man who killed 49 people at the Pulse Nightclub in Orlando both, similarly, used assault rifles with high-capacity magazines that held 30 rounds of ammunition each. In 1994, the federal government acted to ban the sale or possession of “large capacity ammunition feeding devices” that held more than 10 rounds. That ban, however, expired in 2004 and Congress has not yet passed legislation to reinstate it. The legislation DeGette and Deutch filed today – known as the “Keep Americans Safe Act” – would reinstate the nation’s ban on the sale, transfer or possession of magazines that hold more than 10 rounds. The legislation, however, would not apply to high-capacity magazines already legally owned before the bill is enacted. It also would not apply to any military or law enforcement officers who use high-capacity magazines in their official capacity.
02.12.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (D-CO) and Sen. Edward J. Markey (D-Mass.) today called on the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to provide documents related to its approval of Dsuvia, a new formulation of the opioid painkiller sufentanil. In their letter, the lawmakers expressed serious concerns about the risk of addiction associated with a supercharged opioid like Dsuvia, as well as with the FDA’s process of approval. There are allegations that the FDA disinvited members of the Drug Safety and Risk Management Advisory Committee to a key meeting in order to make approval more likely. “While we appreciate the FDA’s intent to ensure Dsuvia is administered appropriately, we remain concerned that Dsuvia’s specific properties also make the product highly divertible,” the lawmakers wrote in their letter to FDA Administrator Dr. Scott Gottlieb. “Sufentanil has been known for decades to be diverted in its current intravenous form, and whether administered intravenously or sublingually, it can deliver a potency that has been known to be lethal in small dosages.” Specifically, DeGette, chair of the House Energy and Commerce Committee’s oversight panel, and Markey requested documents that relate to the consideration of Dsuvia’s approval at the Anesthetic and Analgesic Drug Products Advisory Committee, any communications from FDA to any members of the Drug Safety and Risk Management Advisory Committee, and any documents used to conclude that Dsuvia “fills a specific and important, but limited, unmet medical need in treating our nation’s soldiers on the battlefield.” A copy of the lawmakers letter to the FDA can be found HERE.
02.05.2019	Washington, DC – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (D-CO) released the following statement on the president’s State of the Union speech this evening: “What we heard tonight was classic state-of-the-union Trump, who tells everybody what they want to hear. Unfortunately, what we are forced to live with every other day is a president whose actions are doing real harm to our country – from shutting down the government, to ripping families apart at the border, to making it harder for women to get the family planning services they need. “If the president wants to work with Congress to find real solutions to some our nation’s most pressing issues – such as lowering the cost of prescription drugs, improving our infrastructure and creating more jobs – then we are certainly ready to work with him. But if the president is going to stand in front of Congress and say one thing, then turn around and continue to pursue his agenda that involves denying climate change, rolling back our environmental standards and eliminating the Affordable Care Act, then he’s going to have quite a fight on his hands with this new Congress. Congress has a constitutional duty to exercise its oversight responsibility to uphold our system of checks and balances - and I intend to fulfill that responsibility.”
02.04.2019	Washington, DC – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (D-CO), chair of the House oversight panel investigating the Trump administration’s child-separation policy, today announced the full list of witnesses set to testify this week at the committee’s first oversight hearing on the administration’s controversial policy. The hearing, scheduled to take place Thursday, Feb 7, at 10:30am EST in room 2123 of the Rayburn House Office Building, will be DeGette’s first as chair of the House Energy and Commerce Committee’s Oversight and Investigations panel. Among the witnesses set to testify are: Kathryn Larin and Rebecca Gambler, from the U.S. Government Accountability Office (GAO), Ann Maxwell, with the U.S. Dept. of Health and Human Services’ (HHS) Office of Inspector General, and Jonathan White, representing the agency. The list of witnesses comes just days after White, on behalf of HHS, filed a written declaration in federal court Friday in which he admitted that HHS has not even “tried to determine the total number of children separated from a parent or guardian by immigration authorities.” DeGette, who called the stunning admission “inexcusable,” released a written statement Saturday suggesting that White “come prepared to answer some very direct questions” when he appears before the committee this week. “The fact that this administration hasn’t even ‘tried to determine the total number of children separated from a parent or guardian by immigration authorities’ is inexcusable,” DeGette said. “These aren’t just numbers on a page, or names on a list - these are real kids, with real families, who are scared to death. Jonathan White, who wrote this recent report on behalf of the administration, will be appearing before my committee [this] week. I would suggest he come prepared to answer some very direct questions; and is able to explain, in detail, exactly what the administration is doing right now to solve this crisis and get these families back together.” Following is the full list of witnesses set to testify Thursday: Kathryn A. Larin, U.S. Government Accountability Office Rebecca Gambler, U.S. Government Accountability Office Ann Maxwell, U.S. Department of Health and Human Services’ Office of Inspector General Commander Jonathan White, U.S. Department of Health and Human Services Lee Gelernt, American Civil Liberties Union Jennifer Podkul, Kids in Need of Defense Dr. Julie Linton, American Academy of Pediatrics Dr. Cristina Muñiz de la Peña, on behalf of the American Psychological Association Dr. Jack P. Shonkoff, Harvard Medical School. Dona Abbott, Bethany Christian Services
01.31.2019	Washington, DC. – The chairman of the House oversight panel investigating the Trump administration’s child-separation policy, U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (D-CO), announced today that her committee will hold its first hearing on the administration’s controversial policy one week from today. The announcement comes just one day before the U.S. Dept. of Health and Human Services is due to turn over dozens of internal documents to DeGette’s committee as part of its ongoing investigation of the administration’s actions. The hearing, now set to for 10:30 a.m. on Thursday, Feb. 7, will be DeGette’s first as chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee’s Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee, which has direct oversight over HHS. It will also be the first time a House Committee has scheduled to hold a hearing on HHS’s role in carrying out the Trump administration’s controversial policy, despite the enormous public outrage that broke out last year after images of children being separated from their families started appearing on news outlets across the country. “It has been more than eight months since the Trump Administration’s cruel Family Separation Policy first came to light, shocking the nation with images of children who had been torn apart from their parents,” DeGette said in Thursday announcing the hearing date. “Despite the outrage, the previous Republican majority in Congress did nothing to hold this administration accountable for their actions. Well, that sort of Congressional complacency ends next week when we hold our first oversight hearing of this new Congress on the administration’s inhumane treatment of these families.” Next Thursday’s hearing will occur exactly three weeks after the HHS Office of Inspector General released its explosive new report that found there may have been thousands more children separated from their families at the border than previously known, during an influx that began in 2017. One day after that report was released, DeGette sent HHS Acting Secretary Alex Azar a letter demanding his agency turn over a several internal documents detailing the agency’s role in carrying out the administration’s policy. “We are concerned that instead of prioritizing what is in the best interest of the children in HHS’s custody, you have allowed your agency to be turned into a mechanism for immigration enforcement,” DeGette wrote to Azar DeGette requested, among other things, that Azar’s agency turn over all documents and communications between HHS, the Department of Homeland Security, the Department of Justice and the White House regarding family separations from May 2017 to June 2018. Those documents are due to be turned over to the committee tomorrow, Friday, Feb. 1.
01.30.2019	Washington, DC – Two of the top Democrats on the House Energy and Commerce Committee joined forces today in calling on the heads of three major U.S. pharmaceutical companies to explain the recent skyrocketing cost of insulin. U.S. Reps. Diana DeGette (D-CO) and Frank Pallone, Jr. (D-NJ) sent letters to the heads of Eli Lilly, Novo Nordisk and Sanofi – three of the top manufactures of insulin in the U.S. – asking them to explain the rapidly increasing cost drug; and why they are not providing a more affordable treatment to patients in need. “When patients go without insulin—or ration their doses—there can be tragic consequences,” the lawmakers wrote. “News reports have highlighted stories of diabetics who have died because they could not afford insulin. No American should suffer because they could not afford their insulin. As one of the few manufacturers of insulin in the United States, your company is well-suited to shed light on these issues and offer potential solutions.” Approximately 30 million Americans are currently living with diabetes, with an additional 1.5 million Americans being diagnosed each year. The staggering number of people affected by the disease in the U.S. has made it the seventh leading cause of death nationwide. Yet, despite being discovered almost 100 years ago, the price of insulin – which is critical to the treatment of diabetes – continues to rise, and is now putting the lifesaving treatment out of reach for many patients who need it. In addition to asking the companies to explain the rising cost of the drug, DeGette, who co-chairs the Congressional Diabetes Caucus and is Chair of the Energy and Commerce Committee’s Oversight and Investigations panel, and Pallone, who chairs the full committee, requested that each of the manufactures provide documents and answer questions to explain: The average price of each of the companies’ insulin products for the last 10 years as well as an explanation of factors that prompted any price increases; The net profit of the companies’ insulin products each year for the last 10 years; A list of changes or modifications, if any, to the companies’ insulin products over the last 10 years; An explanation of the root causes of rising prices of insulin; An explanation of the barriers to lowering insulin prices and making insulin more affordable; Whether any of the companies have entered into any agreements in the last 10 years that delay, limit, or prevent the availability of generic insulin; and, How the companies expect the overall market price of insulin to change in the next five years. The lawmakers gave the companies until February 13 to respond. A copy of their letter is available HERE.
01.29.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (D-CO) today joined with several of her House colleagues to introduce legislation that would block the implementation of President Donald Trump’s travel ban policy. If approved, the measure would prohibit federal agencies from using any federal funds or resources to implement the executive order that the president signed in March 2017 and the presidential proclamation he issued in September of that same year, which place restrictions on travelers seeking to enter the U.S. from five majority-Muslim countries – Iran, Libya, Somalia, Syria and Yemen – as well as North Korea and Venezuela. Proponents of the bill, including DeGette, have argued that the president’s actions violate the 1965 Immigration and Nationality Act, which prohibits discriminating against visa applicants on the basis of national origin. Despite immense public outrage and federal court injunctions that halted the president’s initial executive order, which he signed in January 2017, the Supreme Court last Summer upheld the president’s March 2017 executive order. The legislation DeGette and others filed today would act to bar federal agencies from implementing the president’s travel ban policy, despite the Court’s ruling. It has been endorsed by Amnesty International, USA, American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU), National Immigration Law Center (NILC), Asian Americans Advancing Justice (AAJC), National Iranian American Council (NIAC), Public Affairs Alliance of Iranian Americans (PAAIA), Council on American- Islamic Relations (CAIR), and Church World Service (CWS). The legislation, H.R. 810, now heads to the House Judiciary Committee for consideration.
01.29.2019	Washington, DC – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (D-CO) sponsored legislation introduced today to make it a federal crime to engage in a doping scheme designed to influence the outcome of a major international athletic competition, such as the Olympics. The move comes one week after the World Anti-Doping Agency refused to uphold the suspension of the Russian Anti-Doping Agency for its role in the 2014 Russian state-sponsored doping scandal that took place at the Sochi Olympics. The legislation would establish new criminal penalties for anyone caught engaging in a doping scheme at any major international sport competition that is either broadcast in the U.S., sponsored by U.S. companies, or in which U.S. athletes participate. Under the terms of the bill, those found guilty of engaging in such a scheme would face fines of up to $1,000,000 or imprisonment up to ten years, depending on the offense. “We are not going to sit back and let these bad actors continue to cheat at these games and walk away with nothing more than a slap on the wrist,” DeGette said. The Colorado Democrat, whose state is home to the U.S. Olympic training facility and United States Anti-Doping Agency, said it’s important that the U.S. government send a very clear message to others around the World that this type of behavior will no longer be tolerated. “These athletes have trained their whole lives for the chance to compete on the World stage,” DeGette said. “The outcomes of these competitions has far-reaching consequences – not just for the athletes themselves, but for the countries they represent - and we need to act now to ensure that everyone is competing on a level playing field.” In addition to making it a crime to participate in a doping scheme, the bill would also enable athletes who become victims of such a scheme to seek restitution from those responsible. It would also create new protections for whistleblowers and increase cooperation among the various U.S. agencies charged with investigating alleged doping conspiracies. In 2016, Dr. Rodchenkov exposed the Russian state-sponsored doping scandal that took place during the 2014 Sochi Olympics. By deceiving international anti-doping authorities and swapping athletes’ samples, Russian officials cheated U.S. athletes out of Olympic glory and U.S. corporations out of honest sponsorships. These corrupt officials used bribes and illicit payments, sometimes through U.S. financial institutions, to commit this fraud. Unfortunately, the masterminds behind the Russian sports doping operation escaped punishment for their actions because there was no U.S. legal mechanism to bring them to justice. In February 2017, the Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee led by DeGette held a hearing on combating fraud in sports and the role of whistleblowers in safeguarding the integrity of international competitions. In July, the Helsinki Commission, which has spearheaded anti-doping efforts alongside the Energy and Commerce Committee, held a hearing that explored the interplay between doping fraud and globalized corruption and U.S. policy responses, including the Rodchenkov Anti-Doping Act. In October 2018, the U.S. Department of Justice indicted seven individuals for involvement in a Russian-operated military intelligence program in which GRU officers are alleged to have conducted sophisticated hacking of U.S. and international anti-doping agencies who investigated and publicly condemned Russia’s state-sponsored doping program. The hacking victims included 230 athletes from approximately 30 countries. The operation was part of a disinformation campaign in which victims’ personal email communications and individual medical and drug testing information, sometimes modified from its original form, was used to actively promote media coverage to further a narrative favorable to the Russian government. The bill now heads to the House Judiciary Committee for consideration.
01.28.2019	Washington, DC – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (D-CO), chair of the House oversight panel that oversees the Environmental Protection Agency, sent a letter today to the head of the EPA demanding detailed information about the Trump Administration’s efforts to roll back several key environmental and public health protections. The letter comes as the EPA seeks to roll back mercury and air-toxicity standards across the nation – a move designed to save companies billions of dollars a year, while also increasing the risk of illness and even premature death for thousands of Americans. In addition to expressing concern about the increased health risks associated with the rollbacks, especially for Americans living in low-income and minority communities, the lawmakers demanded that the agency provide the committee detailed answers to several written questions about the administration’s efforts to weaken the nation’s air-quality standards and discredit the role of science in the agency’s proceedings. “These actions are particularly alarming in light of the recent warnings underscoring the impacts of climate change on air quality and the health of the American people,” the lawmakers wrote to EPA Acting Administrator Andrew Wheeler. “Congress and the public require a more detailed explanation of EPA’s actions to assess the consequences of these policy changes. We request information to enable the Committee to evaluate the potential effects of these actions on public health and the environment.” The letter – which was signed by DeGette, Chair of the Energy and Commerce Committee’s Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee, as well as the chairman of the full committee, Rep. Frank Pallone, Jr. (D-NJ), and the chairman of the committee’s Environment and Climate Change panel, Paul Tonko (D-NY) – comes on the heels of a recently released Fourth National Climate Assessment that found more than 100 million people in the United States live in communities where air pollution exceeds acceptable air quality standards. The report also found that, unless stronger air-quality standards are implemented, climate change will cause the nation’s air-pollution levels to worsen, resulting in increased adverse health effects and premature death for many Americans, particularly among children, older adults and pregnant women. A similar study by Harvard University found that 80,000 more Americans will die per decade if the Administration completes its planned rollbacks of clean air and water protections. A copy of the lawmakers’ letter is available here.
01.25.2019	Washington, DC – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (D-CO) released the following statement today on the agreement to temporarily reopen the government: “This government shutdown should never have happened, and we need to make sure it never happens again. I met with a group of federal workers at home today who have been forced to bear the brunt of the president’s misguided actions, and the harm that it has caused them will be felt for a very long time. The president’s announcement today was a total capitulation to the House and I hope we can take him at his word that he will continue to negotiate in good faith on a border security bill. In the meantime, it’s important that we work quickly to get the government reopened as soon as possible, and ensure that every federal worker is paid the money they are due.”
01.24.2019	Washington, DC – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (D-CO) today was appointed to serve as a member of the House Natural Resources Committee. The move gives the Colorado Democrat even more sway to influence future environmental policy as it comes just one week after she was named the Chair of the House Energy and Commerce Committee’s powerful and far-reaching Oversight and Investigations panel, which has direct oversight authority over the Environmental Protection Agency. “Coloradans know how important our natural resources are to our way of life and our state’s overall economy,” DeGette said. “As Chair of the Commerce Committee’s Oversight and Investigations panel, and now also as a member of the Natural Resources Committee, I will be doing everything I can to ensure our state’s treasured resources are protected for future generations to enjoy.” The House Natural Resources Committee is responsible for enacting policies aimed at protecting our nation’s wilderness and conservation sites. It’s also responsible for establishing renewable energy sources and preparing communities for climate change, as well as growing the outdoor recreation economy by protecting America’s endangered wildlife and enhancing our national parks. DeGette says one of her top priorities as a member of the committee will be to seek passage of legislation she plans to introduce in the coming months that would designate an additional 740,000 acres in Colorado as federally-protected Wilderness, giving it the highest level of land protection available. DeGette introduced similar legislation – known as the Colorado Wilderness Act – last year, but it never got a hearing or a vote in the House Natural Resources Committee needed to advance. Now, as a member of the committee herself, DeGette hopes she can work with her fellow committee members to garner the support needed to get the bill approved. The appointment, which was announced by House leadership Thursday, means DeGette will now officially serve on two major House committees during the upcoming two-year legislative session: the House Energy and Commerce Committee and the House Natural Resources Committee. In addition to serving on the two broader committees, DeGette will also serve as a senior member on the Energy and Commerce’s subcommittee on Communication and Technology; Energy and Commerce’s subcommittee on Environment and Climate Change; and as the Chair of the Energy and Commerce Committee’s subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations.
01.22.2019	Washington, DC – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (D-CO), the Chair of the House panel currently investigating the Trump administration’s child-separation policy, released the following statement today calling the Senate’s proposal to prevent Central American children from applying for asylum at the border “more inhumane and un-American than Trump’s disastrous zero-tolerance policy itself”: “These are children who are often desperately fleeing terrible violence back home. They are literally running for their lives and asking for our country to help. Instead of offering them help, this proposal would require border officials to turn a deaf ear to their desperate pleas and send these kids back to the very places they just risked their lives to escape. Such a policy would be even more inhumane and un-American than Trump’s disastrous zero-tolerance policy itself – and Senate Republicans should be ashamed of themselves.”
01.18.2019	Washington, DC – The top Democrat on the House Energy and Commerce’s Oversight and Investigations panel wasted no time in demanding that Health and Human Services Secretary Alex Azar turn over to the committee’s investigators a series of internal documents detailing the agency’s role in carrying out the Trump administration’s policy of separating families at the border. The chair of the Oversight and Investigations subcommittee, Rep. Diana DeGette (D-CO), along with the chairman of the full committee, Frank Pallone, Jr. (D-NJ), made the request in a letter they sent to Azar today. The move comes just one day after the HHS Office of Inspector General released an explosive new report that found there may have been thousands more children separated from their families at the border than previously known. “These troubling reports raise new questions as to whether the Trump Administration was engaging in family separations earlier than it reported as well as HHS’s role in creating and implementing the Family Separation Policy,” the lawmakers wrote. Additionally, NBC News released a purported Trump Administration document last night that appears to suggest the Administration targeted migrant families for separation and that HHS may have shared background check information with the Department of Homeland Security in order to place potential sponsors of children separated at the border into deportation proceedings. “Concerns have been raised that the policy to share information between HHS and DHS regarding potential sponsors has led to family members being reluctant to come forward, thereby leading to children being in HHS custody longer, the exact consequence that was contemplated by Administration officials,” the lawmakers continued. “We are concerned that instead of prioritizing what is in the best interest of the children in HHS’s custody, you have allowed your agency to be turned into a mechanism for immigration enforcement.” Specifically, DeGette and Pallone requested HHS provide the committee the following: All documents and communications among and/or between HHS, DHS, the Department of Justice, and the Executive Office of the President regarding family separations from May 1, 2017, through June 27, 2018; All documents and communications from May 1, 2017, through April 14, 2018, regarding the Memorandum of Agreement among ORR and U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement and U.S. Customs and Border Protection regarding consultation and information sharing in unaccompanied alien children matters that was signed on April 13, 2018; and All analyses regarding the decision in June 2018 to require all adults in potential sponsor households to submit fingerprints as well as the decision in December 2018 to no longer require all adults in potential sponsors to submit fingerprints. The lawmakers requested that HHS provide the documents no later than Feb. 1, 2019. DeGette announced she plans to hold an oversight hearing on the Trump administration’s Family Separation Policy in the coming weeks. The lawmakers’ letter is available here
01.17.2019	Washington, DC – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (D-CO), the Chair of the Energy and Commerce Committee’s Oversight and Investigations panel, released the following statement today on the Department of Health and Human Services inspector general’s newly-released report that found the Trump administration may have separated thousands more undocumented children at the border than previously reported: “The HHS Office of Inspector General announced today that there were potentially thousands more children separated from their families at the border during an influx that began in 2017. In fact, the HHS inspector general says the actual number of children separated from their parents is unknown - and may never be known - because there is no adequate system in place to properly track which children were separated from their families and whether they were ever reunited. That’s unacceptable. This was an unnecessarily cruel policy by the Trump administration and we should be doing everything we can to reunite these families immediately. This report further illustrates why this is such an important issue - and one that my subcommittee has already started to investigate. We plan to hold an oversight hearing on this topic early next month.” A copy of the HHS IG report is available here.
01.17.2019	Washington, DC – Three of the top Democrats on the House Energy and Commerce Committee, which oversees the U.S. Centers for Disease Control, joined forces today to shed light on the ongoing Ebola outbreak in Africa and called on federal health officials to immediately provide members of Congress a full briefing on what’s being done to contain the spread of the deadly virus. According to data released by the CDC, the ongoing Ebola outbreak in the Democratic Republic of Congo is now the second-deadliest outbreak of the disease, ever. U.S. Reps. Diana DeGette (D-CO), Frank Pallone, Jr. (D-NJ) and Anna Eshoo (D-CA), who serve as Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee’s Oversight and Investigations panel, the full committee and its subcommittee on Health, respectively, called the ongoing spread of the deadly disease “alarming” and demanded to know what federal officials are doing to contain its spread. “The ongoing spread of Ebola in parts of Africa is both tragic and alarming,” the lawmakers said in a joint statement Wednesday. “The Committee will continue its longstanding oversight of federal efforts to respond to emerging foreign infectious disease threats. “We have asked the CDC to provide us a full briefing on the scope of this Ebola outbreak, the challenges it faces in trying to contain it and how public health agencies are working to address it.”
01.15.2019	Washington, DC – Just hours after being named the Chair of the House Energy and Commerce Committee’s Oversight and Investigations Committee, U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (D-CO) announced today the hiring of Dr. Manik Roy as her new Climate Change and Environment Policy Director. In addition to advising DeGette on climate change, clean energy and environmental policy issues, Roy will support her work on these issues as chair of the Oversight and Investigations panel. Roy has more than 35 years of experience advising key lawmakers, top government officials, and corporate leaders on climate change, clean energy and toxic chemical policy, including previous stints working for Congress and at the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency. Roy, who began work today in DeGette’s Washington, D.C. office, brings with him an extensive academic background in environmental engineering and public policy.
01.15.2019	Washington, DC – Just hours after being named the Chair of the House Energy and Commerce Committee’s Oversight and Investigations Committee, U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (D-CO) announced today the hiring of Dr. Manik Roy as her new Climate Change and Environment Policy Director. In addition to advising DeGette on climate change, clean energy and environmental policy issues, Roy will support her work on these issues as chair of the Oversight and Investigations panel. Roy has more than 35 years of experience advising key lawmakers, top government officials, and corporate leaders on climate change, clean energy and toxic chemical policy, including previous stints working for Congress and at the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency. Roy, who began work today in DeGette’s Washington, D.C. office, brings with him an extensive academic background in environmental engineering and public policy.
01.14.2019	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Diana DeGette (D-CO), along with Representatives Eliot Engel (D-NY), Susan Brooks (R-IN), and Jaime Herrera Beutler (R-WA) have introduced H.R. 501, the Poison Center Network Enhancement Act of 2019, to assist with potential poison exposures and help combat the national opioid epidemic. Poison control centers are vital to preventing toxic exposure and poisoning injury and deaths, including opioid and other drug overdoses. This bill reauthorizes funding for the Poison Center Network, including their national toll-free number (800) 222-1222. It also clarifies that poison control centers can be called upon to assist with public health emergencies, responses, and preparedness; and requests that enhanced communications capabilities like texting be established. “Our poison control centers play a vital role in the fight to combat the nation’s growing opioid epidemic. Not only do these centers help us identify communities at a heightened risk of opioid abuse, they also provide training and education programs on safe opioid prescribing practices. If we, as a country, are going to be serious about protecting the public from the dangers of opioid misuse, funding these centers is a must,” Rep. DeGette said. “The Poison Control network is a valuable tool to help keep families safe and to combat the nationwide opioid crisis. In Westchester County, 124 people died due to opioids in 2016. In the Bronx, more New Yorkers died of overdoses than in any other borough. This bill shows an ongoing bipartisan commitment to continuing support for the nation’s poison control centers that millions of Americans rely on every year. I am proud that we were able to introduce it so early in the 116th Congress,” Rep. Engel said. “On behalf of the 1,852 Hoosiers who died of an opioid overdose in 2017, I am proud to join my colleagues to introduce this bill because poison control centers are essential to combatting the deadly opioid crisis. These centers across the country are fielding almost 192 cases a day of opioid abuse and misuse and compile data that can be used to discover hotspots for opioid abuse and misuse. It is important we reauthorize the national network of poison control centers because they save lives by offering free, confidential, and expert medical advice 24 hours a day, seven days a week,” Rep. Brooks said. “We are facing a crisis level of opioid overdoses in our country and Congress has to continue combatting this devastating epidemic. One important tool we have is the network of Poison Control Centers, which are on the front lines of preventing drug overdoses in our communities. I am proud to join my colleagues in this bipartisan effort to ensure the Poison Control Network is equipped to educate, raise awareness, and continue their work to save lives in Southwest Washington and communities across our country,” Rep. Herrera Beutler said.
01.11.2019	Washington, DC – Today, U.S. Reps. Diana DeGette (CO-01), Ed Perlmutter (CO-07), Jason Crow (CO-06) and Joe Neguse (CO-02) released a joint statement calling on Senate Republicans and President Trump to immediately act to end the partial government shutdown: “More than 15,000 Coloradans were not paid today because President Trump and Senate Republicans are using those federal employees as political pawns. This shutdown puts our country’s national security at risk and the livelihoods of hardworking men and women in jeopardy. Enough is enough. We call on Senate Republicans to immediately act and join Democrats to fully reopen the government and end this senseless shutdown. It’s past time for President Trump and Senate Republicans to come to their senses and act in the best interest of the country and hardworking folks everywhere.”
01.10.2019	Washington, DC – Following is a statement from U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (D-CO) on the president’s visit to McAllen, TX today. DeGette was one of two dozen House members who visited McAllen, TX in June to get a firsthand look at the situation on the ground there. Now, with Democrats in control of the House of Representatives, the Colorado Democrat will soon Chair the Energy and Commerce Committee’s Oversight and Investigations panel, which has direct oversight over the U.S. Dept. of Health and Human Services (the federal agency charged with caring for the undocumented children who are separated from their parents at the border). DeGette announced earlier this week that one of the first issues she plans for the committee to tackle is the president’s border separation policy. “I have been to McAllen and I will never forgot what I saw there. I saw the women who had their children ripped from their arms when they arrived at the border. I saw the desperation and despair on their faces. I saw the panic in their eyes. I saw children as young as nine months who had been separated from their families. They were scared to death and desperately looking for their moms and dads. There’s no substitute for being on the ground and seeing what’s happening at the border for yourself. I only hope that the President’s visit today makes the same impression on him as it did on me, and that is: that we, as a nation, are better than this.”
01.09.2019	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Diana DeGette (D-CO) released the following statement after President Trump’s televised Oval Office address to the nation: “We need to end this shutdown immediately and stop causing real harm to so many hardworking families. Like so many of my Democratic colleagues, I support finding ways to better secure our borders, but let’s have a real conversation about it - one that’s based in evidence instead of fear mongering. Let’s find ways to work together to find real solutions to some of the very real problems facing our country, instead of prolonging this ridiculous stalemate over a ridiculous border wall.”
01.09.2019	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (D-CO) today led a bicameral group of more than 200 members of Congress in calling on the Trump administration to rescind a newly proposed rule that seeks to limit women’s access to abortion care. In a letter to Health and Human Services Secretary Alex Azar, the lawmakers said the administration’s new proposed rule goes against Congress’ intent to protect abortion coverage under the Affordable Care Act and, if approved, would jeopardize care for women across the country. “This rule ignores Congressional intent on abortion coverage, would create consumer confusion, and would be costly for both insurers and consumers,” the lawmakers wrote. “When safe abortion is not accessible, it puts women’s lives in danger. If affordable abortion access is denied, women will return to the dark times of seeking unsafe, back-alley abortions.” If approved, the administration’s new rule would require health insurance companies to send consumers two separate bills for any abortion care they receive. It would also require consumers to make two separate payments for that care. Opponents of the rule claim that requiring multiple bills and multiple payments for any abortion care is yet another thinly-veiled attempt by the Trump Administration to eliminate coverage for abortions. They also claim that requiring multiple bills and payments will not only increase the cost consumers have to pay for such services, it would also create such confusion among both consumers and insurers that many insurance companies would likely decide to stop providing coverage for abortions care altogether. “Women in America have a constitutionally protected right to access abortion care, period,” DeGette said in a separate statement today after the letter was sent. “The Pro-Choice Caucus has and will continue to fight back against each and every attempt by the Trump Administration and Republicans in Congress to limit women’s access to safe and effective health care, which fundamentally includes reproductive rights. We should be working together to make healthcare more affordable and more accessible for all Americans, not limiting women’s access to the care they need by implementing confusing, arduous, and completely extraneous regulations.” The letter comes as DeGette prepares to take over as Chairwoman of the Commerce Committee’s Oversight and Investigations panel which oversees HHS. The Colorado Democrat, who has been an outspoken advocate for women’s rights on Capitol Hill, is also the co-chair of the Congressional Pro-Choice Caucus. In addition to DeGette, the letter was co-signed by over 180 Representatives in the House, including Reps. Jan Schakowsky (D-IL) and Barbara Lee (D-CA). A similar letter opposing the rule was also sent today by Sen. Patty Murray (D-WA) and others in the Senate. The text of the letter sent by DeGette and others is below and a PDF of is available HERE.
01.08.2019	Washington, DC – The U.S. House of Representatives today approved legislation aimed at improving and speeding up the federal Food and Drug Administration’s process for evaluating new over-the-counter (OTC) medications to determine whether they are safe enough to be sold to consumers without a prescription. The legislation, sponsored by U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (D-CO), would streamline the process that’s currently used by the FDA to evaluate OTC drugs, reducing the time it takes for new, safe OTC drugs to be made available to consumers – while at the same giving the agency the tools it needs to more quickly address any safety concerns. “The current process that the FDA uses to evaluate new over-the-counter medications hasn’t been updated since the 1970s,” DeGette said. “This legislation will modernize the agency’s approach to help make more safe over-the-counter drugs available to consumers sooner, while at the same time giving the agency additional tools to more quickly address any drug safety issues that may arise in the future.” The FDA’s current drug-approval process was developed in the 1970s. Proponents of the bill approved today claim the FDA’s outdated approval and oversight process has failed to keep pace with the nation’s growing over-the-counter drug market, which now boasts more than 300,000 products; and it’s been blamed for hampering innovation, as well as the agency’s ability to respond to any drug safety concerns in a timely manner. In 2007, for example, the Centers for Disease Control reported that 1,500 babies and toddlers were taken to emergency rooms over a two year period from 2005 to 2006 after having bad reactions to over-the-counter cold medicines. The report emphasized the need for Congress to act – as the House did today – to modernize the agency’s approach to approving such drugs. The bill, H.R. 269, now heads to the Senate for consideration. A copy of the bill is available here.
12.21.2018	Washington, DC – Rep. Diana DeGette released the following statement after funding expired for nine federal departments and numerous agencies: “Families in Colorado and across America should be enjoying the holiday season with their loved ones. Instead, this shutdown is forcing many to worry about their livelihoods during what should be a relaxing and celebratory time of year. “More than 420,000 federal employees will be working without pay, including more than 41,000 federal law enforcement and correctional officers. Another 400,000 additional federal employees will be furloughed. Federal contractors, including people working in lower-wage service positions, are unable to do their jobs – or get paid. All of this financial pain and disruption comes at a time of year when many Americans have extra expenses, adding to the needless damage done in this shutdown. “While several federal departments and agencies have already had their funding bills passed and will continue to operate, the American people will still feel the pain of slashed services. Federal efforts to help Americans buy homes, support small businesses, provide assistance to low-income households, ensure consumer safety, and more will be significantly hampered. “It’s shameful that President Trump is willing to harm so many Americans in a desperate ploy to secure funding for his senseless and racist border wall. Even worse, he claims the shutdown will last for “a very long time,” creating even more misery for working families across Colorado and the country. After nearly two years as president, he still hasn’t recognized the fallacy of his immigration policies and the need to work with Democrats in order to effectively serve the American people. “I support border security, and my Democratic colleagues and I want to work with the President and our colleagues across the aisle to keep America safe. But I will never vote to support this wall – a symbol of xenophobia and bigotry that our community whole-heartedly rejects. I will continue working to avoid a government shutdown in a manner that doesn’t compromise our values. And you can be sure that when Democrats lead the House of Representatives in 2019, we will not entertain these outrageous shenanigans from the President and his allies in Congress.”
12.18.2018	Washington, DC – Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-01) led 68 of her fellow House Democrats in submitting technical comments opposing an Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) proposal to weaken emissions standards for methane and other compounds. Methane is an especially potent greenhouse gas, and its emissions are also associated with public health problems such as asthma, reduced lung function, chronic respiratory damage, cancer, nervous system damage, and birth defects. “The proposed rule disregards the current scientific understanding of methane pollution and suffers from inaccurate supporting evidence to justify the regulatory changes the EPA is seeking,” DeGette and her colleagues wrote. “It completely ignores the findings of a new scientific report, conducted by 24 authors representing 12 universities and two United States Government labs, that found methane emissions from the oil and gas industry in the United States were 60% higher than the amount of previous EPA greenhouse gas inventory estimates.[1] Using a lower, inaccurate baseline downplays the severity of the methane (and VOCs) emissions problem, artificially lowering the costs associated with weakening pollution standards for oil and gas operations.” The EPA proposal would weaken current standards that require the oil and gas industry to use best available technology in their efforts to reduce methane emissions. According to the EPA’s own research, the current standards will support jobs, allow the industry to capture more natural gas that can be sold to consumers, and protect public health in the process. Rep. DeGette and her colleagues submitted their technical comments as part of the rulemaking process the EPA is required to undertake for its proposal.
12.13.2018	Washington, DC -- Representatives. Diana DeGette (D-CO) and Fred Upton (R-MI) today released the following statement on the second anniversary of the 21st Century Cures Act being signed into law by President Barack Obama: “21st Century Cures began with the spark of hope and continues today – pushing medical research in new and innovative ways. “We’re already seeing the results in action: The Beau Biden Cancer Moonshot is working to accelerate progress in cancer prevention and screening, the All of Us Research Program has more than 100,000 people signed up to help advance precision medicine and develop more effective ways to treat disease, the Brain Research Through Advancing Innovative Neurotechnologies (BRAIN) Initiative is revolutionizing how we understand the human brain, and the Regenerative Medicine Innovation Project is supporting clinical research on adult stem cells. “21st Century Cures is also making needed reforms to our mental health system and at the Food and Drug Administration. We’re now able to get drugs and devices to the market more efficiently – helping to address drug prices. Finally, 21st Century Cures has played a pivotal role in addressing the opioid epidemic by funding the fight at the state level – with more than $1 billion in grants to states in need. “21st Century Cures was truly a bipartisan effort from start to finish. Today we can reflect on how far we have come, but also a reminder of all the work that remains. Patients and families are counting on us.” Further background: The House Energy and Commerce Committee has held five hearings on the implementation of the 21st Century Cures Act including three this year. These hearings have focused on specifics sections of the bill including mental health reforms, work being done by the Food and Drug Administration and the National Institutes of Health, and an update from the Office of the National Coordinator.
12.13.2018	Washington, DC – Today, Representatives Diana DeGette (CO-01) and Ed Perlmutter (CO-07) along with Colorado Senators Michael Bennet (D-CO) and Cory Gardner (R-CO) sent a letter to the Federal Railroad Administration (FRA), Denver Regional Transportation District (RTD), and Denver Transit Partners (DTP) urging continued cooperation in finalizing a plan of action to fix ongoing issues with grade crossings on the Eagle Project’s commuter rail lines by the December 15 deadline. In the letter, the lawmakers made clear that Coloradans cannot afford any further delays or loss of service, writing, “The Eagle Project’s success is critical for our constituents. Many stakeholders came together to support the project based on the economic and quality of life benefits it promises. They are counting on all parties to live up to their obligations and provide the service agreed to.” The letter follows a November 15, 2018 letter from FRA to RTD raising several concerns with grade crossing warning signal timing, citing non-compliance with waivers previously issued by the administration, calling for an action plan to rectify these issues. DeGette, Perlmutter, Bennet and Gardner went on to write that they are encouraged by the cooperation of all parties to fix the crossing issues and urge a continued effort to complete a satisfactory action plan by the December 15 deadline. They pledged their commitment to helping facilitate this process in any way possible. The full text of the letter is below: December 12, 2018 The Honorable Ronald Batory David A. Genova Administrator General Manager and CEO Federal Railroad Administration Regional Transportation District 1200 New Jersey Ave. SE 1560 Broadway, Suite 700 Washington, DC 20590 Denver, CO 80202 John F. Thompson Executive Project Director Denver Transit Partners 5151 Fox Street Denver, CO 80216 Dear Administrator Batory, Mr. Genova, and Mr. Thompson: We write following the Federal Railroad Administration’s (FRA) November 15 letter to Denver Regional Transportation District (RTD) and Denver Transit Partners (DTP) regarding the ongoing issues with the grade crossings on the Eagle Project’s commuter rail lines. We urge all parties to work together to ensure the action plan called for in the letter is completed by December 15 in a manner that ensures safety and meets all federal requirements, while facilitating continued progress on the Eagle Project. In the November 15 letter, FRA detailed a number of ways the current grade crossing warning signal timing is not in compliance with waivers previously issued by the Administration. It also noted in the two and half years since the initial waiver, no substantial progress has been made to correct the problem permanently. FRA has been clear the Eagle Project must show compliance with waiver conditions before the Administration can approve quiet zones for any part of the system or allow the Gold Line to begin revenue service demonstrations. Additionally, continued noncompliance could jeopardize the waiver conditions allowing the existing service on the A Line. We cannot afford any further delays or loss of service. The Eagle Project’s success is critical for our constituents. Many stakeholders came together to support the project based on the economic and quality of life benefits it promises. They are counting on all parties to live up to their obligations and provide the service agreed to. We are encouraged all parties continue to cooperate, but efforts to resolve the grade crossing issues have so far proved insufficient. The action plan is a crucial step toward resolving these issues once and for all. We strongly urge all parties to fully commit to completing a satisfactory action plan by the December 15 deadline and work together to implement this action plan swiftly, and we stand ready to help facilitate this process in any way possible. Sincerely, Diana DeGette Michael F. Bennet Member of Congress United States Senator Cory Gardner Ed Perlmutter United States Senator Member of Congress
12.11.2018	Washington, DC -- Congressional Diabetes Caucus co-chairs Reps. Diana DeGette (D-CO) and Tom Reed (R-NY) issued the following statement after the FDA finalized guidance treating insulin as a biologic product: "The FDA has taken an important step to bring new insulin producers to market and address the dramatic insulin price increases. Insulin remains essential for millions of diabetes patients, and it must remain accessible and affordable for every one of them. As we have investigated issues surrounding insulin prices, we specifically called for this action, and we commend FDA Commissioner Scott Gottlieb for his attention and follow-through." Background: Over the last year and half, Rep. DeGette and Rep. Reed have led the charge to lower insulin prices, which have doubled since 2012. There are no biosimilar insulins on the market because the FDA did not have a clear regulatory pathway for approving biosimilars. To address this issue, Reps. DeGette and Reed sent a letter to FDA on September 20, 2017, urging the agency to finalize a piece of guidance which would provide biosimilar insulin makers with an approval pathway. Reps. DeGette and Reed also reiterated this call in their insulin inquiry report published on November 1, adding that this pathway should be streamlined and would help inject competition in the highly-concentrated insulin market. Today, the agency finalized that guidance, giving biosimilar insulin makers a clear way to get cheaper insulin formulations to market. This action will help bring competition into the insulin market, providing patients with cheaper/effective insulin alternatives and potentially helping bring down insulin prices
12.11.2018	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Representatives Diana DeGette’s (D-CO) and Jaime Herrera Beutler’s (R-WA) bipartisan bill to prevent maternal deaths passed the U.S. House by unanimous voice vote today. H.R.1318, the Preventing Maternal Deaths Act, would establish and support state Maternal Mortality Review Committees to review every pregnancy-related or pregnancy-associated death, and based on those findings, develop recommendations for how to prevent future mothers’ deaths. “Today marks an important day in addressing our country’s maternal mortality crisis, as this is the strongest step Congress has taken to date to reverse it. By providing states with resources to investigate every maternal death, we can begin to tackle this troubling trend and take appropriate steps to prevent such tragedies in the future. As moms and lawmakers, this is personal to us, and it was an honor to join with our colleagues on both sides of the aisle to lead this life-saving measure successfully through the House. We must improve our understanding of why mothers are dying in pregnancy, during childbirth and post-partum so we can then unleash every possible resource to protect women in this critical season of life. We hope the Senate will take swift action to pass this critical legislation so we can send it to the President’s desk,” the lawmakers said. “AMCHP thanks Rep. Herrera Beutler and Rep. DeGette for their leadership in introducing the Preventing Maternal Deaths Act and being tireless advocates for its passage into law. Once all states have adequate resources to expertly review maternal deaths, we can achieve greater success in both honoring the lives of mothers lost and equipping our nation to prevent future deaths during pregnancy or in the year following childbirth,” Jonathan Webb, CEO, Association of Maternal & Child Health Programs (AMCHP) said. The Preventing Maternal Deaths Act had 190 cosponsors when it passed the House. There is a companion bill in the U.S. Senate sponsored by Senators Heidi Heitkamp and Shelly Moore Capito. There’s still time for the Senate to pass this bill and send it to the president’s desk before the end of the year. The rise of maternal mortality in the U.S.: The U.S. has the highest rate of maternal mortality in the developed world, and the rate continues to rise. Between 700-900 women die in the U.S. every year from pregnancy-related and pregnancy-associated deaths. According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 60% of maternal deaths are preventable. Maternal mortality in the news: USA Today: What states aren't doing to save new mothers' lives The Hill: Alone among developed nations, the US maternal mortality rate is rising. Here’s how we can fix that NPR: Focus On Infants During Childbirth Leaves U.S. Moms In Danger Washington Examiner: Lawmakers want to solve mysterious maternal deaths St. Louis Post-Dispatch: Editorial: Why are there more maternal deaths in the U.S. than in other advanced nation? The Hill: Maternal deaths keep rising in US, raising scrutiny
12.10.2018	Washington, DC – U.S. Senator Michael Bennet (D-CO) today led Colorado U.S. Representatives Diana DeGette, Ed Perlmutter, and Jared Polis, and Representatives-elect Joe Neguse and Jason Crow, in sending a letter to the Department of Homeland Security to object to the proposed rule expanding the definition of “public charge” under U.S. immigration law. The proposed rule would make permanent residence unavailable to individuals who rely on housing, health care, and food assistance, have a serious health condition, or earn a low income, among other factors. “The proposed rule would lead to worse health outcomes, increased housing instability, and reduced productivity and educational achievement throughout our communities,” the lawmakers wrote. “This would have negative, lasting effects in Colorado on both immigrant and non-immigrants alike…With such far-reaching implications for children and families across Colorado and our nation, we strongly oppose this proposed rule and urge DHS to withdraw the proposal.” According to the letter, under current federal immigration law, the government may deny lawful permanent resident status to individuals determined likely to become primarily dependent on government-funded cash assistance or long-term care. DHS proposes to make permanent residence unavailable to individuals determined likely to use an expanded list of benefits, including non-cash assistance programs like Medicaid, food stamps (SNAP), federal housing assistance, and Medicare Part D subsidies. DHS asks for comment on adding the Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP) to the list of public benefits. DHS also proposes several “negative factors” potentially penalizing applicants for being under 18 or over 65, having a serious health condition, being unemployed at the time of application, or earning a low income. The lawmakers outlined how the proposed rule could affect Colorado. According to the Colorado Fiscal Institute, the proposed rule could have a chilling effect on more than 323,000 Coloradans, including 143,000 children, who rely on public assistance programs targeted by the rule. The Colorado Health Institute estimates 75,000 Coloradans, nearly two-thirds of whom are children, could lose health insurance due to disenrollment. According to one estimate, Colorado could lose $417 million in economic activity and more than 2,800 jobs. Finally, the rule could “force immigrants to forgo critical food, housing, and health assistance for their families out of fear it might jeopardize their immigration status.” Nearly two dozen Colorado organizations oppose the rule, including the Center for Health Progress, Colorado Center on Law and Policy, Colorado Children’s Campaign, and Hunger Free Colorado. A copy of the letter is available here.
12.06.2018	Washington, DC – Oversight and Investigations Ranking Member Diana DeGette (D-CO) joined fellow Democratic leaders on the Energy and Commerce Committee, Ranking Member Frank Pallone, Jr. (D-NJ), and Environment Subcommittee Ranking Member Paul Tonko (D-NY), in sending a letter to Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Acting Administrator Andrew Wheeler today requesting documents and information about the agency’s lack of enforcement for programs aimed at addressing climate change and protecting public health and the environment. EPA documents and press reports over the past year indicate several disturbing trends, including a decline in the number of enforcement cases initiated; a reduction in enforcement staff; an overreliance on state enforcement programs; and an increased political review of potential or pending enforcement actions. “We are writing to request information on a series of actions by the Trump Administration regarding the EPA Office of Enforcement and Compliance Assurance (OECA),” the lawmakers wrote. “We are deeply concerned that these actions undermine key enforcement programs and severely limit EPA’s ability to address climate change and protect public health and the environment.” According to multiple reports, the Trump EPA has initiated far fewer civil and criminal enforcement cases against polluters for violating environmental laws, including a 20 percent reduction in civil cases initiated against polluters and a 30 percent cut in criminal enforcement cases. The Committee Democrats also pointed to reports that over 1,600 workers left EPA during the first 18 months of the Administration, bringing the agency’s staffing levels to an historic low. “We are concerned that historically low staffing levels, combined with a series of recent actions taken by EPA management, undermine the agency’s enforcement capability,” the three Democratic Committee leaders continued in their letter to Wheeler. EPA also recently announced a series of policies that require political appointees to review enforcement activities, a move that the Committee Democratic leaders believe could undermine enforcement of important public health and environmental protections. The Trump EPA has also implemented new policies that the Committee leaders are concerned could undercut its ability to ensure states are, in fact, following a consistent minimum level of protection. Today’s letter follows a letter sent last month by the three Democratic Committee leaders to EPA requesting documents and information about the agency’s decision to roll back policies that reduce greenhouse gas emissions to address climate change. The letter to EPA, including the specific list of information that the Democratic Committee leaders are requesting, is available here.
12.06.2018	Washington, DC — Congresswoman Diana DeGette (D-CO), a senior member of the Energy and Commerce Committee, joined fellow committee member, Congressman Larry Bucshon, M.D. (R-IN), and U.S. Senators Michael Bennet (D-CO) and Orrin Hatch (R-UT), members of the Senate Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions (HELP), in releasing draft legislation to establish a framework for overseeing in vitro clinical tests (IVCTs), such as test kits and laboratory developed tests (LDTs), at the Food and Drug Administration (FDA). This Congress, the lawmakers have worked with the stakeholder community and FDA to define parameters for IVCT oversight. “Safety and accuracy are rightly our top priorities when establishing a new regulatory framework for the approval and regulation of LDTs and IVCTs. I am grateful for the committed partnership of Rep. Bucshon, the Energy and Commerce Committee and our Senate colleagues by working together to forge this bipartisan and bicameral proposal.” – Rep. Diana DeGette “Advanced diagnostics are transforming the way we provide care for patients in the 21st century, giving rise to precision medicine and enabling physicians to provide more individualized treatments for patients. Unfortunately, the regulatory framework for diagnostic testing has become outdated and is still stuck in the 20th century. Our goal with this draft legislation is to ensure patients can get the most appropriate treatment for their disease by creating a new regulatory framework that is risk based, creates a level-playing field, allows for leading edge development to thrive, and assures doctors and patients that their test results are valid and clinically meaningful.” – Dr. Larry Bucshon “In the age of precision medicine, diagnostic and genetic tests are increasingly part of routine medical care,” Bennet said. “Without safety measures in place, these tests threaten patient safety and the potential of innovative diagnostics to transform health care. We’ll continue working to develop a regulatory framework that results in better government and keeps pace with developing technologies.” “While I am disappointed this bill will not pass this year, I am hopeful that my colleagues will prioritize this legislation in the 116th Congress,” said Senator Hatch. “Americans deserve the assurance that the tests which are utilized in making vital, sometimes life-or-death, decisions, are both accurate and reliable. This bill establishes a sensible, risk-based approach towards regulation of IVCTs that protects innovation in an ever-changing sector of healthcare.” Background on In Vitro Clinical Tests: In vitro clinical tests (IVCTs) are used to analyze human samples, such as blood or tissue. The test results are often used to make diagnosis or treatment decisions. For example, at-home glucose tests can be used to monitor diabetes based on blood sugar levels. One subset of IVCTs are Laboratory Developed Tests (LDTs) that are administered and interpreted by physicians, pathologists, or other clinical professionals in a health care facility. Another subset of IVCTs are related to personalized and precision medicine, such as genetic tests. Health care professionals then use companion diagnostics to determine the optimal drug or treatment at the right dose and time for a specific patient. Under the Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments (CLIA), the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) is required to ensure quality laboratory operations for LDTs. However, CMS is not required to ensure analytical and clinical validity—in other words, safety and effectiveness—for any IVCTs. Several IVCTs have voluntarily pursued FDA approval under the existing device regulation framework, but current device regulation is not practical for many of the clinical laboratories that develop IVCTs. In order to ensure patient safety and accurate and reliable testing, there is a need for a regulatory pathway for IVCTs. FDA Commissioner Scott Gottlieb has called for “comprehensive legislation” for IVCT oversight. Summary of the Verifying Accurate, Leading-edge IVCT Development (VALID) Act: The draft legislation would establish a risk-based approach to IVCT regulation, prioritizing FDA resources for the highest-risk tests that expose patients to serious or irreversible harm. The legislation also would establish a precertification program for lower-risk tests that are not otherwise required to go through premarket review. Precertification would allow FDA to establish standard validity requirements, while also lowering the burden on labs and developers and protecting continued innovation. High-risk tests, such as novel tests, would be required to undergo premarket review to verify analytical and clinical validity. FDA could require that any test undergo premarket review after providing the developer an opportunity to address issues identified by the agency. Discussion Draft Found Here
11.26.2018	Denver, CO – Rep. Diana DeGette (D-CO) issued the following statement in response to incidents yesterday along the southern border: “The actions by the Trump Administration and by federal agents along the border near San Diego are shocking and alarming. Any professional organization should be able to tell the difference between threatening crowds and unarmed men, women, and children seeking asylum and respond accordingly. I join my colleagues in demanding answers to how tear gas came to be fired across an international border at vulnerable crowds of civilians, and we must learn what policies and directives from senior officials are guiding the actions of personnel at the border. “For years, I have joined many others in decrying our broken immigration system and warning of the consequences of its continued dysfunction. Now, the Trump Administration appears to be acting with such malice and incompetence that our worst fears may be coming to pass. The consequences in both human and economic terms will be enormous. “Whether we are examining the militarization of our southern border, the refusal to admit asylum seekers coming here according to the law, or the orders to separate children from their parents, we must hold this administration accountable for every action it has taken. And ultimately, we must reform our system so that people come to the United States in accordance with our rules and priorities while treating people with the dignity and respect they deserve.”
11.20.2018	Washington, D.C. – Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee Ranking Member Diana DeGette (D-CO), along Energy and Commerce Committee Ranking Member Frank Pallone, Jr. (D-NJ), and Environment Subcommittee Ranking Member Paul Tonko (D-NY) sent a letter to Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Acting Administrator Andrew Wheeler today requesting documents and information about the agency’s decision to roll back policies that reduce greenhouse gas emissions to address climate change. Despite dire warnings, the Trump EPA is attempting to dismantle three critical climate change initiatives with no regard for the associated climate and public health impacts. The actions include repealing the Clean Power Plan, which set limits on harmful carbon pollution from power plants, dismantling popular vehicle fuel efficiency and pollution standards, and rolling back the requirement that the oil and gas industry monitor and repair methane leaks. “The tragic human and financial costs of unchecked climate change are high and increasing fast, and unfortunately the Administration’s actions for the last two years are only exacerbating these conditions,” DeGette, Pallone and Tonko wrote to Wheeler. “Combined, the Administration’s rollbacks willfully turn a blind eye to the dangers of climate change, putting American communities at risk and diverting EPA’s mission to protect human health and the environment.” The Democratic Energy and Commerce Committee leaders continued: “We are requesting EPA provide us information that will help us understand how these decisions were made and how these actions will affect the environment and human health.” In 2017 and 2018, the U.S. experienced 27 climate and weather disasters, resulting in the deaths of over 3,300 people and costs to the American public of more than one billion dollars each. The lawmakers also pointed to the devastating Camp fire in Northern California that has left more than 70 people dead and nearly 1,000 still missing. The letter also comes after a recent United Nations report warned of drastic environmental and public health consequences without “rapid and far-reaching transitions in energy, land, urban and infrastructure, and industrial systems” in order to limit global warming and temperature increases that could cause hundreds of millions of people to be exposed to water shortages, heat waves, and life-threatening flooding by 2050. The letter to EPA, including the specific list of information that the Democratic Committee leaders are requesting, is available here.
11.19.2018	Denver, CO - Rep. Diana DeGette (D-CO) released the following statement announcing she is withdrawing her bid for House Majority Whip: “The 2018 elections brought a new Democratic majority to the House with exciting opportunities for change. As a seven-term Chief Deputy Whip who is passionate about building coalitions, I was proud to announce my agenda, especially in a year of generational shift and the demonstration of voting power by women. “Since my announcement, I have been heartened by the backing I have received across the caucus. Over the last few days, however, many of my supporters have expressed concern about pressure they are receiving to return the three senior leaders to their posts without opposition. “We have enough work to do without this internal pressure. Therefore, I am withdrawing my bid for Whip at this time. I look forward to continuing as Chief Deputy Whip with this exciting new majority. We have a lot to do, and I am eager to get started.” Rep. DeGette expects to be selected chair of the powerful Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee of the Energy and Commerce Committee. The subcommittee’s oversight authority, including subpoena power, extends to critical issues such as drug prices, conduct of officials at the EPA, and the actions of the Trump Administration to separate young immigrant children from their parents.
11.09.2018	Washington, DC – Congressional Pro-Choice Caucus Co-Chairs Diana DeGette (D-CO) and Barbara Lee (D-CA), along with Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY), condemned the Trump Administration’s latest attempts to push through anti-choice actions that will further limit women’s access to abortion and birth control. On Wednesday, the Department of Health and Human Services finalized two rules that would allow employers to opt out of the Affordable Care Act’s birth control mandate. In addition, the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services issued a rule that would result in burdensome regulations designed to push abortion coverage out of reach for at least 1.3 million women. “One day after voters resoundingly showed their support for women and protecting access to health care, this latest attack by the Trump administration is particularly tone-deaf and vindictive,” the lawmakers said. “Women have made it clear that they will not stand for shameless efforts to roll back their hard-fought and constitutionally-protected reproductive rights. In the 116th Congress, the Democratic majority will work to block this extreme, ideological, and overwhelmingly unpopular agenda.” The changes to health care coverage for birth control and abortion coverage will make it more difficult – and, in some cases, impossible – for women to access contraception or make decisions about their own reproductive health. When these changes were first proposed in October 2017, DeGette, Lowey, former Pro-Choice Caucus Co-Chair Louise Slaughter and Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi led more than 180 of their colleagues in a letter to Trump administration officials opposing the rules, warning that these changes would restrict access to birth control for millions of women covered under the Affordable Care Act. Federal courts in Pennsylvania and California blocked the interim rules last year, but the Trump administration has continued to work to make them permanent.
11.07.2018	Denver, CO – Congresswoman Diana DeGette (D-CO), Chief Deputy Whip in the Democratic caucus for the last seven congresses, announced in a letter to her colleagues that she is seeking the Democratic Whip post as Democrats reclaim the majority in the House of Representatives. Rep. DeGette would be the first Democratic Member of Congress from the Mountain West in leadership and only the second woman to serve as Whip. “Our return to the majority was powered by women voters across the country, and we need to repay their trust by adding women to Democrats’ leadership team,” said DeGette. “As we add even more women to our ranks in Congress—largely because of Democratic candidates—our caucus should reflect this strength, including at the leadership table. “With a narrow majority and a diverse caucus, we need a whip with the skills and experience to build coalitions and win votes. The American people will be watching and holding us accountable for successfully moving our agenda on their behalf, and we cannot do so without securing a majority on the House floor. I have the background that the Democratic caucus needs for this job and at this moment.” Rep. DeGette has built a record of leadership on major, hot-button issues, including health care, energy, science, and choice. Her track record developing, drafting, and whipping legislation includes landmark bills and key moments of success for House Democrats. The full text of Rep. DeGette’s announcement letter is available below. November 7, 2018 Dear Democratic Colleague: I am running to serve our caucus as Democratic Whip and hope to count on your support. Thanks to your tireless work and the energy and enthusiasm of Democratic voters across the country, we will enter the 116th Congress with a Democratic House majority for the first time in eight years. This will be an awesome responsibility as we fight to deliver on the promise of bold action for the American people – even while Republicans continue to hold the Senate and the White House. In this tough environment, I am confident my years of whipping experience will help us win the key floor votes that we will need to advance our agenda. Success for House Democrats in the coming years will require strong unity to stand for our core shared values, while appreciating we only reach that unity by understanding the perspective of every member and his or her district. The Whip must empower each member of our caucus to serve as a full partner, bringing his or her energy, passion, and expertise together with others’ to meet our common goals. It will also require the institutional knowledge and legislative savvy to go toe-to-toe with Senate Republicans and the White House. Having served for seven congresses as Chief Deputy Whip, I have a strong track record as an effective strategist, precise vote counter, and experienced, bipartisan negotiator. I have passed major bipartisan bills, like the 21st Century Cures Act, rallied Republicans to support ethical stem cell research, forged agreements in our caucus on the Affordable Care Act, and held Democrats together on close energy and environmental votes. For nearly two decades as co-chair of the Pro-Choice Caucus, I have whipped countless tough votes in an effort to successfully stop the Republicans’ radical anti-choice agenda. You can count on me to deliver for our caucus. We also must do more to ensure our leadership reflects the diversity of the caucus and our constituents. Eighteen years ago, our caucus voted to elevate a woman to the top levels of leadership, and it is past time for us to do so again—I would be only the second woman to hold this post. I would also be the first Whip from the Mountain West, and our path to a lasting majority must include broadening the caucus’ geographic appeal. As Whip, I will reinvigorate all aspects of the current operation to ensure we draw upon the full potential of our members. This means bolstering the existing operation to more deeply involve bill sponsors, issue experts, and committee chairs and members when a bill moves to the House floor. It also means partnering with our messaging arm, so that our work resonates throughout the country and shows the American people that our actions can live up to our words. I will continue to campaign on behalf of Democratic candidates across the country, from the most vulnerable incumbents to promising new challengers. I also understand the responsibility the Whip has to raise the money necessary to communicate effectively. I have raised millions for candidates and the DCCC, and I was on the host committee for the 2008 Democratic National Convention in Denver, which raised more than $60 million. This is an important moment for our caucus to move smartly on behalf of the American people. Together, we can protect American values and enact positive change for the country that rallies the public to our cause. I look forward to discussing how I can work with you as Democratic Whip during this effort. Sincerely, Diana DeGette Member of Congress
11.01.2018	Washington, DC – The skyrocketing cost of insulin must be brought under control for the sake of millions of Americans who depend on it, and the U.S. government has tools at its disposal to help, the bipartisan Congressional Diabetes Caucus concluded in a report released today. Caucus co-chairs Tom Reed (R-NY) and Diana DeGette (D-CO) completed the report after an inquiry lasting more than a year involving consultations with patients, health care providers, insulin makers, wholesalers, pharmacies, pharmacy benefit managers (PBMs) and health insurers. “We care about the 7.5 million Americans who rely on insulin to manage their blood sugar levels and prevent debilitating complications every day,” Reed and DeGette said. “Many cannot live without it, but countless patients struggle to afford it. As their out-of-pocket costs continue to rise, the current system is unfairly putting insulin out of reach, placing millions of lives at risk.” The price of insulin has doubled since 2012, after nearly tripling in the previous 10 years. A patient’s out-of-pocket insulin cost can exceed $300 per vial; some regularly use two or more vials per month. Patients have resorted to skipping doses, which can have dangerous, even fatal consequences. In conducting their inquiry, Reed and DeGette found the insulin drug market is especially complicated due to interconnected issues, marked by an influx of upward price pressures with limited counterbalancing downward market forces. The insulin market involves drug makers, wholesalers, pharmacies, PBMs and insurers. The drug’s list price is based on factors including manufacturers’ operational expenses, research and development costs, and marketing expenses. From there, the cost is affected by intermediaries in the supply chain and incentives that drive up the price further. At the same time, relatively few downward market forces exist to keep the price under control: In the United States, insulin is manufactured by only three companies, while three large wholesalers control about 85 percent of the distribution market. In their report, Reed and DeGette make 11 policy recommendations that include actions to increase the transparency of pricing, foster market competition, modify formulary usage and address patent reform. The report can be found here.
10.30.2018	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Diana DeGette (D-CO), Chief Deputy Whip, today issued the following statement about President Donald J. Trump’s proposal to eliminate birthright citizenship through executive order: “This proposal flies in the face of the presidential oath of office to ‘preserve, protect and defend the Constitution of the United States.’ It’s not within President Trump’s power simply to overturn the 14th Amendment, and he knows it – or should. This is clearly a cynical ploy to play to the xenophobic element of his base. All Americans deserve better than that.”
10.06.2018	Washington, DC – Congressional Pro-Choice Caucus Co-Chairs Diana DeGette (D-CO) and Barbara Lee (D-CA) released the following statement on the confirmation of Judge Kavanaugh: “This Senate confirmation makes a sham of our judicial heritage. Despite multiple credible allegations of sexual misconduct against Judge Kavanaugh, his complete lack of judicial temperament, and his concerning record on women’s reproductive rights, Senate Republicans have pushed this nomination through and approved a wholly unfit justice for a lifetime appointment to the Supreme Court. The Trump Administration subverted our democracy by limiting the scope of the FBI investigation, keeping the U.S. Senate and the American people from knowing the truth about Judge Kavanaugh. “Americans for generations to come will suffer because of this confirmation. “The last month has been painful for survivors of sexual assault. And today’s confirmation sends a chilling message: Politics comes before justice in the U.S. Senate. “Our hearts are with Christine Blasey Ford and all survivors today, and we will be forever grateful for Dr. Ford’s courage in coming forward to testify before the Senate and the world with such dignity.”
10.04.2018	Washington, DC – Pro-Choice Caucus Co-Chairs Diana DeGette (D-CO) and Barbara Lee (D-CA) today issued the following statement about Supreme Court Justice Nominee Judge Brett Kavanaugh: “Our country should hold Supreme Court Justices, and those who aspire to be them, to the highest standard. Judge Kavanaugh fell far short in his Senate testimony last week, berating senators, making blatant and blame-shifting political statements, and telling outright lies. Mocking those who questioned him, he repeatedly laid bare his contempt for both the Democratic party and the United States Senate. His record on women’s reproductive rights was already greatly concerning, as are the multiple sexual misconduct allegations against him. “As senators begin the last phase of the confirmation process, we urge them to consider this: A man who violates a sworn oath to tell the truth cannot be trusted with a lifetime position of any sort, much less on the highest court in the land.”
09.28.2018	Washington, D.C. – Congressional Pro-Choice Caucus Co-Chairs Diana DeGette (D-CO) and Barbara Lee (D-CA), today issued the following statement on the decision to move forward with a vote on Judge Kavanaugh’s nomination, despite multiple credible accusations of sexual misconduct: “The decision to move ahead with a vote today cements what we’ve suspected all along: yesterday’s hearing was a sham. If Senate Republicans took these allegations seriously, they would abandon their manufactured deadlines and pursue an independent investigation. Instead, they chose to put a sexual assault survivor on trial. “This vote sends a chilling message. Dr. Christine Blasey Ford risked her safety and her privacy to report her assault. But instead of honoring her courageous decision, Senate Republicans have stonewalled any serious examination of Judge Kavanaugh’s actions. “Judge Kavanaugh is unfit to serve on the Supreme Court. By putting politics ahead of justice, Senate Republicans have violated the public’s trust and made a mockery of this process.”
09.27.2018	Washington, DC – Congressional Pro-Choice Caucus Co-Chairs Diana DeGette (D-CO) and Barbara Lee (D-CA) today called on President Donald J. Trump to withdraw the nomination of Supreme Court nominee Brett Kavanaugh. “President Trump needs to do the right thing and remove Judge Kavanaugh from consideration for a lifetime appointment to the highest court in the land,” the two leaders said. “Dr. Christine Blasey Ford’s testimony showed there is plenty of reason to believe her. And as other allegations against Judge Kavanaugh continue to emerge, it has become glaringly clear that he is not a worthy candidate to sit on the Supreme Court. Proceeding with a confirmation vote at this point would be an insult to sexual harassment and assault victims everywhere.”
09.25.2018	Washington, DC – Leaders of the Congressional Pro-Choice Caucus today called for a halt to the Supreme Court confirmation process for Judge Brett Kavanaugh and sought a full and fair investigation. Caucus Co-Chairs Congresswomen Diana DeGette (D-CO) and Barbara Lee (D-CA), together with Task Force leaders Jerrold Nadler (D-NY), Jan Schakowsky (D-IL), Jackie Speier (D-CA), Judy Chu (D-CA), Suzan DelBene (D-WA), Julia Brownley (D-CA) and Katherine Clark (D-MA), issued the following statement: “Over the last two weeks, a number of allegations of sexual impropriety have been made against Judge Kavanaugh. Senate Republicans and the Trump Administration have ignored these serious accusations and are attempting to ‘plow through’ with their nominee. Some in charge of the process – such as Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell – even seemed to assure their supporters that Kavanaugh’s confirmation is a done deal. “These accusations deserve a full and fair investigation and a thorough hearing before the Senate Judiciary Committee. We continue to call on our colleagues in the Senate to halt this process and stop the vote. All survivors have the right to tell their own stories in their own way, on their own time, and they deserve to be heard. “Whoever fills the vacant Supreme Court seat will make decisions that directly affect the ability of women to make decisions about their health care, their families and their future. No one who displays an inability to respect women should be given a pass.”
09.24.2018	Congressional Diabetes Caucus Co-Chairs Diana DeGette (D-CO) and Tom Reed (R-NY) sent a letter signed by 214 House members to the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services advocating for coverage of artificial pancreas systems. “When the Food and Drug Administration approved the first-ever commercial version of an artificial pancreas system two years ago, it was a transformative moment for people with type 1 diabetes and a huge step forward for medicine,” DeGette said. “We worked hard to bring the FDA to that point. Two years later, we’re prepared to work just as hard to ensure that Medicare will cover the costs for patients who qualify for these systems. Medicare beneficiaries should have the same coverage for this breakthrough technology that they might have with private insurance.” “We care about ensuring people with diabetes have access to the technology which works best for them to help manage their complex disease,” Reed said. “We feel there is no fair reason for government bureaucrats to delay coverage for diabetics when many private insurers already cover artificial pancreas systems for diabetics.” Artificial pancreas systems are the newest wave of diabetes management technologies. They combine a continuous glucose monitor, an insulin pump and a smart algorithm which automatically dose and deliver insulin to a person with diabetes in real time without the need for user input. The nation’s 25 largest private insurers already cover the first generation of AP systems, but Medicare does not.
08.03.2018	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Diana DeGette (D-CO), Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations, joined a bipartisan group of fellow Energy and Commerce Committee leaders in sending letters yesterday to three opioid manufacturers requesting detailed information about each manufacturer’s role in the opioid crisis. The individual letters highlight the complexity of the opioid crisis, which claims the lives of more than 115 Americans every day. The letters were sent to: Mr. Saeed Motahari, President and CEO, Insys Therapeutics, Inc. Mr. Mark Trudeau, President and CEO, Mallinckrodt Pharmaceuticals Dr. Craig Landau, President and CEO, Purdue Pharma L.P. The letters were also signed by Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Greg Walden (R-OR), Energy and Commerce Committee Ranking Member Frank Pallone, Jr. (D-NJ), Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee Chairman Gregg Harper (R-MS), Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee Vice Chairman Morgan Griffith (R-VA), and Energy and Commerce Committee Vice Ranking Member Kathy Castor (D-FL). In all three letters, DeGette and lawmakers write, “For more than a year, the Committee has been investigating potential breakdowns in the controlled substances supply chain which may have contributed to the nation’s opioid epidemic. Pharmaceutical manufacturers play a unique and critical role in this supply chain by researching and developing products for the consumer market as well as marketing such products after obtaining approval from the Food and Drug Administration (FDA).” The letters to each manufacturer request similar information and documents, as well as requests that are unique to each manufacturer. In the letter to Insys, the leaders pose questions about an alleged kickback scheme designed to boost sales of Subsys, a sublingual fentanyl spray. In the letter to Mallinckrodt, the leaders pose questions about the company’s efforts to monitor its opioid sales for suspicious orders. In the letter to Purdue Pharma, the leaders pose questions about when the company first knew about the dangers of OxyContin, which was approved by the FDA in 1995 and available for use the following year. For more information regarding the Committee’s bipartisan investigation into pill dumping, including a complete timeline, click here. Click here to read the letters.
08.01.2018	Washington, DC – Today, the co-chairs of the Congressional Pro-Choice Caucus, Representatives Diana DeGette (D-CO) and Barbara Lee (D-CA), released the following statement on the public comments from more than 170 Members of Congress to the proposed changes to the Title X program: “For decades, Title X-funded programs have provided access to primary and reproductive health care to underserved communities all across our country. The program has been emblematic of a long history of bipartisan cooperation and intent to fund grantees that give patients access to evidence-based family planning services. Title X has improved millions of lives, expanding access to reproductive health, family planning and preventive care for low-income communities. Title X’s proven successes should serve as an example for other federal grant programs. “This is why we are so deeply concerned by the unprecedented, unnecessary and dangerous rule changes being sought by the Trump Administration. This proposed rule would undermine the trust between medical professionals and their patients, as well as erode care for the populations who need it most. Doctors and nurses across the United States are speaking out because this rule will have real, devastating consequences for women, especially women of color and those living in poverty. “From the courts to health clinics, this Administration is doing everything possible to deny women their fundamental constitutional rights to reproductive health care. In the comments submitted here, we are making it clear that we will not stand for this anti-woman, anti-health agenda.” The full text of the letter is available here.
07.26.2018	Washington, DC – Five lawmakers today introduced a bipartisan bill giving a full range of medical services to families with children who have life-limiting illnesses and who qualify for Medicaid, which currently has gaps in such coverage. The Children’s Program of All-Inclusive Coordinated Care (ChiPACC) Act (H.R. 6560) would let states create comprehensive care programs for these children. Its authors are Representatives Diana DeGette (D-CO), a senior member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, together with the Co-Chairs of the Congressional Childhood Cancer Caucus: Jackie Speier (D-CA), Michael McCaul (R-TX), G.K. Butterfield (D-NC) and Mike Kelly (R-PA). “Families with children facing life-limiting illnesses need all the support they can get, and they should be empowered to seek out that support,” the bill’s sponsors said in a joint statement. “We owe it to these kids and their loved ones to help ensure more compassionate care in their most trying times.” Gaps in Medicaid coverage of hospice and palliative services have deprived many beneficiaries of the care they need because the program does not cover some of children’s unique medical needs. Under this bill, the family of every child who qualifies for Medicaid will receive a specialized care plan covering a range of services – palliative, counseling, respite, expressive therapy and bereavement – providing them and their families greater comfort and peace of mind.
07.24.2018	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Diana DeGette (D-CO), Chief Deputy Whip, today toured the Department of Health and Human Services’ family reunification operation center and received an update from Trump Administration officials on efforts to comply with federal court orders to reunite separated children with their families. The HHS tour was part of a bipartisan briefing for members of the Energy and Commerce Committee, which conducts oversight of the agency offices responsible for the well-being of the children forcibly separated from their families at the border by the Trump Administration. The HHS Office of Refugee Resettlement has come under intense criticism for how it has handled this role. During the briefing, members toured the Secretary’s Operations Center, HHS’s communications hub typically used for response coordination during public health emergencies and natural disasters. The SOC was activated for family reunification efforts following a federal court injunction requiring family reunification within 30 days. The committee members also received an update from Trump Administration personnel from HHS and the Department of Homeland Security on the administration’s efforts to comply with court orders to reunify the families. Last month, DeGette joined Democratic colleagues on the Energy and Commerce Committee, of which she is a senior member, in calling on congressional Republicans to hold a hearing on the wellbeing of children forcibly separated from their parents. Today, the Democrats’ request was echoed in a letter from a coalition of health advocates urging Congress to hold oversight hearings on the quality of care separated children are receiving while in the Trump Administration’s custody. To date, Republican leaders have refused to accept the Democrats’ request to hold a hearing. Also in June, DeGette met with detainees at the U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement facility in Aurora, CO – some of whom had been separated from their children – and traveled with more than two dozen House members to the U.S.-Mexico border, where she observed a processing center for people arrested while crossing the border without the proper documents and visited an HHS-supervised “tender age” facility for very young children arriving undocumented in this country.
07.24.2018	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Diana DeGette (D-CO), the dean of the Colorado congressional delegation and Chief Deputy Whip, today introduced the Colorado Wilderness Act of 2018, which will provide federal protection for natural wild spaces. “Now more than ever, we need a comprehensive vision for saving Colorado’s last remaining wild places,” DeGette said. “Public lands are under increasingly frequent assault from special interests and their moneyed allies in Washington, but Coloradans are pushing back. “Colorado has a remarkable outdoor heritage with treasured landscapes and an abundance of natural resources. Without a doubt, access to our state’s magnificent public lands plays a strong role in our renowned quality of life. The outdoors is central to our lifestyle and essential to our state’s economy. That’s why it is so important to protect our wild places.” Congresswoman DeGette has introduced the Colorado Wilderness Act in every Congress since 1999. The current version protects 33 areas totaling 740,000 acres. Many of the proposed areas are mid-elevation ecosystems that are underrepresented in currently designated Colorado Wilderness and provide valuable habitat for a staggering variety of plants and wildlife. The congresswoman has visited many of these areas with people who live and work nearby. Through the years, she has met with countless stakeholders including off-highway vehicle groups, ranchers, mountain bikers, rock climbers, land management agencies, land owners, and local elected officials to discuss their priorities and concerns. Congresswoman DeGette has also held several public meetings and discussions on the proposal, soliciting feedback from all interested parties. “The Colorado Wilderness Act of 2018 importantly offers protection to some of the wildest regions in Colorado that are also most at risk from the Trump Administration’s relentless assault on America’s public lands,” said Mark Pearson, executive director of the San Juan Citizens Alliance. “I’ve been intensively engaged in advocacy on behalf of these wildlands for over 30 years, and have had the great privilege of visiting a number of these areas with Rep. DeGette.” Julie Mach, conservation director of the Colorado Mountain Club, said the organization “is excited to support new Wilderness areas across the state that protect important backcountry recreation opportunities for hikers, climbers an skiers. These diverse landscapes support an array of human uses while also protecting some of the most iconic landscapes and sensitive natural resources in Colorado.” According to the 2018 Conservation in the West Poll, two-thirds of Coloradans see rollbacks of laws that protect the land, water and wildlife as a serious problem for the state. The bill text and a one-page summary – along with a map, acreage data and descriptions of each area that would be protected by this legislation can be found here.
07.11.2018	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Diana DeGette (D-CO), Chief Deputy Whip, today moved to block a sneak attack on air quality that would put more “super-polluting” trucks on America’s roads thanks to a ruling that former Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Scott Pruitt’s underlings issued after he quit, but before he left the building. A senior member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, which oversees the EPA, DeGette has just introduced a measure that essentially nullifies a memo issued on July 6, the day after Pruitt’s resignation was announced, regarding so-called “glider vehicles” – widely known as super-polluting due to contaminant levels up to 55 times greater than vehicles with modern pollution controls – and “glider kits” to retrofit other trucks so they too can belch more toxins into the air. “The ghost of Scott Pruitt continues to haunt this country as his disgusting legacy of dismantling environmental protections lives on,” DeGette said. “But there’s still time to reverse a part of the damage by letting a single sentence become law. This measure would keep some of the most environmentally egregious commercial vehicles off our roads and would prevent the retrofitting of other trucks to do even more damage to our air. “Former Administrator Pruitt’s record of harming the environment to benefit industry is as clear as the air we should all be free to breathe. It’s no surprise that the man who many called Pollutin’ Pruitt would try to slip through this deservedly controversial policy just as he was about to head out the agency door for, thankfully, the last time. Not on our watch, Scott Pruitt.” To block the new rule, DeGette filed an amendment to a spending bill that had already gone through much of the legislative process and will have one final review next week in the Rules Committee before going to the House floor for a vote.
07.09.2018	Washington, DC -- Congressional Pro-Choice Caucus Co-Chairs DeGette (D-CO) and Barbara Lee (D-CA) tonight issued this statement in reaction to President Donald J. Trump’s nomination of Judge Brett Kavanaugh to the U.S. Supreme Court: “We are deeply concerned about how Judge Brett Kavanaugh might rule on cases involving women’s health in general, privacy, and access to the full range of reproductive care services, including abortion care – a right that since 1973 has been protected under the Constitution. Donald Trump’s actions on these matters since assuming the Presidency have been decisively anti-reproductive rights, and his administration has pushed anti-woman policies through regulations as well as nominating and installing anti-choice candidates for health-related positions. We urge the Senate to scrutinize Judge Kavanaugh closely to ensure that Americans’ fundamental rights, including the right to choose, will be protected. "President Trump’s reported short list of nominees was selected through a highly partisan process driven by a clear anti-choice agenda. Already, many are questioning the lasting damage this nomination may cause to the reputation of highest court in the land, as well the implications for Americans’ fundamental rights and civil liberties. This nomination is deeply troubling for women across the country. All Americans deserve nothing short of full transparency regarding Judge Kavanaugh’s views, intentions and attitudes toward what the Court stands for: Equal Justice Under Law.”
07.06.2018	Denver -- Congresswoman Diana DeGette (D-CO), Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations, sent a letter today to Health and Human Services (HHS) Secretary Alex Azar demanding additional information about the agency’s plan to reunite children in the Office of Refugee Resettlement’s (ORR) custody who were forcibly separated from their parents by the Department of Homeland Security (DHS). On June 26, the United States District Court for the Southern District of California granted a preliminary injunction, ordering the federal government to reunite children under the age of 5 with their parents by July 10 and all other children who have been separated from their parents by July 26. In the letter, DeGette states that the administration’s lack of coordination and common decency throughout its entire family separation campaign, coupled with a current, lackluster effort to achieve these court-ordered family reunifications, creates serious doubts that HHS will be able to appropriately manage this undertaking. Of particular concern to DeGette is the Secretary’s reported request for assistance from those within the agency: “You have reportedly asked for volunteers to help with the family reunification effort. I am concerned that this may indicate an unacceptably haphazard approach to staffing and organizing the reunification effort,” DeGette writes. “HHS has approximately 80,000 employees and as Secretary you have broad discretion to allocate resources to meet the Department’s objectives.” In addition, DeGette criticizes the Secretary for calling the reunification timeframe “extreme,” demonstrating a starling lack of understanding about the physical, emotional, and psychological harm being separated from a parent can cause a child. She also asks whether HHS will make an effort to reunite children in its custody with their parents even if the family was not separated by U.S. immigration authorities, noting that while it is not mandated by the injunction, the consequences of family separation are just as real for those in this group. Previously, on June 28, DeGette joined 47 of her colleagues in sending a letter to Secretary Azar, Attorney General Sessions, and DHS Secretary Nielsen, asking basic questions about their plan to comply with the June 26 injunction, but so far they have not received a response. Read the letter here.
07.05.2018	Denver -- Congresswoman Diana DeGette (D-CO), Chief Deputy Whip, released the following statement in response to the resignation of Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Scott Pruitt, announced today by President Trump. “Scott Pruitt’s resignation is welcome news, but long-overdue. For many months, he has callously ignored intense public scrutiny over myriad scandals, improprieties and ethical lapses, further sullying the EPA’s reputation and tarnishing its proud legacy of environmental stewardship. He has betrayed the public trust time and again while failing the honorable civil servants he leads in this critical federal agency. These wrongdoings, however, often overshadowed his greatest ongoing scheme -- repealing and undermining vital environmental safeguards that protect nature and Americans alike, silencing important scientific research and casting doubt on humanity’s role in driving climate change, all to benefit his corporate cronies. “Though Scott Pruitt will soon step down from his position at the agency’s helm, this objective remains at the forefront of the Trump administration’s goals, and even more unprecedented environmental attacks could continue under acting-administrator Andrew Wheeler, a former coal lobbyist, and Pruitt’s eventual permanent replacement. As a senior member of the Energy and Commerce Committee and a fourth-generation Coloradan, I will continue opposing this alarming debasement of the agency’s mission, and I will whole-heartedly oppose any forthcoming nominee who pledges to continue what Scott Pruitt started. Our planet, our health and our future are at stake.”
06.27.2018	Washington, D.C. – In the wake of fresh evidence that the oil and gas industry’s methane emissions are far greater than previously thought, Congresswoman Diana DeGette (D-CO) joined House Natural Resources Committee Ranking Member Raúl M. Grijalva (D-AZ) and three other House Democratic colleagues today in sending a letter to Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Administrator Scott Pruitt urging him to reinstate a formal Information Collection Request (ICR) to the industry that he canceled in early 2017. The letter comes as a new report in the journal Science found that methane emissions from the U.S. oil and gas supply chain were roughly 60 percent higher than EPA estimates. Shortly after Pruitt joined the EPA, the agency announced on March 2, 2017, that it was withdrawing ICR 2548.01, which would have required oil and gas companies to provide information on methane emissions from their operations. On March 8, 2017, Grijalva and Rep. Alan Lowenthal (D-CA), ranking member of the Subcommittee on Energy and Mineral Resources, sent Pruitt a letter asking him to reinstate the ICR, highlighting the urgent need to collect accurate data on methane emissions and enforce appropriate reduction standards. On May 23, 2017, the acting Assistant Administrator for Air and Radiation responded that the ICR was withdrawn to “allow the Administrator time to assess the need for the requested information.” The authors of today’s letter – DeGette, Grijalva, Lowenthal, Natural Resources Committee member Rep. Don Beyer (D-VA), and Rep. Jared Polis (D-CO) – cite several developments since that exchange as grounds for reinstating the ICR: ·In May 2017, the Senate rejected the Republican efforts to use the Congressional Review Act to repeal the Bureau of Land Management’s (BLM) methane waste rule, indicating strong bipartisan support for regulations reducing methane emissions. ·Both BLM and the EPA have since moved to undo, weaken, or avoid promulgating methane regulations, which today’s authors write “should be informed with the best available science, not vague notions of industry ‘burdens’ and incomplete knowledge of the public benefit of cutting emissions.” ·The most recent release of EPA’s Inventory of U.S. Greenhouse Gas Emissions and Sinks showed that from 1990 to 2016, methane emissions from natural gas production operations outpaced the growth of natural gas production, 58 percent to 52 percent, respectively. In addition, as the authors point out today, a recent New York Times analysis finds that the 13 million metric tons of methane lost by the oil and gas industry each year are worth approximately $2 billion and would be enough to fuel roughly 10 million homes. The authors write in part: “With new science showing that emissions are likely considerably higher than previously thought, there is no excuse for delaying or rescinding methane emission controls, or for failing to collect data from methane emitters. We believe that EPA needs to reissue the ICR as soon as possible, or provide a comprehensive explanation why it will not.” The authors ask Pruitt to “provide us with the results of your assessment of the need to require methane emission data, as mentioned in the May 23, 2017, response, including a full explanation of how those results were arrived at. If that assessment is not done, please inform us of when you expect to complete it.”
06.27.2018	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Diana DeGette (D-CO), Chief Deputy Whip and co-chair of the Congressional Pro-Choice Caucus, vowed to press even harder to protect women’s rights in the United States today after Supreme Court Justice Anthony Kennedy announced his retirement as of July 31. She called on Americans who believe in reproductive freedom to make their voices heard as President Donald J. Trump considers potential nominees and sends the name of at least one to the Senate for confirmation. “With Justice Kennedy’s retirement, the stakes couldn’t be higher for protecting a woman’s right to make her own reproductive health choices, which has been protected in the United States for more than 45 years,” DeGette said. “This right is now at serious risk of being overturned. “Under the current administration, we have seen an unprecedented assault on women’s access to health care services as well as the limitation of scientifically-accurate information and truthful discussion of medical options exchanged between providers and their patients. The Supreme Court majority’s decision this week in NIFLA v Becerra, which lets ‘crisis pregnancy centers’ continue deceiving women about their reproductive health options, may be a frightening omen of things to come if President Trump places another justice on the bench who is aligned with part or all of that agenda. “This vacancy comes not long after the President had his pick of nominees from lists furnished by extreme conservatives even while still a candidate – a vacancy maintained by Republican senators who blocked the filling of a seat on the bench during the Obama presidency. “This time, the president must be told loud and clear that he should select someone who represents the seven in 10 people in this country who believe in a women’s right to choose. We who support that right and rise time and again to defend it need to do so now, so that from the White House to the Senate to communities across the nation, it will be clearly understood that we will not tolerate anything less than a justice who agrees to uphold the laws of the land, rather than be an active participant on an activist, agenda-driven court – in all matters, but especially when it comes to women’s right to determine what happens to their own bodies.”
06.26.2018	Washington, D.C. – Congressional Pro-Choice Caucus Co-Chairs Congresswoman Diana DeGette (D-CO) and Congresswoman Barbara Lee, alongside House Judiciary Committee Ranking Member Jerry Nadler (D-NY) and Congresswoman Judy Chu (D-CA), released the following statement after the Supreme Court Decision on National Institute of Family and Life Advocates vs. Becerra: “Today, the Supreme Court sided with anti-choice extremists over women. Its decision will directly harm women and undermine their rights to make their own healthcare decisions. All patients deserve access to full and accurate information about their reproductive health care options. “These deceptively-named ‘crisis pregnancy centers’ intentionally use misleading advertising to confuse and misinform women about their reproductive options, specifically omitting their choice to have an abortion. Furthermore, these facilities often have no licensed medical providers working at the centers. To be clear: denying women this critical information is unethical and will put lives in danger. “Let’s not forget, this decision is another consequence of President Trump nominating Justice Gorsuch, an anti-reproductive health extremist, to the Supreme Court. We cannot allow this administration, Congressional Republicans, and aggressive anti-women groups to dictate the medical care that women receive.”
06.24.2018	Denver – U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement has overstepped its authority and must be reined in, Congresswoman Diana DeGette (D-CO) said today after meeting with people who sought refuge in the United States only to be arrested and jailed at the ICE Denver Contract Detention Facility in Aurora, including one whose family was separated upon arrest and was still awaiting word on reunification. This visit came on the heels of a congressional delegation to the Southwestern U.S. border in which DeGette took part. “ICE is a rogue agency, and it shows in the way it has gone about methodically snatching more than 2000 kids from their parents as they sought refuge in the United States, sending them far and wide to facilities across the country with little accountability and no heart,” DeGette said. “There has been clearly not been enough streamlined, efficient coordination among federal agencies to ensure a smooth return of these children, from toddlers to teenagers, to their parents’ arms. As a result, many are facing prolonged pain on top of the trauma caused by the needless breakup of their families. ICE must be reined in.” Rep. DeGette, who is Chief Deputy Whip and a senior member of the committee overseeing the government bureau responsible for these children, the Office of Refugee Resettlement (ORR), today proposed several changes to federal structures and procedures in the treatment of asylum-seekers. “As a nation, we need to have a hard examination of the way we treat people who are fleeing repressive governments and gang violence,” she said. “We need to treat them with human dignity, process them swiftly and accurately, and handle them humanely. If they need to be deported back to their home countries, we need to do it in a just way. And we need to ensure that never, ever again in this country do we split up families.” On Saturday, with a delegation of more than two dozen House members, DeGette traversed the path of people coming into Texas through the U.S.-Mexico border, observed a processing center where people arrested for crossing undocumented were assigned to detention centers, and visited a “tender age” facility for very young children arriving undocumented in this country, one of them only nine months old. On Sunday, after speaking with detainees in Aurora, she called for an influx of immigration lawyers to help advise people at all such facilities on their legal rights, and for urgent assistance to the home countries of those seeking asylum due to unsafe conditions there. She also spoke at a demonstration at the Colorado State Capitol, where she encouraged her constituents to keep up the fight to end the heinous practice of family separation and ensure that it never takes place again. DeGette is a sponsor of the Keep Families Together Act (H.R. 6135), which would achieve these aims. She has called for hearings in the Energy and Commerce Committee to demand accountability at ORR and conferred with the committee’s Republican chairman about the prospects of that, and is urging colleagues on both sides of the political aisle to return to working on a comprehensive solution to our country’s broken immigration system.
06.23.2018	McAllen, Texas – Congresswoman Diana DeGette (D-CO), Chief Deputy Whip, today followed the path of refugees coming into the United States via its southwestern border, visited a “tender age” facility for very young children arriving undocumented in this country, and considered how the scenes she observed and the data she had gathered will inform related policy upon her return to Washington once she has touched base with immigration rights advocates and other constituents in Denver on Sunday. “There’s no substitute for being on the ground,” DeGette said from the airport as she awaited her flight back home to Colorado. “The most shocking thing I saw all day was a group of 45 refugee women at the Port Isabel ICE detention center who had been separated from their children. Many did not know where their kids were, and even the ones who did could only talk to them once a week. Two were breastfeeding and had their babies taken. “We were allowed rare access to a ‘tender age’ center where they are holding kids as young as nine months. While they are apparently being well cared-for, these kids need to be back with their moms and dads.” DeGette took part in a delegation of more than two dozen House members, largely composed of fellow members of the Democratic Women’s Working Group, who made several stops on Saturday in and near McAllen, TX, including a border patrol station, a processing center for those who had been arrested without documentation, and a detention center. As most of those House colleagues dispersed at the program’s end, DeGette went on to cross the Gateway International Bridge in Brownsville – where she spoke with people who had been waiting for hours and even days to enter this country – and to spend time with youngsters detained at the Casa Presidente tender age center. DeGette is a senior member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, which has jurisdiction over the Department of Health and Human Services; HHS operates the Office of Refugee Resettlement, a controversial bureau responsible for the care of minors who enter the United States undocumented and are unaccompanied by their parents or guardians.\ Earlier this week, DeGette called on President Donald J. Trump to do better than the vague Executive Order he had issued to halt, at least temporarily, his campaign of separating families at the border under a “zero-tolerance” policy. She noted that the order does not provide direction on how the families shattered during the Trump Administration’s needlessly cruel campaign – among them more than 2000 children – would be reunited, and that it still requires families that had not yet been separated to be kept behind locked doors, fences, and even the gates of military bases. “We need to stop this as a nation – now,” DeGette said. “And we need to reunite these kids with their families. They have already been through more than enough.” Tomorrow, DeGette plans to share further thoughts with her constituents and discuss solutions, including existing legislation that has yet to be brought to the House floor for a vote by the GOP leadership. She will hold a news conference immediately after a visit to the Denver Contract Detention Facility in Aurora on Sunday morning and has been invited to speak a rally in Denver that afternoon.
06.21.2018	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Diana DeGette (D-CO), Chief Deputy Whip, today said the president’s belated Executive Order does nothing to reverse the damage this disgraceful campaign has inflicted, since it offers no path to reunite the families already affected and will still put children and their parents behind fences, locked doors and even the gates of military bases as they await a decision on their applications for asylum. “I call on colleagues and people of conscience across the United States to push President Trump toward a more just and complete solution to the refugee crisis he created during the past few months than this vague Executive Order,” DeGette said. “Keeping asylee families caged on charges that might not even apply to them is a different kind of evil. We are a nation of laws, not some arbitrarily cruel authoritarian regime. Under current statute, coming into this country without documentation is at worst a misdemeanor that in no way calls for ripping families apart, then jailing them together.” DeGette noted that the lack of a practical means either in this order, or in any substantial statements since then by the Trump administration, to reunite the families separated in recent months – which include 2,300 children, from toddlers to teens – shows a disturbing lack of planning for not only the aftermath of the order, but also for these families’ future even if the order hadn’t been issued. She will take part in a delegation of fellow House members to the Southwest U.S. border during the next two days to observe detention centers there, including those currently warehousing the very young. The group intends to keep the crisis caused by President Trump in the spotlight to ensure follow-through not only on his latest Executive Order, but also on ensuring that the families shattered in recent months are made whole. DeGette has served in the House Democratic leadership since 2005 while also shepherding significant bipartisan bills that she has written into law. She urged her colleagues on both sides of the aisle to pass the Keep Families Together Act, then return to working on a comprehensive solution to our country’s broken immigration system.
06.20.2018	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Diana DeGette (D-CO), Chief Deputy Whip, issued the following statement today about President Donald J. Trump’s executive order on his new “zero-tolerance” policy that in recent weeks has resulted in more than 2000 children being separated from their parents while seeking asylum or otherwise entering the United States without documentation: “Today we recognize and recommit to helping people fleeing persecution and war. Lately, our country has been creating a refugee crisis of our own. It’s a relief that the president has just signed an executive order that will finally suspend his ‘zero-tolerance’ policy of separating families who arrive at our borders without documentation, including those wo are seeking asylum from horrendous circumstances in their homelands. “Now these families will no longer be ripped apart, but warehousing them in detention centers is no solution. Americans have placed tremendous pressure on the Trump Administration to the disgrace of family separation; we must keep it up to ensure that children are reunited with their parents in humane circumstances. And we should pass the Keep Families Together Act (H.R. 6153) to prevent such an outrage from happening again.”
06.19.2018	Washington, DC -- Congresswoman Diana DeGette (D-CO), Chief Deputy Whip, today called for the resignation or firing of Department of Homeland Security Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen over the agency’s implementation of the heartless “zero-tolerance” policy that is forcibly removing parents from their children at the U.S. border, along with her repeated lies about the policy and its impact. Secretary Nielsen falsely blamed Democrats for the humanitarian crisis at a Monday press briefing and also issued a tweet stating, “We do not have a policy of separating families at the border. Period.” This denial comes in spite of a clear effort by the Trump administration to prosecute as many undocumented border crossings as possible, regardless of whether the individuals are crossing with children or whether they are seeking asylum. “Enough is enough. Secretary Nielsen should resign or be fired from her post” DeGette said. “She has overseen an unprecedented humanitarian crisis ripping away thousands of young children from their parents without a clear path to reunification. “Worse yet, she denies any culpability for this tragedy while inexplicably blaming Democrats for creating it, despite our long-standing efforts to oppose family separation and end this cruel practice. Secretary Nielsen’s complete lack of understanding of the law, total insensitivity to the plight of these families and blatant disregard for facts make her unfit to serve the public in this or any capacity.” In February, DeGette and Democratic colleagues sent a letter to Secretary Nielsen expressing deep concern over the family separation policy as its enforcement was coming to light. She has raised the matter with other senior administration officials, called for hearings, and sounded the alarm repeatedly to keep public focus on this disgraceful practice. DeGette is a sponsor of the newly-introduced Keep Families Together Act, which will prohibit the Department of Homeland Security from separating children from their parents, except in very narrow, extraordinary circumstances where it is in the children’s best interest. This weekend, she will travel to McAllen, Texas with several other leading female members of Congress to observe government authorities in action and visit with children affected by the new family separation campaign.
06.19.2018	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Diana DeGette (D-CO), Chief Deputy Whip, cheered the introduction today of a bill with 190 House Democratic supporters to end family separation at the U.S. border. Judiciary Committee Ranking Member Jerrold Nadler is the lead sponsor of the Keep Families Together Act (H.R. 6135),which is the House companion to the legislation introduced by Senate Judiciary Committee Ranking Member Diane Feinstein (D-CA) earlier this month. “This bill will keep DHS from continuing the inhumane blanket practice of ripping children from their parents,” DeGette said. “It will also tightly limit criminal prosecution of those who seek asylum. Splitting up refugee families in our country’s name must end. I was proud to lend my support to this bill as it made its way through the legislative process and am delighted to help introduce it today.” The Keep Families Together Act would: Keep Families Together: The bill promotes family unity by prohibiting Department of Homeland Security (DHS) officials from separating children from their parents, except in extraordinary circumstances. In these limited circumstances, separation could not occur unless parental rights have been terminated, a child welfare agency has issued a best interest determination, or the Port Director or the Chief Border Patrol agent of Customs and Border Protection (CBP) have approved separation due to trafficking indicators or other concerns of risk to the child. It requires an independent child welfare official to review any such separation and return the child if no harm to the child is present. It imposes financial penalties on officials who violate the prohibition on family separation. Limit Criminal Prosecutions for Asylum Seekers: The majority of the parents separated at the border are being criminally prosecuted for illegal entry or re-entry. This bill restricts the prosecution of parents who are asylum seekers by adopting the recommendation of the DHS Office of Inspector General. The bill delays prosecutions for illegal entry or re-entry for asylum seekers and creates an affirmative defense for asylum seekers. It also codifies our commitment to the Refugee protocol prohibiting the criminal punishment of those seeking protection from persecution. Increase Child Welfare Training: The bill requires all CBP officers and agents to complete child welfare training on an annual basis. Port Directors and Chief Border Agents, those who are authorized to make decisions on family separations, must complete an additional 90 minutes of annual child-welfare training. Establish Public Policy Preference for Family Reunification: The bill establishes a preference for family unity, discourages the separation of siblings, and creates a presumption that detention is not in the best interests of families and children. Add Procedures for Separated Families: The bill requires DHS to develop policies and procedures allowing parents and children to locate each other and reunite if they have been separated. Such procedures must be public and made available in a language that parents can understand. In cases of separation, it requires DHS to provide parents with a weekly report containing information about a child, and weekly phone communication. Establish Other Required Measures: In order to inform Congressional oversight and promote public understanding of the use family separation, the bill requires a report on the separation of families every six months. Organizations that Support the Keep Families Together Act: The House version of the Keep Families Together Act is endorsed by the ACLU, Kids in Need of Defense, Human Rights First, Washington Office on Latin America, Women's Refugee Commission, Lutheran Immigration and Refugee Service, Latin American Working Group, NETWORK Lobby for Catholic Social Justice, New York Immigration Coalition, Third Way, Young Center for Immigrant Children’s Rights, Indivisible, Public Counsel’s Immigrants’ Rights Project, MomsRising, America’s Voice, Legal Aid Justice Center, Al Otro Lado, Amnesty International USA, Anti-Defamation League, Center for Gender & Refugee Studies, UnidosUS, Hispanic Federation, The Leadership Conference on Civil and Human Rights, Church World Service, Main Street Alliance, Asylum Seeker Advocacy Project, Kino Border Initiative, National Immigrant Justice Center, The Children’s Partnership, SchoolHouse Connection, Mexican American Legal Defense and Educational Fund, National Hispanic Leadership Agenda and more.
06.18.2018	Denver – As part of her ongoing work to reverse the Trump Administration’s new “zero-tolerance” policy of separating children from parents who enter the United States seeking asylum or otherwise come into the country without documentation, Congresswoman Diana DeGette (D-CO), Chief Deputy Whip, will travel with colleagues to the Southwestern U.S. border this week. “I’ve long protested this heartless, shameful policy and am supporting legislation to reverse it,” DeGette said. “And using the tools of congressional oversight, I‘ve raised the matter in hearings, letters to the administration and via other means. Now I’ll have a first-hand view in order to do more to bring its reality home. A number of leading female members of Congress will visit the scene of this crime against humanity; we will bear witness and bring to light the ways in which the Trump Administration is harming vulnerable families, damaging our nation’s stature and seeking to excuse these outrages in the name of national security.” More than 20 leading female members of Congress will take part in the trip to McAllen, Texas, where they will observe government authorities in action and visit with children affected by the new family separation campaign. Having already sounded the alarm over this inhumane change in policy when it came to light and raised the issue with high-level Trump Administration officials, DeGette is supporting the Keep Families Together Act, which will be introduced in the House this week. The bill will prohibit the Department of Homeland Security from separating children from their parents, except in very narrow, extraordinary circumstances where it is in the children’s best interest, and independent child welfare officials will oversee each such case. It will also tightly limit criminal prosecution of those who seek asylum.
06.13.2018	Washington, DC – Congressional Diabetes Caucus Co-Chairs Diana DeGette (D-CO) and Tom Reed (R-NY) today celebrated a policy change that the caucus had long advocated to modernize Medicare coverage: The federal government will now permit coverage of costs for Continuous Glucose Monitoring (CGM) by patients who track their data using smartphones, tablets and other personal electronic devices. The Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) has announced that coverage of CGM supplies would be allowed for people who link them to smartphones, tablets and other personal electronic devices to share data and alerts with other people. “People with diabetes who keep their caregivers and loved ones up to speed via their cell phones and tablets now no longer have to worry that this convenience will cost them their Medicare coverage,” DeGette and Reed said. “Continuous Glucose Monitoring shouldn’t have to mean being connected to only one kind of device to transmit data and alerts. This welcome change in policy means freedom from needless worry for all involved.” Previously, the use of personal electronic devices such as smartphones with CGM system disqualified patients from receiving Medicare benefits for those systems because the devices are not considered to be Durable Medical Equipment. Today’s policy change allows Medicare coverage for CGM supplies that are linked to non-DME devices, as well. There are about 300,000 Medicare-eligible individuals qualified to use CGM.
06.07.2018	Washington, DC – More than 100 members of Congress, led by Congresswoman Diana DeGette (D-CO), today sent a bipartisan letter to Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Scott Pruitt urging him to withdraw a recently-proposed, so-called “transparency rule” that would limit the scientific research available to EPA policy makers as they draft regulations. “We support transparency and scientific integrity. However, the proposed rule will limit transparency and undermine the scientific integrity of EPA’s rulemaking process,” the letter said, noting it “would implement an opaque process allowing EPA to selectively suppress scientific evidence without accountability and in the process undermine bedrock environmental laws.” Nearly a thousand scientists and many leading scientific organizations have opposed the proposed rule since it was issued in late April. The letter was signed by 103 House members, led by Representative DeGette and her colleagues Dan Lipinski (D-IL), Paul Tonko (D-IL) and Don Beyer (D-VA). The proposed rule requires that data underlying EPA’s regulatory actions be made publicly available to allow for independent validation. “Such a standard could exclude studies that utilize confidential industry and health data that are vital to understanding the nature of chemical pollutants, the impacts of pollution, and the most effective ways to protect the environment and public health,” the members of Congress wrote. The proposed rule “appears to be targeted at excluding important public health studies while privileging industry-sponsored research,” they noted. “It also fails to adequately consider the costs of implementation and the potential privacy implications. Finally, the discretion it grants the Administrator to grant case-by-case exemptions completely undermines the stated goal of transparency.” The entire text of the letter follows: June 7, 2018 The Honorable Scott Pruitt Administrator U.S. Environmental Protection Agency 1200 Pennsylvania Avenue NW Washington, D.C. 20004 Dear Administrator Pruitt: We write to express grave concerns about the Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) proposed rule, published on April 30, 2018, titled Strengthening Transparency in Regulatory Science (Docket No. EPA-HQ-OA-2018-0259). Contrary to its name, the proposed rule would implement an opaque process allowing EPA to selectively suppress scientific evidence without accountability and in the process undermine bedrock environmental laws. We join nearly a thousand scientists and many leading scientific organizations in opposing this policy and urge you to withdraw the proposed rule. The proposed rule suffers from significant procedural flaws including lack of supporting evidence, insufficient detail in the proposal itself, and conflicts with EPA’s statutory obligations. The substance of the rule is also concerning. It appears to be targeted at excluding important public health studies while privileging industry-sponsored research. It also fails to adequately consider the costs of implementation and the potential privacy implications. Finally, the discretion it grants the Administrator to grant case-by-case exemptions completely undermines the stated goal of transparency. Without any significant evidence supporting it, the proposed rule is a solution in search of a problem. The proposed rule fails to identify specific weaknesses in EPA’s current scientific approach, which is grounded in peer review. Wendy Wagner, author of two of the studies EPA cites to rationalize the rule, said in response to the proposed rule: “They don’t adopt any of our recommendations, and they go in a direction that’s completely opposite, completely different.” The proposed rule also invokes policies from Nature, Science, and the Proceedings of the National Academies of Science, but each of these organizations has argued against the rule. Additionally, EPA fails to cite any specific language providing authority for the rule and asks commenters where the authority may be found. Key issues including how data would be made available to the public and how private information would be protected are not addressed. This is a serious deficiency in a rule meant to increase access to data for the public. The proposed rule is inconsistent with EPA’s statutory obligations to ground its actions on scientific evidence. The Toxic Substances Control Act (TSCA) and the Safe Drinking Water Act (SDWA) require that EPA use the “best available science.” Courts have found this language to require that agencies “seek out and consider all existing scientific evidence” and not ignore existing data. This standard would be impossible to meet under the proposed rule. The proposed rule requires that data underlying EPA’s regulatory actions be made publicly available to allow for independent validation. Such a standard could exclude studies that utilize confidential industry and health data that are vital to understanding the nature of chemical pollutants, the impacts of pollution, and the most effective ways to protect the environment and public health. One such piece of health research is the “Six Cities” study, which followed more than 8,000 participants for nearly twenty years and was key in establishing a link between chronic air pollution exposure and increased mortality. The results of this study have stood up to extensive subsequent analysis, highlighting the strength of such research. This is just one example of an entire class of studies that the rule would remove from consideration. Excluding such health studies would hobble EPA’s ability to implement laws like the Clean Air Act, SDWA, and TSCA and to fulfill its mission to protect public health and the environment. Attempting to comply with the publication requirement and health privacy laws would place enormous burdens on EPA and researchers. According to an internal EPA analysis of the HONEST Act, which had a similar data-publishing requirement, the EPA would have to spend more than $250 million annually to redact private health information before releasing study data to the public. EPA failed to provide a cost-benefit analysis of the proposed rule, only stating that EPA shall implement the provisions “in a manner that minimizes cost.” Even with careful redaction, there is still a possibility of study participants being identified due to the amount of information that would have to be revealed under the proposed rule for the purposes of reproducibility. The rule is costly and a threat to the privacy of Americans. Concerns with the proposed rule are not limited to the public health community. Dr. Nancy Beck, Deputy Assistant Administrator of the Office of Chemical Safety and Pollution Prevention, has expressed reservations about the publishing requirements of the proposed rule for industry as well. Industry representatives have expressed concerns about requiring public disclosure of data, such as Confidential Business Information, citing the potential for improper use of such data by competitors. In addition, the proposal to allow the EPA Administrator to grant exemptions on a case-by-case basis would enable the Administrator to interfere in the rulemaking process in an arbitrary and capricious manner. The Administrator is not required to present the reasoning behind such decisions. This waiver provision establishes an opaque process, completely at odds with the stated purpose of the rule, that would bring additional uncertainty to the regulatory process. We support transparency and scientific integrity. However, the proposed rule will limit transparency and undermine the scientific integrity of EPA’s rulemaking process. Given its numerous flaws and the lack of an underlying rationale, we urge you to withdraw the proposed rule. Sincerely,
06.07.2018	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Diana DeGette (D-CO) co-sponsored a bicameral, bipartisan bill introduced today to ensure that each state has the right to determine for itself the best approach to marijuana within its borders. The Strengthening the Tenth Amendment Through Entrusting States Act (STATES Act) also extends these protections to Washington D.C, U.S. territories, and federally recognized tribes, and contains common-sense guardrails to ensure that states, territories, and tribes regulating marijuana do so safely. Its leading sponsors in the House are Representatives David Joyce (R-Ohio) and Earl Blumenauer (D-Ore.); Senators Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.) and Cory Gardner (R-Colo.) introduced a Senate companion. “Colorado’s marijuana industry is an important part of our economy, employing thousands of people,” DeGette said. “Coloradans voted to legalize marijuana in 2012, and we are better off for it. That’s why I’m supporting the States Act, to make sure Coloradans who are complying with our state laws are protected from interference by ideologues in the federal government.” Forty-six states currently have laws permitting or decriminalizing marijuana or marijuana-based products - and Washington D.C., Puerto Rico, Guam, and a number of tribes have similar laws. As states developed their own approaches to marijuana enforcement, the Department of Justice issued guidance to safeguard these state actions and ensure practical use of limited law enforcement resources. However, this guidance was withdrawn earlier this year, creating legal uncertainty, threatening public health and safety, and undermining state regulatory regimes. Ignoring the ability of states, territories, and tribes to determine for themselves what type of marijuana regulation works best comes with real costs. Legitimate businesses that comply with state laws are blocked from access to basic banking services. Illicit markets often spring up and local law enforcement must divert resources needed elsewhere. Thousands of people are prosecuted and locked up in our criminal justice system. Qualified scientists and state public health departments struggle to conduct basic and epidemiological research or spur medical advances, and the fundamental nature of state and tribal sovereignty is violated. As more states, territories, and tribes thoughtfully consider updates to marijuana regulations, often through voter-initiated referendums, it is critical that Congress take immediate steps to safeguard their right to do so by passing the STATES Act. The legislation has been endorsed by organizations including the American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU), Americans for Prosperity, Americans for Safe Access, Americans for Tax Reform, the Brennan Center for Justice, Campaign for Liberty, the Competitive Enterprise Institute, the Cooperative Credit Union Association, the Drug Policy Alliance, the Institute for Liberty, LatinoJustice PRLDEF, the Law Enforcement Action Partnership, the Marijuana Policy Project, the Massachusetts Bankers Association, the Maine Credit Union League, the Mountain West Credit Union Association, the National Cannabis Industry Association, the National Conference of State Legislatures, the New Federalism Fund, NORML, the Northwest Credit Union Association, R Street, and the Taxpayers Protection Alliance. The STATES Act: Amends the Controlled Substances Act (CSA) so that - as long as states and tribes comply with a few basic protections - its provisions no longer apply to any person acting in compliance with State or tribal laws relating to marijuana activities. Clearly states that compliant transactions are not trafficking and do not result in proceeds of an unlawful transaction. Removes industrial hemp from the list of controlled substances under the CSA. The following federal criminal provisions under the CSA continue to apply: Prohibits endangering human life while manufacturing marijuana. Prohibits employment of persons under age 18 in drug operations. Prohibits the distribution of marijuana at transportation safety facilities such as rest areas and truck stops. Prohibits the distribution or sale of marijuana to persons under the age of 21 other than for medical purposes.
06.07.2018	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Diana DeGette (D-CO), Chief Deputy Whip, today supported a resolution condemning the Trump Administration’s “zero-tolerance policy,” which is separating children from their parents at the border. “The administration’s new policy of separating families who seek asylum in the United States is sickening,” DeGette said. “It traumatizes people seeking humanitarian relief, ripping young children away from their parents. This needless cruelty in the mistaken name of protecting our borders must end.” DeGette has strongly opposed the new policy since it first came to light in February. Among other steps, she joined 74 other Democrats in a letter to Department of Homeland Security Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen to protest the move and urged colleagues on the House Appropriations Committee to ensure that DHS funds for this purpose be limited so that only parents who pose an immediate threat to their children’s safety can be separated from them. DeGette also supports the Help Separated Families Act (H.R. 5414), which aims to keep children of detained or deported parents united with their families.
06.04.2018	Denver – Congresswoman Diana DeGette (D-CO), a founding member of the LGBT Equality Caucus, decried the Supreme Court’s ruling in the case of Masterpiece Cakeshop v. Colorado Civil Rights Commission. In a 7-2 decision, the court ruled in favor of Jack Phillips, the owner of Masterpiece Cakeshop in Lakewood Colorado, who refused to bake a cake celebrating the marriage of same-sex couple Charlie Craig and David Mullins in 2012. The narrow ruling claims the Colorado Civil Rights Commission’s handling of the case showed hostility to the baker’s religious beliefs, but also reaffirms protections for gay rights in general. “The Supreme Court’s decision in the Masterpiece Cakeshop case is a setback, but its ruling is a narrow one, pertaining to one particular set of circumstances, and won’t end our efforts to ensure equal protections for all LGBTQ people,” DeGette said. “This Pride Month, and every day, we must keep fighting to ensure public places in our society are open to all – for my constituents Charlie Craig and David Mullins, the couple at the heart of this case who endured abhorrent discrimination, and for every member of this community. One way we can achieve this aim is by passing the Equality Act, which would amend the Civil Rights Act of 1964 to include protections based on sexual orientation and gender identity. Together, we can work to guarantee that no one is denied rights, services or accommodations simply because of who they are and who they love.” In November of last year, DeGette joined more than 200 members of Congress in filing an Amicus Brief in support of the Colorado Civil Rights Commission, stressing that a ruling against it could create a “license to discriminate,” allowing businesses to deny service to Americans, including LGBTQ people. She also spoke at a rally in support of the respondents, Craig and Mullins, on the day of oral arguments before the Supreme Court on December 5, 2017.
05.23.2018	Washington, D.C. – President Trump’s new proposed rule on Title X-supported programs is effectively a gag rule that will harm millions of women and families. This new rule would ban providers from referring or counseling patients on their full range of reproductive options by forcing health care providers who treat underserved communities nationwide to choose between continued funding for a range of health care services and helping women understand and exercise their constitutionally-protected rights to reproductive choice, the co-chairs of the Congressional Pro-Choice Caucus, Diana DeGette (D-CO) and Barbara Lee (D-CA), said today. “Millions of uninsured, low-income and young people across the country stay healthy thanks to the confidential, evidence-based care they receive at Title X-supported facilities,” DeGette said. “For many men and women, these facilities are the only providers within miles for family planning and preventive health care services including breast exams, Pap tests, HIV testing, reproductive issues and contraception. A person’s Zip Code shouldn’t determine their access or lack of access to preventive health care services; threatening federal funds for these facilities by restricting the exchange of the full range of health care information and service options between providers and patients forces these centers and their providers to make that awful choice.” “For decades, Title X programs have been a bipartisan priority that have provided lifesaving preventative care to low-income families in communities across this country,” said Congresswoman Lee. “By turning this program into a political football, the Trump-Pence Administration is jeopardizing care for women and putting the health of our families at risk. Make no mistake: this new Title X rule is an ideological attack on women’s health care, which will disproportionately hurt low-income women and women of color. The White House has no business censoring doctors or limiting the health information available to patients. This rule is unconstitutional, dangerous and insulting to women and their families.” The proposed rule prohibits providers receiving Title X funding from counseling or referring patients for abortion care, unless patients explicitly request abortion information. The proposed rule also threatens patient confidentiality by requiring family participation for younger patients. It adds onerous physical separation requirements, in addition to current financial separation requirements, for family planning providers who choose to make referrals for abortion services or provide abortions. In addition, the proposed rule undermines patient choice by no longer requiring Title X programs to offer the full range of effective birth control methods. Even worse, the rule lifts requirements that birth control methods be “medically approved.” Title X was established in 1971 to ensure that all women in the country have access to birth control and other family planning services, and it remains the only federal grant program solely dedicated to family planning and related preventive health care services. Each year, roughly four million people rely on Title X-funded health centers for basic preventive health care. In 2016, nearly 4000 Title X-funded centers provided 720,000 Pap tests, nearly one million breast exams and 1.2 million HIV tests. It is important to note that the Trump administration’s claim that this is a re-implementation and expansion of the Reagan-era domestic gag rule is incorrect. Due to court proceedings, the rule was never implemented, and it was eventually withdrawn by the Clinton Administration after the medical community voiced grave opposition given the rule’s interference between the free exchange of medical information between patients and their providers.
05.18.2018	Washington, D.C. – Congressional Pro-Choice Caucus Co-Chairs Congresswoman Diana DeGette (D-CO) and Congresswoman Barbara Lee (D-CA), alongside House Democratic Caucus Chairman Joe Crowley (D-NY), Ranking Member Nita Lowey (D-NY), Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-CA), Congresswoman Judy Chu (D-CA), Congresswoman Katherine Clark (D-MA), Congresswoman Suzan DelBene (D-WA), Congressman Jerry Nadler (D-NY), Congresswoman Jan Schakowsky (D-IL), and Congresswoman Jackie Speier (D-CA), released the following statement after reports that the Department of Health and Human Services today will announce President Trump’s proposed rule to gut Title X: “Today’s proposed rule confirms yet again that this Administration will stop at nothing to undermine women’s health. Anti-reproductive health extremists in the White House and at the Department of Health and Human Services have teamed up with Congressional Republicans and anti-abortion organizations to craft this policy. Not only are they doubling down on their crusade to penalize and defund Planned Parenthood, they are proposing a ‘gag rule’ on providers from referring for or even talking about abortion. “Make no mistake, this proposed rule has one purpose: to limit women’s access to care. “We are sick and tired of Republicans’ relentless attacks on every aspect of people’s private lives. This proposed rule demonstrates a callous disregard for the wellbeing of American women and families. From pushing an ideological abstinence-only agenda and denying low-income families access to contraceptives, to completely ignoring the rule of law and precedents established under Roe v. Wade - it’s clear that this Administration does not value Americans’ rights to accurate health information, comprehensive healthcare, or if and when one chooses to have a family.”
05.15.2018	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Diana DeGette, co-chair of the Congressional Pro Choice Caucus, led more than two hundred of her congressional colleagues in sending a letter to Secretary of Health and Human Services Alex Azar expressing opposition to the implementation of a domestic gag rule on Title X, the only federal grant program solely dedicated to family planning and related preventive services. The members of Congress on this letter outnumber the House and Senate Republicans who urged President Donald Trump to implement the rule in April. Also leading the letter are United States Senators Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.), Ranking Member of the Senate Health, Education, Labor and Pensions (HELP) Committee Patty Murray (D-Wash.), Maggie Hassan (D-N.H.), Chairman of the House Democratic Caucus, Representative Joe Crowley (D-N.Y.), fellow Pro-Choice Caucus co-chair Representative Barbara Lee (D-Calif), and Representative Nita Lowey (D-N.Y.) Each year, roughly four million people rely on Title X-funded health centers for basic preventive health care, including cancer screenings, birth control, sexually transmitted infection screenings, pregnancy testing, and well-woman exams. In keeping with longstanding legal, ethical and medical standards of health care, Title X providers can offer patients medically accurate counseling on and referrals for all pregnancy options—including parenting, adoption, and abortion. ­­ “The domestic gag rule would bar patients from receiving information to support their ability to make informed decisions about their own reproductive health,” DeGette and her colleagues wrote. “We strongly oppose efforts to undermine the integrity of the Title X program and harm the millions of people who rely on it for care. Federal health policy should be evidence-based and produced with the best interests of patients in mind.” Reinstatement of the gag rule, which has never been fully implemented, would be President Trump’s latest attempt to fulfill his pledge to “defund Planned Parenthood,” whose health centers serve 40% of the patients who go to Title X for contraceptive care. If Planned Parenthood were eliminated as a Title X-funded provider, other Title X-funded health centers would have to expand their contraceptive caseloads by an average of 70%. The move would disproportionately impact communities of color, the uninsured, and low-income individuals, and could reverse progress made in critical areas. Title X has helped women avoid 822,000 unintended pregnancies, which would have resulted in 387,000 unplanned births and 278,000 abortions. Title X also yields critical cost savings to the American healthcare system – every dollar invested in Title X saves more than seven dollars in Medicaid-related costs. Nearly two-thirds of Title X patients have incomes at or below the federal poverty level, and 43% of patients are uninsured. In 2016, nearly 4,000 Title X-funded health centers provided 720,000 Pap tests, nearly one million women with breast exams, and 1.2 million HIV tests. Title X providers offer confidential, medically accurate, and evidence-based care. Implementing a domestic gag rule would do enormous harm to the millions of patients across the country who count on the high standard of medical care provided by these health centers. Read the House letter here.
05.09.2018	Washington, DC – Needless delays in bringing safe over-the-counter medicines to market – and in clarifying the use of existing OTC medicines – will soon be a thing of the past thanks to committee approval today of a bipartisan bill led by Congresswoman Diana DeGette (D-CO) that reforms the way the Food and Drug Administration reviews and approves such products. The Over-the-Counter Monograph Safety, Innovation, and Reform Act (H.R. 5333), unanimously approved today by the House Energy and Commerce Committee, lets new products come to market more quickly while addressing safety issues and expanding consumer choice. It updates the FDA’s outdated OTC monograph system, allowing the agency to make scientific determinations for OTC ingredients through an administrative order process, which is much more efficient than the current rulemaking system. “Just about every person in this country uses over-the-counter products, whether for relief of cold symptoms, treating allergies, or any number of other common health issues,” DeGette noted. “This bill will modernize how the FDA reviews these medicines. It takes commonsense steps that will help the FDA prevent and address safety issues quickly, which will encourage innovation and increase consumer confidence.” At the hearing, DeGette noted that updating the system will also save lives: In 2006, the FDA found that several toddlers had died due to cough medicine, but revised guidelines warning parents about the medicine’s risks to young children have yet to be written due to internal hurdles at the agency, where this process hadn’t been updated since the 1970s. DeGette’s bill helps remove these obstacles for more than 300,000 commonly-used drugs. The OTC monograph system was established in 1972 by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to review the safety and efficacy of the OTC medicine ingredients then on the market, including doses, formulations, and labeling. Any OTC that conforms to a monograph may be manufactured and sold without an individual product approval. In the 45 years since the system was created, the process has not been completed and movement on unfinished items has been slow. The system has become a hindrance that does not allow for advances in science and new information concerning the safety of an ingredient. The draft legislation updates the monograph process by specifically adding a new section to the Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act to: • Move away from the cumbersome current monograph finalization process to an administrative order procedure. Additional processes will be in place to ensure additional resources should issues arise. • Create new pathways to innovation for monograph products benefiting consumers, where none currently exits. • Ensure the new drug approval pathway and other nonprescription drugs otherwise lawfully marketed are not affected. • Include by reference existing OTC Review Final Monographs and deem final Tentative Final Monographs by statute. Introducing the legislation in March with Congresswoman DeGette were Reps. Bob Latta (R-OH), Michael Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), Gene Green (D-TX), Brett Guthrie (R-KY) and Debbie Dingell (D-MI).
05.04.2018	Denver - Congresswoman Diana DeGette (D-CO), the Ranking Democrat on the Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee of the Energy and Commerce Committee, today sent a letter to Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Administrator Scott Pruitt asking him to provide further details regarding his legally dubious real estate dealings with lobbyists while serving as a public official in Oklahoma. DeGette questioned Administrator Pruitt on these financial transactions during his appearance at a hearing of the Environment Subcommittee on April 26, asking him for details on the means used to purchase a luxury home in Oklahoma City in 2003. Pruitt told DeGette he contributed one sixth the purchase price of the home to the limited liability company, Capitol House L.L.C, that purchased the house from a telecommunications lobbyist But recent reports from the New York Times reveal he also purchased this home with Justin Whitefield, a registered lobbyist who at the time was seeking business-friendly changes to Oklahoma’s worker’s compensation rules which Pruitt allegedly helped negotiate, a detail he neglected to reveal to DeGette during last week’s testimony. “Your incomplete testimony leaves key questions unanswered concerning this transaction,” DeGette writes in the letter. “You testified that you paid for one sixth of the purchase price, and according to reports, you purchased the home with Kenneth Wagner, who now serves as a political appointee at EPA and previously served as treasurer of your political action committee, as well as health care executive Jon Jiles. However, the identity of two additional owners remains unknown.“ DeGette goes on to write, “You also apparently failed to disclose your interest in Capitol House in your financial disclosure filings, and in your testimony could not confirm whether you paid taxes on rental income received for a room on the property rented to another Republican lawmaker.” DeGette is requesting Pruitt respond to her letter with details on the 2003 purchase and 2005 sale of the Oklahoma property, including names of the owners of Capitol House, the names of the individuals who arranged for the purchase of the home and secured the mortgage, documents demonstrating he paid taxes on all rental income he received from the property, and documentation of the proceeds he received from the sale of the property. She also requests an overdue response to a previous letter regarding his leasing of a Washington, DC condo owned by the wife of a lobbyist. The letter is available here.
05.04.2018	Denver – On the cusp of the national launch this weekend of the innovative All of Us research program to advance medical science, Congresswoman Diana DeGette (D-CO), co-author of the law that created the program, urged every eligible American to take part. “This is the future of biomedical research, and everybody has a chance to make a difference,” DeGette said. “It’s so exciting to see All of Us come together, in line with President Barack Obama’s vision and the guidelines that we put into law to make this the biggest and most diverse long-term health research program ever. “Anyone age 18 and older can now take part in making this ambitious and far-reaching project a reality that will benefit humanity for generations,” DeGette added. “The result will be a better, more effective way to prevent and treat illness and provide care, using state-of-the-art techniques that themselves will continue to progress with time.” The All of Us program was created under the Precision Medicine Initiative that formed a core part of the 21st Century Cures Act, which DeGette co-authored with Rep. Fred Upton (R-MI). When that bill became law in December 2016, it provided $4.8 billion dollars in mandatory funding for the National Institutes of Health (NIH) to spur scientific innovation and discovery, as well as around $1.5 billion for All of Us over a ten-year period. On May 6, the All of Us Research Program will begin national enrollment, allowing people ages 18 and older, regardless of health status, to take part in this momentous effort to advance medical science for people of all backgrounds. Volunteers will join more than 25,000 participants already enrolled in a year-long beta test. The aim is to enroll a million or more volunteers, particularly from communities that have been underrepresented in health research. All of Us is expected to be the largest and most diverse longitudinal health research program ever developed.
05.03.2018	Denver - Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee Ranking Member Diana DeGette (D-CO) joined fellow Democratic leaders on the Energy and Commerce Committee in sending a letter to Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Administrator Scott Pruitt today raising a series of questions following reports that a lobbyist, whose wife rented a $50-a-night condo to Pruitt, attempted to influence appointments to the agency’s Scientific Advisory Board (SAB) on behalf of his clients. The reports directly contradict Pruitt’s earlier claims that the lobbyist, Mr. J. Steven Hart, did not have business before EPA. The letter was signed by Ranking Member Frank Pallone, Jr. (D-NJ), Environment Subcommittee Ranking Member Paul Tonko (D-NY) and full committee Vice Ranking Member Kathy Castor (D-FL). “Despite your earlier claims that J. Steven Hart had no clients with business before EPA, it is now clear that Mr. Hart did represent clients with business before your agency and, in fact, lobbied you on their behalf,” DeGette and the committee Democrats wrote. “One particularly problematic document, attached to this letter, shows that the same Smithfield executive who accompanied J. Steven Hart to a meeting with you apparently nominated three individuals to fill spots on the EPA’s Science Advisory Board,” the legislators continued. “This document also indicates that J. Steven Hart lobbied the EPA in favor of those nominations. The document is heavily redacted, including the names of the three individuals, but the effort to place those individuals on the SAB is clear.” In their letter, they also expressed concern over EPA’s ongoing efforts to remove academic scientists from the SAB in favor of industry representatives. “Since last year, we have been deeply concerned about your efforts to remove academic scientists from the SAB in favor of industry representatives. You unjustly removed or failed to renew 21 scientists who received EPA grants, later saying that the move was motivated by ‘an appearance of a lack of independence.’ Although you pledged to provide the Committee with examples of scientists with such an appearance of a lack of independence, you never did,” the Democrats wrote. The committee Democrats are requesting answers to the following questions included in the letter by May 10th: Provide the names of the three individuals recommended for inclusion on the SAB by Smithfield and J. Steven Hart, and clarify whether they have been included on the SAB or are currently being considered for inclusion. Provide the long overdue response to our November letter on the SAB. Provide the overdue response to our April 2nd letter on your lease with J. Steven Hart and Vicki Hart. The letter is available here.
05.01.2018	Denver – Today the Environmental Protection Agency officially designated Denver and the rest of the Front Range as out of compliance with the maximum ozone standard set by U.S. law in 2015. In response, Congresswoman Diana DeGette (D-CO), a senior member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, said making this declaration was a mere first step toward cleaner air for Colorado at a time when the EPA is working to undo air quality protections on other fronts. "Air quality has a direct impact on all Coloradans,” DeGette said. “Ozone concentration exceeds safe levels in several of our counties, including right here in Denver. We all know the impact of pollutants thanks to the Brown Cloud on days when there’s an inversion and it’s impossible to ignore. But even when we can’t see pollutants such as ozone, they are there and affecting our health. This is especially true for high-risk groups, including the more than 140,000 children, 75,000 seniors and 62,000 people with asthma in my district alone. “In the meantime, under Administrator Scott Pruitt, the EPA has been rolling back regulations and initiatives to protect our air quality. The agency is working to gut the Clean Power Plan, created in 2015 to reduce carbon emissions from power plants and to increase use of renewable energy. And it has announced that it is withdrawing the longstanding ‘once in, always in’ policy, which ensures that major sources of pollution such as power plants are held to high standards on emissions of substances such as arsenic, lead and mercury. I call on the EPA not merely to follow the law and acknowledge where the air needs to be cleaner, but also to stop attacking the protections that are already in place.” The Denver region was one of 51 areas in the United States that failed to meet the 2015 ozone standard of 70 parts per billion, according to the EPA’s announcement today, which will trigger requirements in these areas to reduce pollution from power plants, industrial sites, cars and other sources.
04.24.2018	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Diana DeGette (D-CO), a senior member of the Energy and Commerce Committee, today praised the Food and Drug Administration for announcing a crackdown on e-cigarette sales to minors and said the FDA’s new Youth Tobacco Prevention Plan should also include banning flavored e-cigarettes, which have been shown to hold special appeal for young smokers. “Tobacco has serious health consequences, especially for young people who are more susceptible to addiction,” DeGette said. “While I applaud the FDA’s upholding of its responsibility to ensure that manufacturers and retailers are held accountable, the agency must go further. The making and targeted marketing of tobacco products that are particularly popular with the young, such as flavored e-cigarettes, must come to an end.” DeGette is circulating a letter among congressional colleagues urging the FDA to ban flavored e-cigarettes; she expects to deliver the letter in early May. For years, DeGette pushed the FDA to regulate the production, sale and marketing of all tobacco products. She strongly supported the Family Smoking Prevention and Tobacco Control Act, also known as the Tobacco Control Act, which in 2009 granted authority to the FDA to regulate the production, sale, and marketing of tobacco products. Intended to prevent young people from using such products at an early age, when they are more susceptible to addiction, the law resulted in a final rule bringing tobacco products under FDA authority in 2016. That same year, the Surgeon General found that “the use of products containing nicotine in any form among youth, including in e-cigarettes, is unsafe.” DeGette is the author of the Tobacco to 21 Act (H.R. 4273), which prohibits the sale or distribution of all tobacco products to people under age 21.
04.24.2018	Washington, DC – There are multiple barriers to reducing the surging cost of insulin; Congressional Diabetes Caucus co-chairs Diana DeGette (D-CO) and Tom Reed (R-NY) have found that value-based contracting is one avenue that is worth exploring. DeGette and Reed today released the latest insights from their outreach to stakeholders as part of their ongoing investigation of insulin costs. “Our inquiry into insulin pricing is producing valuable insights that will inform policy proposals to lower the cost of insulin for diabetics and their families,” DeGette and Reed said. “As with any information-gathering process, we expect to hear about challenges and suggestions as to how we can make drugs more affordable. Having a better understanding of these obstacles is necessary for crafting solutions that provide much-needed relief for the millions of Americans living with diabetes.” Last November, the legislators issued a Request for Information posing a series of questions to a variety of participants along the drug supply chain. The RFI sought views on the merits of value-based contracting (VBC), a relatively new system that sets the cost of a drug based on its efficacy, and asked stakeholders whether this model could be applied to insulin. The information received from the respondents, though encouraging, reveals many barriers to achieving lower insulin prices. Two stakeholders reported already having VBC programs, while most agreed that developing these contracts is challenging given the biology of diabetes and its typical care regimen. Given the many components in a typical diabetes care plan, including diet, exercise, and medication adherence, insulin dosing is highly patient-specific, making it difficult to measure outcomes necessary for VBC arrangements. The stakeholders also pointed to administrative and operational barriers, lack of technological infrastructure, and challenging or vague regulations as obstacles to implementing value-based contracting programs for insulin. If these contracts were to be fully utilized, many of the respondents suggested setting pricing based on metrics such as A1C levels, and adherence to one’s insulin regimen and other forms of treatments. Read the key findings here.
04.19.2018	Washington, DC – 106 House and Senate members led by Congresswoman Diana DeGette (D-CO) and Senator Tom Udall (D-NM) are working to halt the Trump administration’s ongoing assault on public lands and environmental protection. They sent a letter today to Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke opposing the Bureau of Land Management’s proposal to reverse the 2016 Methane Waste Prevention rule, an Obama-era regulation limiting the harmful venting and flaring of methane from oil and gas operations on public and tribal lands. The legislators cite this reversal’s negative impact on public health, efforts to fight climate change and royalties generated to taxpayers through efficient production, and asks for an extension of the public comment period on the decision to 90 days. The comment period currently is set to end on April 23, 2018. Co-leading the letter with DeGette and Udall are Representatives Raul Grijalva (D-AZ), Jared Polis (D-CO) and Alan Lowenthal (D-CA) and Senators Michael Bennet (D-CO), Maria Cantwell (D-WA), and Tom Carper (D-DE). “Every year an estimated $2 billion dollars’ worth of natural gas is wasted by the oil and gas industry nationwide, with $330 million of that being drawn from public or Tribal lands,” the legislators wrote. “Weakening the rule or returning to the status quo ante would be a giveaway to the oil and gas extraction industry at the expense of the American taxpayer. BLM’s own analysis of the proposed rescission estimates that an additional 1.8 million tons of methane, 2.67 million tons of other volatile organic compounds and 20,030 tons of hazardous air pollutants would be released over 10 years. These compounds, once released, will react with nitrogen oxides in the atmosphere and form ozone and smog. The negative impact on public health and the environment of these increased emissions would be enormous.” The letter also cites a February 2018 decision by the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California against the BLM’s attempt to delay the rule by one year, in which the court found that “the BLM's reasoning behind the Suspension Rule is untethered to evidence contradicting the reasons for implementing the Waste Prevention Rule.” The rule, introduced by the Obama administration in November 2016, updated regulations on oil and gas drilling that had not been changed in three decades. After repeated attempts to delay its implementation, the Trump administration announced a proposal to fully rescind it this February. In addition to extending the public comment period for the proposed rule, the members also urge the BLM to hold public hearings, particularly in the western states, as well as conduct meaningful consultation with affected tribes and a climate analysis that accounts for the impact and larger social cost of increased methane emissions under the proposed rule. The letter can be found here and below. April 19, 2018 The Honorable Ryan Zinke Secretary U.S. Department of the Interior 1849 C Street, N.W. Washington, D.C. 20240 Dear Mr. Secretary: We write in strong opposition to the Bureau of Land Management’s (BLM) recent proposal to revise the 2016 Methane Waste Prevention rule. The proposed revisions sacrifice public health, will increase climate changing emissions, and deny American taxpayers royalties from natural resources they own for negligible or uncertain private gains. Experience with state level regulations and BLM’s own analysis demonstrate that BLM’s concerns about the negative impact of the 2016 Methane Waste Prevention rule are misplaced. The 2016 rule revised BLM regulations that had not been updated in over three decades. Due to developments in horizontal drilling and hydraulic fracturing, among other factors, oil and gas development on public lands has increased, leading to increased risks to clean air and water, human health, wildlife, and local communities. The outdated regulations failed to account for the intervening 35 years’ worth of technological advancement to reduce the waste and the environmental impact of venting and flaring methane gas. Every year an estimated $2 billion dollars’ worth of natural gas is wasted by the oil and gas industry nationwide, with $330 million of that being drawn from public or Tribal lands. Weakening the rule or returning to the status quo ante would be a giveaway to the oil and gas extraction industry at the expense of the American taxpayer. BLM’s own analysis of the proposed rescission estimates that an additional 1.8 million tons of methane, 2.67 million tons of other volatile organic compounds and 20,030 tons of hazardous air pollutants would be released over 10 years.[1] These compounds, once released, will react with nitrogen oxides in the atmosphere and form ozone and smog. The negative impact on public health and the environment of these increased emissions would be enormous. The Government Accountability Office (GAO) has repeatedly highlighted the opportunities that capturing natural gas that would otherwise be vented or flared represents.[2] In 2016 BLM, found that complying with the 2016 rule, with its numerous health and fiscal benefits to taxpayers, would only reduce average company profits by 0.15 percent.[3] Accounting for the increased revenue from selling the captured natural gas actually generates a net economic benefit of $46 million annually for the oil and gas industry. BLM’s own analysis of the newly proposed rule estimates that repealing these waste prevention measures would lead to more waste, less production and less revenue to taxpayers -- roughly $30 million of royalties would be lost over ten years, along with 299 billion cubic feet of natural gas.[4] The DOI’s rationale for returning to the previous rule clearly conflicts with experience from similar regulations at the state level. In particular, the methane capture rules enacted by Colorado in 2014 have not led to an industry exodus from Colorado, job losses, or the shutting-in of marginal wells, despite these state rules being more stringent than the 2016 Methane Waste Prevention rule. What’s more, methane waste reduction rules, like Colorado’s, help create jobs in the methane mitigation industry. A recent study indicates that over 130 companies, with customers in almost every state across the country, are helping to manufacture the technology and provide the services needed to cut methane emissions. And these companies have already experienced up to 30 percent business growth in states with methane regulations.[5] A federal court has already found that the evidence BLM relied upon did not even support a one year delay in implementing the 2016 BLM Rule, which BLM attempted to enact on December 8, 2017, through the Suspension Rule. On February 22, 2018 the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California found that “the BLM's reasoning behind the Suspension Rule is untethered to evidence contradicting the reasons for implementing the Waste Prevention Rule.” The court also found that the plaintiffs had demonstrated that the proposed delay of the rule would cause “irreparable injury” due to the increased air pollution and health impacts, and negative impact on the global climate. The court’s strong language underscores the poor reasoning behind the proposed rule, as it contains many of the same analytical weaknesses as the Suspension Rule. These weaknesses are more than sufficient reason to not finalize the proposed rule. Due to the tremendous public interest in this issue, we request that the public comment period for this rule be extended to 90 days for submissions to both the BLM and the Office of Management and Budget. BLM should also hold public hearings, particularly in the Western U.S., where the bulk of drilling activity on federal lands occurs, to allow more opportunities for public engagement. When the 2016 methane waste rule was proposed, BLM held several public meetings across the Western U.S. and ultimately extended the comment period by several weeks at the request of industry to allow more time for review and comment. We request the same consideration here in order to ensure the voice of the American public is heard. Equally important is meaningful consultation with impacted tribes, and during the comment period BLM should hold individual meetings with each tribe that requests one. We also request that BLM release a climate analysis for this rule accounting for the climate impact and larger social cost of increased methane emissions under the proposed rule. Sincerely [1] Waste Prevention, Production Subject to Royalties and Resource Conservation; Rescission or Revision of Certain Requirements, 83 Fed. Reg. 7924 (February 22, 2018) [2] GAO-16-607 Interior Could Do More to Account for and Manage Natural Gas Emissions; GAO-11-34 Opportunities Exist to Capture Vented and Flared Natural Gas, Which Would Increase Royalty Payments and Reduce Greenhouse Gases; GAO-04-809 Opportunities to Improve Data and Reduce Emissions [3] Bureau of Land Management. (2016). Revisions to 43 CFR 3100 (Onshore Oil and Gas Leasing) and 43 CFR 3600 (Onshore Oil and Gas Operations), Additions of 43 CFR 3178 (Royalty-Free Use of Lease Production) and 43 CFR 3179 (Waste Prevention and Resource Conservation). Regulatory Impact Analysis. [4]Waste Prevention, 83 Fed. Reg. 7924 (February 22, 2018) [5] Datu Research, Find and Fix: Job Creation in the Emerging Methane Leak Detection and Repair Industry (2017)
04.16.2018	Washington, DC –Congresswoman Diana DeGette (D-CO), ranking member of the Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee, along with Energy and Commerce Ranking Member Frank Pallone, Jr. (D-NJ), Environment Subcommittee Ranking Member Paul Tonko (D-NY) and full committee Vice Ranking Member Kathy Castor (D-FL), issued the following statement today reiterating their call for Administrator Pruitt’s resignation following troubling new reports from both GAO and the Inspector General: “It seems we cannot go a day without a new development in the inexcusable ethical lapses of Administrator Pruitt. Today the Government Accountability Office concluded that Pruitt’s EPA broke the law when it spent $43,000 in taxpayer funds for a “privacy booth” in his office. Then the EPA Inspector General’s preliminary report raised more questions than it answered. We hope that the Inspector General’s ongoing audit will determine the extent to which Pruitt or his staff are abusing EPA hiring authorities. “Administrator Pruitt continues to abuse his power in order to enrich himself and his corporate interests. It is time for him to resign.”
04.10.2018	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Diana DeGette (D-CO), who is the ranking member of the Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee, today joined Environment Subcommittee Ranking Member Paul Tonko (D-NY), full committee Vice Ranking Member Kathy Castor (D-FL) and Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Frank Pallone (D-NJ) issued a joint statement today calling for Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Administrator Scott Pruitt to resign. DeGette called for Pruitt to step down or be fired last week due to his documented and suspected ethical lapses; she joined fellow committee leaders today in releasing the following statement: “EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt has become the poster child for the Trump Administration’s shameful culture of corruption. Pruitt has repeatedly used his position to enrich himself rather than protect the lives of the American people he was appointed to serve. His actions have jeopardized EPA’s ability to protect human health and the environment, and the only way to regain the American people’s trust in EPA is for Pruitt to resign immediately. “Today five separate independent investigations are taking place at our request into Pruitt’s actions and misuse of taxpayer funds. Pruitt is being investigated for his frequent luxury travel, the installation of a $43,000 ‘privacy booth’ in his office, two potential violations of anti-lobbying and propaganda laws, and the abuse of specialized hiring authorities to skirt ethics rules and give massive pay raises to his friends. “There is also a laundry list of other corrupt dealings by Pruitt, including a sweetheart condo deal from the wife of an energy lobbyist, a no-bid contract to a political consulting firm digging up dirt on EPA staff, setting up his polluter friends with key EPA positions, allowing EPA political appointees to be paid consultants for secret clients, using a taxpayer-funded 24/7 security detail for personal vacations to Disneyland and the Rose Bowl, and demoting or reassigning staff who dare to question his egregious spending habits. “When confronted about these scandals, Pruitt failed to take responsibility for his own actions, blaming his staff, his security detail, his critics – anyone but himself in order to save his own career. “Scott Pruitt has lost all credibility and the confidence of the American people – it’s time for him to go.”
04.05.2018	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Diana DeGette (D-CO), ranking member of the Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee, joined three fellow Democratic leaders on the Energy and Commerce Committee in sending a letter to Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Inspector General (IG) Arthur Elkins, Jr. today requesting that his office open an investigation focusing on whether EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt has misused or abused his position to inappropriately enrich himself or his family members and whether EPA’s political leadership applied political pressure on Agency ethics officials. The request comes after seemingly contradictory statements and materials were released by EPA’s Office of General Counsel and an Agency ethics official regarding Pruitt’s unique Washington, D.C. housing arrangement in 2017. EPA Senior Ethics Counsel Justina Fugh reportedly made an initial determination that Pruitt’s use of the property did not constitute a gift under federal ethics regulations, a determination that apparently did not consider use of the property by Pruitt’s adult daughter. Fugh’s determination appeared to contradict a March 30, 2018, memorandum from EPA Designated Agency Ethics Official and Principal Deputy General Counsel Kevin Minoli stating, in part, that the lease authorized use of the property by Pruitt and his immediate family, a statement disputed by the property owners. Yesterday, Minoli issued a subsequent memorandum confirming that he lacked key facts when making his March 30 determination. The letter was also signed by Energy and Commerce Ranking Member Frank Pallone, Jr. (D-NJ), Environment Subcommittee Ranking Member Paul Tonko (D-NY) and full committee Vice Ranking Member Kathy Castor (D-FL). “We have serious concerns that Mr. Pruitt may have misused his position as EPA Administrator to improperly enrich himself or his family members through this preferential and unique housing arrangement,” DeGette and fellow lawmakers wrote to the EPA IG. “Furthermore, the potentially contradictory actions by EPA’s Office of General Counsel also raise serious concern that EPA’s political leadership may be exerting undue pressure on Agency ethics officials and that the advice and determinations of Agency ethics officials are being altered as a result of this pressure.” The Democrats request the EPA IG to review and investigate a number of concerning issues, including: · Have Pruitt’s Washington, D.C. housing arrangements or any other action by Administrator Pruitt improperly or unlawfully financially enriched Pruitt or any family member as a result of his position as EPA Administrator? · How much money has EPA spent on costs associated with Pruitt’s Washington, D.C. housing during his tenure as EPA Administrator, including but not limited to funds for any rental agreements, or repairs or improvements to properties rented by Pruitt or his security detail? What was the purpose of these expenditures, and was each expense in compliance with all applicable regulations and Agency policies and procedures? Has any waste, fraud or abuse occurred in expenditures of agency funds or resources, including Agency personnel, for housing for Pruitt or his security detail? · Has any waste, fraud or abuse occurred with the use of agency funds, personnel, or other resources for travel or housing arrangements during periods in which Pruitt lacked a Washington, DC residence, including but not limited to August 2017. · Has Administrator Pruitt or any other member of EPA’s political leadership inappropriately sought to influence the ethics officials in EPA’s Office of General Counsel? Did any direct or indirect action or request by political leadership serve to alter ethics advice provided by the office? The Democrats’ letter is available here.
04.03.2018	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Diana DeGette (D-CO) and two other Energy and Commerce Democratic Leaders sent a letter to Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Scott Pruitt today demanding answers about his troubling Washington, D.C. housing arrangement during a six-month period in 2017 in which he rented a room for $50 a night in a home co-owned by the wife of a top energy lobbyist. The three Committee leaders requested a response to all of their questions by April 16, one week before Pruitt is set to testify before the Committee. The letter was signed by DeGette, who is Ranking Member of the Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee, together with Energy and Commerce Ranking Member Frank Pallone, Jr. (D-NJ) Oversight and Environment Subcommittee Ranking Member Paul Tonko (D-NY). “We are concerned that the unique rental arrangement, in which you only paid rent on the nights you were in town for use of one bedroom in the home, could be a potential conflict of interest,” the three Democrats wrote to Administrator Pruitt. “As Administrator, you have taken a number of actions to benefit industries regulated by EPA, and this news raises the possibility that you may have personally benefited from your relationship with industry. Specifically, these reports raise serious questions as to whether this arrangement unduly influenced any decisions you made that potentially affected the business of William and Jensen clients.” The Democrats voiced concern that Pruitt’s actions could be a violation of the ethics pledge he signed upon becoming EPA Administrator. The ethics pledge that Administrator Pruitt signed states, “I will not accept gifts from registered lobbyists or lobbying organizations for the duration of my service as an appointee.” According to records, the energy lobbyist, J. Steven Hart, is the Chairman of the lobbying firm Williams and Jensen, which counts among its clients numerous businesses with both direct and indirect energy and environmental interests. In order to understand whether his arrangements complied with all applicable federal ethics regulations and agency policies, the three Democratic Committee leaders are requesting responses from Pruitt on a series of questions and requests for information, including: How did you identify and obtain use of this property? Was the rental publically advertised, were you contacted by the owner(s) or an intermediary, or did you or anybody operating on your behalf solicit the use of the property? Please share any and all documents pertaining to the rental of this property by you and other members of your family. Press reports state that you paid a total of $6,100 from March 18 through September 1, 2017, is that correct? If so, what is the breakdown of the payments? If not, what was the total you paid for renting this property? What is the fair market rate for this property? Did you pay the fair market rate for the property? When you were out of town and not paying rent on the bedroom, did you leave any personal materials in the bedroom or are you aware of whether or not the bedroom was rented when you were not in Washington? Press reports suggest that your lease only granted you access to the one bedroom, is this indeed the case? On your nights staying at the home, did you ever have access to the other areas of the house? Press reports also indicate that your daughter stayed at the home for a time in another bedroom in the house. Was this bedroom paid for as part of your lease or a separate lease with the owners? If not, how would you explain that this was not a gift? Did the Office of Government Ethics and any other EPA ethics official review or approve this agreement? If so, did they raise concerns about this unique arrangement or were they aware that you, or members or your family, might be using other areas of the house besides the one bedroom where you stayed? The letter to Administrator Pruitt is available here.
03.27.2018	Denver – Congresswoman Diana DeGette (D-CO), Chief Deputy Whip, today said the Trump administration is trying to rig the 2020 Census by adding a new question on citizenship that would undermine civil rights, lead to cuts in funding for important federal programs and distort redistricting. “The Constitution doesn’t say that only citizens count,” DeGette said “This politically-motivated attempt to rig the Census will drive people away from taking part for fear that their citizenship status could be used against them or their families. That, in turn, would deprive entire communities of fair representation in Congress and in the statehouse, and could starve the programs that serve their needs for housing, health care, education and more. “Important policy choices are made based on Census results, including how federal funds are spent and how the boundaries of legislative districts are drawn,” DeGette noted. “The Trump Administration is seeking to discourage immigrants from taking part in the Census so it can make decisions that won’t truly represent the needs and rights of everyone in this country.” The Census Bureau itself recently warned of “an unprecedented groundswell in confidential and data sharing concerns, particularly among immigrants or those who live with immigrants.”
03.26.2018	Denver – Congresswoman Diana DeGette (D-CO) today called on Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Scott Pruitt to stop gutting regulations that preserve air quality and wasting taxpayer funds on needless expenditures. “This agency, which is supposed to protect the quality of our air, our water and the health of our children, is falling woefully short,” DeGette said at a news conference at the EPA’s regional headquarters in Denver held in conjunction with the Sierra Club. “It’s called the Environmental Protection Agency, not the Environmental Gutting Agency. We call upon Administrator Pruitt and his senior advisors to overcome their severe ethical challenges and do the right thing.” DeGette noted that under Pruitt’s leadership, the EPA has started withdrawing from the Clean Power Plan, which was created in 2015 to reduce carbon emissions from electrical power plants and to increase the use of renewable energy. Power plants are the largest source of carbon dioxide emissions in the United States, making up roughly one-third of all domestic greenhouse gas emissions. “They’ve done everything they can to undermine the Clean Power Plan,” DeGette noted, "and have taken additional steps to roll back other air quality standards.” In January, the EPA announced it is withdrawing the “once in, always in” policy, which has been in place since 1995. This policy ensures that major sources of pollution such as power plants are held to high standards on emissions of substances such as arsenic, lead and mercury. Today, seven environmental groups including the Sierra Club sued the EPA over this change, saying it could let sources drastically increase pollution. A senior member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, DeGette has also led the charge against wasteful spending by Pruitt on items ranging from needless first-class air travel to a $43,000 soundproof booth that was constructed in his office. In response to the committee’s questions, the EPA Inspector General is now looking into these issues. DeGette has also raised concerns about the impartiality of some of Pruitt’s senior political appointees, including one from Colorado, who have engaged in outside activity for compensation that could present conflicts of interest undermining the EPA’s mission.
03.22.2018	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Diana DeGette (D-CO) and several of her colleagues on the House Energy and Commerce Committee have introduced a bipartisan bill strengthening the role of poison control centers, which are key to addressing the effects of the nation’s opioid epidemic. “Poison control centers are at the forefront of fighting the opioid epidemic since they are often the first place people call in case of an overdose,” DeGette said. “It makes sense to give them more and better resources to do their vital work, including raising public awareness and improving communications. I’m convinced that this bipartisan bill will save lives.” Together with Reps. Susan W. Brooks (R-IN), Eliot Engel (D-NY) and Joe Barton (R-TX), DeGette this week introduced the Poison Center Network Enhancement Act (H.R. 5329), which clarifies that poison control centers can be called upon to assist with public health emergencies, responses, and preparedness; requests that enhanced communications capabilities like texting be established; requests that the Federal Communications Commission work with the Department of Health and Human Services to ensure calls to its toll-free number are properly routed; and directs HHS to implement call-routing based on the caller’s actual location to ensure timely responses. The Health Subcommittee, on which DeGette serves, today concluded a two-day hearing focused on combating the opioid crisis with prevention and public health solutions. The hearing included a review of H.R. 5329.
03.21.2018	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Diana DeGette (D-CO), together with other senior members of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, today decried further evidence of excessive spending on travel by Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Scott Pruitt: His security detail has flown with him in first class at taxpayer expense. DeGette, who is ranking member on the Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee, issued a joint statement with committee Ranking Member Frank Pallone, Jr. (D-NJ) and Environment Subcommittee Ranking Member Paul Tonko (D-NY) after receiving a letter from the EPA confirming the costly flights. “As part of our ongoing review of Administrator Pruitt’s waste of taxpayer money for luxury travel, EPA confirmed to us today that Pruitt’s security detail has accompanied him in first class on some of his travel,” the legislators said. “In recent days we’ve learned Administrator Pruitt has reportedly spent more than $105,000 on first class travel since last May, including some domestic flights, but it’s unclear whether that figure includes the cost of his aides or security detail’s travel. What is clear is that while he makes extreme cuts to critical public health and environmental protection programs, the Administrator has taken a holiday from all fiscal responsibility when it comes to his own travel and personal convenience. “When Mr. Pruitt appears before the Energy and Commerce Committee next month, he must be prepared to explain why US taxpayers should foot the bill for his lavish travel habits.” In the letter to the Energy and Commerce Democrats, EPA Associate Administrator Troy M. Lyons wrote, “On past trips, [Pruitt’s] protective service detail accompanied him in first class.” EPA’s letter came in response to a letter the Committee Democrats sent to the EPA last month demanding answers on outrageous reports of Pruitt’s luxury travel at taxpayer expense. EPA’s letter is available here.
03.21.2018	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Diana DeGette (D-CO) joined a group of Western lawmakers in sending a letter to Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke urging him to maintain the Bureau of Land Management 2016 Methane and Waste Prevention Rule and to listen to Westerners through public hearings and an extended comment period prior to any revision of the rule. On February 12, 2018, the BLM announced a proposal to revise the Methane and Waste Prevention Rule ("methane rule"), which limits methane pollution from oil and gas operations on public lands. In this week’s letter, DeGette and Senators Michael Bennet (D-CO) and Tom Udall (D-NM), together with Representatives Raul Grijalva (D-AZ), Alan Lowenthal (D-CA) and Jared Polis (D-CO), expressed concern with the "inadequate measures" the BLM is taking to consider public input in revising the methane rule. They requested the BLM immediately schedule public hearings on the proposal—particularly in the West, where the majority of drilling activity on federal lands occurs—and extend the public comment period from the proposed 60 days to 90 days. "We hope the BLM will provide the same level of public input that went into creation of the 2016 Methane Waste Prevention rule," the lawmakers wrote. In 2016, this included more than half a dozen public meetings and consideration of 330,000 comments through an extended comment period, resulting in 75 percent of Westerners supporting the rule. Under the proposed revision, the BLM will cost taxpayers up to $1 billion in wasted natural gas and pollution, in comparison to keeping the existing methane rule in place. "Waste of taxpayer-owned natural gas is a significant fiscal issue on public and tribal lands," the lawmakers wrote. "We call on BLM to address this problem by maintaining the 2016 methane waste rule and by undertaking extensive public outreach in considering any changes to this rule." A copy of the letter is available here.
03.20.2018	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Diana DeGette (D-CO) has introduced bipartisan legislation with fellow members of the Energy and Commerce Committee to reform the outdated over-the-counter (OTC) monograph system. The Over-the-Counter Monograph Safety, Innovation, and Reform Act allows new, safe products to come to market more quickly while addressing safety issues and expanding consumer choice. This would allow the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to make scientific determinations for OTC ingredients through an administrative order process, which is much more efficient than the current rulemaking system. Introducing the legislation with Congresswoman DeGette were Reps. Bob Latta (R-OH), Michael Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), Gene Green (D-TX), Brett Guthrie (R-KY) and Debbie Dingell (D-MI). “I’m proud to have shepherded this legislation along from research to writing to this latest step,” DeGette said. “It will modernize how the FDA reviews over-the-counter medicines, a process that has not been updated since the 1970s. The current system simply has not kept pace with science, innovation and growth in the OTC market. Most importantly, this bill takes commonsense steps that will help the FDA prevent and address safety issues rapidly and efficiently.” “Nearly every American uses over-the-counter products in some way,” Latta said. “Whether it’s treating allergies, helping with a cough, or seeking relief for a headache, consumers want medicine that is safe, reliable, and affordable. It’s time to create a pathway for industry to enhance over-the-counter medicines and develop new, innovative products that will be a welcome addition to the current products so many American’s depend on today. By modernizing the decades-old monograph system and improving the way OTC drugs are approved, this bill will provide more certainty for manufacturers, ensure consumer confidence, and foster innovation. The legislation introduced today was the result of bipartisan collaboration and discussion, and it’s a big win for the countless consumers that purchase over-the-counter products.” “As a physician and more recently as a congressman, I have witnessed much change in the health care industry over the last 40 years; however, the over-the-counter monograph system has not had a significant update since 1972,” Burgess said. “With more than 300,000 over-the-counter products on the market, that is far too long to wait. The bill introduced today will ensure that American development remains at the helm of over-the-counter drug innovation. I am grateful to Congressman Latta for his leadership on this issue, and I look forward to bringing our over-the-counter monograph system into the 21st century.” “I’m pleased to work together with my colleagues on a very important bipartisan bill that will streamline and modernize FDA’s Over-the-Counter (OTC) monograph system and create user fees to provide much needed resources to improve the oversight and approval of OTC products,” Green said. “The monograph system will become more flexible, better reflect the top science we have, and be more responsive to public health concerns when they emerge. I believe it will also encourage innovation in OTC products by assuring sponsors of future applications that they will not be faced with unhelpful administrative burden or delay.” “Over-the-counter drugs provide an affordable way for Americans to seek medical treatment,” Guthrie said. “Unfortunately, the current FDA approval process for over-the-counter products is too slow, delaying important innovations that can help patients more quickly. The Over-the-Counter Monograph Safety, Innovation, and Reform Act will reform and modernize the antiquated monograph approval system and allow more innovative drug treatments to enter the market safely. I was proud to work with Representatives Latta, Burgess, Green, DeGette, and Dingell on this bill, and I am working with all of our colleagues on the Energy and Commerce Committee to move this bill as soon as possible.” “Americans rely on over-the-counter medicines to treat everything from colds to headaches,” Dingell said. “As scientific research advances, we must ensure that the approval process for these products keeps pace with innovation. Unfortunately, the over-the-counter drug system hasn’t been updated in decades, delaying innovative treatments and making it harder for FDA to do its job of keeping people safe. I’m pleased to introduce this bipartisan legislation with my colleagues to modernize this broken system so we can ensure that new, safe and reliable products get to those who need them.” The OTC monograph system was established in 1972 by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to review the safety and efficacy of the OTC medicine ingredients then on the market, including doses, formulations, and labeling. Any OTC that conforms to a monograph may be manufactured and sold without an individual product approval. In the 45 years since the system was created, the process has not been completed and movement on unfinished items has been slow. The system has become a hindrance that does not allow for advances in science and new information concerning the safety of an ingredient. The draft legislation updates the monograph process by specifically adding a new section to the Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act to: • Move away from the cumbersome current monograph finalization process to an administrative order procedure. Additional processes will be in place to ensure recourse should issues arise. • Create new pathways to innovation for monograph products benefiting consumers, where none currently exits. • Ensure the new drug approval pathway and other nonprescription drugs otherwise lawfully marketed are not affected. • Include by reference existing OTC Review Final Monographs and deem final Tentative Final Monographs by statute.
03.16.2018	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Diana DeGette (D-CO) today issued the following statement on the news that her Congressional Pro-Choice Caucus co-chair and long-time colleague, Congresswoman Louise Slaughter, had passed away: “This is a tremendous loss, personally and for the vast community of people with whom Louise Slaughter worked. “Louise was a warrior for all the issues she cared about. Her genteel Kentucky upbringing masked a core of steel. As a champion of women’s reproductive rights, she was especially proud to represent Seneca Falls, home to the first women’s rights convention in the United States. “I’ll miss her wisdom and wit every day.”
03.12.2018	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Diana DeGette (D-CO) was among the 140 Democratic House members who today called on President Donald J. Trump to follow the letter and spirit of the law by imposing sanctions against those behind Russia’s attacks on American democracy. In a letter led by Foreign Affairs Committee Ranking Member Eliot L. Engel, the lawmakers underscored that President Trump has failed to punish those responsible for meddling in the 2016 election from overseas and has done nothing to prevent future attacks, which his Administration acknowledges are already underway. “Your actions over the last year have shown that you will constantly excuse President Putin and deny his well-established assistance to your campaign in 2016,” the members wrote. “With this latest action, you are ignoring the law and the prerogatives of a coequal branch of government and letting Russia know you will do nothing to stop additional interference in our elections—interference that will presumably benefit your own political objectives. We've given you the tools needed to meet this challenge. If you continue to leave those tools on the shelf, we will push for additional legislative action with more stringent requirements. If you refuse to protect the United States from a hostile foreign government, Congress must act on our own. The future of our democracy is on the line.” Full text of the letter follows and can be found, with a list of the members who signed, here. March 12, 2018 The President The White House Washington, D.C. 20500 Dear Mr. President: Your apparent refusal to hold Russia accountable for meddling in American democracy has allowed President Putin to operate with impunity. Our country has been left vulnerable to another Russian attack on our election system. The latest example—your unwillingness to impose any sanctions required by the bipartisan Countering America's Adversaries Through Sanctions Act—adds to a pattern by which you have ignored every tool available for responding to the attack on our democracy. We strongly urge you to reverse course, follow the letter and spirit of the law, and demonstrate that the security of our country and integrity of elections are sacrosanct. The law could not be clearer that you faced a deadline for imposing sanctions against those who do business with Russia's military and intelligence sectors—the very arms of the Russian government responsible for attacking American democracy. The relevant section of the law states, “180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the President shall impose five or more of the sanctions” laid out in the legislation. January 29th marked 180 days. You even had the opportunity to announce sanctions and then invoke the law's waiver authority. You didn't. You failed to meet this deadline. Nor did you meet the earlier deadline to punish those responsible for the cyberattacks during the 2016 elections. The State Department's explanation that the mere threat of sanctions will stop Russia from interfering in our elections is naive and unacceptable. Those responsible for meddling in our democracy—in the past and going forward—must face consequences. Congress's intent when we sent you this law was clear. This bill was bipartisan, having garnered more than 400 votes in the House and overwhelming support in the Senate. We expected that you would take action against an adversary that threatens the very heart of our democracy. However, your actions over the last year have shown that you will constantly excuse President Putin and deny his well established assistance to your campaign in 2016. With this latest action, you are ignoring the law and the prerogatives of a coequal branch of government and letting Russia know you will do nothing to stop additional interference in our elections—interference that will presumably benefit your own political objectives. We've given you the tools needed to meet this challenge. If you continue to leave those tools on the shelf, we will push for additional legislative action with more stringent requirements. If you refuse to protect the United States from a hostile foreign government, Congress must act on our own. The future of our democracy is on the line. Sincerely,
03.08.2018	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Diana DeGette (D-CO), Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations, today joined fellow leaders on the Energy and Commerce Committee from both parties in sending letters to the U.S. Olympic Committee and all 48 National Governing Bodies, as well as Michigan State University, expanding the committee’s investigation into sexual abuse within organized sports. The letters follow up the committee’s initial January 26th letters, and pose a number of detailed questions and document requests related to the management, handling, and prevention of sexual abuse. Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Greg Walden (R-OR) has previously announced the committee intends to hold a hearing on these matters. In their letter to the U.S. Olympic Committee, DeGette and the members wrote, “Based on information received to date, the Committee is concerned that a pervasive and systemic problem exists in Olympic sports. The safety and well-being of all athletes should be the highest priority of the U.S. Olympic Committee and each of the respective National Governing Bodies. It is imperative, therefore, to understand the scope of this challenge across the Olympic community to ensure existing and future efforts to improve athlete safety are commensurate to the problem.” Click here to read the letter to the U.S. Olympic Committee. Click here to read the letter to Michigan State University. Click here to read the letters to all 48 National Governing Bodies.
03.07.2018	Washington, DC – Today, as the survivors of the horrific mass shooting in Parkland, Florida continue to advocate for common-sense gun safety, Congresswoman Diana DeGette, Ranking Member on the Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee, joined all fellow Energy and Commerce Democrats in sending a letter to Committee Chairman Greg Walden (R-OR) urging him to hold hearings as soon as possible to address gun violence in America. The Democrats’ letter includes a request for four additional hearings on the American gun violence epidemic, including explorations of: who gun violence hurts; whether mass shootings are becoming increasingly deadly; the distribution of guns, ammunition, and accessories through e-commerce, and whether federal agencies have the resources necessary to exercise effective oversight of such activity; and the extent to which social media may be increasing the hostility surrounding the gun debate. “The day after the Parkland shooting, Speaker Ryan said that he was not willing to discuss gun control at this time. The Trump Administration said the same thing after a gunman killed 58 people in Las Vegas, Nevada last October, albeit while promising that ‘one day’ such policy conversations would be appropriate,” DeGette and fellow Democrats wrote to Chairman Walden. “Americans deserve better than empty promises and delaying tactics. ‘One day’ is now, and this debate has gone on long enough. The lives of our children and our constituents are at risk, and it is past time for us to take common-sense measures to protect them.” “The American people rightfully have questions about the ever-increasing capacity of guns to kill or seriously harm in large numbers and why these weapons are so easy to obtain in the marketplace,” they continued in their letter to Chairman Walden. “There are also legitimate questions this Committee must take up, including the ease of purchasing ammunition and gun accessories online and whether social media is contributing to the societal divisions on the topic of gun violence.” Today’s letter follows a February 16th letter from DeGette and Democratic Committee members to Chairman Walden and Subcommittee Chairman Michael Burgess (R-TX) calling on them to hold a hearing on gun violence prevention research. The Republican leaders have neither responded to that request nor scheduled a hearing on the subject. DeGette and her colleagues are requesting four additional hearings be held to explore the following topics: Gun violence in America: Who does gun violence hurt? This hearing would examine who is most likely to be killed or injured in a firearm related incident, what proportion of gun deaths are attributable to suicide, accidents, or mass shootings, and the barriers to predicting where and when those shootings will take place. The lethality of guns in America: Where do you draw the line between sport, self-defense, and public threat? This hearing would examine if mass shootings have become increasingly deadly, whether there is a rising death toll attributable to particular guns, ammunition, or accessories, and the types of guns used for sport and self-defense and the ease with which they can be purchased. “Shoot Now, Pay Later”: Sales of guns, ammunition, and accessories over the Internet. This hearing would explore the ease of purchasing guns on the internet, and what both companies and the government can do to close loop-holes that allow those that cannot purchase guns in person to purchase them online. What role does social media play in the divisions of the gun debate? This hearing would examine whether social media is increasing the hostility surrounding the gun control debate in response to the conspiracy theories, and bot and troll activity with both pro-gun and anti-gun messages, which inundated social media after the Parkland shooting. A copy of the letter is available here.
03.05.2018	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Diana DeGette (D-CO), together with other Energy and Commerce Committee Democratic leaders, today sent a letter to Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Scott Pruitt regarding serious concerns about the impartiality of current senior EPA political appointees, including one from Colorado. The legislators requested additional information regarding appointees engaged in outside activity for compensation. According to agency records, several current EPA political appointees have received approval from EPA’s Alternate Designated Agency Ethics official to engage in outside activity for compensation. The documents, which redact potentially vital information, were received by the Committee as a partial response to a July 13, 2017 letter from Pallone to Pruitt. One of the employees was Patrick Davis, who was approved to engage in outside activity for compensation as the sales director for Telephone Town Hall Meeting, and was affirmatively permitted to “solicit prospective clients” on his own time. Davis serves as a senior advisor for public engagement to the Regional Administrator in EPA’s Denver office, while at the same time owning a Republican political consulting firm based in Colorado Springs, Colorado. “Mr. Davis’ simultaneous roles as an EPA senior advisor for public engagement and a sales director for Telephone Town Hall Meeting serve to create possible confusion among stakeholders and raises further concerns of potential conflicts of interest,” the four Democrats wrote to Administrator Pruitt. “We believe it is critical that EPA political appointees serve the public trust above private gain and in an unbiased and impartial manner.” The EPA records further indicate that another current EPA political appointee, John Konkus, worked at a Republican political consulting firm before becoming EPA’s Deputy Associate Administrator for the Office of Public Affairs. Konkus was approved to provide “consultative media advice” to likely clients whose names are redacted from the document. Konkus was the subject of a September 2017 letter from the Democrats to Pruitt following reports by the Washington Post and E&E News that he may have cancelled EPA grants based on political motivations. “A political appointee cutting millions of dollars in funding to EPA grant recipients on what appears to be a politically motivated basis, while at the same time being authorized to serve as a paid media consultant to unnamed outside clients, raises serious concerns of potential conflicts of interest,” the four Democrats wrote to Administrator Pruitt. Konkus’ previous employer lists on its website services such as campaign advertisement production, direct mail, and media buying and includes “Donald Trump for President, Inc.” as one of the firm’s premiere clients. The Democrats are requesting information and documents be provided by EPA no later than March 19, 2018, including: A list of all EPA political appointees, including individuals occupying Administratively Determined appointments, who have received approval to engage in outside activity for compensation. Where EPA has granted an appointee approval, provide a non-redacted copy of the memorandum of approval authorizing any outside activity. Where EPA has authorized an appointee to conduct outside activity, provide a non-redacted list naming and describing each authorized client. The Energy and Commerce Committee Democrats’ letter was also signed by Ranking Member Frank Pallone, Jr. (D-NJ), full Committee Vice Ranking Member Kathy Castor (D-FL) and Environment Subcommittee Ranking Member Paul Tonko (D-NY). The letter is available here.
02.22.2018	Washington, DC -- Congresswoman Diana DeGette (D-CO), a senior member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, again expressed her strong opposition to repealing Obama-era Net Neutrality rules in response to the final Net Neutrality repeal order being printed in the Federal Register today. The order will largely go into full effect on April 23 of this year, giving Congress and supporters of Net Neutrality only 60 days to reverse this move. “It is shameful that the FCC, under the leadership of Chairman Pai, continues to forge ahead with a damaging repeal of these common-sense consumer safeguards,” DeGette said. “Countless Americans, including many in my congressional district, have engaged passionately in the battle to protect Net Neutrality, yet the chairman and his allies seem to be willfully ignoring this unprecedented public outcry. What’s more, there are outstanding questions about whether the FCC adequately vetted and logged a record 24 million public comments regarding its decision to repeal Net Neutrality, which my colleagues and I on the Energy and Commerce Committee wrote in a letter sent to Chairman Pai last week. “As the activists in Colorado and across America engaged in this struggle continue their crusade to ensure a free and open internet for all, Congress must support their important efforts by passing legislation to preserve these rules. I urge my House colleagues to swiftly pass the resolution sponsored by Congressman Mike Doyle (D-PA) rejecting the repeal, which I have enthusiastically agreed to cosponsor, before it’s too late.”
02.15.2018	Washington, DC – After revelations today by the Washington Post about continued unlawful behavior by Director of the Office of Refugee Resettlement Scott Lloyd, who has ignored the constitution and federal rules regarding women’s rights and reproductive health, the co-chairs of the Congressional Pro-Choice Caucus, Congresswomen Diana DeGette (D-CO) and Louise Slaughter (D-NY), called on Secretary of Health and Human Services Alex Azar to fire him. In a letter to Secretary Azar, the caucus chairs noted that Lloyd had recently intervened in at least four cases to try to deny immigrant teens – one of whom had been raped – access to abortion services. Federal courts found Lloyd’s efforts to block this reproductive care unlawful. The Washington Post found that lawyers for ORR may be prohibited from communicating with their clients about abortion rights. “Throughout Mr. Lloyd’s tenure at ORR, he has abused the powers and privileges of his office to intimidate young women and deny them their constitutional rights,” the two lawmakers wrote in their letter. “His repeated decisions to impose his extreme ideology on women and girls in defiance of federal law makes him unfit to serve in the federal government.” DeGette and Slaughter had previously raised objections to Lloyd’s behavior based on earlier news accounts and information directly from HHS about these cases, and had called on the House Judiciary Committee to subpoena Lloyd and other witnesses for questioning. The full text of the letter is here and below: February 15, 2018 Secretary Alex Azar U.S. Department of Health & Human Services 200 Independence Avenue SW Washington, DC 20201 Dear Secretary Azar, We write today to demand Scott Lloyd’s immediate termination as the Director of the Office of Refugee Resettlement (ORR). We are deeply disturbed by the Trump Administration’s constant willingness to ignore and bend the rules when it comes to women’s rights and reproductive health. Throughout Mr. Lloyd’s tenure at ORR, he has abused the powers and privileges of his office to intimidate young women and deny them their constitutional rights. His repeated decisions to impose his extreme ideology on women and girls in defiance of federal law makes him unfit to serve in the federal government. The public is aware of at least four immigrant teens to whom Mr. Lloyd personally denied access to abortion services, sometimes even over the objections of other staff within ORR. One of those young women was a victim of rape. Thankfully, the federal courts found his efforts to obstruct their access to care unlawful. We fear, however, for other similarly situated women that the courts are not aware of whose bodies and decisions Mr. Lloyd is still trying to control. The latest revelation that lawyers who receive federal funding may be prohibited by HHS from discussing abortion rights with these women suggests an ongoing, complete disregard for the rule of law. Based on their conversations with HHS employees, these lawyers are under the impression that such restrictions on communication with their clients are of the “utmost import” to Mr. Lloyd in his capacity as ORR Director. Furthermore, as a lawyer yourself, you should understand the almost sacred significance of attorney-client communication in our judicial system. Lawyers must be able to communicate openly with their clients about their rights. Immigrants in detention rely on their lawyers for honest advice and help in navigating difficult and often frightening situations. Any efforts to disrupt these relationships run contrary to hundreds of years of American legal tradition. ORR’s mission is to “foster health and well-being by providing federal leadership, partnership and resources for the compassionate and effective delivery of human services.” Mr. Lloyd, through his treatment of women under his care, has utterly failed to carry out his office’s mission and fulfill the oath he took as a government employee to uphold the U.S. Constitution. We therefore ask that you ensure Mr. Lloyd immediately steps down so someone fit to carryout ORR’s important duties can assume his role.
02.15.2018	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Diana DeGette (D-CO), Chief Deputy Whip, decried the way in which legislation that the House passed today on a nearly a party-line vote would undermine the long-standing protections of the Americans With Disabilities Act, which was approved 28 years ago with strong bipartisan support and signed into law by President George H.W. Bush. “I voted against H.R. 620, a cruel attack on the disabled that undermines the bipartisan Americans With Disabilities Act,” DeGette said. “This landmark law, passed in 1990, has dramatically improved the everyday lives of people with disabilities, particularly by increasing their access to public space, but more work needs to be done. We should be aiming to advance this progress, but this bill could prove dangerously regressive. “A civil rights attorney in Colorado before coming to Congress, I remain focused on empowering vulnerable Americans and protecting their basic liberties.” The House approved H.R. 620 213 to 172, with all but 19 voting Republicans supporting it.
02.13.2018	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Diana DeGette (D-CO), Ranking Member on the Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee, joined every fellow Democrat on the Energy and Commerce Committee in sending a letter to Federal Communications Commission (FCC) Chairman Ajit Pai today asking a series of questions surrounding how the FCC reviewed and considered the record 24 million public comments in its proceedings to repeal net neutrality. With the record number of public comments and millions of comments considered fake, including submissions from Russian email addresses, DeGette and the Committee Democrats want to know how the agency reviewed the public’s feedback. They wrote that the FCC bears the burden of demonstrating that its analysis is supported by the record, but, to date, the FCC has not properly explained how it came to this result. For instance, the final Order repealing net neutrality does not cite a single consumer comment filed in the record, while it emphasized filings from a handful of companies. “The FCC’s Order gave scant detail about how it approached its unprecedented docket, tucking all description of the process into a few paragraphs at the end of a lengthy order,” DeGette and her colleagues wrote to Chairman Pai. “While we may not support the outcome of this proceeding, we hope you agree with us that transparency in the process is crucial. In order to restore public confidence in the integrity of the process and give the American people a better understanding of how the FCC analyzed the comments filed in this proceeding, we request that you provide us information on how the agency reviewed the public comments.” DeGette and her fellow Democrats are seeking answers to a series of questions to the FCC, including: -The Commission has never handled a docket of this size before or one with so many fraudulent filings. What public process did the Commission conduct to determine how to handle these novel issues? How did the Commission generate any guidelines it provided to staff working on this proceeding? -The Order does not cite a single consumer comment. How many consumer comments were filed in the record? -Chairman Pai has stated that comments filed from Russian email addresses were in favor of net neutrality. Did the Commission conduct an independent analysis to support this determination? -The FCC has refused to work with New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman to investigate fraudulent use of Americans’ identities in the record. Please explain why the FCC decided not to cooperate with this criminal investigation. -How did the FCC determine whether comments were filed by the entity with whom the comments were associated? -The Order states that the Commission did not rely on comments filed under “fake” names. How did the Commission determine which filings used fake names? -Did FCC staff review every comment filed in the docket? How many staff hours did the Commission devote to reviewing the record? The Democrats’ letter is available here.
02.12.2018	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Diana DeGette (D-CO), Chief Deputy Whip, strongly condemned alleged Trump administration collusion with an extreme anti-choice group in an effort to restrict Medicaid recipients’ access to Planned Parenthood. The allegations are based on new information released by Democrats on the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee today. “I am extremely concerned by these revelations,” DeGette said. “If true, they would mean that the Trump administration is taking direct orders from a radical anti-choice group motivated by false reports about Planned Parenthood. These allegations were clearly debunked through House Republicans’ now-defunct Select Panel, in which I took part as a minority member. It’s frightening that this administration not only seeks to restrict the ‘free of choice provider’ to which women are entitled, but is doing so based on the whims of an ongoing witch hunt against women’s health based on lies.” In a letter to Deputy Secretary of the Department of Health and Human Services Eric Hargan, Committee Ranking Member Elijah Cummings said a whistleblower gave him documents appearing to show coordination between the administration and right-wing anti-choice organization, Alliance Defending Freedom, which the Southern Poverty Law Center has designated a hate group. On January 19, the Trump administration sent a letter to state Medicaid directors rescinding Obama-era guidance informing states that it is against the law to terminate funds for family planning providers such as Planned Parenthood based on unsubstantiated allegations, including false reports claiming the organization illegally sold fetal tissue and organs. The Obama administration’s actions were meant to clarify the “free of choice provider” provision, established in 1967, ensuring that a state may not deny Medicaid beneficiaries the ability to see the provider of their choice unless there is sufficient basis. The documents reviewed and published in redacted form today by Cummings and his colleagues indicated that a first draft of the was provided by the Alliance Defending Freedom. They further show that several Trump appointees at the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services and the Department of Health and Human Services were directly involved in this effort. Cummings has requested further documents and communications from the agency concerning the January 19 letter and any outside coordination with Alliance Defending Freedom or similar organizations.
02.12.2018	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Diana DeGette (D-CO), Chief Deputy Whip, called President Donald J. Trump’s new budget proposal irresponsible, bad for the country overall and harmful to Colorado in particular. “President Trump’s Fiscal Year 2019 budget request will short-change important projects and programs affecting the environment, housing and health, among other matters that are critical to Colorado and the nation,” DeGette said. “It is also fiscally irresponsible, focusing on short-term goals based on faulty assumptions, and will have a devastating long-term impact. “As cuts to these critical domestic priorities and more are being made, and as he drives the deficit higher, President Trump is requesting $1.6 billion for his unnecessary and ineffective border wall,” DeGette said. “This budget proposal speaks volumes about his values.” DeGette noted that the Trump’s proposed 34 percent cut to the Environmental Protection Agency is even deeper than the one in his budget submission last year, which was never enacted. The proposal reduces funding for the Office of Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy budget by $1.3 billion, or about two-thirds. This cut could be damaging to the National Renewable Energy Laboratory in Golden, which receives most of its funding from this office. DeGette also raised concerns about funding levels for the National Institutes of Health, a major source of basic science and applied research funds for the University of Colorado Denver | Anschutz Medical Campus. The new Trump budget would reduce the Department of Housing and Urban Development by $8.8 billion or 18 percent, including cuts to affordable housing programs that benefit Coloradans in need.
02.09.2018	Washington, DC -- Congresswoman Diana DeGette (D-CO), Chief Deputy Whip, issued the following statement after voting against the “Bipartisan Budget Act” early this morning: "Under its current Republican leadership, Congress has lurched from crisis to crisis over the federal budget since this fiscal year started in October, voting five times for stopgap spending bills and shutting down the government twice. "It's a disgrace, and these repeated, wasteful failures have left the government abused by congressional fecklessness and important priorities still unaddressed. Among them is finding a solution for Dreamers. A deadline looms there too: In less than a month, even more of these young men and women will lose their DACA protections and face deportation from the only country that most have ever known. They are integral members of our communities in Colorado and across the land, many serving in the armed forces, studying at universities, starting local businesses and taking part in civic life; we cannot let them down.”
02.08.2018	Washington, DC – Today Congresswoman Diana DeGette (D-CO), Chief Deputy Whip, joined 74 Democratic House members in sending a letter to Homeland Security Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen expressing profound concern with the Department of Homeland Security's practice of separating immigrant families, both in the United States and at the border. Numerous studies and stories have shown this practice traumatizes those seeking humanitarian relief and limits their ability to lawfully pursue legal relief. The effort was led by Reps. Lucille Roybal-Allard and Pramila Jayapal, Co-Chairs of the Women’s Working Group on Immigration Reform, Rep. Bennie G. Thompson, Ranking Member of the Committee on Homeland Security, and Rep. Zoe Lofgren, Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration and Border Security. The letter urges U.S. Immigrations and Customs enforcement (ICE) at DHS to immediately clarify current policies and to reverse any established or de facto policies that undermine the ability of those seeking humanitarian relief to pursue protection or result in the needless separation of and harm to families. “Separating children from their parents is unconscionable and contradicts the most basic of American family values. Moreover, the reported justification of this practice as a deterrent to family migration suggests a lack of understanding about the violence many families are fleeing in their home countries. More pointedly, the pretext of deterrence is not a legally sufficient basis for separating families,” DeGette and the members wrote. “We are deeply disturbed by reports that the practice of separating families is increasing. Two recent complaints filed with DHS oversight components, the Office of Civil Rights and Civil Liberties and the Office of Inspector General, illustrate that DHS appears to be intentionally separating families for purposes of deterrence and punishment.” “We believe that separation is especially unnecessary given that ICE can and should turn to humane, less costly alternatives to detention, such as the Family Case Management Program, which ICE prematurely terminated after only one year of a five year pilot. Rather than protecting the best interests of the child, practices that punish and deter immigrant families violate fundamental domestic and international principles of family unity and are inconsistent with numerous U.S. child welfare and refugee laws and obligations.” Read the letter here
02.06.2018	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Diana DeGette (D-CO), Chief Deputy Whip, issued the following statement about the continuing resolution that will come before the House for a vote this evening: “GOP leaders will soon put a spending bill on the House floor that, if signed into law, will fund the government for only a few more weeks – through March 23. And once again, the Republican-led Congress is ignoring a number of important priorities in a rush to meet a short-term deadline when these issues should have been resolved in September as the last fiscal year came to an end. “I’ll vote against this spending bill as I have done for all the inadequate stopgap measures that have come before us these past four months.”
02.06.2018	Washington, DC – Bipartisan Energy and Commerce Committee leaders today held a press conference to provide an update on their ongoing investigation into alleged pill dumping in the state of West Virginia. The leaders spoke to continued stonewalling by the Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA) and the Department of Justice (DOJ), despite numerous requests for basic information. “My colleagues and I are fed up with the DEA’s intransigence and withholding of information on what’s happening in West Virginia, which has national implications,” said DeGette, who is Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations. “The DEA refuses to cooperate; the redacted documents they've just sent us are pitiful.” “We worked with the DEA at every turn, believing that we could be partners in this effort. We should be partners in this effort. But to our surprise and dismay, DEA has all but stonewalled our investigation,” Committee Chairman Greg Walden (R-OR) said. “…We are done waiting for their cooperation.” Oversight Subcommittee Chairman Gregg Harper (R-MS) stressed that while the bipartisan investigation’s focus is on West Virginia, it is a nationwide problem. He added, “This is just not acceptable. …We urge the DEA to stop playing games.” Talking about the opioid crisis’ impact in West Virginia, Rep. David McKinley (R-WV) shared some of the committee’s findings and local statistics, including the fact that West Virginia is ranked the number one state in the country for overdoses. “It’s just ravaging West Virginia,” McKinley said.
01.30.2018	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Diana DeGette (D-CO), Chief Deputy Whip, issued the following statement concerning President Donald J. Trump’s speech tonight: “I attended the State of the Union address with low expectations -- and unfortunately, I was not disappointed. Despite the White House claim that the president would seek common ground, this speech was designed to divide Americans and deepen the fissures in our democracy. "It was full of generalities. The few issues he addressed were cast in hyper-partisan terms. The use of fear-mongering to push for immigration reforms was outrageously cynical, practically equating Dreamers with members of a despicable, vicious gang. Is this the way he intends to negotiate legislation to address our broken immigration system?" “We deserve better from the President of the United States. What a shame that he chose to make this divisive speech tonight in the People’s House.”
01.26.2018	Denver – In response to reports that President Donald J. Trump sought to fire Special Counsel Robert Mueller last June shortly after he was appointed to head the FBI’s investigation into contacts between Russia and the Trump campaign and White House, Congresswoman Diana DeGette (D-CO), Chief Deputy Whip, said Congress must get to the bottom of the matter rather than ignoring it, as the majority has done in other cases involving the Trump Administration’s trampling of long-held democratic norms. “During his campaign and the past year, this president has undermined institutions of American democracy that for centuries have helped make our country an example of hope for people living under authoritarianism around the world. Whether deliberate or not, through his rhetoric and policies, he has undercut the media, our judiciary, long-held values including diversity and equality, and national security bastions such as the State Department and the intelligence community. Sadly, few of my Republican colleagues have publicly called him out on these acts, though they have shared their views privately. If the multiple independent reports of his intention to fire Special Counsel Mueller are accurate, this is a step that no one in Congress should ignore, and all must be invested in holding him accountable.” DeGette hailed the appointment of Mueller as a necessary step to determine whether criminal acts had been committed, and she follows with interest the twists and turns of the ongoing congressional investigations, some of which have been stymied by partisan squabbling. She remains strongly in support of appointing an independent commission that can examine the issue and make recommendations to prevent further interference.
01.26.2018	Denver – After speaking with Planned Parenthood President Cecile Richards this morning about her impending departure from the group, Congresswoman Diana DeGette (D-CO), co-chair of the Congressional Pro-Choice Caucus, issued the following statement: “Cecile is a fierce fighter for choice, an effective leader and a real friend. She always strikes the right tone when it comes to the complex and often contentious matters affecting women’s reproductive health. We have been in the trenches together for many years, and I look forward to remaining in close touch as she considers her next steps. Meantime, I can attest to the aptness of the title of her forthcoming book, as she has stood up, spoken out and been courageous in all that she has taken on. Planned Parenthood has thrived under her stewardship and will continue to do so thanks to her foresight. Millions of women in this country and around the world have benefited from this work, and humanity is all the better for it.”
01.26.2018	Washington, DC – Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee Ranking Member Diana DeGette (D-CO), along with other leaders of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, sent letters today to USA Gymnastics, the U.S. Olympic Committee, Michigan State University, USA Swimming, and USA Taekwondo regarding sexual abuse within organized sports. The letters reflect the recent sentencing of Dr. Larry Nassar for his abuse of more than 150 women and girls, as well as last year’s reports of sexual misconduct allegations in the Taekwondo community, and the 2014 allegations of sexual abuse from 19 former U.S. swimmers. In their letter to USA Gymnastics, DeGette and the other members wrote: “The abhorrent abuses associated with this case are outrageous, and raise serious concerns about your organization’s ability to oversee your sport and protect your athletes from abuse and mistreatment. Accordingly, the Committee is seeking information from USA Gymnastics because of the role it plays in overseeing gymnastics and protecting all of its athletes.” The other letters contained similarly strong admonitions and requests for information. Energy and Commerce Chairman Greg Walden (R-OR), Ranking Member Frank Pallone, Jr. (D-NJ), Digital Commerce and Consumer Protection Subcommittee Chairman Bob Latta (R-OH), Digital Commerce and Consumer Protection Subcommittee Ranking Member Jan Schakowsky (D-IL), and Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee Chairman Gregg Harper (R-MS) all contributed to the letters together with DeGette. Click here to read the letter to USA Gymnastics. Click here to read the letter to the United States Olympic Committee. Click here to read the letter to Michigan State University. Click here to read the letter to USA Swimming. Click here to read the letter to USA Taekwondo.
01.25.2018	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Diana DeGette (D-CO), Chief Deputy Whip, and 53 House and Senate colleagues sent a bipartisan letter today to President Donald J. Trump requesting that he urge Attorney General Jeff Sessions to reinstate the Cole Memorandum. Doing so would create a pathway to a more comprehensive marijuana policy that respects state interests. On January 4, 2018, Attorney General Jeff Sessions rescinded the Cole Memorandum – putting jobs, small businesses, state infrastructure, consumers, minorities, and patients at risk. His decision to replace the Cole Memorandum with a new memorandum that provides “prosecutorial discretion” to U.S. Attorneys and states that “marijuana activity is a serious crime” will have a chilling effect across the country in states that have worked tirelessly to follow the will of the voters and provide common sense, responsible regulations for marijuana that balance public health and safety needs with limited criminal justice resources. To date, Colorado and eight other states and the District of Columbia have passed their own laws allowing for the recreational adult use of marijuana. Dozens more have passed laws decriminalizing marijuana, or allowing it for medicinal use. “These new policies have helped eliminate the black market sale of marijuana and allowed law enforcement to focus on real threats to public health and safety,” wrote the legislators. “This action by the Department of Justice has the potential to unravel efforts to build sensible drug policies that encourage economic development as we finally move away from antiquated practices that have hurt disadvantaged communities.” These state laws, many of which are voter-approved, have been carefully reviewed and thoughtfully implemented in communities across the country. The letter noted that when he was running for president, Donald Trump declared that “we should leave (marijuana) up to the states.” Rescinding the Cole Memo only upends the careful balance struck between the federal and state governments on marijuana enforcement. Senators Elizabeth Warren (D-MA), Kirsten Gillibrand (D-NY), Ron Wyden (D-OR), Edward J. Markey (D-MA), Brain Schatz (D-HI) Catherine Cortez Masto (D-NV), Jeff Merkley (D-OR), Maria Cantwell (D-WA), Cory Booker (D- NJ), Patty Murray (D-WA) and Representatives Jared Polis (D-CO), Ed Perlmutter (D-CO), Tulsi Gabbard (D-HI) Peter DeFazio (D-OR), Hank Johnson (D-GA.), Eleanor Holmes Norton (D-DC), Donald Breyer (R-VA), Jan Schakowsky (D-IL), Scott Peters (D-CA), Ted Lieu (D-CA), Brad Sherman (D-CA), Jared Huffman (D-CA), Jerrold Nadler (D-N.Y.), Ro Khanna (D-CA), Jamie Raskin (D-MD), Seth Moulton (D-MA), Mark Pocan (D-WI), Carlos Curbelo (D-FL), Pramila Jayapal (D-WA), Niki Tsongas (D-MA), Alan Lowenthal (D-CA), Michael Capuano (D-MA), Suzanne Bonamici (D-OR), Steve Cohen (D-TN), Salud Carbajal (D-CA), J. Luis Correa (D-CA), Dina Titus (D-NV), Adam Smith (D-WA), Jerry McNerney (D-CA), Mark Takano (D-CA), Raul Grijalva (D-AZ), Denny Heck (D-WA), Adam Schiff (D-CA), and Zoe Lofgren (D-CA) also signed the letter at the initiative of Warren and Polis.
01.22.2018	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Diana DeGette (D-CO), Chief Deputy Whip, said she would vote against the fourth consecutive stopgap spending bill for this fiscal year when it comes before the House of Representatives later today. “While I’m never in favor of shutting down the government, the majority has got to stop limping along with these irresponsible bills,” DeGette said. “Since the new budget year began on October 1, 2017, the Republican majority has been funding the government by short-term continuing resolutions. This is political malpractice.” The bill also does not include a provision extending protections for people in the United States under the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program, additional funding to fight the opioid epidemic, an extension of lapsed federal support for community health centers, or disaster relief for Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands, among many other critical funding needs. “It is encouraging that Senate Republican leadership has pledged to consider bipartisan legislation on DACA,” DeGette noted. “Americans must hold Congress to this promise. We have to provide lasting protection and a path to citizenship for the nearly 800,000 Dreamers in this country, and turn our energies in earnest to bipartisan efforts to fix our broken immigration system.”
01.20.2018	Washington, DC – After failing to provide a budget solution that addresses a wide array of critical priorities, Republicans have shut down the federal government. As Americans brace for the Trump Shutdown, Congresswoman Diana DeGette (D-CO), Chief Deputy Whip, strongly condemned Republican leaders for failing to meet the needs of the American people. “Coloradans stand to suffer because Republicans have spent the last months focusing their energy on securing tax breaks to corporations and the wealthiest. Meanwhile, they could only muster shoddy stopgap funding patches to fund the government that were bound to wear thin, “DeGette said. “Republicans control the House, the Senate and the White House, but they couldn’t manage something as basic as keeping government open. Now, Republicans’ incompetence has endangered our economy, hurt our communities, and dangerously deprived the military of the certainty they need to keep our nation safe.” In 2013, President Trump called Fox & Friends to lay blame for the GOP government shutdown at the feet of President Obama, saying, “the problems start from the top and have to get solved from the top… The president is the leader, and he’s got to get everybody in a room and he’s got to lead.” In the White House, however, President Trump explicitly called for a shutdown, tweeting in May of 2017, “our country needs a good shutdown.” A government shutdown has stark consequences. A report issued after the 2013 Republican government shutdown detailed many of the impacts of shutdown, including: Stopping the progress on reducing the massive backlog of veterans’ disability claims; Furloughing 2/3rds of the Centers for Disease Control and 3/4ths of the National Institutes of Health; Severely limiting flu season surveillance and monitoring; Delaying life-saving FDA food safety inspections; Disrupting 1.2 million private-sector loans to individuals and small businesses; Delaying billions in tax refunds; Shuttering Head Start centers serving 6,300 children; Destroying 120,000 private-sector jobs and furloughed government workers for a combined 6.6 million days. “Congress still faces a long list of urgent, overdue and overwhelmingly bipartisan business,” DeGette added. “Americans demand action on a number of priorities that include funding to fight the opioid epidemic, an extension of lapsed federal support for community health centers, disaster relief for Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands, and protections for nearly 800,000 Dreamers, many of them in Colorado, who could soon be deported. I pledge to stay in Washington until Congress negotiates a fair bill that addresses these urgent needs and provides relief to groups of Americans whom the GOP has ignored. The political will is there. Congress simply has to come together for the good of the country we represent, and I am prepared to lead that effort.” Congresswoman DeGette’s Denver and Washington DC offices will remain open starting Monday, and will continue to deliver their customary excellent level of service.
01.18.2018	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Diana DeGette (D-CO), Chief Deputy Whip, said she would vote against the fourth consecutive stopgap spending bill for this fiscal year released by the Republican majority. This bill does not include a provision extending protections for people in the United States under the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program, additional funding to fight the opioid epidemic, an extension of lapsed federal support for community health centers, or disaster relief for Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands, among many other critical funding needs. “It is legislative malpractice to pass repeated stopgap bills to fund the federal government for three or four weeks at a time,” DeGette said. “But the bill now before us is made even worse by the GOP’s political games that include punishing Dreamers, short-changing health care and all but abandoning Americans in need in the Caribbean. “I have always supported DACA. The nearly 800,000 Dreamers in the United States, many of them in Colorado, must have lasting protection and a path to citizenship. Congress should pass the bipartisan DREAM Act without delay. We must provide relief for Dreamers via a vehicle that will quickly become law so these young men and women don’t have to remain in a presidentially-imposed limbo.”
01.12.2018	Denver – Congresswoman Diana DeGette has nominated 21 local students from her district to United States service academies. Each year, the congresswoman has the honor of reviewing the applications of high school seniors who intend to attend the academies, and then nominating a select few of the applicants. A volunteer citizen advisory board helps select the strongest candidates. These students have worked hard to secure an appointment to these prestigious schools and are eager not only for the educational opportunities, but also the chance to serve their country. Their nomination is a significant milestone in their lives and is marked by a ceremony attended by family members. This year’s ceremony was held today in the Colorado State Capitol’s Old Supreme Court Chamber. “The choice by these young people to attend the service academies speaks volumes about their commitment to our country, to their communities, and to their own personal development,” DeGette said. “They will face extraordinary challenges as they prepare to answer the call to national service.” The full list of nominees is below, along with the high school they currently attend. An asterisk is next to names of students who requested nominations to more than one academy. U.S. Air Force Academy 1. Anna Barrow – George Washington High School 2. Mitchell Cook – Cherry Creek High School 3. Thomas Gillman – Columbine High School 4. Henrik Laird – Denver East High School 5. Skylar Lodice – Dakota Ridge High School 6. Tatum Maloney – Mullen High School 7. *Michael Melton – Littleton High School 8. Ponder Stine – Cherry Creek High School/University of Colorado Boulder 9. Helen Threlkeld – Denver School of the Arts 10. *John Walsh – East High School U.S. Military Academy 1. *Thomas Cassidy - Regis Jesuit High School 2. *Skylar Lodice – Dakota Ridge High School 3. *Alden Miller – Denver Academy 4. *Aaron Rainey – Denver School of Science and Technology 5. *Kyle Ralph – Columbine High School 6. John Weigand – Regis Jesuit High School U.S. Naval Academy 1. *Thomas Cassidy - Regis Jesuit High School 2. Jacob Hinson – Columbine High School 3. *Skylar Lodice – Dakota Ridge High School 4. *Alden Miller – Denver Academy 5. *Kyle Ralph – Columbine High School 6. Griffen Rollert – Regis Jesuit High School 7. Samuel Samberson – Metro State University 8. Louis Stein – Denver Jewish Day School 9. *John Walsh – East High School 10. Tyler Yancanella – East High School / Colorado School of Mines U.S. Merchant Marine Academy 1. Cole Blake – Regis Jesuit High School 2. *Michael Melton – Littleton High School 3. *Aaron Rainey – Denver School of Science and Technology
01.12.2018	Washington, DC – The top Justice Department official in Colorado has affirmed to the state’s delegation to Congress that recently-issued federal guidelines regarding marijuana laws will not lead to an increase in marijuana prosecutions at the expense of other high-priority law enforcement issues. U.S. Attorney Robert Troyer discussed the January 4 directive in a conference call on Thursday with seven of the members of Congress representing Colorado in Washington. He said the guidance is consistent with how federal prosecutors in Colorado have approached marijuana prosecutions in recent years and his office would continue focusing on other matters, including immigration, the opioid crisis and violent crime. “On an issue this critical to state’s rights and a key industry for Colorado, it’s good to know where things stand with respect to the guidance issued by the Trump administration last week,” several participants in the call said in a joint statement. “If federal authorities were to suddenly reverse course and take punitive measures to undermine Colorado’s marijuana statutes, it could create a chilling effect on an industry that employs thousands of people in our state, where sales now exceed $1 billion per year. We are united in the view that the federal government shouldn’t subvert the will of our citizens expressed at the state level.” With the exception of Rep. Doug Lamborn, Colorado members of Congress are seeking support from congressional colleagues across the nation for several legislative steps to ensure the sanctity of Colorado’s marijuana laws. The delegation has spoken by phone or in person several times in the past week since the Justice Department issued its new guidance. Yesterday’s phone call with U.S. Attorney Robert Troyer occurred at the urging of Congresswoman Diana DeGette, the longest-serving congressional representative from the Centennial State.
01.12.2018	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Diana DeGette’s bill promoting energy conservation and encouraging innovations in LED lighting was signed into law today. “In an era of intense partisanship, it is heartening to see Congress and the White House agree to codify a necessary improvement that will benefit industry and consumers alike,” DeGette said. “I hope to see similar, common-sense efforts in this new year and will continue working toward that.” President Trump signed into law the EPS Improvement Act (H.R. 518), a bill DeGette authored that clarifies and modernizes energy conservation rules that were established after the Energy Policy Act of 2005. When that law was written, Light Emitting Diodes (LED) and Organic Light Emitting Diodes (OLED) were not on the market; they later came to be classified by the Department of Energy as External Power Supplies. But EPS drivers use a different kind of power conversion design than LEDs and OLEDs, so the standards written for EPS drivers do not work for LEDs and OLEDs. The bill passed the House just after the start of the 115th Congress in January of 2017 and cleared the Senate last December, both with strong bipartisan support. It is also notable as the only non-health related bill originating in the Energy and Commerce Committee, where DeGette serves as a senior member, to become law since the 115th Congress started.
01.12.2018	Washington, DC – In their continuing inquiry into skyrocketing costs for insulin, Diabetes Caucus co-chairs Rep. Diana DeGette (D-CO) and Rep. Tom Reed (R-NY) today sent five more letters to health care industry stakeholders seeking further information about health plan benefit design and drug discount programs offered by pharmaceutical companies. “Insulin is a life-saving drug for people with diabetes, but skyrocketing prices are making it unaffordable for millions of Americans,” DeGette said. “Benefit design and drug discount programs are important factors related to cost, and we need more information about them. This step in our inquiry is a critical and necessary one to resolve this public-health crisis.” “We must continue the effort to uncover why the cost of insulin is going through the roof,” Reed added. “This is a life-saving drug for those impacted by this disease. As the Diabetes Caucus continues to look into this issue, we hope to work with the health care industry to find effective policy solutions to make insulin more affordable.” DeGette and Reed sent letters to Mark Merritt and Marilyn Tavenner, the respective heads of the Pharmaceutical Care Management Association (PCMA) and America's Health Insurance Plans (AHIP), requesting information about formularies, which are lists of prescription drugs that a health plan covers. Formularies use a tiered structure with varying levels of cost-sharing that may have a large impact on the cost of drugs, including insulin. In that letter, the members note that while they understand the complex nature of formulary design, they are concerned that exclusions and placement on higher cost-sharing tiers may restrict patient access to affordable insulins. They posed eight questions on this topic, requesting thorough responses to all before March 5, 2018. In the second series of letters, the co-chairs write to Lars Fruergaard Jørgensen, David A. Ricks and Dr. Olivier Brandicourt, the Chief Executive Officers of drug-makers Novo Nordisk, Eli Lilly and Sanofi, respectively, inquiring into Patient Assistant Programs (PAPs) as well as discount cards and coupons. All are used to help patients afford medication, but PAPs are typically directed towards low-income consumers while discount cards and coupons are available to a broader range of people. Many patients view these programs as lifelines, but other stakeholders claim they are tools used by pharmaceutical companies to maintain high prices or steer patients toward more expensive drugs. DeGette and Reed pose a list of questions to them as well, asking about the existence and efficacy of any PAPs, coupons and discount codes they have used to provide free or reduced-cost insulin products, also requesting a response before March 5, 2018. DeGette and Reed began their inquiry in June 2017, securing eye-opening information and in-person meetings from a variety of stakeholders representing patients, insurance providers, pharmaceutical companies and government agencies. They will continue their search for answers and solutions to the question of rising insulin prices, with the goal of providing relief for Americans living with diabetes and their families.
01.11.2018	Washington, DC —Congresswoman Diana DeGette (CO-1) and Congresswoman Louise Slaughter (NY-25), co-chairs of the Congressional Pro-Choice Caucus, today blasted the Trump administration for continuing to prevent immigrant minors in federal shelters from accessing safe and legal reproductive health services even in cases of rape and incest. The federal government is now trying to force a teenager with the pseudonym Jane Moe, currently in government custody, to continue her pregnancy despite the fact that she has adhered to all state and federal laws while trying to access abortion services. This is the fourth time the Trump administration has tried to block an immigrant minor in a federal shelter from accessing constitutionally-provided health care services. “Congress clearly needs to rein in Trump administration zealots who are so eager to violate vulnerable people’s rights,” DeGette said. “Time and again, undocumented teens are being denied access to services. The Constitution prohibits the government from putting an undue burden on that right; the intimidation and repeated injustices at the hands of administration officials must stop. This further illustrates the need for congressional hearings into the matter.” “The Trump administration is once again ignoring the law and throwing up roadblocks to prevent someone from accessing her constitutional right to reproductive health services. Jane Moe is a minor seeking an abortion paid for through private funds, not federal dollars. It is clear that the law provides her this right. It is unconscionable that the Trump administration keeps denying young women like this access to health care services, including abortion services that are guaranteed by the Constitution. This is an attempt to force them to continue their pregnancies against their will, sometimes despite cases of rape and incest. This is an affront to our legal system by a president who campaigned on upholding law and order,” Slaughter said. In December, DeGette and Slaughter called on the leadership of the House Judiciary Committee to subpoena Department of Health and Human Services officials involved in a decision to deny a 17-year-old rape victim her right to have an abortion. They had earlier raised their voices over similar cases involving undocumented teenagers in federal custody who had been prevented from receiving such care until outside groups intervened to help them.
01.11.2018	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Diana DeGette (D-CO), Chief Deputy Whip, said the Trump Administration’s guidance today encouraging state officials to impose work requirements on Medicaid recipients would keep Americans in need from getting vital health care services while perpetuating a politically biased and cruel narrative of the so-called “undeserving poor.” “This is the latest in a long line of attempts by the GOP to stigmatize people on Medicaid and try to advance the argument that many who depend on the program don’t need it,” DeGette said. “Time and again, studies have shown that those who are receiving Medicaid benefits and are able to work are doing so. But the Trump Administration is ignoring that reality and reinforcing the politically biased line – starting with a program in states that, conveniently enough, all have Republican-led governments. “The most vulnerable people in our country, including children and the elderly, rely on Medicaid to keep them healthy and to treat them when they are ill. And for many years, there has been bipartisan agreement on the need to protect Medicaid. Democrats in Congress will now be at loggerheads with our Republican counterparts needlessly over a program that saves millions of American lives.”
01.04.2018	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Diana DeGette (D-CO), Chief Deputy Whip, said if the Justice Department urges federal prosecutors to more aggressively enforce marijuana laws in states such as Colorado that have legalized sales of the drug, it will undermine people’s rights and jeopardize an important industry. “This step could drag us back to the days of raids on legal dispensaries and people living in fear of being jailed for using the medical marijuana they need,” DeGette said. “It could create a chilling effect on an industry that employs thousands of people in Colorado alone, where sales now top $1 billion per year. The federal government shouldn’t take punitive steps that undermine the will of our citizens expressed at the state level.” DeGette is the author of bipartisan legislation to ensure that the federal government does not pre-empt state laws on marijuana; it clarifies congressional intent and provides guidance for courts.
12.22.2017	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Diana DeGette (D-CO), author of a bill promoting energy conservation and encouraging innovations in LED lighting that passes the House in January, hailed last night’s Senate passage of the bill and anticipated that it would be signed into law soon. “The holiday season will be all the brighter thanks to our bipartisan efforts to speed the nation’s progress in the use of energy-efficient lighting,” DeGette said. “Our country’s conservation standards must remain up to date with the latest developments in high-tech lighting and energy-efficient appliances. This bill will remove roadblocks to progress in LED development and help lower energy costs for American businesses and households.” DeGette’s legislation, the EPS Improvement Act (H.R. 518), clarifies and modernizes energy conservation rules that were established after the Energy Policy Act of 2005. When the law was written, Light Emitting Diodes (LED) and Organic Light Emitting Diodes (OLED) were not on the market; they later came to be classified by the Department of Energy as External Power Supplies. But EPS drivers use a different kind of power conversion design than LEDs and OLEDs, so the standards written for EPS drivers do not work for LEDs and OLEDs. Legislation that DeGette championed in 2016 to address this difference passed the House in the 114th Congress but didn’t see action in the Senate. DeGette introduced H.R. 518 at the first opportunity this year, and it quickly gained support and passed the House.
12.22.2017	Washington, DC – The co-chairs of the Congressional Pro-Choice Caucus, Diana DeGette (D-CO) and Louise Slaughter (D-NY), today called on the leadership of the House Judiciary Committee to subpoena Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) officials involved in a decision to deny a 17-year-old rape victim her right to have an abortion. The undocumented teen, known as Jane Poe in court filings, was in federal custody and stated that she was a victim of sexual assault in her home country, which has not been identified publicly. The HHS Office of Refugee Resettlement (ORR), which is responsible for the care of undocumented teens in federal facilities, rejected her request to be able to obtain an abortion. The American Civil Liberties Union intervened with a court filing last week on her behalf; thanks to a D.C. District Court judge’s ruling, she was allowed to have an abortion on December 20. Due to disturbing questions raised by information in court filings, ORR Director Scott Lloyd is among the people DeGette and Slaughter are asking the Judiciary Committee to subpoena for questioning. “According to these court filings, the Trump Administration attempted to force a rape victim to carry a pregnancy to term against her will,” DeGette and Slaughter wrote in a letter to the Committee. “This is an egregious, unconscionable violation of Jane Poe’s right to make this decision. We fear that other women currently in detention may be facing similar injustices at the hands of Trump Administration officials. In order to prevent more women from being denied their rights, ORR’s policies and decision to deny Jane Poe an abortion need urgent and close examination and oversight by Congress. We strongly urge the Judiciary Committee to question Mr. Lloyd immediately when Congress returns in January.” The two legislators note in their letter that Lloyd said he decided to deny the abortion because he was “convinced that an abortion in this case [was] not in her best interest.” “The Constitution guarantees women the right to access abortion and prohibits the government from putting an undue burden on that right,” they wrote. “We are strongly opposed to ORR’s unconstitutional policy of denying abortion to undocumented minors. Indeed, ORR’s decisions denying abortion have now been overturned in federal court multiple times. Aside from being unconstitutional, the ongoing efforts by ORR staff to intimidate and scare young women out of exercising their rights are also offensive and highly inappropriate for any government official, let alone senior officials in the Trump Administration.” The full text of the letter follows: December 22, 2017 Chairman Bob Goodlatte Ranking Member Jerrold Nadler House Judiciary Committee House Judiciary Committee 2309 Rayburn House Office Building 2109 Rayburn House Office Building Washington, DC 20515 Washington, DC 20515 Dear Chairman Goodlatte and Ranking Member Nadler, We write today with grave concerns about court filings that revealed Trump Administration officials denied a seventeen-year-old immigrant woman (“Jane Poe”), who is a victim of rape, her right to have an abortion. We request that the Judiciary Committee subpoena officials within the Office of Refugee Resettlement (ORR), including Director Scott Lloyd, for immediate questioning about this deeply troubling incident. The relevant court filings (Case 1:17-cv-02122-TSC, Document 87) include a memo written by ORR Director Scott Lloyd outlining the Administration’s decision to deny Jane Poe an abortion. Lloyd’s memo reveals that he was aware that Jane Poe informed ORR officials that she was sexually assaulted in her home country, and that the assault likely resulted in her pregnancy. Lloyd also acknowledges that “at least one senior program staff” at ORR recommended that Poe be allowed to have an abortion. Nevertheless, Lloyd decided to deny the abortion because he was “convinced that an abortion in this case [was] not in her best interest.” He overtly assumes that he, rather than Jane Poe, was in the best position to decide her future. The Constitution guarantees women the right to access abortion and prohibits the government from putting an undue burden on that right. We are strongly opposed to ORR’s unconstitutional policy of denying abortion to undocumented minors. Indeed, ORR’s decisions denying abortion have now been overturned in federal court multiple times. Aside from being unconstitutional, the ongoing efforts by ORR staff to intimidate and scare young women out of exercising their rights are also offensive and highly inappropriate for any government official, let alone senior officials in the Trump Administration. The new details about the circumstances surrounding Jane Poe, however, raise even more questions about the ORR policy that demand immediate answers from Mr. Lloyd. According to these court filings, the Trump Administration attempted to force a rape victim to carry a pregnancy to term against her will. This is an egregious, unconscionable violation of Jane Poe’s right to make this decision. We fear that other women currently in detention may be facing similar injustices at the hands of Trump Administration officials. In order to prevent more women from being denied their rights, ORR’s policies and decision to deny Jane Poe an abortion need urgent and close examination and oversight by Congress. We strongly urge the Judiciary Committee to question Mr. Lloyd immediately when Congress returns in January.
12.20.2017	WASHINGTON, DC — Funding for cost-sharing reductions (CSRs) to help lower-income people pay for health care may be included in the continuing resolution on which both houses of Congress must vote in order to keep the government operating. If this funding is included in the bill, House Republicans are demanding a provision that would keep health insurance plans from receiving CSR funds through the Affordable Care Act if they cover abortion services. As a result, countless women could be deprived of access to abortion via health insurance in the private market. “As the deadline approaches to prevent a shutdown and a disastrous discontinuation of government services to Americans over the holidays, House Republicans are playing games to advance a narrow partisan agenda,” Rep. DeGette said. “They’re making matters worse by inserting harmful, anti-woman policies into the debate. "It is unconscionable that Republicans are holding both government funding and health insurance markets hostage in their quest to deny women access to abortion. Every woman should be able to make personal decisions about reproductive health care with dignity and respect, and without interference from politicians." "Republicans are unable to properly run the House, as witnessed by the revote we have to take on the tax bill that passed yesterday,” Rep. Slaughter noted. “In addition, this would be the third continuing resolution of the year. A majority of Democrats in the Senate have already said they will not support it. Now, House Republicans will reportedly make it even less palatable by attaching this attack on women's health care. It is just their latest attempt in their never-ending crusade to prevent women from accessing their constitutional right to abortion coverage. It is unconscionable to use a funding bill to try and enact an extreme and likely unconstitutional conservative agenda.” CSR payments help make health care more affordable by lowering deductibles and out-of-pocket expenses for people who purchase health insurance coverage though the exchanges. As part of ongoing efforts to sabotage the Affordable Care Act, President Trump halted CSR payments earlier this year. Exacerbating this instability, Republicans in Congress also ensured that the tax legislation eliminated the ACA’s individual mandate requiring Americans to have health insurance, a move projected to increase health premiums by 10%. This Republican-produced instability has created a dire need for CSR funding among health insurers. By attaching abortion-coverage restrictions to CSR funds, dramatic declines in abortion coverage are likely to occur across the country, denying many women access to safe and affordable care.
12.15.2017	Denver – Congresswoman Diana DeGette (D-CO), a senior member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, today said she would co-sponsor a congressional effort to restore Net Neutrality protections that were rolled back yesterday in a party-line vote by the Federal Communications Commission. DeGette supports a resolution to be introduced by Congressman Mike Doyle (D-PA), the ranking member on the Subcommittee on Communications and Technology, reversing the FCC’s new regulations. “I have long supported Net Neutrality safeguards and have worked to prevent the FCC’s recent efforts to reverse them,” DeGette said. “Net Neutrality is essential to promoting freedom of expression, competition and economic growth on the internet. It creates a level playing field for consumers, innovators and small businesses. In ending the Open Internet Order, the FCC abdicated its responsibility to ensure that these values are safeguarded. “My constituents feel strongly about this matter, too: Through social media, phone calls to my office, and day-to-day discussions at home in Colorado, they have made it abundantly clear that they value Net Neutrality as a means to ensure an open internet that protects free speech and promotes economic opportunity for all. Our fight doesn’t end this week. The FCC vote was a setback, but not a defeat.” DeGette was one of 118 members of Congress who earlier this week sent a letter to FCC Chairman Ajit Pai asking him to delay the FCC vote. In August, she was one of eleven Democratic members of the Energy and Commerce Committee to submit public comments arguing that the FCC’s proposal was contrary to the intent of Congress in the Telecommunications Act of 1996.
12.08.2017	Today, Diana DeGette, Co-Chair of the Congressional Pro-Choice Caucus, and Rep. Jan Schakowksy, Ranking Member of the Republican now dissolved Select Panel, released the following statement after media reported that the Department of Justice sent a letter to the Senate Judiciary Committee inquiring about the Committee’s report on fetal tissue: “The Select Panel to Attack Women’s Health was created by Republicans to investigate spurious claims supported only by doctored footage created by a man currently facing criminal charges. After spending 15 long months and $1.59 million in taxpayer funds investigating David Daleiden’s lies, this ideological witch hunt came up empty. There was zero evidence that Planned Parenthood acted in violation of the law that prohibits selling fetal tissue. The Panel accomplished nothing except for wasting hard-earned taxpayer dollars and derailing critical medical research. “Now, with the same flagrant disregard for the truth, the Trump Administration is continuing its dangerous ideological crusade to end women’s access to health services and abortion. We cannot allow these politically-driven assaults to continue if we care about women’s health, the public’s health, scientific progress, or the facts. It is time to stop the attacks.”
12.08.2017	Washington, DC – Nearly 100 members of Congress, led by Representatives Diana DeGette (D-CO), André Carson (D-IN) and Beto O’Rourke (D-TX), today sent letters to top House and Senate leaders on both sides of the aisle urging bipartisan cooperation in finding a way to responsibly extend funding for the Children’s Health Insurance Program, which was allowed to lapse on September 30. “CHIP is a critical program that provides health coverage to millions of children and must be reauthorized immediately,” the lawmakers wrote to House Speaker Paul Ryan, House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi, Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell and Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer. “It does not make sense, however, to pass any legislation that simultaneously harms children and families by undermining other important health programs. No one should have to lose coverage for others to maintain it.” The House has passed partisan a bill that further funds CHIP at the expense of other health programs for America’s vulnerable populations; Senate legislation has not yet come up for a vote. Signed by 99 House members, the letter advocates immediately renewing CHIP funding while simultaneously protecting the Affordable Care Act, Medicare, Medicaid and other health programs that Americans rely on to stay healthy, see a doctor and get the care they need. “CHIP has a long history of bipartisan support,” it noted. “Unfortunately, the recent bill passed by the House deviated from this commendable legacy. … This bill weakens coverage for too many Americans, cutting funding for financial assistance for middle- and working-class Americans who purchase subsidized coverage in the Marketplaces under the Affordable Care Act. It also reduces the Prevention and Public Fund by more than $6 billion, crippling programs that improve access to vaccines for children, opioid treatment, youth suicide programs, and diabetes prevention services. There is broad, bipartisan agreement on a policy to extend CHIP for five years, but neither chamber of Congress has yet scheduled a vote to do so without also including policies that would undermine care for millions of Americans.” Nine million children across the country rely on CHIP, which has played a fundamental role in lowering the uninsured rate among children from 25 percent in 1997 to less than five percent today. CHIP provides comprehensive, low-cost health coverage for services including routine check-ups, immunizations, doctor visits, prescriptions, dental and vision care, and emergency services. With the expiration of federal funding for CHIP at September’s end, many states that have since temporarily turned to reserves or other resources are now preparing to terminate children’s health coverage. Families across the season are starting the holiday season with notices in the mail that they may lose CHIP coverage. A copy of the letter is here, and the text is below. # # # December 7, 2017 The Honorable Mitch McConnell The Honorable Charles Schumer Majority Leader Minority Leader United States Senate United States Senate Washington, D.C. 20510 Washington, D.C. 20510 The Honorable Paul Ryan The Honorable Nancy Pelosi Speaker Minority Leader United States House of Representatives United States House of Representatives Washington, D.C. 20515 Washington, D.C. 20515 Dear Leader McConnell, Leader Schumer, Speaker Ryan, and Leader Pelosi: We write to urge House and Senate leadership to work together to urgently and responsibly extend funding for the Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP) without the inclusion of harmful provisions that would reduce coverage among people who get health insurance under the Affordable Care Act, Medicare, and Medicaid. CHIP is a critical program that provides health coverage to millions of children and must be reauthorized immediately. It does not make sense, however, to pass any legislation that simultaneously harms children and families by undermining other important health programs. No one should have to lose coverage for others to maintain it. A bipartisan framework is the surest and most responsible path to quickly reauthorize CHIP. After all, CHIP has a long history of bipartisan support, and was the byproduct of a bipartisan agreement in 1997 on the importance of investing in our children’s care. Unfortunately, the recent bill passed by the House deviated from this commendable legacy. The highly partisan bill seeks to provide healthcare for some at the expense of others, undermining CHIP’s mission. This bill weakens coverage for too many Americans, cutting funding for financial assistance for middle- and working-class Americans who purchase subsidized coverage in the Marketplaces under the Affordable Care Act. It also reduces the Prevention and Public Fund by more than $6 billion, crippling programs that improve access to vaccines for children, opioid treatment, youth suicide programs, and diabetes prevention services. There is broad, bipartisan agreement on a policy to extend CHIP for five years, but neither chamber of Congress has yet scheduled a vote to do so without also including policies that would undermine care for millions of Americans. A number of organizations devoted to the health care of Americans support legislation that extends funding for CHIP and have also expressed opposition to the offsets included in the House bill. The March of Dimes stated that it “opposes the decision to fund important public health priorities…with monies from the Prevention and Public Health Fund.” The Service Employees International Union (SEIU) found it “disappointing that this legislation includes offsets that undermine our communities’ access to coverage and services.” The Campaign for Tobacco-Free Kids expressed in a letter that “reauthorization of CHIP and funding for community health centers need not come at the expense of our nation’s investment in prevention.” And according to the Center for Budget and Policy Priorities, the bill would result in up to 688,000 Americans losing insurance in the individual market, and “would hurt low- and moderate-income individuals and families who miss a payment or even part of a payment for any reason, such as a costly home or car repair.”[1] Leadership must not take these concerns lightly, and work together to not incorporate damaging offsets opposed by so many. Nine million children rely on CHIP, which has played a fundamental role in lowering the uninsured rate among children down to a record 4.5 percent.[2],[3] CHIP provides comprehensive, low-cost health coverage for services including routine check-ups, immunizations, doctor visits, prescriptions, dental and vision care, and emergency services. Federal funding for CHIP expired over two months ago, and as a result, many states across the country are preparing to terminate children’s health coverage. As families begin receiving notices that they may lose CHIP coverage, they will undoubtedly be left worried and wondering how they will pay for their children’s care.[4],[5] We must not continue to delay – every additional day puts children at risk for losing access to these core health services. While we are encouraged by ongoing discussions regarding the program, it is long past time for Congress to act together in this endeavor. The continuing uncertainty leaves states unable to adequately plan their budgets, and, moreover, too many are being forced to prepare for the worst case scenario: abandoning our mutual commitment to children’s health. Families throughout the country are depending on us to ensure that their children have healthcare coverage. We all share a commitment to promoting the well-being of children in our country, and we look forward to promptly considering bipartisan legislation to extend funding for CHIP. [1] CBPP, “Up to 688,000 Would Lose Insurance Under House Bill” [2] Medicaid.gov, CHIP [3] Georgetown University Health Policy Institute, “Nation’s Uninsured Rate for Children Drops to Another Historic Low in 2016” [4] Washington Post, “States prepare to shut down children’s health programs if Congress doesn’t Act” [5] Colorado, “Families to Begin Receiving Letters on Future of CHP+”
12.06.2017	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Diana DeGette (D-CO), Chief Deputy Whip, issued the following statement about the privileged resolution introduced today: “Special Counsel Robert Mueller’s investigation is proceeding and has already produced important results. I’m watching to see what further evidence of wrongdoing it uncovers, including the possibility of impeachable offenses. In the meantime, House consideration of this resolution is premature.”
12.06.2017	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Diana DeGette (D-CO), Chief Deputy Whip, said she voted against the Concealed Carry Reciprocity Act (H.R. 38) today because it would weaken standards for public safety in many states, including Colorado. “This bill gives the weakest state standards on gun violence prevention the force of law nationwide,” DeGette said. “Compelling state legislatures to adopt the concealed carry standards of other states will only undermine the protections that their citizens have come to expect their elected officials to uphold. “If this bill passes the Senate and is signed into law, Coloradans would be in greater peril. I refuse to let our communities face such mindless and needless danger without a fight.” DeGette is a member of the House Gun Violence Prevention Task Force, which was formed after the December 2012 massacre at Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown, Connecticut. Shortly thereafter, she introduced a bill to ban high-capacity assault magazines similar to the one in place in Colorado, and she continues to support this move. She has also advocated other measures in the current Congress, including the proposed ban on bump stocks that briefly seemed to have bipartisan support after the Las Vegas mass shooting two months ago but has since stalled.
11.09.2017	Washington, DC –Rep. Diana DeGette (D-CO) and her Diabetes Caucus co-chair, Rep. Tom Reed (R-NY), have released a bipartisan request for stakeholders to provide information about whether health plans can pay for insulin based on how well the particular drug product works for patients. DeGette and Reed have issued a Request for Information (RFI) into whether value-based contracting could be applied to insulin. Value-based contracting encompasses a number of different possible payment arrangements where reimbursement is tied to the achievement of certain pre-set goals. For example, these arrangements could reimburse for drugs based on patient outcomes or a drug’s efficacy on different indications. They could also limit costs to a negotiated threshold or focus on a specific subset of patients. During their initial stakeholder meetings this summer, several groups argued that value-based contracts could hold promise for lowering cost burdens on patients who need insulin. This RFI is a follow-up to those conversations. “We’re in the midst of a long-term inquiry into insulin costs and pricing that involves a variety of stakeholders from patient advocates to the major drug manufacturers. The goal is to explore all potential avenues that could make this life-saving medication more affordable for patients,” DeGette said. “Stakeholders and experts are telling us that innovative value-based contracts could be one tool to provide relief for patients. But we don’t know much about how these contracts are actually used in practice, and would like to learn more.” “I am committed to providing cost relief to diabetes patients,” Reed said. “Since the cost of insulin has skyrocketed over recent years, it has become a priority of the Diabetes Caucus to find answers to the insulin price problem. As co-chair, I am interested in finding how value-based contracts would potentially reduce the cost of insulin.” Stakeholders are asked in the RFI to address any of a number of questions, or to submit other information that they believe could be helpful. The questions include: · How does your organization define “value-based contracts”? · Please describe how value-based contracting might work in the context of insulin. You can provide examples of current contracts or hypothetical future contracts. · How common are value-based contracts for insulin? · Please describe any regulatory or statutory barriers to value-based contracting for insulin. · Please describe any operational or administrative barriers to value-based contracting for insulin. · To what extent is value-based contracting for pharmaceuticals being tested in government health care programs? Stakeholders are asked to provide their input by December 15, 2017 to Insulin.Inquiry@mail.house.gov.
11.08.2017	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Diana DeGette (D-CO) has introduced the Tobacco to 21 Act (H.R.4273), bicameral legislation that would prohibit the sale of tobacco products to anyone under age 21. “Smoking is a deadly, addictive habit that can harm human health even in limited amounts,” DeGette said. “It is especially hazardous to developing bodies. Why on earth would we wish to expose our young people to its dangers? As federal legislators, it is our moral obligation to ensure that the law does not favor the tobacco industry over the health and safety of our nation’s youth. This bill would go a long way to keeping carcinogens out of young people’s hands – and throats, and lungs.” Every day, approximately 1,300 people die from smoking-related diseases, making tobacco the leading cause of preventable death in the United States. Laws can play an important role in preventing these deaths. Research from the National Academy of Medicine shows that raising the minimum legal age of sale of tobacco products to 21 nationwide would reduce the number of new tobacco users, decrease smoking frequency by 12 percent, and save more than 220,000 lives from deaths related to smoking. Currently, ninety-five percent of adult smokers begin smoking before they turn 21. DeGette’s legislation is cosponsored by U.S. Representatives Raul Grijalva (D-AZ), Eliot Engel (D-NY), Suzanne Bonamici (D-OR), John Garamendi (D-CA), Steve Cohen (D-TN), Earl Blumenauer (D-OR) and Tulsi Gabbard (D-HI). Its companion legislation in the Senate (S.2100) is sponsored by Senators Brian Schatz (D-HI) and Dick Durbin (D-IL), and cosponsored by Senators Ed Markey (D-MA), Sheldon Whitehouse (D-RI), Jack Reed (D-RI), Sherrod Brown (D-OH), Kirsten Gillibrand (D-NY), Elizabeth Warren (D-MA), Mazie Hirono (D- HI), Richard Blumenthal (D-CT), Dianne Feinstein (D-CA), and Al Franken (D-MN). The Tobacco to 21 Act is supported by the Academic Pediatric Association, the American Academy of Family Physicians, the American Academy of Pediatrics, the American Cancer Society Cancer Action Network, the American Heart Association, the American Lung Association, the American Pediatric Society, the American Public Health Association, the American Society of Clinical Oncology, the Association of Maternal & Child Health Programs, the Association of Medical School Pediatric Department Chairs, the Association of Schools and Programs of Public Health, the Association of State and Territorial Health Officials, the Campaign for Tobacco-Free Kids, the First Focus Campaign for Children, HMSA – Blue Cross Blue Shield Hawai‘i, the National Association of Chronic Disease Directors, the National Association of County and City Health Officials, the Pediatric Policy Council, the Society for Adolescent Health and Medicine, the Society for Pediatric Research, the Society for Public Health Education, the Trust for America’s Health, the University of Hawai‘i Daniel K. Inouye College of Pharmacy, the University of Hawai‘i John A. Burns School of Medicine, the University of Hawai‘i Myron B. Thompson School of Social Work/Department of Social Work, and the University of Hawai‘i Office of Public Health Studies. For a summary of the Tobacco to 21 Act, click here.
11.06.2017	Washington, D.C. — Congresswoman Diana DeGette (D-CO) today joined Congressman David McKinley (R-WV) in introducing bipartisan legislation that would create a commission to develop a comprehensive energy policy for the United States. “It’s still possible to get important things done in Washington, even in the midst of partisan rancor and gridlock,” DeGette said. “Everyone should agree that energy development is key to our country’s economic strength: It drives innovation and job creation. And most experts agree that to tackle climate change, we need to embrace new approaches. This bill will help unify efforts to shape the future of national and global energy policy.” “For too long we have lacked a coherent energy policy, which has negatively impacted our economy and made the U.S. less secure,” McKinley said. “The creation of this commission will allow leaders from various field including labor organizations, utilities, energy researchers, environmental advocates, utilities, and economists to develop a comprehensive energy policy. It will seek to develop a national energy plan that creates jobs, grows our economy, and puts us on the path to energy independence, which strengthens our national security. We often disagree on a lot of issues in Congress, but it is important to reach across the aisle to find common ground.” Background on Biennial Energy Commission on Energy Policy Act of 2017 Reps. McKinley and DeGette have introduced legislation to create the Energy Commission before in 2013 (H.R. 3565) and 2016 (H.R. 4929). The purposes of the Commission: Establish a national bipartisan commission on energy policy composed of 15 members from a range of backgrounds appointed by Congress. To examine and evaluate all current laws, regulations and policies of the Federal government pertaining to energy, energy efficiency, sources of energy (including fossil fuels, wind, water and nuclear), and power sources. Develop recommendations for future laws, regulations and policy to assist America achieve energy independence. Report to the President and Congress on its findings, conclusions, and recommendations for corrective measures that can be taken to create a comprehensive national energy policy for the United States.
11.03.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Diana DeGette, along with Senator Michael Bennet and Representatives Ed Perlmutter and Jared Polis, banded together with more than 200 members of Congress this week to file an Amicus Brief in the case Masterpiece Cakeshop v. Colorado Civil Rights Commission, which will be heard before the U.S. Supreme Court on December 5. The brief is in support of the Colorado Civil Rights Commission, which enforces the state’s anti-discrimination statute providing civil rights protections for historically marginalized groups, including the lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and queer (LGBTQ) community. A ruling against the Commission could create a “license to discriminate,” allowing businesses to deny service to Americans, including LGBTQ people. “I’m honored to join 210 of my House and Senate colleagues in signing this brief, which helps ensure that businesses in Colorado and across America are open to all,” DeGette said. “LGBTQ Americans deserve the full protection of the law; this case is about that, and more. Our brief affirms freedom from discrimination for all people in our society. This case isn’t about wedding cakes, just as it wasn’t about water fountains half a century ago.” “In signing this brief, we are sending a clear signal that every American – regardless of race, color, sexual orientation, or gender – should be guaranteed freedom from discrimination in all aspects of their lives,” Bennet said. “We are hopeful that the Supreme Court will affirm this principle and set an important anti-discrimination precedent.” “If a business is open to the public, it should be open to everyone regardless of their sexual orientation or who they love,” Perlmutter said. “Every American has the right to be treated fairly and equally, and should have the freedom to live the life they want. I’m proud to sign on to this amicus brief and support other legislation to ensure equal rights for all Americans.” “It’s a basic principle: discrimination of any kind is wrong in a public accommodation,” Polis said. “We must not chip away at anti-discrimination protections under law. The liberty of all Americans, not just LGBTQ Americans, is at stake.” In 2012, Charlie Craig and David Mullins were denied a wedding cake by Masterpiece Cakeshop because of their sexual orientation. The shop’s owner, Jack Phillips, cited religious objections to same-sex marriage as a justification for his refusal. The Colorado Civil Rights Commission ruled that the shop could not lawfully deny services to individuals based on their sexual orientation under the Colorado Anti-Discrimination Act and required the shop to provide staff training and issue reports on steps taken to come into compliance with the ruling. Masterpiece Cakeshop appealed the ruling, which was eventually upheld by the Colorado Supreme Court. The shop appealed the decision, and the United States Supreme Court granted certiorari. The U.S. Supreme Court will hear oral arguments on December 5th. If the court finds that a business owner’s religious conviction or expressive intent trumps civil rights laws, it could undermine local, state, and federal civil rights laws that prohibit discrimination in accessing public accommodations. In the friend-of-the-court brief, 36 Senators and 175 House members urged the Supreme Court to affirm the Colorado Civil Rights Commission’s initial decision to require Masterpiece Cakeshop to comply with the Colorado Anti-Discrimination Act. The brief considers the history of federal nondiscrimination laws, such as Title II of the Civil Rights Act and Title III of the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA), and how rulings regarding those statutes apply to the pending case. Signers warned that the outcome of the case could have broad implications for the civil rights of groups that already face discrimination and that creating exemptions to public accommodations laws – in this case based on a business’ arguably expressive conduct or religious belief – would undermine the government’s interest in prohibiting discrimination against minority groups. The brief is supported by One Colorado, Human Rights Campaign, the American Civil Liberties Union, Bend the Arc Jewish Action, GLBTQ Legal Advocates & Defenders (GLAD), Lambda Legal, NAACP Legal Defense Fund, National Center for Lesbian Rights, National Center for Transgender Equality, National Employment Law Project, National LGBTQ Task Force, National Women’s Law Center, People for the American Way Foundation, SAGE, Transgender Law Center, Equality California, Equality Delaware, Equality Florida, Equality New Mexico, Equality North Carolina, and Garden State Equality. A full version of the brief is available HERE.
11.02.2017	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Diana DeGette (D-CO), Chief Deputy Whip, said the Republican tax plan unveiled this morning is a one-sided partisan effort that does little for the middle class while rewarding the wealthy. “The Ryan-McConnell plan will slash the corporate tax rate and taxes for the one percent,” DeGette said. “Rather than trying to ram through this one-sided scam, a behemoth of more than 400 pages written behind closed doors that is reportedly being rushed to a vote before Thanksgiving, Republicans should work in good faith with Democrats on real and meaningful tax reform.”
11.02.2017	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Diana DeGette (D-CO) said the provision in the just-released GOP tax plan allowing the start of a 529 college savings plan for an “unborn child” is an extreme policy that has no place in the tax code. “This is a back-door attempt to establish personhood from the moment of conception,” DeGette said. “Even in the tax reform debate, Republicans could not resist including offensive provisions to appease an extremist minority. The tax code is no place to define what constitutes an 'unborn child.' What’s next, giving a Social Security number to a zygote?” DeGette is Chief Deputy Whip and co-chair of the Congressional Pro-Choice Caucus.
11.01.2017	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Diana DeGette (D-CO), Chief Deputy Whip, said today’s recommendations by the President's Commission on Combating Drug Addiction and the Opioid Crisis are a positive step, but don’t negate the urgent need for increased federal funding to fight the opioid epidemic. “Several solid, evidence-based recommendations by the commission address parts of the puzzle, but they’re not the whole picture. And without adequate funding, that picture will remain grim,” DeGette said. “Let’s see President Trump and congressional Republicans step up the support this country provides to the fight against opioid abuse. “Nearly a year ago, we provided a billion dollars for that in the 21st Century Cures Act, which I was proud to co-author and shepherd into law. But that funding was never meant to cover the entire array of tools at the government’s disposal, and it lasts only until the end of 2018. The president’s budget for next year should reflect the urgency of the opioid crisis.” DeGette is a senior member of the Energy and Commerce Committee, which has jurisdiction over health care and has had multiple hearings on the opioid crisis in recent years.
10.30.2017	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Diana DeGette (D-CO), Chief Deputy Whip, issued the following statement in response to news today of the first indictments from the office of Special Counsel Robert Mueller: “Protecting our democracy from being undermined from overseas is not a partisan issue; it’s a national security imperative. We need to know the extent of Russia’s influence on the U.S. electoral system and how to stop it from happening again. Indictments by the Special Counsel’s office are a step in that process, as are the faltering but still ongoing congressional investigations. But we also need an independent commission that can examine the issue and make recommendations to prevent further interference.”
10.26.2017	Washington, DC – President Donald J. Trump’s just-announced plan to address the opioid epidemic is far from sufficient – starting with funding for the effort, Congresswoman Diana DeGette (D-CO), Chief Deputy Whip, said today. “The president’s declaration falls far short and does not deliver on his promise to make fighting the opioid epidemic a top priority,” DeGette said. “Our state and local officials on the front lines of this fight have been very clear: They need more funding. The one billion dollars we provided in the 21st Century Cures Act was badly needed and a step in the right direction. But we must commit to devoting more funding and extending these vital dollars beyond 2018. “So far, there’s no evidence of an intention by the Trump administration to press for that. Instead, they have worked tirelessly to rip health insurance coverage away from millions of Americans, even though access to coverage is a lifeline for people suffering from addiction.” DeGette is the Democratic co-author of the 21st Century Cures Act, which President Barack Obama signed into law last December, addressing a number of biomedical research needs including providing $1 billion in funds to fight the opioid epidemic over the next two years. The Trump administration has noted that it is spending half that amount this year, but has not built additional opioid crisis funding into its own budget for the next year. The public health emergency declaration that the president made today is valid for only 90 days, after which it can be renewed. Colorado received $7.8 for opioid treatment and prevention as a result of 21st Century Cures in 2017, which distributes these funds state-by-state by need. The funding is managed by the Colorado Department of Human Services’ Office of Behavioral Health. The state uses these funds to pay for medication-assisted therapy, family therapy, overdose reversal medications (naloxone), emergency room pilot studies, expansion of crisis services, training for primary care doctors and nurses, residential treatment and partnerships with law enforcement. As a senior member of the Energy and Commerce Committee, DeGette has fought hard in Congress to reduce the opioid epidemic’s impact through legislation, hearings and investigations into the systems that enable prescription drug abuse.
10.26.2017	Washington, DC — Pro-choice leaders in Congress, led by Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi (D-CA), Pro-Choice Caucus Co-Chairs Diana DeGette (D-CO) and Louise Slaughter (D-NY), and Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY), today called on President Donald J. Trump to reverse his recent moves to limit women's access to birth control. In a letter this morning to top Trump administration officials, 189 members of Congress expressed their opposition to recent rules proposed by the president that roll back the Affordable Care Act’s provision requiring insurers to cover birth control at no cost. If implemented, the president’s recent rules could rip away contraception coverage from millions of women who have access to birth control without out-of-pocket costs under the ACA, forcing women to pay the full cost of their birth control or go without it. “The White House’s despicable new rules overrule a woman’s right to basic preventative care and then force her to pay the cost,” said Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi. “It is with great pride that I join so many colleagues in speaking out against the Trump Administration’s immoral assault on a woman’s right to make her own intimidate decisions about her body and family. Every woman has the right to basic preventative health care.” “Birth control is health care, plain and simple,” the members wrote in their letter. “The Administration’s decision to isolate contraception from other health care benefits discriminates against women by forcing them to pay more for common health care services they need. It also ignores the well-established facts about contraception’s important role in women’s health. The harmful policies in the IFRs also take effect immediately despite the complete absence of an urgent public need justifying the abandonment of traditional notice-and-comment rulemaking.” Last week, four House leaders on women’s rights introduced a bill to block the president’s recent actions. Congresswomen DeGette and Slaughter, along with Judy Chu (D-CA) and chair of the Democratic Women’s Working Group Lois Frankel (D-FL), authored the Protect Access to Birth Control Act to safeguard this right for every woman in America. The two interim final rules issued this month allow nearly any employer to be exempt from the requirement to cover birth control and other forms of contraception without cost-sharing. This legislation would treat these rules as though they had never taken effect, thereby securing the right to birth control coverage as guaranteed by the Affordable Care Act. Companion legislation was introduced in the Senate by Senators Patty Murray (D-WA) and Bob Casey (D-PA). Contraception not only helps women plan families in a medically-safe way, it is also used to treat conditions such as endometriosis and polycystic ovary syndrome. A copy of the letter is included below and is available online here: Dear Secretary Mnuchin, Secretary Acosta, and Acting Secretary Hargan: We write today in strong opposition to two interim final rules (IFRs) released on October 6, 2017, that may leave women across the United States without access to health insurance coverage for birth control. We call on the Administration to rescind these IFRs and restore policies that facilitate access to affordable contraception for millions of women. Birth control is health care, plain and simple. The Administration’s decision to isolate contraception from other health care benefits discriminates against women by forcing them to pay more for common health care services they need. It also ignores the well-established facts about contraception’s important role in women’s health. The harmful policies in the IFRs also take effect immediately despite the complete absence of an urgent public need justifying the abandonment of traditional notice-and-comment rulemaking. Birth control is vital to both the nation’s public health and women’s health care in particular. It empowers women and their partners to decide when and how to start and grow a family. A few examples of how access to affordable contraception improves women’s health include: It helps ensure healthy spacing between pregnancies, enabling women to avoid the risks that arise by getting pregnant less than 18 months after giving birth. A recent study found that “the most significant health risks are associated with the shortest birth intervals.” It helps prevent poor birth outcomes and poor health conditions for women, including pregnant women. It reduces the risk of premature birth, placental abruption, low birth weight, and pre-eclampsia, among other health conditions. More than half of all women who take birth control pills rely on them for other medical purposes. Over one million of these women use birth control exclusively for non-contraceptive reasons. It reduces the incidence of unintended pregnancy, and in turn, reduces the need for abortion. For example, the Contraceptive CHOICE Project revealed dramatic declines in unintended pregnancy among at-risk women who were given free contraception and counseling. In addition, a 2016 study found that the rate of unintended pregnancies decreased 18 percent between 2008 and 2011, with larger declines (44 percent) occurring among women aged 15 to 17. The study’s authors say those declines are likely due to increases in overall contraceptive use among women at risk of unintended pregnancy that occurred over the same period. The evidence clearly demonstrates that birth control is a public health success story. That’s why Congress embraced contraception as a vital health care benefit for millions of women in the Affordable Care Act (ACA). The ACA requires health plans to cover recommended preventive services for women without cost-sharing. In response to these ACA provisions, HHS commissioned the non-partisan experts at the Institute of Medicine to identify preventive services necessary to protect women’s health and well-being. Those experts recommended coverage of all contraceptive methods approved by the Food and Drug Administration. The recommendations were reviewed and recommended again by the Women’s Preventive Services Initiative, and adopted by Health Resources & Services Administration (HRSA), just last year. Thanks to these protections in the ACA, over 62 million women now have coverage of birth control with no out-of-pocket cost, saving consumers over one billion dollars each year. The Administration’s IFRs severely undermine congressional intent under the ACA. The ACA’s fundamental goal is to expand access to affordable insurance that covers a core set of health benefits. Preventive services are singled out in numerous places throughout the law as especially important benefits that must be accessible and affordable. Nevertheless, the IFRs create broad exemptions that virtually any employer, insurance company, or institute of higher education can use to deny contraception coverage. Compliance with existing accommodations, which guarantee women access to affordable birth control when their employers deny contraception coverage, also becomes optional under the IFRs. And because the accommodation is now optional, many women will have no reasonable way to access birth control coverage. The IFRs’ impact on women and their families is not hypothetical. These rules threaten to reverse the progress for women’s health, equality, and economic security made under the ACA. Women who lose access to contraception coverage will not only incur higher out-of-pocket costs, they will be forced to pay the full cost of their birth control. Without insurance coverage, birth control pills can cost as much as $50 per month, with long-acting forms of contraception costing as much as $1,000. These are not trivial costs for millions of women across the United States. The reality is, for many women, these expenses could put the birth control they need out of reach. Ironically, the IFRs claim that low-income women should be able to access affordable contraception through other government programs, such as Title X and Medicaid, even though the Trump Administration and Congressional Republicans have worked tirelessly to undermine and dismantle these programs. Employers and insurance companies should not have effective veto power over women’s access to birth control coverage. We certainly agree that religious liberty is a fundamental value protected by the First Amendment. However, it does not give employers the right to discriminate and impose their beliefs on others, especially in a manner that causes harm to health, well-being, and financial security. Contraception should be treated like any other preventive health care benefit under the ACA, which remains the law of the land. Rather than taking yet another harmful action to undermine health care access for women, we ask that the Administration rescind these misguided IFRs. Instead, the Administration should engage in an open and transparent process with all the key stakeholders prior to changing current law. ###
10.19.2017	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Diana DeGette (D-CO), co-chair of the Pro Choice Caucus, today introduced a bill to block recent Trump administration moves to limit women's access to birth control. Also leading the legislation are fellow co-chair Louise Slaughter (D-NY), Judy Chu (D-CA) and chair of the Democratic Women’s Working Group Lois Frankel (D-FL), who together authored the Protect Access to Birth Control Act to safeguard this right for every woman in America. The two Interim Final Rules issued this month allow nearly any employer to be exempt from the requirement to cover birth control and other forms of contraception without cost-sharing. The Protect Access to Birth Control Act will treat these policies as though they had never taken effect, thereby securing the right to birth control coverage as guaranteed by the Affordable Care Act. “Every woman has a right to affordable contraception, and President Trump’s ongoing efforts to rip this essential aspect of health care from millions is incredibly dangerous. A woman’s ability to access affordable birth control should not be subject to an objection from her boss, school or insurance company. This is simply not right. Birth control is health care, and the Affordable Care Act’s protections were helping millions of women access it at little to no cost. We must protect and extend this progress, not roll it back, which is why it is critical the Protect Access to Birth Control Act becomes law,” DeGette said. Companion legislation was introduced in the Senate by Senators Patty Murray (D-WA) and Bob Casey (D-PA).
10.18.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Diana DeGette (D-CO), Ranking Member of the Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee, joined fellow Democratic leaders in the Energy and Commerce Committee in sending a letter to Acting Health and Human Services (HHS) Secretary Eric Hargan today requesting the analysis and reasoning used to justify the Trump Administration’s decision to abruptly expand the exemption letting certain organizations opt out of contraceptive coverage requirements guaranteed by the Affordable Care Act (ACA). The letter was also signed by Ranking Member Frank Pallone, Jr. (D-NJ), Health Subcommittee Ranking Member Gene Green (D-TX), and Vice Ranking Member Kathy Castor (D-FL). “We have serious concerns about the rules, as they will drastically expand the number of employers eligible to seek exemptions to the contraceptive coverage guarantee and will imperil untold numbers of women’s access to affordable contraception,” the four lawmakers wrote to Hargan. “We fail to see how the Administration will ensure that women have coverage for contraception while at the same time proposing drastic cuts to the very programs that provide these services. Birth control is a critical preventive health tool for women that should not be singled out or treated differently from any other preventive health service.” The ACA guarantees that women covered under employer-sponsored group health insurance plans will have access to all necessary preventive care and approved contraceptive coverage, without cost-sharing obligations. Since the implementation of this provision, the average percentage of out-of-pocket contraception costs for women has dropped by at least 20 percent. Taken together with the Administration’s proposed budget cuts to Medicaid – which includes a 90 percent federal match for family planning services – and a law signed by President Trump in April that attempts to allow states to block certain health care providers from receiving Title X funds, these rules amount to an attack on women’s access to preventive health care. As part of their inquiry, the lawmakers are requesting several documents and answers to a series of questions including: · A detailed analysis supporting the Administration’s claim that “over 99.9 percent” of women will not be affected and how HHS plans to track the total number of women impacted. · An analysis of how women’s access to contraception coverage will be impacted by proposed budget cuts to Medicaid and the Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP) in relation to the Interim Final Rules (IFRs). · An explanation of how the Administration expects to ensure coverage for impacted women when organizations that decline to provide coverage are not required to report their decision to HHS. · Justification for the Administration’s decision to issue IFRs on this matter, effective immediately, and not subject to the Administrative Procedure Act’s required notice and comment period. A copy of the letter is available here.
10.17.2017	Washington, DC — Congresswoman Diana DeGette (CO-1) and Congresswoman Louise Slaughter (NY-25), co-chairs of the Congressional Pro-Choice Caucus, today blasted the Trump administration for moving to prevent refugees in federal shelters from accessing safe and legal reproductive health services even in cases of rape and incest. The federal government is currently forcing a refugee in Texas to continue her pregnancy despite the fact that she has adhered to all state and federal laws while trying to access abortion services. “My heart goes out to this refugee, detained in Texas and trapped by the Trump administration’s increasingly draconian and cruel efforts to block reproductive rights. It is unacceptable that Trump administration officials subjected her to egregious delays in obtaining care, including requiring her to visit an anti-choice ‘crisis pregnancy center’ where she was urged to continue her pregnancy. These federal officials had no legal right to block her access to an abortion. Their unconscionable actions must be challenged on behalf of the individual in question and others who could face similar situations,” said DeGette. “The law is clear. The federal government is required to provide reproductive health services, including abortion services, to refugees in federal shelters. More than 65 million people were displaced around the globe last year alone, with many women and girls escaping unconscionable circumstances in their home countries. They should not reach American soil only to find the administration ignoring the law. That is exactly what’s happening right now in Texas, where a refugee that has met all legal requirements for an abortion under state and federal law is being held against her will in a federal shelter and forced to continue with her pregnancy. That is despite the fact that no federal funds would be used to pay for the abortion she is seeking. The administration should follow the law and allow refugees access to the reproductive health care the law requires,” said Slaughter.
10.13.2017	Denver – Congresswoman Diana DeGette (D-CO), Chief Deputy Whip, said President Donald J. Trump’s plan to eliminate health insurance cost sharing reduction payments is a blatant effort to sabotage the Affordable Care Act that will hurt millions of Americans. “This latest act of sabotage by the failing Trump presidency against the ACA will cause a million people to lose insurance in just the first year, drive up premiums and out-of-pocket payments for the rest and cause damaging instability in the insurance markets,” DeGette said. “President Trump is trying to achieve via edict what he couldn’t do through legislation: Dismantle the ACA and replace it with a cruel system that punishes the most vulnerable. This is Trumpcare by a thousand cuts. “Congress needs to act immediately to provide funding for the cost-sharing reductions,” DeGette noted. “And we must work together in a bipartisan fashion to improve health care coverage in this country, rather than ripping it to bits.” DeGette is a sponsor of the Marketplace Certainty Act (H.R. 3258), which would permanently fund the cost sharing reductions (CSRs) at no taxpayer expense. The ACA makes CSRs available to insurance exchange enrollees with incomes that are less than 250 percent of the Federal Poverty Level – approximately $30,000 per year or $61,000 per year for families. The payments substantially lower deductibles, copayments, coinsurance and out-of-pocket limits. Maintaining CSRs is crucial to keeping coverage affordable and health plans afloat. In 2016, seven million people received the payments 28,929 of them in Colorado. The Congressional Budget Office reported in August that eliminating CSRs would cause one million people to lose insurance in the 2018 plan year and a million more per year after that, increase the number of people living in areas with no insurers that offer non-group plans, and cause premiums to increase for others – with an estimated 20% rise for silver plans in 2018 and 25% in 2020. CBO also reported that eliminating CSRs would increase the federal deficit by $194 billion over a ten-year period.
10.12.2017	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Diana DeGette (D-CO), Chief Deputy Whip, condemned President Trump’s executive order on health care today as a deliberate effort to weaken the Affordable Care Act. “This is another clear attempt to sabotage and eventually destroy the ACA,” DeGette said. “Despite his repeated failures to repeal the law through Congress, President Trump continues his misguided and dangerous efforts to rip coverage from millions of Americans. The President should end this spiteful crusade and instead encourage bipartisan cooperation to improve the ACA, respecting the wishes of the majority of Americans.” The edict paves the way for the Trump Administration to destabilize insurance markets, including by expanding the use of short-term and association health plans that would not have to comply with the ACA's core consumer protections like essential health benefits. The expansion of short-term plans, which are intended to fill gaps for consumers who experience a lapse in coverage, will be especially problematic for patients with pre-existing conditions.
10.11.2017	Washington, DC – The co-chairs of the Congressional Privacy Caucus, Rep. Diana DeGette (D-CO) and Rep. Joe Barton (R-TX), today sent a letter to Equifax Interim CEO Paulino do Rego Barros Jr. requesting information on any additional programs that his company plans to implement to assist the 145 million people whose data was compromised in the breach that was disclosed last month. “It is important to understand Equifax’s decision-making process regarding consumer remedies given the historic size of the breach,” the letter said, “… and the potential decades-long effects of stolen personal information on the privacy and financial security of breach victims.” Noting that there is no national standard for the types of remedies that should be offered to people whose data has been compromised, the two legislators recommended that Equifax consider the steps taken by the Office of Personnel Management after federal employees’ data was compromised in 2015, such as credit and financial monitoring, dark web monitoring, public records monitoring and stolen funds reimbursement. They asked the company to provide written responses to these questions: How did Equifax come to determine which remedies would be offered to consumers? Specifically, did Equifax consult any outside groups on the efficacy of consumer remedies or were all decisions made internally? In addition to the aforementioned remedies, what other options did Equifax consider for consumer remedies? When deciding what to offer consumers, did Equifax assess the costs associated with each remedy considered? If yes, were any remedies ultimately decided against, or offered for a limited period of time, due to cost? Will Equifax periodically review its offerings should new information on the efficacy of existing and future remedies become available? If not, why? Testimony before the Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee of the Energy and Commerce Committee in March 2015 has outlined the limited effectiveness of services such as credit monitoring. Were you aware of these shortcomings? If yes, to what degree did that information inform your decision-making in what remedies to offer? Complete text of the letter is below. October 11, 2017 Paulino do Rego Barros Jr Interim CEO, Equifax Inc. 1550 Peachtree Street NE Atlanta, GA 30309 Dear Mr. Barros, We are writing to request more information regarding the post breach remedies Equifax will make available to affected individuals as a result of the data breach that was disclosed on September 7, 2017. It is important to understand Equifax’s decision-making process regarding consumer remedies given the historic size of the breach of 145 million customer files and the potential decades-long effects of stolen personal information on the privacy and financial security of breach victims. While there is no national standard for the types of remedies that should be offered to individuals whose data has been compromised, the remedies offered by the federal government in the wake of the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) breach are instructive. Following that breach in 2015, the federal government provided credit and financial monitoring, dark web monitoring, public records monitoring (e.g. court records, sex offender registries, payday loans), stolen funds reimbursement, $5 million in identity theft insurance, and concierge-style ID Care Specialists. According to testimony from your former CEO to the Energy and Commerce Committee on October 3, 2017, Equifax’s suite of customer remedies includes “1) credit file monitoring by all three credit bureaus; 2) Equifax credit lock; 3) Equifax credit reports; 4) identity theft insurance; and 5) Social Security Number “dark web” scanning for one year,” all of which will be offered free of charge. We ask Equifax to provide written responses to the following questions: How did Equifax come to determine which remedies would be offered to consumers? Specifically, did Equifax consult any outside groups on the efficacy of consumer remedies or were all decisions made internally? In addition to the aforementioned remedies, what other options did Equifax consider for consumer remedies? When deciding what to offer consumers, did Equifax assess the costs associated with each remedy considered? If yes, were any remedies ultimately decided against, or offered for a limited period of time, due to cost? Will Equifax periodically review its offerings should new information on the efficacy of existing and future remedies become available? If not, why? Testimony before the Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee of the Energy and Commerce Committee in March 2015 has outlined the limited effectiveness of services such as credit monitoring. Were you aware of these shortcomings? If yes, to what degree did that information inform your decision-making in what remedies to offer? Please provide a response no later than November 3, 2017. Thank you for your attention to this important matter. Sincerely, DIANA DEGETTE Member of Congress JOE BARTON Member of Congress
10.11.2017	Washington, D.C.- Reps. Diana DeGette (D-CO) and Tom Reed (R-NY), co-chairs of the Congressional Diabetes Caucus, commend the House passage today of the National Clinical Care Commission Act. The bipartisan legislation creates a commission to improve care for people with diabetes and associated conditions. Additionally, the commission would be responsible for assessing how the federal government can more efficiently fund diabetic care. “This is a significant moment for the 30 million Americans with diabetes and the estimated 86 million who have pre-diabetes. We are creating better communication channels to help people with this life-long disease, as well as their families and caregivers, to better manage and treat it – and to help prevent it in many other cases. The National Clinical Care Commission will serve as a big step in achieving this critical objective,” Congresswoman DeGette said. “I am happy to see this legislation move a step closer to becoming law. We need to find a way to improve the effectiveness of government programs so that efforts can turn to improving the quality of care for those living with diabetes. The commission is a necessary step to streamline government efforts and use taxpayer dollars efficiently,” Reed stated. The legislation had previously passed the Senate and will now move to the President’s desk for his signature.
10.06.2017	WASHINGTON, DC —Congresswoman Diana DeGette (CO-1) and Congresswoman Louise Slaughter (NY-25), co-chairs of the Congressional Pro-Choice Caucus, and Rep. Judy Chu (CA-27) today reacted to the Trump administration’s interim final rule that would allow any employer to be exempt from the requirement to provide health insurance that includes contraception. Currently, insurers are required to cover birth control at no cost under the Affordable Care Act (ACA). If implemented, this rule could rip away contraception coverage from millions of women who have access to birth control without out-of-pocket costs under the ACA, forcing women to pay the full cost of their birth control or go without it. “This rule is another blatant attack in the Trump administration’s ongoing efforts to undermine women’s health,” DeGette said. “In just eight months in office, the President has unleashed an unprecedented assault on reproductive rights that have harmed women and girls across America and around the world. Today’s announcement, and those that came before it, shows that the President simply doesn’t understand the challenges millions of women face in accessing quality care and the progress we have made through laws such as the Affordable Care Act to reach parity. We must counter this anti-choice agenda by making it clear that birth control is health care.” “Birth control is health care, plain and simple,” Slaughter said. Millions of women use it for health and treatment reasons other than birth control. It wasn’t until enactment of the Affordable Care Act that contraception was finally treated that way. Today, this law provides 55 million women access to birth control with no out-of-pocket costs almost two decades after Viagra was first covered by insurance. Women have been able to plan their families and teen pregnancy and abortion rates are at some of their lowest levels in history. It is unconscionable that the Trump administration is trying to turn back the clock and let virtually anyone from bosses to insurance executives decide who gets access to contraception coverage. Women wouldn’t just have to pay higher costs; they could be forced to pay the entire cost of their birth control. We cannot let President Trump roll back the progress we’ve made and take women’s personal health care decisions out of their hands,” said Slaughter. “Every day, millions of women use birth control to plan for their families and to treat common conditions like acne or ovarian cysts,” Chu said. This is why the ACA requires health insurance plans to cover it without out-of-pocket costs. But Trump’s contraception rule threatens women’s health. Unlike with any other medication, this rule will allow employers to veto a treatment option agreed upon by a woman and her doctor. Birth control is health care, and nobody – not our boss, not our president – should get to dictate our health care choices.”
10.04.2017	Washington, DC -- Today, Colorado’s congressional delegation sent a letter to Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos urging the company to select Colorado as the location of its second headquarters, citing the state’s highly skilled workforce and demonstrated commitment to providing an excellent quality of life. The Seattle-based tech giant has been engaged in a highly-publicized search for a second base of operations that could employ up to 50,000 people. A number of cities across the country are attempting to secure this large and wide-ranging economic investment. The delegation lauded the state’s numerous advantages that have already led Amazon to expand existing operations in the state. “Colorado continues to attract and retain a world-class workforce through outstanding outdoor recreation opportunities, a strong education system, dynamic employers, and a moderate cost of living,” the lawmakers wrote. “Employers recognize the potential of this workforce and in recent years many companies, from small hi-tech startups to Fortune 500 firms, have chosen to locate or expand their presence in Colorado.” The lawmakers continued, “Local, state, and federal policy makers are committed to continuing the policies that have allowed our state to thrive, and we look for you to be a partner in that endeavor. This commitment transcends partisanship. As a Congressional delegation we have routinely come together on a bipartisan basis to support the efforts of the state at the federal level.” The letter also touts Colorado’s growing world-class connectivity, such as the expansion of Denver International Airport, responsible stewardship of public lands, diverse energy sources and sound fiscal management as further evidence of the state’s ability to provide an enviable quality of life to its employees and their families. The letter will be included in the bid the Metro Denver Economic Development Corporation will be submitting in response to Amazon’s request for proposals on behalf of all eligible sites in Colorado. Amazon expects to make a final decision on the location for its second headquarters in 2018.
09.26.2017	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Diana DeGette (D-CO) and other Energy and Commerce Committee leaders have sent a letter to Miami-Luken, a drug distributor, expanding on their investigation into alleged pill dumping in West Virginia. The letter requests documents regarding what steps the company has taken to comply with Drug Enforcement Agency (DEA) regulations regarding suspicious orders for drugs, as well as information about the dosage and amounts of drugs the company had shipped to regional pharmacies. Signing the letter along with DeGette were Committee Chairman Greg Walden (R-OR), Ranking Member Frank Pallone, Jr. (D-NJ), Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee Chairman Tim Murphy (R-PA) and Rep. David McKinley (R-WV). The committee has been investigating alleged pill dumping in West Virginia since earlier this year. This work stems from news reports by the Charleston Gazette-Mail and The Washington Post detailing an unusually large opioid presence in the state of West Virginia. “It would appear that the state of West Virginia may have received extraordinary amounts of opioids from distributors beyond what the population could safely use,” the five members of Congress wrote “There are specific allegations in the public domain relating to Miami-Luken’s distribution of opioids,” they added, noting that the DEA was seeking to revoke the company’s ability to operate in West Virginia because it allegedly failed to maintain effective controls over distribution there, including the disclosure of suspicious orders for controlled substances including oxycodone and hydrocodone. The lawmakers set a deadline of October 9 for the company to respond to their letter.
09.20.2017	Washington, DC – The co-chairs of the Congressional Diabetes Caucus, Reps. Diana DeGette (D-CO) and Tom Reed (R-NY), are taking next steps in their inquiry into the rising price of insulin after meetings during the past two months with stakeholders at major trade associations and in the diabetes community. These steps include, first, working with the Food and Drug Administration on developing lower cost, biosimilar versions of insulin. Reps. DeGette and Reed also sent a letter to the Endocrine Society seeking input from endocrinologists on insulin prescribing practices. Reps. DeGette and Reed also released key findings from their recent meetings with top officials for the Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America (PhRMA), the Pharmaceutical Care Management Association (PCMA) and America’s Health Insurance Plans (AHIP). These are the major trade associations for the pharmaceutical industry, the pharmacy benefit managers (PBMs) and the health insurance industry, respectively. Their main take-aways from these meetings so far include: -The list price for insulin has been rising rapidly since the 1990s, and many stakeholders across the supply chain appear to gain financially from these increases. -Rebates are often used to help health plans lower premiums, and formulary placement is central to rebate negotiations. However, more information is needed about the rebate negotiation process between pharmaceutical companies, PBMs, and health insurers and how those rebates are used. -Deductibles, coinsurance, and other issues related to formulary placement are having a significant impact on out-of-pocket cost burdens for patients. -And while major breakthroughs have occurred in the development of insulin, in recent years many believe innovation has been incremental. There is disagreement about the extent to which new innovation justifies price increases. “The cost of insulin is a complex matter involving many points along the supply chain,” DeGette said. “Congressman Reed and I are moving deliberately and with due diligence to understand all the factors, the better to make policy decisions to help bring down insulin prices. Millions of people who rely on insulin each day, sometimes several times a day, are counting on that.” “We know this is a complex issue and we are making an extensive effort on how to develop the best policy solutions to make insulin more affordable, added Reed. “People rely on this drug and are struggling to keep up with the price increase. Congress must come together and develop an effective solution to this problem." In mid-June, DeGette and Reed wrote pointed letters to these three key stakeholders to seek answers and solutions to the rising price of insulin, which millions of Americans with diabetes need in order to live. Reps. DeGette and Reed have also consulted with national patient advocacy groups, as well as with diabetics and experts on diabetes in their communities, and will continue to do so.
09.12.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Diana DeGette (D-CO) and her Democratic colleagues on the Energy and Commerce Committee today sent a letter to Equifax Chairman and CEO Richard Smith seeking more information about the massive data breach that has compromised the sensitive personal information of approximately 143 million Americans. DeGette, the Ranking Member on the Oversight and Investigations subcommittee, and the other members asked what Equifax is doing to make consumers whole, how the breach occurred, and how the company plans to safeguard against security breaches in the future. They also expressed concern that it took Equifax more than a month to disclose the data breach to the public, and that consumers continue to report difficulties they face in merely getting information about whether their personal data was compromised. “Your company profits from collecting highly sensitive personal information from American consumers—it should take seriously its responsibility to keep data safe and to inform consumers when its protections fail,” the members wrote to Equifax CEO Richard Smith. “We are writing with serious concerns about the immense scale of this data breach, and we have a number of questions about whether Equifax took appropriate steps to safeguard the personal information of consumers,” the Democratic Committee members continued in their letter. “We also have concerns about the amount of time it took for Equifax to notify the public of the breach and about the way Equifax is providing information to consumers.” Almost immediately after Equifax announced the breach, consumers reported a number of problems with the website where people were directed to go to determine if their information was compromised. People who checked the site on both their mobile device and a computer received different results. False information entered into the fields also provided the same result as real information. With an Energy and Commerce hearing expected for either later this month or in October, the members have requested answers to a series of questions prior to the hearing, including: Why did it take Equifax more than a month to announce this massive data breach? How did Equifax determine that offering credit monitoring services for one year – provided by Equifax itself – would be adequate to make consumers whole? How much money per year would an affected customer pay Equifax to extend the “complimentary” credit monitoring services beyond one year? How much money would Equifax make after one year on credit monitoring services that would be unnecessary but for Equifax’s failure to safeguard consumer data? What measures is Equifax implementing after the event to improve the protection of consumer information residing on its network? What measures is the company taking to investigate the sale of stock in the aftermath of the company’s discovery of the data breach, including whether these or other executives sought to delay the announcement of the data breach? What measures, other than offering credit monitoring services and identity theft protection, is Equifax taking to mitigate harm to consumers? In addition to DeGette, the letter was signed by all Democrats on the Energy and Commerce Committee – Ranking Member Frank Pallone, Jr. (D-NJ), Bobby Rush (D-IL), Anna Eshoo (D-CA), Eliot Engel (D-NY), Gene Green (D-TX), Mike Doyle (D-PA), Jan Schakowsky (D-IL), G.K. Butterfield (D-NC), Doris Matsui (D-CA), Kathy Castor (D-FL), John Sarbanes (D-MD), Jerry McNerney (D-CA), Peter Welch (D-VT), Ben Ray Lujan (D-NM), Paul Tonko (D-NY), Yvette Clarke (D-NY), David Loebsack (D-IA), Kurt Schrader (D-OR), Joe Kennedy, III (D-MA), Tony Cárdenas (D-CA), Raul Ruiz (D-CA), Scott Peters (D-CA), and Debbie Dingell (D-MI). A copy of the letter is available here.
09.12.2017	Washington, DC – Congressional Diabetes Caucus Co-Chairs Diana DeGette (D-CO) and Tom Reed (R-NY) led several colleagues in sending a letter to House Speaker Paul Ryan and Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi urging the immediate reauthorization of the Special Diabetes Program. Set to expire on September 30th, the SDP provides federal funding for diabetes research and prevention and management programs for high-risk populations. It enjoys broad, bipartisan support. “More than 30 million Americans have diabetes, and an additional 84 million have prediabetes,” the letter said. “It is critical that we invest in the research that will lead us to a cure for type 1 diabetes and in the programs that help prevent and manage diabetes in the populations that are most impacted by the disease.” The reauthorization of the SDP will facilitate the extension of many initiatives under its umbrella, such as research for a cure to type 1 diabetes currently being carried out by the National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive Kidney Diseases (NIDDK) and disease management programs for American Indians and Alaska Natives, the population with the highest prevalence of diabetes in the country. Caucus vice-chairs Susan Brooks (R-IN), Suzan DelBene (D-WA), Lynn Jenkins (R-KS) and Raul Ruiz (D-CA) joined DeGette and Reed in signing the letter. A copy of the letter is here.
09.05.2017	Washington — Congresswomen Diana DeGette (CO-1) and Louise Slaughter (NY-25), co-chairs of the Congressional Pro-Choice Caucus, and Congresswoman Nita Lowey (NY-17), Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee and State and Foreign Operations Appropriations Subcommittee, today condemned the anti-choice provisions included in Fiscal Year 2018 appropriations bills as Congress considers these measures this week. There are an unprecedented number of anti-women provisions included in this legislation and additional amendments offered that attack women’s health and the constitutionally-protected right to choose. These attacks come despite the fact that members of the Pro-Choice Caucus have been instrumental in helping pass every bill to fund the government since 2011. “This year we have seen repeated Republican efforts to attack and undermine women’s access to comprehensive reproductive health care. Our fight is far from over,” said DeGette. “The House Republicans’ appropriations minibus is riddled with arbitrary and offensive anti-woman policies. The Pro-Choice Caucus strongly opposes these shameful riders and will not allow them to be included in any government funding bill.” “We are in the midst of an unprecedented attack on women’s health care rights. From trying to zero out Title X family planning funding to eliminating funding for Planned Parenthood, there is apparently no length the Majority won’t go to attack the women of this country. Republican leaders in Congress are playing with fire by including these amendments given that members of the Pro-Choice Caucus have been needed to pass every bill to fund the government for the last six years. That support is being put at risk by the Majority’s decision to include these provisions. There is an easy fix, and that is for the Majority to remove them from these bills. Anti-women provisions have no place in any government funding bill,” said Slaughter. "The 2018 appropriations bills represent a sustained and multi-faceted assault on women's health care," said Lowey. “These bills go far beyond the majority's floundering effort to strip health insurance from 20 million people by repealing the Affordable Care Act. With funding cuts and terminations, and poison pill riders targeting women's legal health choices, contraception, and family planning at home and abroad, the majority is making clear they will stop at nothing to attack women's health care."
09.05.2017	Denver – Congresswoman Diana DeGette (D-CO), Chief Deputy Whip, said President Donald J. Trump’s decision to end the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program should not spell the end of DACA protections, especially if Congress gets immediately to work on legislation that would offer a possible path to citizenship for the people affected. “The announcement that President Trump is ending DACA is a crushing blow to the 800,000 DREAMers nationwide, including more than 17,000 in Colorado,” DeGette said. “When President Obama established the program in 2012, he made a promise to DREAMers that America would help provide a pathway to citizenship that allows them to remain vital members of our communities. Although DACA may not be the means used to achieve this objective, its spirit remains stronger than ever. “I am urging House Speaker Paul Ryan to put legislation on the House floor that gives these young men and women the chance to achieve their American dream, such as the bipartisan Dream Act. Let’s work together to do the right thing and keep our promise. DACA is far from done.”
09.01.2017	Denver – In response to House Speaker Paul Ryan’s statement that the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program is something Congress has to engage in rather than the President simply ending it, Congresswoman Diana DeGette (D-CO), Chief Deputy Whip said, “What are we waiting for?” “Speaker Ryan has been sitting on legislation that would help DACA recipients remain productive members of our community and seek a pathway to citizenship,” DeGette said. “Now that it looks likely that President Trump will soon end the program, Mr. Ryan is finally moved to act. Well, Mr. Speaker, what are we waiting for? Let’s put legislation on the House floor next week.” DeGette is a co-sponsor of the BRIDGE Act (H.R. 496), which would ensure that DACA recipients’ status in this country will be extended for at least another three years, as well as the bipartisan American Hope Act (H.R. 3591), which would prevent those qualified for DACA from being deported. “There are 800,000 DREAMers nationwide, including more than 17,000 in Colorado,” DeGette said. “When President Obama established the program in 2012, he made a promise to these young men and women that America would help them remain productive members of our communities and provide a pathway to citizenship. President Trump may be ready to break this promise, but those of us who still believe in DACA’s goals will continue our efforts to fulfill them.”
08.22.2017	Denver, CO – Congresswoman Diana DeGette (D-CO), Chief Deputy Whip, called on the Departments of Justice and Homeland Security to strengthen their efforts to combat domestic organizations that engage in racial and ethnic-based threats and violence such as white supremacists, neo-Nazis and the KKK. “It has become obvious that organizations founded on white supremacy, anti-Semitism, and racism believe that they no longer need to hide in the shadows of obscurity, but instead can openly and publicly spread fear and terror in our communities,” DeGette wrote in a letter to Attorney General Jeff Sessions and Acting Homeland Security Secretary Elaine Duke. “A strong and consistent response from federal law enforcement and homeland security officials is necessary to address this threat and prevent it from growing further.” DeGette also raised the concern that Life After Hate, an organization dedicated to fighting white nationalist extremism, did not receive funding for a grant that was awarded during the Obama Administration through the Counter Violent Extremism (CVE) Program, and that in fact no other organizations with a similar focus have received CVE grants. “It is imperative that the federal government use every constitutionally available tool to safeguard all of our citizens against the threats posed by white supremacists, neo-Nazis, the KKK, and other such organizations,” DeGette wrote. “I respectfully request your prompt response in this matter.” The full text of the letter can be found below and here. Dear Attorney General Sessions and Acting Secretary Duke: Given the recent events that occurred in Charlottesville, Virginia, I am writing to urge you to strengthen your agencies’ efforts to combat the threat of domestic organizations that engage in racial and ethnic-based threats and violence such as white supremacists, neo-Nazis, and the KKK. It has become obvious that organizations founded on white supremacy, anti-Semitism and racism believe they no longer need to hide in the shadows of obscurity, but instead can openly and publicly spread terror in our communities. A strong and consistent response from federal law enforcement and homeland security officials is necessary to address this threat and prevent it from growing further. Additionally, I am concerned that Life After Hate, an organization dedicated to fighting white nationalist extremism, did not receive funding for a grant that was awarded during the Obama Administration through the Counter Violent Extremism (CVE) Program and that no other organizations with a similar focus have received CVE grants. It is imperative that the federal government use every constitutionally available tool to safeguard all of our citizens against the threats posed by white supremacists, neo-Nazis, the KKK, and other such organizations. I respectfully request your prompt response in this matter. Sincerely, Diana DeGette Member of Congress
08.18.2017	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Diana DeGette (D-CO), Chief Deputy Whip, co-sponsored a resolution introduced today to censure President Donald J. Trump for his comments blaming “both sides” for the violence in Charlottesville, VA and excusing “Unite the Right” rally participants for their behavior. The censure resolution denounces President Trump for his failure to immediately name and condemn the white supremacist, neo-Nazi and Ku Klux Klan groups responsible for domestic terrorism actions in Charlottesville last weekend, and his further doubling-down on those comments during a subsequent news conference in which he drew parallels between white supremacists and those protesting the “Unite the Right” rally. The full text of the resolution can be found here and below. Censuring and condemning President Donald Trump. 115th CONGRESS 1st SessionAugust 18, 2017 IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES RESOLUTION Censuring and condemning President Donald Trump. Whereas on August 11, 2017 in Charlottesville, Virginia, a gathering of white supremacists, including neo-Nazis, Ku Klux Klan (KKK) members, and other white nationalist groups, marched through the streets with torches as part of a coordinated ‘Unite the Right’ rally spewing racism, anti-Semitism, bigotry and hatred; Whereas on August 12, 2017 in Charlottesville, Virginia, a car driven by James Alex Fields, Jr. rammed into a crowd of counter-protestors, killing Heather Heyer and injuring 20 others; Whereas President Donald Trump’s immediate public comments rebuked “many sides” for the violence in Charlottesville, Virginia, and failed to specifically condemn the ‘Unite the Right’ rally or cite the white supremacist, neo-Nazi gathering as responsible for actions of domestic terrorism; Whereas on August 15, 2017 President Donald Trump held a press conference at Trump Tower where he re-asserted that “both sides” were to blame for the violence in Charlottesville, Virginia, and attempted to create a moral equivalency between white supremacist, KKK, neo-Nazi groups and those counter-protesting the ‘Unite the Right’ rally; Whereas President Donald Trump has surrounded himself with, and cultivated the influence of, senior advisors and spokespeople who have long histories of promoting white nationalist, racist and anti-Semitic principles and policies within the country; Whereas President Donald Trump has provided encouragement and little to no denunciation of white supremacist groups and individuals who promote their bigoted, nationalist ideology and policies; Whereas President Donald Trump has failed to provide adequate condemnation and assure the American people of his resolve to opposing domestic terrorism: Now, therefore, be it Resolved, That the House of Representatives— (1) does hereby censure and condemn President Donald Trump for his inadequate response to the violence in Charlottesville, Virginia on August 12, 2017, his failure to immediately and specifically name and condemn the white supremacist groups responsible for actions of domestic terrorism, for re-asserting that “both sides” were to blame and excusing the violent behavior of participants in the ‘Unite the Right’ rally, and for employing people with ties to white supremacist movements in the White House, such as Steve Bannon and Sebastian Gorka; and (2) does hereby urge President Donald Trump to fire any and all White House advisors who have urged him to cater to the white supremacist movement in the United States. ###
08.14.2017	Washington, D.C. – Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee Ranking Member Congresswoman Diana DeGette (D-CO) today joined fellow Energy and Commerce Committee Democratic leaders in writing to Federal Communications Commission (FCC) Chairman Ajit Pai expressing concerns regarding reports that under his leadership, the FCC has taken actions that suggest favorable treatment towards Sinclair Broadcast Group. The letter, also signed by Energy and Commerce Ranking Member Frank Pallone, Jr. (D-NJ) and Communications and Technology Subcommittee Ranking Member Mike Doyle (D-PA), asks two overarching questions: whether actions taken by the FCC under Chairman Pai’s leadership show a pattern of preferential treatment for Sinclair, and whether a series of interactions between Pai’s office, the Trump Campaign and Trump Administration, and Sinclair demonstrate inappropriate coordination. “The United States has maintained for decades a policy that restricts the number of viewers a single broadcast entity can reach nationwide so that the American public has access to a diversity of local voices over the air. As the largest owner of television broadcast stations in the country, Sinclair had expanded to the limits of these FCC ownership rules,” wrote DeGette, Pallone and Doyle. “Since taking office, however, you have implemented a series of actions that ease these restrictions and allow Sinclair to expand its reach quickly. You have simultaneously proposed to allow the industry to adopt a new broadcast technology that will likely benefit Sinclair more than any other company.” Since the beginning of the Trump Administration, the FCC has taken a series of swift actions that have benefitted Sinclair: -The FCC eased ownership caps by reinstating the outdated “UHF Discount,” allowing Sinclair to quickly acquire more broadcast stations. -The FCC established an expedited timeline for its review of the proposed Sinclair-Tribune transaction, allowing Sinclair to grow as quickly as possible. -The FCC approved Sinclair’s multimillion dollar deal to purchase stations owned by Bonten Media Group, shortly after the FCC revoked a processing guidance that would have required close scrutiny of the transaction. -The FCC has started a proceeding to allow TV broadcasters to begin using Next Gen TV – a technology whose primary patent-holder is Sinclair. DeGette and her colleagues also wrote that Chairman Pai’s and the Trump Administration’s interactions with Sinclair raise questions about the multiple FCC actions that have directly benefited the company. Multiple press reports have suggested a favorable relationship existed between Sinclair and the Trump campaign, and now exists with the Trump Administration. This includes a report involving a meeting with President Trump and Sinclair’s Executive Chairman, during which “potential FCC rules changes were discussed.” In order to provide Chairman Pai an opportunity to respond to these reports, DeGette, Pallone and Doyle ask him to provide answers on questions relating to: -Meetings and correspondence with Sinclair -Next Gen TV proceedings -The proposed Sinclair-Tribune merger -Processing guidance on license transfer applications -And other potential FCC proceedings Full text of the letter can be found here.
08.03.2017	Mr. Speaker, one year after Colorado became the 38th state, in 1877 a group of Denver journalists formed the nation’s first press club. Now celebrating its 150th Anniversary, the Denver Press Club is significant to our community and our country in a number of ways. What started as a means for frontier-town rival reporters to play poker, tap into a barrel of Taos Lightning whiskey and debate the news of the day became a magnet for some of the most famous names in the field, defenders of the First Amendment and strong advocates for the values of journalism that are so critical to our democracy. In its early years, the club met in various spots, including the “cyclone cellar” of Wolfe Londoner’s grocery store before he was elected mayor of Denver, a term cut short due to a scandal that his journalist friends covered with gusto. He was later elected president of the Colorado State Press Association. As the club grew, it met in local hotels, among them the prestigious and famous Brown Palace. The club’s own prestige increased as it brought national speakers and performers to Denver, awarded honorary membership to several U.S. presidents, brought the International League of Press Clubs to Denver in 1906 and served an instrumental role in elevating Denver’s profile and meeting the needs of national media when the city hosted the 1908 National Democratic Convention. A permanent home for the club was built with the help of an architect team that included the designer of the Denver Public Library, Daniels & Fisher department store and Red Rocks Amphitheater. In 1986, this structure was named a Historic Landmark, and the Society for Professional Journalists designated the club a “significant historical place in journalism” in 2008. It was listed on the National Register of Historic Places this year. Oh, and of course the building includes a card room, home to one of the oldest card games in Denver. But the Denver Press Club’s nearly 500 members do a lot more than play games and socialize. They work to strengthen and promote journalism while educating the public on matters that reflect the importance of empowered and free media. Through the years, the membership has included renowned reporters, editors, cartoonists, and authors, several of them Pulitzer Prize winners, who made their mark in the pursuit that has long been the watchword of many journalists: comforting the afflicted and afflicting the comfortable. Among the luminaries on The Denver Press Club’s historic roster was Damon Runyon, for whom the club has named its cornerstone award, given to people whose careers have embodied his style and verve. Recipients have included Molly Ivins, Tim Russert, Jill Abramson, Frank Deford, Katie Couric, Carl Hiassen, Bob Costas and many others. The club also awards scholarships in Runyon’s name to Colorado’s top journalism students, as well as a separate award in coordination with the University of Colorado Boulder for outstanding crime reporting that’s named for the late Al Nakkula, who was on the police beat for decades. These activities and others serve to raise awareness of what good journalism means to Colorado and the United States. And that cause is more relevant now than ever, amid vast changes to the media landscape in recent years and new, unexpected challenges. The Denver Press Club has long played its part in shining a light on our city and helping democracy thrive. As it celebrates its sesquicentennial, I am proud and honored to congratulate the club’s members on its legacy, and to wish you all the best in the future.
07.28.2017	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Diana DeGette (D-CO), Chief Deputy Whip, is an original cosponsor of the American Hope Act introduced today, which would let DACA (Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals) beneficiaries and other immigrant youth apply for conditional permanent resident status, providing a pathway to citizenship. The bill will also improve college affordability for undocumented youth and other immigrants by repealing rules that limit their access to in-state tuition and other college benefits. Last month, the Trump administration reversed DAPA, another deferred-action program, created for parents of American-born citizens in 2014. Top Republican officials in 10 states have threatened Attorney General Jeff Sessions with legal action if the Administration does not end the DACA program as well by September 5th. In the face of this threat, it is expected that the administration will either end the program or refuse to defend it once that lawsuit is launched. The American Hope Act offers a broad safety net for all people who would lose the rights conferred by DACA. It also provides a path to citizenship for DACA recipients and all undocumented residents brought to America as children who stay out of legal trouble and pass a background check “With the recent barrage of attacks on DACA by the Trump administration and Republican leaders across the country, it’s more important than ever to send a message of support and compassion for young undocumented residents, which is why I am honored to co-sponsor this bill,“ DeGette said. “If the administration lets the program expire, hundreds of thousands of young people, many of them in Colorado, will once again have to live in fear of deportation. The American Hope Act not only clears the barriers to citizenship for these DACA recipients, it also presents an important opportunity to all undocumented residents who came here at a young age and are contributing to their communities. They are vital to our country and deserve the chance to become citizens. It’s that simple.”
07.28.2017	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Diana DeGette (D-CO), Chief Deputy Whip, said the collapse of the "skinny" version of Trumpcare in the Senate early this morning presents a real opportunity for bipartisan improvements to health care coverage in the United States. "With its overnight defeat in the Senate, the Republican effort to dismantle the Affordable Care Act has reached a road block. However, the path toward improving the ACA is not at an end. Bipartisan solutions must be found. "I continue to reach out to my colleagues across the aisle to work on those improvements. Maybe now they're ready to do so; Americans certainly are, and they've shown it with their vocal outcry against every version of Trumpcare this year. Polls show most Americans think the parties should mend the ACA, not end it." For months, DeGette has been speaking one-on-one with Republican colleagues about potential changes to the ACA. They include principles on which everyone should be able to agree: reducing premiums, lowering deductibles and other out-of-pocket costs, creating conditions that favor competition and choice among health plans, making plans easier for consumers to understand and compare, and bringing down prescription drug prices.
07.26.2017	Washington, DC - Congresswoman Diana DeGette (D-CO), Chief Deputy Whip, condemned President Donald J. Trump’s announcement today that the U.S. military will no longer let transgender individuals serve "in any capacity." “This bigoted decision won’t make us any safer,” DeGette noted. “Other countries have transgender service members – in fact, Israel has had them for years. Those serving in and out of uniform on behalf of the United States now will have to leave or keep secrets that put them at risk. This edict forces America backward, well before the questionable days of ‘Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell,’ to the unjust era when service members stayed in the closet to avoid being persecuted or purged.” Thousands of troops currently serving in the U.S. active duty military and reserves are transgender, according to a study by the nonpartisan RAND Corporation that has been cited by the Defense Department. President Trump's announcement reverses a policy established in June 2016 by then-Defense Secretary Ash Carter that allowed transgender troops to serve openly. Last month, Defense Secretary James Mattis announced that the Pentagon would delay this order through 2017 to review the impact of the shift. The President's decision comes two weeks after the House of Representatives rejected an amendment to the annual defense policy authorization that would have blocked the Pentagon from offering gender transition therapies to active-duty service members. All 190 Democrats and 24 Republicans voted to reject that measure.
07.20.2017	Washington, DC - Representatives Diana DeGette (D-CO), Louise Slaughter (D-NY), Barbara Lee (D-CO) and Jerrold Nadler (D-NY) today decried the anti-choice, anti-woman riders included in Fiscal Year 2018 appropriations bills attacking women’s health and reproductive rights. The House appropriations package is riddled with an unprecedented number of shameful anti-woman riders that go far beyond anything seen in previous proposals. DeGette and Slaughter co-chair the Congressional Pro-Choice Caucus, whose members include Lee, a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee, and Nadler, a senior member of the House Judiciary Committee. They were joined by fellow members of the Pro-Choice Caucus, whose support has been critical to passing every bill to fund the government since 2011. “Virtually every week, women across the country are waking up to news that their rights and access to care are being stripped away by politicians at the state and federal levels,” DeGette noted. “This has got to stop. We will not tolerate any more anti-woman policies in government funding bills. The women of America are fed up, and we are standing by them to defend their rights.” “The Republican Congress continues to take its attack on women’s health care rights to whole new levels. There is apparently no length Republicans in Congress and the Trump administration won’t go to try and roll back the progress we’ve made. These special provisions are a continuation of an agenda that includes reducing access to contraception, undermining Title X, expanding the Global Gag Rule, and much more. The women of America will not sit idly by as Republicans in Washington take these dangerous and unprecedented steps to dismantle the hard-fought progress so many have fought so hard for,” said Slaughter. “Make no mistake: the anti-woman, anti-choice agenda proposed by Congressional Republicans is an all-out assault on women’s reproductive health and freedoms,” Lee said. “Congress has no business interfering in women’s personal health decisions. My Republican colleagues need to drop this dangerous crusade and stop trying to turn back the clock on women.” “Republicans are not just attacking women’s constitutional rights, they are making it nearly impossible for women to access any reproductive health care at all,” said Nadler. “Their appropriations bills would allow employers, insurance companies, and health care providers to discriminate against women who seek reproductive health care by denying them coverage or even refusing them medical care. They would also deny Planned Parenthood any federal funding from any programs under the appropriations bills and completely gut funding from all family planning and teen pregnancy prevention programs. Enough is enough! We reject these endless attacks on women and will keep fighting to ensure that women keep the hard-won freedom that comes only with the ability to make their own health care decisions.” Also speaking at the event were fellow members of the Pro-Choice Caucus Nita Lowey (D-NY), Jan Schakowsky (D-IL), Paul Tonko (D-NY) and Eleanor Holmes-Norton (D-DC).
07.18.2017	Washington, DC – Representatives Diana DeGette (D-CO), Susan Brooks (R-IN) and Tom Reed (R-NY) introduced the “Protecting Access to Diabetes Supplies Act” (H.R. 3271), which would strengthen protections for Medicare beneficiaries who buy blood glucose testing supplies through the National Mail Order Competitive Bidding Program. DeGette and Reed are the co-chairs of the Congressional Diabetes Caucus; Brooks serves as its vice-chair. “At a time when Medicare and American health care in general are topics of contentious discussions in Washington and across the country, this bipartisan effort is something everyone can support,” DeGette said. “It will ensure that seniors who have diabetes are able to get quality test strips that are compatible with their glucose monitors. Diabetic patients often rely on test strips to read glucose levels accurately and dose medication appropriately. By making sure seniors can get test strips that work, this bill will deliver better health outcomes for millions of Medicare beneficiaries.” “I am proud to have worked on and introduced the Protecting Access to Diabetes Supplies Act with Representatives DeGette and Reed,” said Brooks. “This important bipartisan bill will give thousands of Hoosiers who face the daily challenges of living with diabetes the freedom to choose which blood glucose test works best for them.” “We must make sure that diabetic seniors have access to quality health care supplies,” Reed said. “Working across the aisle to deliver access to those who rely on test strips is a top priority for me. The protections will ensure Medicare patients have a choice when it comes to finding supplies that best fit the needs of their individual medical conditions.” In establishing the Medicare Competitive Bidding Program (CBP), Congress and the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services included rules intended to ensure that seniors would continue to have access to the blood glucose test systems of their choice. Unfortunately, several rounds of the CBP have revealed significant shortcomings in these protections. The Protecting Access to Diabetes Supplies Act would address these shortcomings so that in future CBP rounds, beneficiaries have access to preferred and familiar test systems. This bill would strengthen enforcement of current law requirements that suppliers in the CBP must include at least 50 percent of the types of test systems that were on the market before the CBP’s implementation. It would also bolster consumer protections that prohibit suppliers from encouraging beneficiaries to switch from one testing system to another, and ensure that seniors are fully aware of their rights to receive test strips that meet their needs. According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, more than 11 million Americans age 65 and older have diabetes, nearly 26 percent of the Medicare population.
07.18.2017	Washington, DC —As President Trump prepares to convene the first meeting of his Advisory Commission on Election Integrity tomorrow, Congresswoman Diana DeGette (D-CO), together with more than 70 other House members, is urging Commission Vice Chair Kris Kobach to withdraw his request for voter registration data since it raises significant security and privacy concerns. Their letter to Kobach comes after thousands of Coloradans have canceled their voter registrations in response to the commission’s request. The letter highlights the substantial risk to voters’ privacy and security if their personally identifiable information is emailed to the federal government and stored in a central location. The Commission is requesting information that criminals use to commit identity theft, including full names, dates of birth and Social Security numbers. Sending such material through unsecure email and storing it in one place creates a single point of attack for hackers. “The federal government has an obligation to protect the personally identifiable information of the American people,” DeGette and her colleagues wrote. “We believe your June 28th request to the States would do the opposite by ignoring the critical need for robust security protocols when transmitting and storing sensitive personally identifiable information and by centralizing it in one place. While more than half of the States in our country have indicated they will not comply and the request was recently put on hold pending a lawsuit, we nevertheless urge you to withdraw this overly broad request due to the risk it poses to the sensitive data of millions of Americans.” The Presidential Advisory Commission on Election Integrity was created by Executive Order on May 11, 2017 after President Trump claimed without evidence that millions of people voted illegally for Hillary Clinton in the 2016 Presidential election. A comprehensive 2014 Washington Post study found only 31 instances of in-person voter fraud out of more than one billion ballots cast from 2000 to 2014. “This bogus commission not only puts voters’ personal information in jeopardy, it also creates a chilling effect that deters people from participating in the democratic process,” DeGette said. “The Colorado Secretary of State’s office confirmed last week that nearly 3,400 Coloradans canceled their voter registrations in the wake of the commission’s request. It’s clear that many Coloradans simply don’t trust this ill-conceived effort, and for good reason. Maintaining the integrity of our elections is a critical priority, but this ‘investigation’ is the wrong solution.” The full text of the letter is posted here.
07.13.2017	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Diana DeGette (D-CO) called the Senate’s latest iteration of Trumpcare even more cruel than the version that the Senate abandoned last month. “The tweaks made to the bill in the past two weeks won’t address the damage it would do to millions of Americans who would lose health care or be forced to pay more for it,” DeGette said. “Still included are substantial and heartless cuts to Medicaid, significantly higher costs for working families and seniors, and provisions that gut protections for those with pre-existing conditions. “The proposal by Senator Ted Cruz would cause a proliferation of skimpy, junk insurance plans while making more robust coverage completely unaffordable for millions of people with pre-existing conditions or other health risks. Some opponents of the Affordable Care Act have wrongly insinuated that it is in a ‘death spiral,’ but implementing the Cruz plan would actually make that happen by creating separate markets for the well and the unwell; the latter market would collapse. “No amount of repair to this deeply flawed bill will lead to a product that truly addresses ongoing issues in our health care system. Rather than trying to jam it through unilaterally as was done with the House version of Trumpcare in late May, Republicans should work with Democrats on strengthening America’s health care system. There are reasonable, effective solutions that can secure bipartisan support and help us fulfill the duties that we, as elected officials, have to all Americans.”
07.12.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Congresswoman Diana DeGette (D-CO) today teamed up with Congressman Leonard Lance (R-NJ) on a bipartisan effort to improve clinical trials that was unanimously passed as part of the FDA Reauthorization Act. The effort will improve the way clinical trials are conducted to better measure the patient experience and ultimately help create better medicines and devices for the patient market. “I was proud to work with Congressman Lance, together with the chair and ranking member of our committee, to fold provisions into the FDA bill that will deepen our understanding of the psychosocial impact of disease,” DeGette said. “As more is learned about the social and emotional effects of disease, we can deliver better outcomes for patients by improving medication adherence, tailoring treatment regimens, and enhancing participation in clinical trials.” “Clinical trials are where we discover cures and therapies that will save lives. We need to measure both the physical and psychological impacts of disease so the most informed decisions can be made on trial effectiveness,” Lance said. “When a patient participates in a clinical trial, they are putting confidence in their team of doctors for what could be their best hope against a challenging diagnosis. We need to make sure clinical trials are as strong as they can be and I am pleased to have bipartisan support on this effort with the help of Congresswoman DeGette.” DeGette and Lance are members of the Energy and Commerce Committee, which crafted the bipartisan FDA Reauthorization Act to renew the system by which new medicines and medical devices are approved for patient use. The FDA reviews data from clinical trials to determine the safety and efficacy of new drugs. DeGette and Lance worked together to include new instructions for improving the patient experience and collecting data on the physical and psychological effects of disease and increasing participation in clinical trials. Recent evidence has shown that distress screening and follow-up in clinical trials leads to improved patient outcomes, enhanced clinical trial efficiency and better understanding of the burdens of clinical trials beyond the physical ones. The House-passed measure now heads to the Senate for consideration.
07.12.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Diana DeGette (D-CO) and a bipartisan group of her House and Senate colleagues have introduced a bill providing fourth graders and their families free entrance to all federally-managed lands, waters and historic sites, including national parks – more than 2,000 sites in all. The Every Kid Outdoors Act is meant to encourage kids to get outdoors and experience America’s public spaces while engaging in healthy activity and educational programs. “The outdoors is central to Colorado's way of life and our economy,” DeGette said. “Today’s fourth graders are tomorrow’s outdoor entrepreneurs and conservationists. Getting these students outside to enjoy our public lands – such as Rocky Mountain National Park or Black Canyon of the Gunnison – will help inspire future leaders to protect these wild places.” Since 2015, the U.S. Interior Department has offered fourth graders and their families free entrance to all federally-managed public lands. The program has leveraged more than $2 million in private donations and volunteer hours and created hundreds of partnerships with schools, non-profits, and private sector businesses to support outdoor education programming and recreation opportunities for underserved youth. The program also contributed record-setting numbers of visitors to America’s national parks in 2016 as part of the #FindYourPark campaign to commemorate the centennial of the National Park Service. The Every Kid Outdoors Act codifies this effort into law and encourages increased public/private partnerships between our federal lands, schools and private and nonprofit organizations. This will help leverage additional support while providing for new and more widespread educational opportunities. The legislation is supported by several national organizations, including the Sierra Club, The Wilderness Society, YMCA of the USA, Girl Scouts of the USA, Outdoors Alliance For Kids, the National Recreation and Park Association, the National Park Trust, the Trust for Public Land, and the Outdoor Industry Association. Joining DeGette in its introduction were Representatives Niki Tsongas (D-MA), Scott Tipton (R-CO) and Elise Stefanik (R-NY). Senator Martin Heinrich (D-NM) and Senator Lamar Alexander (R-TN) introduced companion legislation in the Senate. The bill text can be found here.
06.29.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Representatives Diana DeGette (D-CO) and Lynn Jenkins (R-KS) have introduced the Preventing Diabetes in Medicare Act of 2017 (H.R. 3124) to help curb America’s diabetes epidemic. This bill will allow Medicare coverage of Medical Nutrition Therapy (MNT) services for people with prediabetes and other risk factors for developing Type 2 diabetes. “People at risk of Type 2 diabetes, including the many with prediabetes, need support to avoid developing this disease,” Congresswoman DeGette said. “Older adults served by Medicare are disproportionately affected by prediabetes and diabetes itself. It just makes sense to ensure that seniors on Medicare who face these risks have coverage for MNT services." “As the mother of a child with Type 1 diabetes, I understand the long-term benefits of effective prevention and management. By helping older people with prediabetes manage their condition, Medicare will avoid paying for more costly treatments in the future, saving money and increasing overall well-being for many people.” “The rate of diabetes is skyrocketing in America, particularly among our senior populations. According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), almost 11 million seniors in the U.S. suffer from diabetes, with another half of those ages 65 and older classified with prediabetes,” said Congresswoman Lynn Jenkins. “Medicare covers nutritional therapy services for seniors with type 2 diabetes, but individuals with prediabetes or similar risk factors cannot access this nutritional care and counseling to prevent further progress of the disease.” “Stopping this disease in its tracks will make a significant difference for our nation’s fiscal health and the physical health of our seniors,” Congresswoman Jenkins continued. “That’s why I joined Congresswoman Diana DeGette to introduce the Preventing Diabetes in Medicare Act, which will make Medical Nutrition Therapy (MNT) services available to seniors with prediabetes through Medicare. Providing our seniors with health and nutrition assistance is crucial, and I look forward to working with Rep. DeGette on this bipartisan legislation to change the health and lives of millions of Americans.”
06.29.2017	WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Diana DeGette (D-CO) has teamed up with colleagues to introduce bipartisan legislation that lets Medicare Advantage insurance plans offer a wider array of benefits to chronically ill enrollees. The bill, H.R. 3044, waives uniformity requirements among Medicare Advantage plans and lets insurers offer plans better tailored to meet the individual needs of patients with chronic illness. “I'm proud to support this bipartisan bill, which will facilitate better care coordination for millions of seniors affected by chronic illness,” Congresswoman DeGette said. “By allowing plans to cover supplemental benefits that are not traditionally covered by Medicare Advantage, such as case management and meal delivery, we can deliver better health outcomes and quality of life for seniors who have complex care needs.” “Increasing rates of chronic illness among older Americans and an aging population are real challenges for our health care system,” said Congressman Patrick Meehan (R-PA). “Chronic illnesses account for 70 percent of deaths in Pennsylvania each year, and seniors with chronic conditions are more likely to visit an emergency room or require hospitalization. More than a million seniors in Pennsylvania utilize Medicare Advantage plans. This bill will help seniors obtain a Medicare Advantage plan with benefits that best meet their needs. The result will be improved care and services for seniors coping with diabetes, arthritis and other chronic conditions.” “Many benefits necessary to improving health outcomes and quality of life for our seniors affected by chronic illness are not traditionally covered by Medicare Advantage,” Congresswoman Terri Sewell (D-AL) added. “For the 363,000 Alabamians enrolled in Medicare Advantage who suffer from one or more chronic illnesses, our bipartisan bill will enable better care coordination so they can access the benefits that meet their needs, including transportation services, nutrition programs, in-home support services, and more. Protecting our seniors’ health should not be a partisan issue, and I’m proud to have worked across the aisle to introduce bipartisan legislation to help seniors living with chronic conditions, like so many in Alabama.” “Many New Jerseyans count on Medicare Advantage,” said Congressman Lance. “I am pleased to join Congressman Meehan in this legislation to further advance the goals of Medicare Advantage and help craft a plan to provide patient-specific benefits for chronically ill enrollees. Expanding supplemental benefits can improve the lives of chronically ill individuals enrolled in Medicare Advantage. We want to improve health outcomes while also ensuring the Medicare program is stable and continues to provide high quality health care.” “On behalf of the senior advocates, aging professionals, providers, and beneficiaries in our coalition, we commend this first step taken by Representatives Patrick Meehan, Terri Sewell, Diana DeGette, Joseph Kennedy and Leonard Lance to enable Medicare Advantage to offer a wider range of enhanced benefits critical to the delivery of high-quality, cost-effective health care to beneficiaries with multiple chronic illnesses,” said Allyson Y. Schwartz, President & CEO of the Better Medicare Alliance.
06.26.2017	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Diana DeGette (D-CO), Chief Deputy Whip, said the report just issued by the non-partisan Congressional Budget Office on the Senate bill to dismantle the Affordable Care Act shows this latest iteration of Trumpcare will harm many people and lead to needless deaths. “The CBO’s calculations show the Senate Trumpcare bill would rip coverage away from 22 million people and raise costs for many millions of others,” DeGette said. “It would jeopardize health care for 77 million who are on Medicaid, placing per-capita lifetime caps on the program so that anyone on Medicaid could see his or her benefits suddenly cut off. “And thanks to a provision added to the bill just today, people who accidently experience a gap in coverage could be locked out of health insurance completely for six months. If they develop a serious illness or are diagnosed with one during that time, it could be a death sentence. Meanwhile, the same heartless Senate bill still gives tax breaks to the ultra-wealthy. “To quote President Trump himself, this bill is ‘mean.’ It will force families to pay higher premiums and deductibles, provide less coverage for tens of millions of people, gut key protections and impose a crushing Age Tax. It’s hard to imagine why anyone would support that.”
06.22.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Diana DeGette (D-CO), Chief Deputy Whip, said the Senate bill to dismantle the Affordable Care Act, unveiled this morning after being developed in secret among a small group of GOP Senate members, is a gift to the ultra-wealthy that will harm people who are struggling to get by, making health insurance unaffordable for millions of Americans and much more costly for millions others. “The Senate’s new bill is an even worse version of Trumpcare than the one that was rushed through the House last month. If this bill becomes law, people will die due to its draconian cuts to Medicaid, the crushing Age Tax it imposes on those age 50 to 64, and its provisions letting states undermine important protections for people with pre-existing conditions, such as the current essential health benefit requirements. “Many of my constituents have told me stories about how the Affordable Care Act made them healthier and saved their lives; they’re concerned that bill to dismantle the ACA will make their coverage unaffordable. We already know that the House version, on which the Senate’s bill is based, would have deprived 23 million people of care during the next decade, according to the non-partisan Congressional Budget Office. Just like its House counterpart, the Senate bill will punish the poor and middle class by ripping away vital care while giving tax breaks to the wealthy. “Offering a bill like this, after scheming over it in secret backrooms with no input from Democrats or even many Republicans, is not only poor policy, it’s a disservice to the public. Both parties should be working together to improve the ACA. I’ve said this to my Republican counterparts who have approached me on this matter during the past year, and I stand ready to improve the ACA when they’re done trying to dismantle it.”
06.22.2017	Washington, D.C. - Congresswoman Diana DeGette (D-CO) today introduced bipartisan legislation H.R. 2953 with Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), Chairman of the House and Energy Subcommittee on Health, that would direct the Congressional Budget Office (CBO) to analyze scientific medical data to provide information on the savings of preventive health initiatives beyond the traditional 10-year scoring window. The bill, known as the Preventive Health Savings Act of 2017, aims to modernize the way CBO scores preventive health legislation, allowing for a longer “scoring” window in which to assess the long-term health savings that are possible from preventive health initiatives. “This year’s congressional efforts on American health care have highlighted the CBO’s non-partisan work and shown how important it can be to making solid legislative choices,” Rep. DeGette said. “But our laws prevent health care spending projections from taking long-term savings into account. It’s time we let the CBO make decisions based on science and with those long-term cost projections in mind. I look forward to continuing this bipartisan work that will save money and keep Americans healthy.” “Minimizing the cost of a significant and complex problem such as chronic disease is not an easy or quick endeavor,” said Rep. Burgess. “Allowing the CBO to analyze scientific data, and having the ability to provide projects past the ten year scoring window will provide a more accurate projection for programs with children and other populations or diseases with longer development periods. This legislation is a responsible approach and will ensure that the government calculates the savings of preventative health.” “To address a chronic disease escalation that threatens to affect our society and economy for the next several decades, we need long-term thinking that transcends the way Congress traditionally thinks about policy and budgets. Innovations that can prevent illness and improve population health for generations shouldn’t be stymied by an arbitrary 10-year budget window. The Preventive Health Savings Act will grant lawmakers the flexibility to combat cancer, heart disease, diabetes and other devastating conditions,” said Mary R. Grealy, President of the Healthcare Leadership Council. This legislation is supported by: Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics; ACT | The App Association; Aetna; Alliance for Aging Research; Allscripts; Alzheimer’s Association; Alzheimer’s Impact Movement (AIM); America’s Essential Hospitals; America’s Health Insurance Plans (AHIP); American Art Therapy Association; American; Association for Cardiovascular and Pulmonary Rehabilitation (AACVPR); American Association for Respiratory Care (AARC); American Association of Clinical Endocrinologists (AACE); American Association of Diabetes Educators; American Association on Health and Disability; American Clinical Laboratory Association (ACLA); American College of Gastroenterology; American College of Occupational and Environmental Medicine; American College of Preventive Medicine; American College of Radiology; American Council on Exercise; American Diabetes Association; American Foundation for Suicide Prevention; American Medical Association; American Optometric Association; American Osteopathic Association; American Pharmacists Association; American Podiatric Medical Association (APMA); American Psychological Association; American Society for Metabolic and Bariatric Surgery; AmerisourceBergen Corporation; AMGA; Amgen; Ascension Health; Association for Ambulatory Behavioral Healthcare; Association for Behavioral and Cognitive Therapies; Baxter; Biocom; BioReference Laboratories; BlueCross BlueShield of Tennessee; Boehringer Ingelheim; California Life Sciences Association; Cancer Support Community; Cardinal Health; Clinical Social Work Association; Connected Health Initiative; Council for Affordable Health Coverage; Depression and Bipolar Support Alliance; Diabetes Hands Foundation; Dialysis Patient Citizens; Eating Disorders Coalition; Eisai; Eli Lilly and Company; Endocrine Society; Facing Addiction; Hazelden Betty Ford Institute for Recovery Advocacy; Healthcare Information and Management Systems Society (HIMSS); Healthcare Leadership Council; HealthyWomen; IHRSA: International Health, Racquet & Sportsclub Association; Indiana University Health; Johnson & Johnson; Lakeshore Foundation; Leidos; Lewin and Associates LLC; Marshfield Clinic; Maxim Healthcare Services; MemorialCare Health System; Mental Health America; Merck; National Alliance of State Pharmacy Associations; National Assn for Rural Mental Health; National Association of County Behavioral Health and Developmental Disability Directors; National Association for the Self-Employed; National Association of ACOs; National Association of Chain Drug Stores (NACDS); National Association of Psychiatric Health Systems; National Association of Social Workers; National Association of Spine Specialists; National Coalition on Health Care; National Consumers League; National Council on Aging; National Kidney Foundation; National Restaurant Association; National Retail Federation; Nestle Health Science; Novartis; Novo Nordisk; NTCA–The Rural Broadband Association; Obesity Action Coalition; Obesity Medicine Association; Obesity Society; Omada Health; Partnership to Fight Chronic Disease; Patients Rising; Pediatric Endocrine Society; Pfizer; PhRMA; Premier Healthcare Alliance; Prescriptions for a Healthy America; Prevent Cancer Foundation; Redstone Center; Rite Aid; Sanofi US; SCAN Health Plan; Society for Women’s Health Research; Sports & Fitness Industry Association; Stroll Health; Takeda Pharmaceuticals; Texas Health Resources; Third Way; UAW Retiree Medical Benefits Trust; Underwriters Laboratories INC.; U.S. Chamber of Commerce; Visiting Nurse Associations of America (VNAA); Vizient; Weight Watchers; YMCA of the USA. To download the PDF of the legislation click here.
06.22.2017	Washington, DC – The co-chairs of the Congressional Diabetes Caucus, Reps. Diana DeGette (D-CO) and Tom Reed (R-NY), have written pointed letters to three key stakeholders to seek answers and solutions to the rising price of insulin, which millions of Americans with diabetes need in order to live. “Unfortunately, this is not a theoretical concern,” the two legislators noted. “We have heard personal stories from people across the diabetes community who struggle to purchase insulin due to prohibitive costs. Insulin is a life-sustaining drug for which there is no substitute. For those who need it, not taking insulin can lead to poor health outcomes, complications, and even death. However, people skip doses, fail to pay rent or buy groceries, and even resort to an insulin ‘black market’ in order to afford their insulin. No one should be forced to make these incredibly difficult choices.” The underlying cost of insulin and the direct cost burden on patients with diabetes have risen dramatically in recent years. Average insulin prices have nearly tripled between 2002 and 2013. Many patients are also facing high prices due to high deductibles, coinsurance and formulary exclusions. The letters have been sent to the heads of the Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America (PhRMA), the Pharmaceutical Care Management Association and America’s Health Insurance Plans. These are the major trade associations for the pharmaceutical industry, the pharmacy benefit managers and the health insurance industry, respectively. Reps. DeGette and Reed have consulted with national patient advocacy groups, as well as with diabetics and experts on diabetes in their communities, and will continue to do so. “We are committed to examining the causes of high prices and developing policy solutions to make insulin more affordable for all Americans who need it,” the letters said. “However, we also appreciate the complexity of the issue and understand that many factors are driving the ongoing rise in prices. In order to provide meaningful relief for patients and families, Congress must do more due diligence to get to the bottom of this. That means arming ourselves with the facts and information we need to develop effective solutions.” Rep. Reed added, “We know this is a complex issue and we are looking for input on how to develop the best policy solutions to make insulin more affordable. People rely on this drug and are struggling to keep up with the price increase. We have to fix this. Congress must come together to do the background work to find information and develop an effective solution to this problem.” DeGette and Reed have been in touch with officials in these industries about this subject, but have received conflicting information. They invited the three industry group leaders to meet to discuss insulin prices and policy options, and asked for a response by July 28. The full text of the three letters is here.
06.16.2017	Denver - Congresswoman Diana DeGette (D-CO), Chief Deputy Whip, today expressed dismay at the announcement that President Donald J. Trump has squelched the Deferred Action for Parents of Americans and Lawful Permanent Residents (DAPA) initiative, extinguishing the hopes of people in Colorado and across the country that they might be protected from deportation and instead have a path to citizenship. “The decision to rescind DAPA means that tens of thousands of Coloradans, thousands of them living in Denver, will continue to face the nightmarish threat of deportation and separation from their kids, irrespective of whether the children are in this country legally. This senseless policy will tear families apart and further isolate valuable members of our community," DeGette said. "Instead of continuing to implement unfair immigration policies that hurt our economy and violate our values, the President should work with Congress to pass comprehensive immigration reform to fix our broken immigration system.” Initiated by the Obama Administration in 2014, DAPA was meant to provide additional time to review the legal appeals of undocumented residents identified for deportation whose children are U.S. citizens or legal permanent residents. It never took effect due to court challenges, ending in June 2016 with the U.S. Supreme Court, which at the time had eight members and was evenly split on whether to review a lower court's decision on DAPA. DeGette and other Democratic leaders in Congress filed an amici brief with the high court affirming DAPA’s constitutionality and the potential benefits it could provide to millions of people across the United States. About 22,000 of them live in the metro Denver area.
06.14.2017	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Diana DeGette (D-CO), Chief Deputy Whip, issued this statement on the shooting incident this morning in Alexandria, VA: “My heart goes out to Steve Scalise and all the others who experienced this horrific attack. I am keeping all the injured, along with their loved ones, in my thoughts. “Members of Congress, our staff, and visitors to the U.S. Capitol place our safety in the hands of the Capitol Police every day, knowing how capable and professional these men and women are. As our thoughts turn to their injured colleagues, we also extend our deepest gratitude for the service of the entire force.”
06.12.2017	Congresswoman Diana DeGette (D-CO), along with all her Democratic colleagues on the Energy and Commerce Committee, have sent a letter to Chairman Greg Walden (R-OR) requesting that the Committee hold hearings to both examine and begin work to address the rising costs of prescription drugs. As ranking member on the committee’s Oversight and Investigations subcommittee, DeGette would play a key role in such a hearing. The request comes after the Committee unanimously passed an amendment during a full committee markup of the FDA Reauthorization Act of 2017 expressing a sense of Congress urging the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) to work with Congress to lower the cost of prescription drugs. The approval of the sense of Congress demonstrates bipartisan recognition of the importance of Congress tackling rising drug prices. All Committee Democrats are now formally calling for a hearing on rising prescription drug costs as a way to get the process started. “We are writing to request that the Committee hold hearings to examine the rising costs of prescription drugs and work in a bipartisan fashion to address this critical issue,” Democrats wrote to Chairman Walden. “Ensuring patient access to affordable and innovative prescription drugs should be of the upmost importance to the Committee, especially as drug prices continue to rise at an alarming rate.” A recent national poll found that six in ten Americans believe lowering the cost of prescription drugs should be a top priority for the President and Congress. Under current projections, annual drug spending in the U.S. is expected to reach more than $500 billion by 2018. In 2015, growth in prescription drug spending outpaced all other health care services, surpassing hospital care as well as physician and clinical services. “The American people expect us to work together to find answers to this problem,” the members continued. “Following our bipartisan work on the 21st Century Cures Act, as well our current work together on the FDA user fee reauthorization process, it is our hope that we can advance bipartisan policies to address rising drug costs with the same urgency and determination.” This week, the Senate Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions (HELP) Committee will hold a hearing to examine the costs of prescription drugs. Full text of the letter: June 9, 2017 The Honorable Greg Walden Chairman Committee on Energy and Commerce 2125 Rayburn House Office Building Washington, DC 20515 Dear Chairman Walden: We are writing to request that the Committee hold hearings to examine the rising costs of prescription drugs and work in a bipartisan fashion to address this critical issue. Ensuring patient access to affordable and innovative prescription drugs should be of the upmost importance to the Committee, especially as drug prices continue to rise at an alarming rate. As was expressed during the health subcommittee and full committee markups of the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) Reauthorization Act of 2017, we believe that addressing prescription drug prices should be a top priority of this Committee and we ask that you work with us to find policies that will truly help to lower costs. We remain concerned by the staggering impact high drug prices have on American families, as well as on overall health spending in the United States each year. Annual drug spending in the U.S. is expected to reach more than $500 billion by 2018, also resulting in large drug spending increases to Medicare and Medicaid as well. In 2015, growth in prescription drug spending outpaced all other health care services, surpassing hospital care as well as physician and clinical services. As a result, many Americans face real barriers to accessing the medications they need. While new life-changing and life-saving therapies continue to enter the market each year, patients must be able to afford these treatments in order to benefit from their potential. This Committee has come together to work on legislation that would bring these life-changing and life-saving therapies to the market sooner, by providing FDA and industry with the new tools to streamline drug development and improve the efficiency of the regulatory process. Our work should not stop there. We must find workable solutions that will incentivize competition in the pharmaceutical marketplace and encourage the development of affordable and high quality drugs, while also monitoring steep prescription drug price increases when they arise. Pricing patients out of the market, or forcing them to choose between their medications and other necessities, should not be acceptable. The Committee would be well served to hear from expert witnesses who can help to explain the current impediments to lowering prices, and help us formulate consensus driven approaches in order to resolve this issue. The American people expect us to work together to find answers to this problem. In fact, a recent national poll found that six in ten Americans believe lowering the costs of prescription drugs should be a top priority for the President and Congress. Following our bipartisan work on the 21st Century Cures Act, as well our current work together on the FDA user fee reauthorization process, it is our hope that we can advance bipartisan policies to address rising drug costs with the same urgency and determination. Thank you for your consideration and we look forward to working with you on this important issue. Sincerely, Frank Pallone, Jr. Bobby L. Rush Anna G. Eshoo Eliot L. Engel Gene Green Diana DeGette Mike Doyle Jan Schakowsky G.K. Butterfield Doris O. Matsui Kathy Castor John Sarbanes Jerry McNerney Peter Welch Ben Ray Luján Paul D. Tonko Yvette D. Clarke Dave Loebsack Kurt Schrader Joseph P. Kennedy, III Tony Cárdenas Raul Ruiz, M.D. Scott H. Peters Debbie Dingell
06.09.2017	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Diana DeGette (D-CO), Congressman Joe Kennedy III (D-MA) and Senator Sherrod Brown (D-OH) have introduced a bill that will improve the quality of care for Americans who receive health care through Medicaid and the Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP). The Medicaid and CHIP Quality Improvement Act (MCQIA) – H.R. 2843 in the House and S. 1317 in the Senate – builds on existing adult and pediatric quality measures that were developed to gauge the health care needs of people in these programs and provide metrics for improvement. It achieves these aims by providing a framework for states to submit Medicaid and CHIP data on existing quality measures to the Department of Health and Human Services, which HHS will submit in an annual report to Congress. To incentivize performance, an annual incentive payment will be provided to states that have the highest quality of care. To incentivize improvement, a similar payment will be made to the states that show the greatest improvements in care. This will provide Congress with the data necessary to compare programs and craft informed policy to help improve Medicaid and CHIP programs across the country. “Enhancing data collection will help federal and state policymakers learn from best practices and innovation in different state Medicaid programs,” Congresswoman DeGette noted. “Unfortunately, data collection under Medicaid lags behind other health insurance programs. The Medicaid and CHIP Quality Improvement Act would modernize quality measurement programs, improving care for 71.5 million Medicaid and CHIP enrollees across all states and reducing unacceptable health care disparities.” “When our most vulnerable patient populations seek health care, Medicaid and CHIP ensure access to treatment is within reach,” Congressman Kennedy said. “But unless we can guarantee the quality of that care, the promise of access means little. Even though millions of Americans rely on these programs, a troubling lack of information and data has stood in the way of efforts to replicate their strengths and address their weaknesses. This bill will not only inform the actions we take to strengthen Medicaid, it will incent states to improve the quality of care.” “Instead of trying to take care away from thousands of Ohioans, we should be coming together to work on commonsense proposals to make care better for all those we serve,” said Senator Brown. “Everyone should be able to get behind these efforts to improve care for those who receive care through Medicaid and the Children’s Health Insurance Program.”
06.08.2017	Washington, DC – Former FBI Director James Comey’s testimony has unearthed disturbing revelations and raised more questions, Congresswoman Diana DeGette (D-CO), Chief Deputy Whip, said today. “Mr. Comey’s written testimony yesterday laid out the facts to the best of his recollection, based on thorough contemporaneous notes,” DeGette said. “His remarks today revealed details that provide even more reason to pursue further questions vigorously, using every appropriate means, for the protection of our country. “By Mr. Comey’s account and those of others, the President of the United States appears to have tried to influence the FBI’s investigation concerning the Trump campaign, Trump White House personnel and Russian efforts to interfere with the 2016 election. What remains unclear is the full extent of the administration’s attempts to sway the FBI inquiry and the extent of Russia’s influence on our country’s politics, both last year and now. “Americans still need - and are demanding - answers to these critical questions, which is why today I reaffirm my support of the special counsel appointed to probe the matter, and renew the call for an independent commission to reach longer-term solutions.”
06.01.2017	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Diana DeGette (D-CO), Chief Deputy Whip, issued the following statement in response to President Donald J. Trump’s announcement that he intends to pull the United States out of the Paris climate accord: “Pulling out of the Paris Agreement won’t happen overnight, but this announcement’s impact will be immediate: It signals that the United States cannot be counted on to stick to its promises and is prepared to cede leadership in yet another area that is crucial to our future. After ridiculing international trade agreements, failing to stand up firmly for NATO’s Article 5 commitments and treating our traditional alliances with scorn, the president evidently is willing to renege on an accord to which all countries but Syria and Nicaragua have agreed. Why is he looking to alienate the United States? ‘America First’ is turning into ‘America Alone.’ “This step defies scientific consensus about the effects of climate change. It will imperil future generations. And it will empower other countries that honor the Paris Agreement, leading them to create opportunities for innovation and a surging clean energy sector while our country is left in the dust."
05.31.2017	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Diana DeGette (D-CO), Chief Deputy Whip, today said the Trump administration’s reported plan to give employers and insurance companies broad latitude to deny coverage of contraception for women across the country will needlessly roll back the significant reductions in unintended pregnancy that occurred thanks in large part to the Affordable Care Act. “Employers should not be able to intervene in women’s personal health decisions, and President Trump’s reported effort to enable that interference is both shameful and damaging,” DeGette said. “Birth control coverage is essential to women’s health care. People of all faiths and incomes should have access to contraceptive care without cost through their employers’ insurance plans. Denial of this access will not only affect women’s right to control their own health choices, but it will lead to an increase in unintended pregnancies and reduce women’s ability to plan for their families and economic security.” Under the Affordable Care Act (ACA), every insurance plan is required to provide preventive care for all enrollees at no out-of-pocket cost. For women, that preventive care includes any FDA-approved method of birth control. Recognizing that some employers have religious objections to contraception, the Obama Administration created an accommodation for religiously-affiliated nonprofits to ensure they could continue to express their objections, but their employees could still access the health care they choose at no additional cost. DeGette, one of the ACA’s authors, pushed to include in the law provisions that would result in access to contraception and reproductive health screenings without cost-sharing by the patient. The Office of Management and Budget has posted online that it is reviewing an interim final rule reversing the federal requirement to ensure that women employed by religiously-affiliated organizations have access to health insurance that covers birth control. A leaked draft of the rule, dated May 23, would significantly expand the types of organizations that can request an exemption on moral or religious grounds, and may let any employer seek one. This would undermine the congressional intent of ACA provisions requiring coverage of preventive services without cost-sharing. An interim final rule can take effect when it is published in the Federal Register.
05.31.2017	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Diana DeGette (D-CO), Chief Deputy Whip, issued the following statement after reports surfaced that President Donald J. Trump will pull the United States out of the Paris climate agreement today: “If it’s true that the President plans to renege on our country’s commitment to help reverse the damage wrought through pollution, he is not only wreaking havoc on United States leadership, but is also contributing to a bleak future for our planet,” DeGette said. “The United States was one of the leading forces in bringing countries together in Paris in 2015. We all agreed to sensible steps to limit carbon emissions that are putting the environment at risk and creating instability around the globe, from flooding to famine to extreme, damaging weather events. “Our country is already on a path toward a diminished role in global affairs thanks to President Trump, as developments during and just after his recent overseas trip have underscored. If he continues lurching down this path, our leadership will no longer be in question – it will cease to exist.”
05.24.2017	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Diana DeGette (D-CO), Chief Deputy Whip, said the newest assessment by the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office (CBO) of the Trumpcare bill that the House passed last month proves that the bill is ill-advised and full of broken promises to the American people. “Trumpcare is bad news for a lot of people, as the CBO has shown yet again,” DeGette said. “If this bill becomes law, it will ration care and put insurance companies back in charge. Millions of people will lose their coverage while the cost for others will go up – including those covered through employer plans. People can expect higher premiums and out-of-pocket costs for skimpy coverage that in many cases won’t include essential services such as maternity care and treatment for mental health and substance abuse. And those over age 50 will pay even more – that is, if they can afford the age tax that this plan would impose. “President Trump promised that no American would lose health insurance under his plan and that he wouldn’t cut Medicare or Medicaid. This bad bill breaks those promises and spells disaster for countless Americans.” Among other findings, the CBO said the bill to dismantle the Affordable Care Act would cause 23 million people to lose health insurance over 10 years – 14 million of them in the first year alone. The CBO also said that some low-income older adults could be forced to pay $13,6000 to $16,000 out of their own pocket for premiums. By comparison, the same people pay approximately $1,700 to cover their premiums under the Affordable Care Act. The CBO noted that millions of Americans live in states that, under Trumpcare, could waive certain requirements under the ACA, including the coverage of essential health benefits, and about one-third of Americans would lose the protections now afforded by the ACA to people with pre-existing conditions. The assessment also confirmed once again that, contrary to claims by President Trump and some congressional Republicans, the Affordable Care Act is not in “a death spiral.” The CBO specifically noted that “substantial uncertainty” about whether the Trump Administration will continue to pay cost-sharing reduction payments could cause health plans to withdraw from the market under current law. In other words, efforts to sabotage the ACA through loose talk from the President on down are working in some areas, at the expense of the American people and their pocketbooks. “The onus is now on the Senate to prevent this damage,” DeGette said. “It was dangerously irresponsible for House Republican leaders to ram this bill through the House for a vote with no CBO score. If Republicans really want to provide better health care for Americans, they should work with Democrats on making improvements to the ACA rather than dismantling or sabotaging it.”
05.24.2017	Washington, D.C. –Congresswoman Diana DeGette (D-CO) was among the 196 House Democrats who today sent a letter to President Trump reminding him that millions of working families around the nation are relying on him to continue paying the Affordable Care Act’s cost-sharing reduction (CSR) payments. Since taking office, President Trump has raised doubts about the future of these payments, which help seven million hardworking Americans and their families afford their out-of-pocket health care costs, such as deductibles and copays, through the ACA Marketplace. “It is your responsibility to the American people and your obligation under the law to make the cost-sharing reduction payments and to stop other acts of sabotage that undermine Americans’ access to affordable, quality health insurance,” the House Democrats wrote. The President’s failure to commit to paying these subsidies is destabilizing the Marketplaces, and will directly result in higher health care costs and insurance companies pulling out of the Marketplace, leading to fewer consumer choices. “The decision to unilaterally rescind support for these subsidies will cause premiums and out-of-pocket costs to skyrocket and could cause millions of Americans to lose their health insurance coverage,” the House Democrats wrote. “Insurers have little time left to finalize their rate filings for 2018, and without certainty as to whether or not cost-sharing subsidies will be paid, they will significantly raise their rates or exit the Marketplaces altogether.” In April, the CEO of Molina Healthcare warned that if cost-sharing subsidies are not funded, the company will withdraw from the Marketplaces immediately. That same month, a report from the Kaiser Family Foundation estimated that insurance premiums for silver plans would need to increase by 19 percent to compensate for the lack of funding for cost-sharing subsidies. “Working families in every state are relying on you to pay cost-sharing subsidies to help ensure that they can afford the health care they need,” the House Democrats wrote. “The stability of the nation’s health care system and the health of millions of Americans now rest in your hands. Their health care coverage is not a bargaining chip.” Full text of the letter can be found below: May 24, 2017 The President The White House Washington, D.C. 20500 Dear Mr. President: The law requires, and it is your obligation under the law, to pay the Affordable Care Act’s (ACA) cost-sharing reduction payments. Equivocation on this matter destabilizes the market and hurts American families by directly increasing their health care costs. Cost-sharing reduction payments help seven million hardworking Americans and their families – more than half of all Marketplace enrollees for 2017 – afford their out-of-pocket health care costs. The decision to unilaterally rescind support for these subsidies will cause premiums and out-of-pocket costs to skyrocket and could cause millions of Americans to lose their health insurance coverage. According to a recent report in Politico, your administration has stated that it will continue to pay these cost-sharing subsidies, for now. However, your public statements continue to raise doubts about the future of these payments and your commitment to enforcing the ACA, the law of the land. You have also stated in the past that, “The best thing politically is to let Obamacare explode” and recently said that “Obamacare is dead.” We strongly disagree. The ACA is not dead; however, your failure to commit to paying these subsidies is destabilizing the Marketplaces, and will directly result in higher costs and fewer consumer choices. Insurers have little time left to finalize their rate filings for 2018, and without certainty as to whether or not cost-sharing subsidies will be paid, they will significantly raise their rates or exit the Marketplaces altogether. According to the American Academy of Actuaries, failure to make cost-sharing subsidy payments “could result in insurer losses and solvency challenges, leading insurers to further consider withdrawing from the market. . . . [S]ignificant market disruption could result, leading to millions of Americans losing their health insurance.” In fact, the CEO of Molina Healthcare recently warned that if cost-sharing subsidies are not funded, the company will withdraw from the Marketplaces immediately. In areas where insurers decide to remain in the Marketplaces, failure to pay these subsidies will increase premiums for all individuals enrolled in the individual market. According to a study by the Kaiser Family Foundation, average ACA Marketplace premiums for silver plans would need to increase by 19 percent to compensate for lack of funding for cost-sharing subsidies. An analysis conducted by Covered California found that 2018 health premiums in the individual market in California could rise by 42-49 percent if the subsidies are not funded and other provisions of the ACA are not enforced. Rising prices and fewer choices will likely hit consumers in rural areas, where health care prices have traditionally been higher, particularly hard. As a result of rising premiums, the federal government would end up spending $31 billion more from 2018-2027. Working families in every state are relying on you to pay cost-sharing subsidies to help ensure that they can afford the health care they need. The stability of the nation’s health care system and the health of millions of Americans now rest in your hands. Their health care coverage is not a bargaining chip. It is your responsibility to the American people and your obligation under the law to make the cost-sharing reduction payments and to stop other acts of sabotage that undermine Americans’ access to affordable, quality health insurance. Sincerely, Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi Democratic Whip Steny H. Hoyer Assistant Democratic Leader James E. Clyburn Democratic Caucus Chairman Joseph Crowley Democratic Caucus Vice Chairman Linda Sánchez Energy and Commerce Ranking Member Frank Pallone, Jr. Ways and Means Ranking Member Richard E. Neal Education & the Workforce Ranking Member Robert C. “Bobby” Scott Budget Ranking Member John A. Yarmuth Alma S. Adams (NC-12) Pete Aguilar (CA-31) Nanette Diaz Barragán (CA-44) Karen Bass (CA-37) Joyce Beatty (OH-03) Ami Bera (CA-07) Donald S. Beyer Jr. (VA-08) Sanford D. Bishop Jr. (GA-02) Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) Lisa Blunt Rochester (DE-AL) Suzanne Bonamici (OR-01) Madeleine Z. Bordallo (GU-DL) Brendan F. Boyle (PA-13) Robert A. Brady (PA-01) Anthony G. Brown (MD-04) Julia Brownley (CA-26) Cheri Bustos (IL-17) G.K.Butterfield (NC-01) Michael E. Capuano (MA-07) Salud O. Carbajal (CA-24) Tony Cárdenas (CA-29) André Carson (IN-07) Matt Cartwright (PA-17) Kathy Castor (FL-14) Joaquin Castro (TX-20) Judy Chu (CA-27) David N. Cicilline (RI-01) Katherine M. Clark (MA-05) Yvette D. Clarke (NY-09) Wm. Lacy Clay (MO-01) Emanuel Cleaver (MO-05) Steve Cohen (TN-09) Gerald E. Connolly (VA-11) John Conyers Jr. (MI-13) Jim Cooper (TN-05) J. Luis Correa (CA-46) Jim Costa (CA-16) Joe Courtney (CT-02) Charlie Crist (FL-13) Henry Cuellar (TX-28) Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07) Danny K. Davis (IL-07) Susan A. Davis (CA-53) Peter A. DeFazio (OR-04) Diana DeGette (CO-01) John K. Delaney (MD-06) Rosa L. DeLauro (CT-03) Suzan K. DelBene (WA-01) Val Butler Demings (FL-10) Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) Theodore E. Deutch (FL-22) Debbie Dingell (M-I12) Lloyd Doggett (TX-35) Michael F. Doyle (PA-14) Keith Ellison (MN-05) Eliot L. Engel (NY-16) Anna G. Eshoo (CA-18) Adriano Espaillat (NY-13) Elizabeth H. Esty (CT-05) Dwight Evans (PA-02) Bill Foster (IL-11) Lois Frankel (FL21) Marcia L. Fudge (OH11) Tulsi Gabbard (HI-02) Ruben Gallego (AZ-07) John Garamendi (CA-03) Vicente Gonzalez (TX-15) Josh Gottheimer (NJ-05) Al Green (TX-09) Gene Green (TX-29) Raúl M. Grijalva (AZ-03) Luis V. Gutiérrez (IL-04) Colleen Hanabusa (HI-01) Alcee L. Hastings (FL-20) Denny Heck (WA-10) Brian Higgins (NY-26) James A. Himes (CT-04) Jared Huffman (CA-02) Sheila Jackson Lee (TX-18) Pramila Jayapal (WA-07) Hakeem S. Jeffries (NY-08) Eddie Bernice Johnson (TX-30) Henry C. "Hank" Johnson Jr. (GA-04) Marcy Kaptur (OH-09) William R. Keating (MA-09) Robin L. Kelly (IL-02) Joseph P. Kennedy III (MA-04) Ro Khanna (CA-17) Ruben Kihuen (NV-04) Daniel T. Kildee (MI-05) Derek Kilmer (WA-06) Ron Kind (WI-03) Raja Krishnamoorthi (IL-08) Ann M. Kuster (NH-02) James R. Langevin (RI-02) Rick Larsen (WA-02) John B. Larson (CT-01) Brenda L. Lawrence (MI-14) Al Lawson Jr. (FL-05) Barbara Lee (CA-13) Sander M. Levin (MI-09) John Lewis (GA-05) Ted Lieu (CA-33) Daniel Lipinski (IL-03) David Loebsack (IA-02) Zoe Lofgren (CA-19) Alan S. Lowenthal (CA-47) Nita M. Lowey (NY-17) Ben Ray Luján (NM-03) Michelle Lujan Grisham (NM-01) Stephen F. Lynch (MA-08) Carolyn B. Maloney (NY-12) Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) Doris O. Matsui (CA-06) Betty McCollum (MN-04) A. Donald McEachin (VA-04) James P. McGovern (MA-02) Jerry McNerney (CA-09) Gregory W. Meeks (NY-05) Grace Meng (NY-06) Gwen Moore (WI-04) Seth Moulton (MA-06) Stephanie N. Murphy (FL-07) Jerrold Nadler (NY-10) Grace F. Napolitano (CA-32) Richard M. Nolan (MN-08) Donald Norcross (NJ-01) Eleanor Holmes Norton (DC-00) Tom O'Halleran (AZ-01) Beto O'Rourke (TX-16) Jimmy Panetta (CA-20) Bill Pascrell Jr. (NJ-09) Donald M. Payne Jr. (NJ-10) Ed Perlmutter (CO-07) Scott H. Peters (CA-52) Collin C. Peterson (MN-07) Chellie Pingree (ME-01) Stacey E. Plaskett (VI-00) Mark Pocan (WI-02) Jared Polis (CO-02) David E. Price (NC-04) Mike Quigley (IL-05) Jamie Raskin (MD-08) Kathleen M. Rice (NY-04) Cedric L. Richmond (LA-02) Jacky Rosen (NV-03) Lucille Roybal-Allard (CA-40) Raul Ruiz (CA-36) C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (MD-02) Bobby L. Rush (IL-01) Tim Ryan (OH-13) Gregorio Kilili Camacho Sablan (MP-00) John P. Sarbanes (MD-03) Janice D. Schakowsky (IL-09) Adam B. Schiff (CA-28) Bradley Scott Schneider (IL-10) Kurt Schrader (OR-05) David Scott (GA-13) José E. Serrano (NY-15) Terri A. Sewell (AL-07) Carol Shea-Porter (NH-01) Brad Sherman (CA-30) Kyrsten Sinema (AZ-09) Albio Sires (NJ-08) Louise McIntosh Slaughter (NY-25) Adam Smith (WA-09) Darren Soto (FL-09) Jackie Speier (CA-14) Thomas R. Suozzi (NY-03) Eric Swalwell (CA-15) Mark Takano (CA-41) Bennie G. Thompson (MS-02) Mike Thompson (CA-05) Dina Titus (NV-01) Paul Tonko (NY-20) Norma J. Torres (CA-35) Niki Tsongas (MA-03) Juan Vargas (CA-51) Marc A. Veasey (TX-33) Filemon Vela (TX-34) Nydia M. Velázquez (NY-07) Peter J. Visclosky (IN-01) Timothy J. Walz (MN-01) Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) Bonnie Watson Coleman (NJ-12) Peter Welch (VT-00) Frederica S. Wilson (FL-24) ###
05.23.2017	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Diana DeGette (D-CO), Chief Deputy Whip, said President Trump’s budget request for Fiscal Year 2018 is heartless and short-sighted, crippling important domestic and international programs to create needless tax breaks for the wealthy. “The President’s heartless budget proposal amply shows his lack of concern for Americans’ health, financial struggles and hopes for a better life for their kids,” DeGette said. “It punishes the most vulnerable while propping up the wealthy and making preposterous assumptions about the country’s economic growth. And it guts funding for diplomacy and development at a time when we should be investing more in our country’s leadership in an unstable world – a short-sighted approach that will leave us weaker.” Among President Trump’s health-related changes that will harm the middle class and the poor are a $610 billion cut to Medicaid over 10 years, a steep reduction in the Children’s Health Insurance Program, and a $6 billion decrease in the budget of the National Institutes of Health. The President’s proposal would slash the budget for the Environmental Protection Agency by 31.4 percent and the State Department and related programs by 29 percent. It also eliminates Health and Human Services support for Planned Parenthood and funds for international family planning. DeGette is a senior member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee and co-chair of the Congressional Pro-Choice Caucus.
05.18.2017	Washington, DC – Representatives Diana DeGette (CO-01) and Mike Coffman (CO-06) today introduced a bill to ensure that the federal government does not pre-empt state laws on marijuana. The Respect States and Citizens’ Rights Act of 2017 clarifies congressional intent and provides guidance for courts. DeGette and Coffman teamed up on a similar bill in 2012 just after Coloradans approved legalizing marijuana by a margin of six points. They are introducing it anew at a time when the Trump Administration has been signaling its intention to challenge state marijuana laws. “Passing this bill is now more important than ever before,” DeGette said. “My colleagues and I -- along with our constituents -- spoke out frequently during the Obama administration to make clear we didn’t want the federal government denying money to our states or taking other punitive steps that would undermine the will of our citizens. Lately, we’ve had even more reason for these concerns, given Trump administration statements. This bill makes clear that we’re not going back to the days of raids on legal dispensaries, of folks living in fear that they’re not going to get the medical marijuana they need, or that they might get jailed for using it.” “While I have opposed the legalization of marijuana, the people of Colorado voted for an initiative in 2012 that legalized marijuana and placed it in our state’s constitution. Since this is clearly not a matter of interstate commerce, I believe that the people of Colorado had every right, under the U.S. Constitution, to decide this issue for themselves and as their representative in Congress, I have an obligation to respect the will of the people of Colorado and that’s why I’m reintroducing this bill with Congresswoman DeGette.” The full text of the “Respect States’ and Citizens’ Rights Act” can be found here.
05.18.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Diana DeGette (D-CO) and five House colleagues sent a letter to Ivanka Trump today inviting her to a meeting on women’s health issues, including access to affordable contraception. “Given your stated passion about women’s issues and empowerment, we found your silence during the House passage of the American Health Care Act (AHCA) surprising,” the legislators wrote. “AHCA is a disastrous bill for women and their families, threatening access to pregnancy care, maternal and newborn services, breast cancer screenings, and contraception. … Given your influence over these issues in the White House, we respectfully request an in-person meeting.” In joining her father’s administration, Ms. Trump has said she intends to be a voice for women’s empowerment, especially for working women. Family planning, including contraception, is essential for many women balancing work and family, as Ms. Trump has. But as the letter points out, this Administration’s policies could put millions of women in the United States at risk of unintended pregnancies. The signers of this letter have requested a meeting with Ms. Trump by May 26th to talk about the important role contraception plays in fulfilling her stated goal of economically empowering women. The full text of the letter is below and can be found online here. May 18, 2017 Dear Ms. Ivanka Trump, As Members of Congress who care deeply about women’s health, we invite you to meet with us and engage in a constructive discussion about the importance of preserving access to affordable birth control and other forms of contraception for women across the country. Given your stated passion about women’s issues and empowerment, we found your silence during the House passage of the American Health Care Act (AHCA) surprising. AHCA is a disastrous bill for women and their families, threatening access to pregnancy care, maternal and newborn services, breast cancer screenings, and contraception. President Trump also recently signed a law threatening access to contraception and other basic health services for the four million women and men who rely on Title X, the only federal program dedicated solely to family planning. Again, we were disappointed that you did not voice concerns about this step in the wrong direction for women. Unfortunately, we fear that the Administration may take additional steps in the very near future that will further jeopardize women’s access to contraception. Language in Executive Order 13798, issued on May 5th, 2017, strongly suggests the order will be used to deny women birth control due to the beliefs or attitudes of their employers. The Affordable Care Act (ACA) currently requires health plans to provide women birth control with no additional cost-sharing. Approximately 43 million women in the United States—70 percent of women of childbearing age—may experience an unintended pregnancy if they lose reasonable access to contraception.[1] In order to have the family size that works best for them, many women may need to use contraception for decades.[2] Some women also need contraception for other health reasons, like excessive menstrual bleeding, pain, or acne.[3] We therefore believe that it is essential to preserve access to contraception for the millions of American women who rely on it to plan their lives. The looming threat to contraception access created by the recent Executive Order presents another chance for you to make your voice heard on this critical issue. As a busy mother of three, you understand the importance of a woman’s ability to plan for herself and for her family. Given your influence over these issues in the White House, we respectfully request an in-person meeting prior to May 26, 2017 to discuss the important role contraception plays in ensuring the success of America’s women and families. Sincerely, Rep. Judy Chu Rep. Diana DeGette Rep. Louise Slaughter Rep. Suzan DelBene Rep. Barbara Lee Rep. Jackie Speier [1] Jones J, Mosher WD and Daniels K, Current contraceptive use in the United States, 2006–2010, and changes in patterns of use since 1995, National Health Statistics Reports, 2012, No. 60, https://www.cdc.gov/nchs/data/nhsr/nhsr060.pdf. [2] Alan Guttmacher Institute (AGI), Fulfilling the Promise: Public Policy and U.S. Family Planning Clinics, New York: AGI, 2000. [3] Jones RK, Beyond Birth Control: The Overlooked Benefits of Oral Contraceptive Pills, New York: Guttmacher Institute, 2011.
05.17.2017	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Diana DeGette (D-CO), Chief Deputy Whip, applauded the appointment of a Special Counsel to oversee the FBI’s Russia investigation, which she had called for in a letter to Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein last week. “With this step, the FBI is on a path to restoring public confidence in our democratic processes and institutions,” DeGette said. “We don’t yet know where this path may lead, but better to pursue it bravely than to let lingering questions and jarring daily developments further undermine our country.” In her May 11 letter to Rosenstein, DeGette wrote, “At such times, it is the duty of the President and his administration to take the necessary steps to ensure that partisanship and self-preservation do not corrupt our country. … The American people deserve to receive a full accounting of Russian activities in this area.” Noting that news stories of the past few days had brought one shocking revelation after another involving Russian officials, President Trump’s actions, the firing of FBI director James Comey, alleged conversations between Comey and President Trump, and other matters, DeGette said, “The coming weeks and months will likely bring more revealing investigative reporting, along with rampant rumors, misdirection and misinformation. A truly independent, impartial Special Counsel will follow the cold, hard facts wherever they lead. And the Justice Department can determine whether there has been a violation of federal law in a way that no other approach to these issues can.” DeGette has long supported the formation of an independent commission to investigate Russian interference in the 2016 election, including any possible collusion with the Trump campaign. She was among the many Democratic members of Congress who today signed a discharge petition to force a vote on H.R. 356, the Protecting Our Democracy Act. This bill, which will establish such a commission, has been ignored by the House Republican leadership, along with other substantive legislation intended to hold the President accountable.
05.12.2017	Denver, CO – Congresswoman Diana DeGette (D-CO), Chief Deputy Whip, today hailed the decision by Immigration and Customs Enforcement officials to grant stays of removal for immigrant rights’ activist Jeanette Vizguerra and long-time Denver resident Arturo Hernandez Garcia, both of whom had sought refuge in a church in her district, and she urged a more stable solution for people in their position. “ICE finally chose justice and granted a stay for Jeanette, freeing her from the church basement where she has sought shelter these past few months, and Arturo’s circumstances have been resolved for the moment,” DeGette said. “But such situations should never arise in the first place. People who contribute to their communities and live peacefully for decades in this country – at a time when immigrants of all types are being demonized – deserve better. “Congress needs to get serious about comprehensive immigration reform rather than continuing with the patchwork of measures that we now have. And in the meantime, the Executive Branch needs to show more compassion.” Vizguerra, an undocumented immigrant and immigrant rights’ activist, had sheltered in the First Unitarian Church in DeGette’s district since mid-February to avoid deportation on the eve of her last regularly-scheduled appointment with ICE officials. Because the stay on a previous deportation order had expired the week before, Vizguerra became concerned, alerting her family and her attorney that the check-in might not be routine. She was right; ICE agents were preparing to deport her upon arrival at their offices. DeGette contacted Trump administration officials, Denver Mayor Michael Hancock and Senator Michael Bennet, along with Vizguerra’s congressman, Jared Polis, who had introduced a bill a few days before seeking legal status for Vizguerra. She already had a pending legal petition to remain in the United States and had received stays of deportation during the Obama administration. The stay that has just been granted will expire in March 2019 unless Congress acts on the Polis bill first. Last month, TIME magazine named Vizguerra to its annual list of the 100 most influential people in the world. DeGette praised this move, saying, “Jeanette has been a clarion voice for the rights of others, is widely respected in her community and, during her two decades here, has contributed to civil society in many ways. She should not have to face the threat of deportation. I hope this renewed and higher-profile interest in her situation will help lead to a just resolution.” Vizguerra’s three youngest children – ages 6, 10, and 12 – were all born in the United States. She entered the country from Mexico illegally in 1997 with her husband and eldest daughter, then age 6. That daughter, now grown, lives in the United States and has a work permit under the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program. Hernandez Garcia has a daughter who came with him from Mexico to the United States in 1999 and is now 17, as well as an 11-year-old, U.S.-born daughter. He sought sanctuary in the church basement in 2014 and 2015 and emerged after officials told him he was no longer an immigration priority, but was arrested by ICE agents three weeks ago.
05.11.2017	Denver – Congresswoman Diana DeGette (D-CO), Chief Deputy Whip, today sent a letter to Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein asking that he appoint an independent Special Counsel to investigate Russian interference in the 2016 election, including potential Russian ties to President Donald J. Trump’s campaign. “Recent months – and most acutely, the past two days – have given rise to questions whose answers could shake the foundation of our democracy,” DeGette wrote. “At such times, it is the duty of the President and his administration to take the necessary steps to ensure that partisanship and self-preservation do not corrupt our country.” Noting that while both the House and the Senate are investigating this matter, DeGette said “the Justice Department has the resources, staff and authority to determine if there has been any violation of federal law.” “Given the recent and oddly-timed removal of FBI Director James Comey from his post, it is imperative that the Department move swiftly to restore confidence that this removal had nothing to do with the FBI’s investigation into the President and his campaign,” DeGette wrote. “The American people deserve to receive a full accounting of Russian activities in this area. It is my firm belief that only a full, fair, and impartial investigation headed by an independent Special Counsel with all the latitude available under the law can produce such a report at this point.” The full text of the letter is here and below. May 11, 2017 The Honorable Rod J. Rosenstein Deputy Attorney General U.S. Department of Justice 950 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, D.C. 20530 Dear Deputy Attorney General Rosenstein, I write to request that you immediately appoint an independent Special Counsel to investigate Russian interference in the 2016 election, including potential Russian ties to President Donald J. Trump’s campaign. I believe that this step is essential to ensure that the American people can have full faith that the institutions and ideals intended to transcend administrations remain the rock upon which our democracy was founded. While both the House and the Senate are investigating this matter, the Justice Department has the resources, staff and authority to determine if there has been any violation of federal law. Given the recent and oddly-timed removal of FBI Director James Comey from his post, it is imperative that the Department move swiftly to restore confidence that this removal had nothing to do with the FBI’s investigation into the President and his campaign. The American people deserve to receive a full accounting of Russian activities in this area. It is my firm belief that only a full, fair, and impartial investigation headed by an independent Special Counsel with all the latitude available under the law can produce such a report at this point. Recent months – and most acutely, the past two days – have given rise to questions whose answers could shake the foundation of our democracy. At such times, it is the duty of the President and his administration to take the necessary steps to ensure that partisanship and self-preservation do not corrupt our country. Again, I respectfully request your immediate appointment of a special counsel to investigate this matter and look forward to your response. Sincerely, Diana DeGette Member of Congress
05.10.2017	Denver – Congresswoman Diana DeGette (D-CO) praised the Senate’s 51-49 vote this morning to retain a key Bureau of Land Management waste prevention rule that keeps methane emissions in check. “I’m heartened that the Senate has shown its support for this rule, affirming our nation’s commitment to environmental and consumer protection,” DeGette said. “Overturning it would have reversed key progress in making our air and lands cleaner while also saving taxpayer money by reducing waste. I hope this is the start of a lasting, successful effort to block the Trump administration’s rollback of smart environmental policies.” In finalizing this rule last November, the Bureau of Land Management sought to reduce the wasteful and harmful release of methane, a potent climate pollutant, from oil and gas operations on public and tribal lands. Congresswoman DeGette was instrumental in establishing the rule and sent a letter in March 2016 to then-BLM Director Neil G. Kornze urging its implementation. The methane rule was developed after extensive outreach to key stakeholders on public and tribal lands and coordination with the EPA to avoid conflicting regulations. All but 11 House Republicans voted to pass the resolution to overturn it in February. In the Senate, the motion was blocked unanimously by Democrats and Independents, who were joined by Republican Senators McCain (AZ), Susan Collin (ME) and Lindsay Graham (SC) in voting no.
05.09.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman DeGette (D-CO), ranking member of the Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee, joined a bipartisan group of committee leaders today in sending a series of letters to pill distributors and the Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA) following recent reports of extremely high amounts of opioids being distributed in West Virginia. Joining DeGette in the letter were full committee Chairman Greg Walden (R-OR), full committee Ranking Member Frank Pallone, Jr. (D-NJ), Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee Chairman Tim Murphy (R-PA), and Rep. David McKinley (R-WV). Reports by the Charleston Gazette-Mail and The Washington Post tell the tale of an unusually large opioid presence in the state of West Virginia. “For example, in the small community of Kermit, West Virginia, with a population of 392, a single pharmacy received nearly nine million hydrocodone pills over two years,” wrote DeGette, Walden, Pallone, Murphy, and McKinley to the distributors. “The Gazette-Mail’s reporting also cited another example of what they called a ‘mom-and-pop pharmacy’ in the small town of Oceana, West Virginia that received an unusually high level of prescription medicines relative to a nearby pharmacy. In that case, the Gazette-Mail reported this single pharmacy ‘received 600 times as many oxycodone pills’ than a Rite Aid drugstore that was ‘just eight blocks away.’” The committee leaders continued, “If these reports are true, it would appear that the state of West Virginia may have received extraordinary amounts of opioids from distributors beyond what that population could safely use.” In the letter to the acting administrator of the DEA, the leaders requested information about what the DEA knew about the large quantities of opioids being distributed in West Virginia. Committee leaders wrote, “All players in the health care and enforcement community have a responsibility to help prevent opioid abuse, addiction, and diversion, and DEA has been at the forefront of these efforts. With the collective data that DEA has access to, the agency can help identify and respond to suspicious order trends for addictive opioids that appear problematic or excessive. Federal regulation requires distributors to report suspicious orders of narcotics to DEA, which include ‘orders of unusual size, orders deviating substantially from a normal pattern, and orders of unusual frequency.’” The letters are the latest action in the committee’s ongoing opioid investigation, which served as a catalyst for the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act (now law). Click HERE to read a copy of the letters.
05.04.2017	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Diana DeGette (D-CO), Chief Deputy Whip, said the Executive Order issued today by President Donald J. Trump is the first step toward rolling back women’s access to birth control and other forms of contraception. “The President is using the pretense of religious liberty to violate women’s freedom to make their own decisions about health care,” DeGette said. “Employers should not be able to intervene in intimate decisions about reproductive health by cutting off their access to preventive care. It’s outrageous that this administration is planning to take this step -- and on the same day that it conspired with GOP House members to dismantle the Affordable Care Act, which offers protections for reproductive care.” DeGette was one of the ACA’s authors, and she pushed to include in the law provisions that would result in access to contraception and reproductive health screenings without cost-sharing. Just after President Trump signed the order, Health and Human Services Secretary Tom Price said he would take swift action to “safeguard the deeply held religious beliefs of Americans who provide health insurance to their employees.”
05.04.2017	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Diana DeGette (D-CO), Chief Deputy Whip, said the House rush to passage of the revised bill to dismantle the Affordable Care Act (ACA) will come back to haunt Republicans once Americans realize how bad the legislation is. “The American Health Care Act was pulled from the House floor in March because the American people realized it was a deeply flawed bill,” DeGette said during floor debate on the newly-amended legislation. “That bill would have ripped health care coverage away from 24 million of our constituents. For those lucky enough to maintain coverage, the bill would have massively raised premiums, deductibles and out-of-pocket costs. The crushing age tax of the bill would force older adults to pay astronomically high premiums. So what did the majority do in the last six weeks? They made the bill worse.” Noting that the new version would let insurance companies opt out of covering essential health benefits guaranteed by the ACA – including maternity care, emergency room coverage and mental health treatment – as well as driving up insurance costs for those with pre-existing conditions and for seniors. DeGette said all this and more would become clearer once the non-partisan Congressional Budget Office has a chance to evaluate the revised bill. The CBO found that the original bill proposed in March would have deprived 24 million Americans of health care coverage who currently have it. “My Republican colleagues are going to be really, really sorry that they rushed this bill to the floor before they got an amended CBO score,” DeGette said, because once that information becomes available, Americans “are going to be shocked to wake up to find out, if this TrumpCare bill passes, many millions more will lose their coverage.”
05.01.2017	Washington, DC – Today, Congressional Pro-Choice Caucus Co-Chairs Diana DeGette (D-CO) and Louise Slaughter (D-NY) led 149 members of the House of Representatives in denouncing President Trump’s policies toward women’s health and women’s rights during the first 100 days of his administration. This effort also comes nearly 100 days after the National Women’s March, where millions of people across the country and around the globe marched to protect women’s rights. The congressional leaders are encouraging the president to listen to this groundswell and stop ignoring the voices of the American people. “During the relatively short time since your inauguration, women and their families have been under a constant and unprecedented attack,” wrote the congressional leaders. “Decades of progress on women’s health and their rights have been rolled back under your leadership, with even standard Republican policies taken to a whole new and devastating extreme.” The letter highlights the many actions taken by the Trump Administration that negatively impact women’s right and their health: -Depriving Planned Parenthood of federal funds -Repealing the Affordable Care Act with legislation that would gut maternity care -Reinstating and expanding the Global Gag Rule targeting organizations that work on U.S.-funded health programs overseas -Eliminating U.S. funding to United Nations Population Fund -Appointing anti-choice Cabinet members, including the Attorney General and Secretary of Health and Human Services -Promising to Nominate a Supreme Court Justice who could put Roe v. Wade at risk -Eliminating important protections in Title X, the nation’s family planning program -Gutting the Ten Pregnancy Prevention Program for the remainder of Fiscal Year 2017 “These attacks have led to women and men across the country turning out in record numbers at town halls, calling their members of Congress, and engaging in the legislative process like never before,” the House members wrote. “Your administration can no longer ignore this groundswell. It should instead begin to listen to the voices of the American people.” The full text of the letter is included below and available online here: May 1, 2017 The Honorable Donald J. Trump President of the United States Washington, DC 20510 Mr. President, One hundred days ago, women, men, and families across this country and around the globe marched for fairness and equity for all people in historic numbers. Fears of attacks on women’s health and the fundamental rights so many women value led to this historic march. Sadly, just 100 days into your administration, many of these fears have already become reality. During the relatively short time since your inauguration, women and their families have been under a constant and unprecedented attack. Decades of progress on women’s health and their rights have been rolled back under your leadership, with even standard Republican policies taken to a whole new and devastating extreme. As Members of Congress committed to advancing health and economic security, we find it especially unacceptable that your administration has prioritized the following actions: ●“Defunding” Planned Parenthood: Even though you have acknowledged the critical role of Planned Parenthood health centers in providing access to basic health care, your administration has caved to the most extreme anti-women’s health special interests by supporting “defunding” Planned Parenthood. Should you succeed, countless women who rely on Medicaid will be blocked the provider of their choice, which is often the only safety net provider available where they live. Attempting to Repeal the Affordable Care Act: Your administration continues to support repeated attempts to advance the American Health Care Act (AHCA). This legislation would devastate our health system and rip coverage away from 24 million people. Those lucky enough to maintain coverage would be forced to pay more for less, as premiums and deductibles climb while benefits decline. The most recent version of AHCA includes provisions that would harm women and their families specifically, such as by making it virtually impossible for private insurers to cover comprehensive reproductive health care and gutting maternity care. Global Gag Rule: Your administration reinstated an expanded version of the harmful global gag rule, targeting organizations who work on any U.S.-funded global health program, including HIV/AIDS prevention and treatment, maternal and child health, and Zika programs. These groups are now banned from all global health funding from the U.S. government if they also happen to provide counseling, referrals, or services or advocate for safe and legal abortion – even with their own funding. This action will be catastrophic for communities abroad, especially those relying on U.S. funding to address HIV/AIDS, maternal health care, and the fight against Zika. Eliminating U.S. Funding to United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA): Your administration followed up on the devastating impact of the widening of the global gag rule by eliminating all U.S. funding to UNFPA, one of the most wide-reaching and vital sources of child and maternal health and contraceptive in the world. UNFPA works in more than 150 countries to facilitate safe births, protect girls from child marriage and female genital mutilation, and provide access to voluntary contraception for women and men. In more than 100 of these countries, USAID does not operate a family planning program, rendering UNFPA’s presence even more crucial. Appointments that Jeopardize Women’s Health: The recent confirmation of your Attorney General and Secretary of Health and Human Services are the most high-profile examples of you working to stock the government with anti-choice voices committed to rolling back the protections women have fought hard for over recent decades. With a historically high amount of vacancies still persistent across the government, we fear that additional appointments will be made that could further erode women’s health and rights. Confirmation of a Supreme Court Justice who puts Roe v. Wade at Risk: You repeatedly promised to nominate someone to the U.S. Supreme Court who would support overturning Roe v. Wade. We have no reason to believe you changed your mind when you nominated now-Justice Gorsuch. His confirmation—achievable only after your allies in the Senate changed longstanding rules to put him on the bench with only a majority, party-line vote—comes at a time when seven in 10 Americans support a woman’s constitutionally-protected right to choose. Attacks on Title X Family Planning: You signed a resolution behind closed doors that eliminated important protections in Title X, the nation’s family planning program. These protections that you eliminated clarified that health centers could not be prohibited from serving people under Title X for arbitrary or politically-motivated reasons that are unrelated to their ability to provide high-quality care. This resolution threatens access to birth control for four million people who depend on Title X. Budget Priorities: Though we haven’t yet seen your full budget priorities for FY 2018, your proposal for the remainder of FY 2017 would gut the Teen Pregnancy Prevention Program, a cost effective sex education program for young people that has been proven to reduce sexual risk behaviors, thus contributing to reductions in teen pregnancy. These attacks have led to women and men across the country turning out in record numbers at town halls, calling their members of Congress, and engaging in the legislative process like never before. Your administration can no longer ignore this groundswell. It should instead begin to listen to the voices of the American people. If your administration began to listen to the people it represents, then you would reverse your harmful agenda and start to prioritize women's access to health care, employment opportunities, and education domestically and around the world. We call on the Trump administration to do just that, and put the lives of women and working families ahead of ideological and partisan attacks. Sincerely, ###
04.28.2017	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Diana DeGette, (D-CO), co-chair of the Congressional Pro-Choice Caucus, today condemned the appointment of anti-choice activist Charmaine Yoest to be Assistant Secretary of Public Affairs at the Department of Health and Human Services, a decision that underscores President Trump’s anti-woman agenda. “Charmaine Yoest should not serve in a key communications policy role at the agency responsible for Americans’ health and well-being,” DeGette said. “Her position as President and CEO of Americans United for Life, a leading anti-choice advocacy group, as well as her anti-LGBTQ record, make her a shockingly dangerous selection. Time and time again, President Trump’s actions -- particularly his federal appointments, show a deep disrespect for women and their rights.” The announcement comes one day before President Trump marks his 100th day in office, a period that has been marked by anti-choice executive orders, political appointments and rollbacks of regulations supporting reproductive rights.
04.28.2017	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Diana DeGette (D-CO), Chief Deputy Whip, said she voted against today’s stopgap spending bill because such short-term continuing resolutions create inconsistency and unpredictability in running the federal government and only prolong political gamesmanship. “It’s understandable that President Donald J. Trump wouldn’t want to mark his 100th day in office with the ultimate failure in federal management, shutting the government down. Nor is a shutdown in anyone’s interest. However, a one-week stopgap spending bill is not the right solution,” DeGette said. “Congressional Republicans and Democrats agreed last year to certain parameters for the federal budget, but these have been cast in doubt during the past few weeks as proposals for poison-pill riders have been made. Today’s vote only drags out these political games. Meanwhile, federal agencies that need to make decisions about responsibly allocating their remaining funds for this fiscal year are left in limbo. This is no way to run a government.”
04.20.2017	Denver, CO – Congresswoman Diana DeGette (D-CO) said she hopes the naming of Jeanette Vizguerra, currently sheltering in a church in DeGette’s district to avoid deportation, to the 2017 TIME 100 would not only bring greater recognition to the immigrant rights leader’s achievements, but also help resolve her status and lead to a path whereby Vizguerra can remain in the United States legally. “TIME was wise to name Jeannette to its annual list of the 100 most influential people in the world because she leads by example at a time when immigrants are being demonized in this country,” DeGette said. “Jeanette has been a clarion voice for the rights of others, is widely respected in her community and, during her two decades here, has contributed to civil society in many ways. She should not have to face the threat of deportation. I hope this renewed and higher-profile interest in her situation will help lead to a just resolution.” DeGette has been in contact with the Trump administration, Denver Mayor Michael Hancock and Senator Michael Bennet, along with Vizguerra’s congressman, Jared Polis, about Vizguerra’s case. An undocumented immigrant with a pending legal petition to remain in the United States, Vizguerra had received stays of deportation from Immigration and Customs Enforcement officials during the Obama administration. The most recent one expired in mid-February, just before Vizguerra was due for a check-in with ICE. She sought sanctuary in the First Unitarian Church and learned through her lawyers that ICE intended to deport her that day. Vizguerra’s three youngest children – ages 6, 10, and 12 – were all born in the United States. She entered the country from Mexico illegally in 1997 with her husband and eldest daughter, then age 6. That daughter, now grown, lives in the United States and has a work permit under the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program.
04.07.2017	Denver – Congresswoman Diana DeGette (D-CO), Chief Deputy Whip, today released the following statement regarding next steps after last night’s missile strike on a Syrian airbase in response to that country’s use of chemical weapons on its own people this week: “Chemical weapons use on anyone, but most especially civilians, is horrific and calls for a response. However, the context for last night’s action is a wider, brutal conflict. The Administration must demonstrate that it has a comprehensive Syria strategy that includes diplomacy and has clear goals. “It’s the President’s duty to protect national security, but he must consult with Congress and seek an Authorization for Use of Military Force if he intends to take further military action involving Syria. “The President’s plans should include relief for refugees – the internally displaced as well as the millions who have fled Syria, among them many who have applied for asylum in the United States. “The massacre in Syria this week at its leader’s own hand has caused the President to reconsider his approach; further steps should be marked by level-headedness, compassion and respect for the balance of powers enshrined in the U.S. Constitution.”
04.06.2017	WASHINGTON, DC —Today, U.S. Representatives Diana DeGette (CO-01), Jared Polis (CO-02), Matt Cartwright (PA-17), and Jan Schakowsky (IL-09) introduced their Safe Energy Future Plan, a package of five bills that will protect public health and the environment from the risks of oil and gas production, including hydraulic fracturing, also known as “fracking.” “Our country’s water and air quality should not be compromised by drilling and fracking,” the four legislators said. “Oil and gas development has expanded in the past decade, while environmental protections haven’t kept pace. Our legislation will close loopholes and exceptions that have been made at the expense of public health and safety. They will hold the energy industry to the same nationwide standards as other industries in this country must meet. After all, air and water pollution have no respect for state lines.” The FRAC Act (DeGette) closes the so-called Halliburton Loophole, enacted in 2005, thus ensuring federal regulation of fracking under the Safe Drinking Water Act. It would also require public disclosure of the chemicals used in fracking. The BREATHE Act (Polis) closes loopholes in the Clean Air Act that currently exempt the oil and gas industry from essential protections from toxic air pollution. The bill would require that toxic emissions of multiple related small sources be aggregated to determine total emissions, just like other industries have to do. The FRESHER Act (Cartwright) closes the loophole in the Clean Water Act that endangers water quality near oil and gas production sites, and requires oil and gas producers to obtain the standard permits necessary for activities that increase storm-water runoff and risk water pollution. The CLEANER Act (Cartwright) closes the loophole in the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act that exempts waste materials from oil and natural gas production from requirements for the safe handling, transport and disposal of hazardous waste. The SHARED Act (Schakowsky) prevents drinking water contamination by requiring baseline water testing of sources near planned fracking sites, along with public disclosure of the test results, before the sites are approved for operation. "We support mineral extraction as long as it's done responsibly,” the lawmakers noted. “But the current patchwork of regulations and loophole-filled laws doesn’t ensure that this is the case. For the safety of all our communities, we need to ensure that the oil and gas industries are held accountable.”
04.05.2017	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Diana DeGette (D-CO), Chief Deputy Whip, today hailed the removal of Steve Bannon from the National Security Council. “This is a step toward putting more grown-ups in charge at the Trump White House,” DeGette said. “The National Security Council serves a critical convening role for professionals leading our country’s international affairs and should not be politicized. Many Americans are deeply alarmed over the direction our foreign policy is taking under this presidency. Let’s hope today’s reorganization of the NSC helps ease some of our concerns, but there’s much more to be done.” DeGette is a co-sponsor of H.R. 804, which would prohibit the President from designating anyone whose primary responsibility is political in nature to serve as a member of the NSC or to regularly take part in NSC meetings. In November, DeGette issued a statement expressing concern over Trump’s appointment of Bannon to the role of chief White House strategist, and urged the president-elect to build an administration that promoted unity and repudiates hate. She also joined 168 other House Democrats in calling for Bannon’s removal, saying his work at Breitbart, an online news and opinion source that publishes bigoted content, makes him the wrong choice to help steer an administration that intends to unite a divided nation.
04.05.2017	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Diana DeGette (D-CO), joined by 26 other members of the House, today advocated for maintaining federal oversight of the safety and health effects of tobacco products. In a letter to the Chairman and Ranking Member of the Appropriations Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Development and FDA, the legislators urge against the inclusion of policy riders in the FY 2018 budget that would undermine the Food and Drug Administration’s ability to review tobacco products. Tobacco use remains the leading cause of preventable death in our nation, each year leading to more than 480,000 premature deaths,” the letter noted. “Last year FDA took a critical step to protect children and public health by issuing a final rule that will enable the agency to begin to oversee e-cigarettes, cigars, and other tobacco products that had previously been outside of FDA’s authority. With the high rates of use of these products among youth, the need for FDA oversight of these products is clear.” The Family Smoking Prevention and Tobacco Control Act, passed in 2009, enabled the FDA to begin overseeing the manufacturing, sale and marketing of all tobacco products. Under this authority, FDA issued a final rule last year to begin to regulate e-cigarettes, cigars, and other items that it had not yet overseen. However, the House FY 2017 agriculture appropriations bill contained two policy riders that hampered the agency’s ability to do so. The first rider sought to exempt certain cigars from FDA regulation. The other sought to exempt thousands of e-cigarettes, cigars and other recently regulated tobacco products from review. The letter, addressed to Chairman Robert Aderholdt and Ranking Member Sanford Bishop, noted that this rider removes “a powerful and efficient tool to protect children from the candy- and fruit-flavored e-cigarettes and cigars” at a time when each day, more than 2,100 kids under age 18 try smoking cigars for the first time. A copy of the letter is posted here.
03.29.2017	Video of Congresswoman DeGette&amp;#039;s Full Remarks at the National Press Club&amp;#039;s Newsmakers event Washington, DC – Now that the White House and congressional Republicans have ended their unilateral effort to dismantle the Affordable Care Act, Congresswoman DeGette (D-CO), Chief Deputy Whip, is making the case that it’s time to consider real, bipartisan reforms. “The time is ripe to shift back to constructive discussions of how to improve the ACA,” DeGette said at a National Press Club Newsmaker event. “To do that, we need a combination of political courage, productive engagement and mutual good will.” DeGette has a record of bipartisan success in health care, including passage of the 21stCentury Cures Act, which she co-authored with Republican Congressman Fred Upton of Michigan. That bill, which modernizes biomedical research in the United States, became law in December. “Democrats and Republicans can and should work together on policy solutions addressing areas of shared concern about America’s health care now,” DeGette said “We need to focus on areas where there are issues on which we agree.” However, she warned, for this effort to succeed, the Trump administration must avoid any further actions, whether intentional or not, that could undermine the ACA – including referring to the system as “exploding” or taking steps that would depress participation in the next enrollment season for the ACA. ”Bipartisanship IS still possible in our government,” DeGette said. “Now is the time to put aside politics and get serious about addressing the issues with America’s health care system in a way that Democrats and Republicans alike can support.”
03.24.2017	Washington, DC – In response to House Speaker Paul Ryan’s announcement that he is pulling from consideration the Trumpcare bill to dismantle the Affordable Care Act, Congresswoman Diana DeGette (D-CO), Chief Deputy Whip, issued the following statement: “This bad bill would have ripped health insurance away from millions of people – 24 million over ten years, and 14 million next year alone – and would have provided less care for others at higher cost. “There is bipartisan agreement across the country that we should improve the Affordable Care Act and do more to bring down premiums, deductibles, and out-of-pocket costs. Trumpcare offered no solutions to these problems. “I am prepared to work with colleagues across the aisle on legislation to improve the ACA, just as we worked together to modernize biomedical research with the bipartisan 21st Century Cures Act that became law three months ago. Congress can accomplish the goal of improving health care in this country without hurting millions of people in the process.” Diana DeGette is a senior member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee and was a key voice on shaping and passing the Affordable Care Act.
03.21.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Reps. Diana DeGette, Louise Slaughter, Jan Schakowsky, Barbara Lee, Judy Chu, Suzan DelBene, Jerrold Nadler and Katherine Clark today blasted Republicans’ latest changes to their disastrous healthcare repeal bill, which threatens the health and well-being of women and families. Under the latest version of the Republican bill, states would be allowed to kick new mothers off Medicaid if they can’t find work within 60 days of giving birth. “Just when we thought this bill couldn't get any worse for women and families, Republicans have found a new low. Their updated bill, released in the middle of the night, now includes a direct attack on new mothers right after childbirth,” the members of Congress said. “Their devastating bill would turn back the clock on women across our country by violating family leave protections for new mothers. American families deserve better.” The Republicans’ latest addition of Medicaid work requirements would allow states to force new mothers to find work within 60 days of giving birth or risk losing their Medicaid health coverage. This timeframe is even shorter than existing federal protections for recent mothers.
03.21.2017	Every day, somewhere in this country there’s a news account about how opioid addiction has wrecked a small town or family -- personal stories of typical Americans who became addicted to pain pills, and then got hooked on heroin. These are heartbreaking stories of Americans dying and leaving loved ones, often children, to pick up the pieces. The opioid epidemic is unprecedented. It is also escalating, and we need a comprehensive strategy to confront it. In 2015, more than 33,000 Americans died of an overdose involving a prescription or illicit opioid, and more than two million people had an opioid use disorder. Today, we will hear about fentanyl, an even deadlier layer to this crisis. Fentanyl is a synthetic and short-acting opioid. It can be up to 50 times more potent than heroin and 100 times more potent than morphine. It is lethal at even the tiniest amounts, and anyone exposed to it can be at risk. There are reports of law enforcement agents, for example, who became ill after handling fentanyl, with one agent apparently falling into a coma. In 2015, the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration issued a nationwide alert that fentanyl is a threat to public health and safety. Illicit fentanyl use is not a new problem. What is new, however, is fentanyl’s growing prevalence. Since 2010, fentanyl recovered by American law enforcement nationwide has risen twenty-fold, from 640 samples tested to 13,000 samples tested in 2015, according to data from the DEA’s National Forensic Laboratory Information System. U.S. law enforcement believes China is the primary source of illicit fentanyl and precursor chemicals. Chinese producers ship fentanyl or chemicals to make it directly into the United States. Precursor chemicals or finished fentanyl is shipped to Mexico and Canada where it is trafficked across our borders in pure form or is mixed into other illicit drugs such as heroin. We will be asking the panel today tough questions about law enforcement and diplomatic efforts to stem the tide of fentanyl flowing from China, and whether they are sufficient. We will also be asking which vectors drug traffickers use to ship this drug into our country, such as through express consignment carriers and international mail. Today’s hearing is another important step in exploring what must be done to address the opioid epidemic. For the record, I want to work closely with my colleagues on the other side to help address the supply side of the fentanyl crisis. That said, Mr. Chairman, I also want to find a way to address the treatment side of this epidemic, and that is where I have significant differences with my Majority colleagues. Passage of the Affordable Care Act (ACA), as you know, has led to nearly 20 million Americans gaining health care coverage. In addition, the ACA has enabled governors to expand the Medicaid services they offer, which was crucial in states overwhelmed by the opioid epidemic. Studies estimate that since 2014,1.6 million uninsured Americans gained access to substance abuse treatment across the 31 states that expanded Medicaid coverage. This is particularly important for hard-hit states like Kentucky, where one study reports that residents saw a 700 percent increase in Medicaid beneficiaries seeking treatment for substance use. Two weeks ago, the Majority rushed through this committee a bill to repeal the ACA that many believe will threaten the progress Medicaid expansion has made in getting people suffering from addiction into treatment. In its assessment of that bill last week, the non-partisan Congressional Budget Office said it will cause millions of Americans to lose health care coverage. Many will be those currently receiving Medicaid assistance, which include those receiving treatment for opioid addiction. In January, health care experts from Harvard and New York University wrote an op-ed for the Hill about how repealing the ACA would reverse important public health gains. They focused primarily on the 21st Century Cures Act that this committee approved unanimously, and that passed the House and Senate with overwhelming bipartisan support. And Mr. Chairman, we could have a whole hearing just on how badly the GOP’s bill will hamper the progress enabled by Cures. But let me draw your attention to one part of that op-ed, where they wrote: Repealing the ACA — and its behavioral health provisions — would have stark effects on those with behavioral health illnesses. We estimate that approximately 1,253,000 people with serious mental disorders and about 2.8 million Americans with a substance use disorder, of whom about 222,000 have an opioid disorder, would lose some or all of their insurance coverage. At the end of the day, it is hard to know what kind of bill, if any, will reach the President’s desk. But if it appears anything close to the measure that our Committee passed on a party-line vote two weeks ago, I believe it will have devastating consequences in our fight to reverse the opioid epidemic. CBO estimated that bill will cut $890 billion over the next decade from Medicaid. You will never convince me that cutting nearly a trillion dollars from Medicaid will somehow magically result in better drug treatment for those now suffering from addiction. Today’s hearing examines the fentanyl problem. However, I would argue that the fentanyl problem is a subset of the larger opioid addiction problem challenging the United States. If we want to address the fentanyl crisis, we must also address the broader opioid addiction crisis and that requires making evidence-based treatment more accessible to those who need help. As we heard from experts in previous hearings before this Subcommittee, access to evidence-based treatment is not easily accessible to many, including rural residents and the poor. Mr. Chairman, I want to work with you to combat the menace of fentanyl and the growing opioid addiction problem facing the U.S. But if we are serious about confronting this growing menace, we must examine ways to get Americans into addiction treatment programs. Thank you, and I yield back.
03.16.2017	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Diana DeGette (D-CO), Chief Deputy Whip, said President Donald J. Trump's first budget request is short-sighted and would be ruinous for the United States. "This proposal shows that President Trump's priorities are dangerous," DeGette said. "I am especially concerned that the president plans to gut the State Department, the Environmental Protection Agency and the National Institutes of Health. "Republicans and Democrats alike have expanded NIH over time to support vital research that has helped Americans live longer and healthier lives. The EPA has promoted safe water, air and soil in this country for 46 years. And State protects long-term American interests and works to improve security around the world. "If this short-sighted budget request is enacted as-is, it will be calamitous for our country," DeGette concluded. "Everyone supports strong national defense, but this plan beefs up military spending at the cost of ensuring a healthy, safe future for all through peaceful means."
03.13.2017	Denver – Congresswoman Diana DeGette (D-CO), Chief Deputy Whip, said today’s Congressional Budget Office assessment of the Republican bill to dismantle the Affordable Care Act proves that Americans would be better off if Congress works on a bipartisan basis to amend the ACA rather than jamming through a unilateral repeal. “The truth is now plain for all to see: This Trumpcare bill will take a terrible toll, both in human and financial terms,” DeGette said. “It will deprive 14 million people of insurance in its first year alone, and 24 million by 2026. Premiums will spike by 15 to 20 percent in 2018 and 2019, on top of projected increases under the current law. Deductibles will go up, as well. This bill will raise health costs on the middle class while giving tax breaks to the very wealthy, while pushing working families out of health coverage altogether. “Rather than jamming this bad bill through the House for a lopsided, party-line vote as the majority leadership is trying to do, we should sit down together and work on bipartisan solutions to improve what we already have.” It was only last Monday evening that House Republicans released their bill to repeal the Affordable Care Act. “The American Health Care Act” removes many of the important provisions in the ACA that have expanded coverage for millions of Americans. Less than two days later, the Energy and Commerce Committee started a marathon markup of the bill. As a senior member of the committee, DeGette helped lead the charge against this dangerous piece of legislation through nearly 28 hours of debate. Meanwhile, it quickly became clear that the House majority had belatedly requested a necessary review of the bill by the non-partisan CBO.
03.09.2017	Washington, DC – At a marathon committee markup, Congresswoman Diana DeGette (D-CO), Chief Deputy Whip, fought to protect Coloradans from reckless GOP efforts to dismantle the Affordable Care Act by resisting Republican committee members’ unilateral rush to repeal the ACA and proposing amendments to limit the damage this new legislation would do. DeGette also proposed amendments to prevent the defunding of Planned Parenthood and to protect millions of Americans from increases in out-of-pocket costs, including deductibles. The markup was gaveled to an end this afternoon in its 28th hour. “We did all we could for now, but we’re not giving up until this bill is either fixed or scrapped,” said DeGette, a senior member of the Energy and Commerce Committee that was charged with reviewing the measure before sending it to the House for a vote. “Americans are counting on us to protect their care. We’re not about to let the tyranny of the majority in Congress leave people vulnerable just because Republicans want to jam through an ill-conceived bill.” The Republicans’ ACA repeal bill, entitled the American Health Care Act, is nothing short of a disaster for Colorado. If it becomes law in its current form, the bill would eliminate the state’s Medicaid expansion, and nearly 63,000 people in DeGette’s district alone would lose coverage. The tax credits that now help the financially disadvantaged afford health care would be eliminated, and another 10,400 of her constituents would stand to become uninsured. House Speaker Paul Ryan vowed in January to graft onto the ACA repeal bill a provision to block access to Planned Parenthood health centers. The organization offers an array of preventive care, including screenings for breast cancer and maternal health services, and federal law already guarantees that no government funding supports the abortion counseling and related services that some of its clinics provide. DeGette’s first amendment to the bill would have eliminated Section 103 of the American Health Care Act, which deprives Planned Parenthood health centers of federal Medicaid funding for one year. The amendment was defeated on a party-line vote at 2:30 a.m. Another DeGette amendment, also voted down along party lines, would have struck a provision in the repeal bill that will let health insurance companies dramatically increase deductibles. Section 134 of the repeal bill eliminates the ACA’s “actuarial value” standards, which protect consumers by requiring insurance companies to pay 70 to 90 percent of the costs of their enrollees' health care. By eliminating these protections, the Republican bill lets insurance companies shift massive costs onto consumers in the form of out-of-pocket payments, such as deductibles and copayments. “When Republican leaders made their grand statements about what their new health care scheme would achieve, they promised lower costs for the American people,” DeGette said. “But when it comes to deductibles, Republicans are all talk and no action. Despite their numerous complaints throughout the markup that deductibles are too high under the ACA, their repeal bill rolls back rules that prevent insurance companies from charging patients even more. So if you don’t like your deductible now, you’re going to hate what you get under Trumpcare.”
03.09.2017	Washington, DC – At the Energy & Commerce Committee’s overnight markup of the GOP bill to dismantle the Affordable Care Act (ACA), Congresswoman Diana DeGette (D-CO), Chief Deputy Whip, tried to prevent Republicans from continuing their relentless attack on women’s reproductive health care. DeGette introduced an amendment with Congresswoman Jan Schakowsky (D-IL) to strike a provision in the American Health Care Act that would defund Planned Parenthood. "Republicans are endangering people across the country by arbitrarily tacking Planned Parenthood defunding onto their ill-conceived repeal bill,” said DeGette. "For many women, Planned Parenthood is the only available source of health care. More than half of its centers are located in areas that are short on health professionals. Instead of working on a bipartisan basis to increase access to care for women and men in their communities, the purported objective of this bill, Republicans have chosen to score political points with anti-choice extremists. This is especially egregious in the context of Affordable Care Act repeal, which will cause the loss of insurance for millions of Americans and drive up costs for the rest." House Speaker Paul Ryan vowed in January to graft onto the ACA repeal bill a provision to block access to Planned Parenthood health centers. The organization offers an array of preventive care, including screenings for breast cancer and maternal health services, and federal law already guarantees that no government funding supports the abortion counseling and related services that some of its clinics provide. DeGette’s first amendment to the bill, introduced after midnight, would have eliminated Section 103 of the American Health Care Act, which deprives Planned Parenthood health centers of federal Medicaid funding for one year. The amendment was defeated on a party-line vote at 2:30 a.m.
03.08.2017	Washington DC - Congresswoman Diana DeGette (CO-1) and Congresswoman Louise Slaughter (NY-25), co-chairs of the House Pro-Choice Caucus, released this statement on the Republican health care bill as the House Ways & Means and Energy and Commerce Committees prepare to consider the legislation today. The Republican bill would be devastating for women nationwide and includes a provision defunding Planned Parenthood, which provides life-saving preventative care to 2.5 million people. “The Republican health care bill would take our nation back to the days when being a woman was a pre-existing condition. The bill would place radical new restrictions on women’s right to comprehensive health coverage and once again let insurance companies penalize survivors of domestic abuse, making it harder and more costly for them to get the health care they badly need and deserve. It is shameful that Republicans are using this bill to try and defund Planned Parenthood, which provides more than two million patients – men and women alike – with life-saving preventive care such as cancer screenings and STI testing. The Affordable Care Act has made insurance for women in America better, cheaper, and more available. Women in particular have a lot to lose if Congressional Republicans succeed in repealing this law and enacting their dangerous agenda.”
03.08.2017	Committee Markup of The American Health Care Act VERBATIM, AS DELIVERED Chairman, even though the majority has refused to send this bill for a score to the CBO before we mark it up, Joe Antos from the American Enterprise Institute has estimated that 10 to 15 million people will lose their insurance because of this legislation, and a number of other think tanks have said the same. I want to ask you a question, Mr. Chairman: Who are those 10 to 15 million people? Is it Laurie Dunklee, my high school classmate, who finally got insurance when she was age 56 through the Medicaid expansion? Is it the young woman who came to my listening session and said that finally, after years of mental illness, she was able to get treatment – and now she is in graduate school, and she’s going to have a great job? Is it your next-door neighbor? Is it your health care provider? Who are these 10 to 15 million people who are going to lose health insurance? We should sit down together, just like we did on 21st Century Cures. We should come up with a bill that fixes Obamacare that we could pass unanimously, and then we could uphold the proud tradition of this committee. Thank you.
03.06.2017	Washington, DC – In response to President Donald J. Trump’s second Executive Order to keep people from Muslim-majority countries from entering the United States, Congresswoman Diana DeGette (D-CO), Chief Deputy Whip, issued the following statement: “Americans rose up immediately to tell him it was wrong. Our allies overseas weighed in, as well. Courts stopped him from proceeding. But President Trump wouldn’t listen, and has now tried again to push through this discriminatory, dangerous ban. “We will not be fooled. The President’s tweaks to the previous, failed ‘policy’ don’t make it any less egregious. This directive still singles out immigrants from Muslim-majority countries, blocks refugees needlessly – capping their numbers at an arbitrary level – and endangers our country by alienating people around the globe as well as insulting Muslim-Americans. “Last month, the Department of Homeland Security found that a person’s citizenship is unlikely to be a reliable indicator of potential for conducting terrorist activity within the United States. Why is the President ignoring even his own experts’ findings?”
03.02.2017	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Diana DeGette (D-CO), a senior member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee and a leading voice on American health care policy, issued the following statement today about reports that Republican House members had drafted a bill to replace the Affordable Care Act but were hiding it from Democrats: “Before passing the ACA, the House held 79 related bipartisan hearings and markups over two years, with input from 181 witnesses proposed on both sides the aisle. The bill was posted online for 30 days before the first committee markup. “Now we’re hearing that a bill dismantling and replacing the ACA will be marked up in committee next week. Republicans are denying neither that news nor reports that such a bill exists. Today, several members of the House and Senate literally tried to track down the measure upon word that it was being kept in a room in the Capitol. “Substantive policy-making is serious business. Americans’ health care is not a game. Why are the Republicans playing hide and seek with it?”
03.02.2017	Washington, DC -- Congresswoman Diana DeGette (D-CO), Chief Deputy Whip, said Attorney General Jeff Sessions should resign or be removed immediately due to revelations about his meetings and perhaps other contact with the Russian ambassador to the United States, which appear to conflict with his oral and written testimony at his confirmation hearing. “Attorney General Sessions’ contact with the Russian ambassador while an advisor to the Trump campaign once again proves this administration’s causal relationship with transparency and the truth. If these revelations are true, he has perjured himself. In any case, given what we now know, the Attorney General should resign immediately or be removed. “This continued stream of information regarding campaign, transition, and administration officials communicating with members of the Russian government and failing to disclose it creates an air of uncertainty about the information and guidance that the President is receiving from his closest advisors. Further, such disclosures point to the possibility that our democracy is being undermined by a foreign power with the consent of the White House. It is now more clear than ever that the United States Congress – and perhaps even a special prosecutor – should investigate and bring forth a transparent reporting of the facts since the administration evidently is unwilling to do so.”
03.01.2017	Washington, DC -- Congresswoman Diana DeGette (D-CO), Chief Deputy Whip, issued the following statement just after President Donald J. Trump's first joint address to Congress: "For the past month, President Trump and Republican leaders in Congress have been giving us platitudes and promises, but no real plans on anything from health care to immigration to education and beyond. Meanwhile, the president's actions speak louder than any number of grand pronouncements he made this evening. His draft budget is completely out of line with U.S. values and long-term interests. He talks about things that will be wildly expensive, but then offers no way to pay for them but vague assurances of tax cuts. These things sound great in a speech, but the reality has set in: As president, you have to put in place workable policies."
02.28.2017	Mr. Chairman, another major doping scandal has again shaken the sporting world. This time it involves a wide-ranging Russian scheme to circumvent doping controls relied upon by the global sports community to ensure clean sport. After unfortunate delays in investigating serious claims made by courageous whistleblowers, the World Anti-Doping Agency (WADA) eventually launched investigations into allegations that Russia was systematically involved in doping. In July and December of last year, Professor Richard McLaren, the person commissioned by WADA as the independent expert tasked with looking into these allegations, released his findings. What WADA’s independent investigations reported was a systematic effort by Russia to help its athletes both dope and circumvent doping controls. This doping was widespread, according to WADA’s report, implicating the London Olympic Games, the Sochi Olympic Games, the IAAF World Championships, and other major international events. Though we will probably never know the extent of the cheating, and who benefitted, as many as 1,000 Russian athletes across at least 30 sports might have benefitted from this effort according to WADA’s investigation. WADA’s inquiry also found that the very agencies created to police sport from doping, including the Russian national anti-doping agency, were itself helping to cheat. Even Russia’s Federal Security Service, or FSB, played a role. Russia’s behavior raises troubling questions about how the global sports community should sanction doping violators and whether they are committed to that task. For example, because WADA’s investigative findings were made weeks before the start of the Rio Games, confusion surfaced about whether Russia should collectively be banned from Rio. WADA recommended to the International Olympic Committee (IOC) that it prohibit the entire Russian delegation from participating. Rather than implement that recommendation, the IOC punted that decision to the International Sports Federations were not all equipped to take on that sudden task. In the end, what ensued was a muddled process some viewed as sending a very weak message to cheaters. Even today, I am not sure whose job it is to hold Russia accountable for the events conveyed in WADA’s investigation. Just last month, for example, several National Anti-Doping Organizations met in Dublin and petitioned that Russia be banned from hosting existing and future international sporting events until the country comes back into compliance with WADA’s requirements. But what if anything will happen to those recommendations? I understand the IOC has created two commissions to explore the findings of WADA’s independent investigation. While I support due process when it comes to athletes possibly implicated in those investigations, I believe that there is enough evidence reported in WADA’s investigations to warrant a strong message from the IOC: If you cheat, you do not play. Of course, WADA’s findings also raise concerns about WADA itself. How did this cheating scheme persist for so long undetected, for example? Is WADA organized to catch cheating going forward? Does it have sufficient resources to police sport and prevent such a conspiracy from happening again? Following the Russian revelations, a number of National Anti-Doping Organizations met in Copenhagen late last year and put forth recommendations that could enhance WADA’s ability to keep sports clean. These recommendations include addressing certain conflicts of interest within WADA and clarifying the agency’s authority to investigate doping and sanction violators. It is unclear what has become of these recommendations, but I do believe they appear to be a possible blueprint moving forward. I hope that we will learn today whether these suggestions will receive further consideration from the IOC or WADA. I believe we must also examine whether WADA has the resources to do the job to enforce the world anti-doping code, including overseeing the many agencies it relies upon for that effort. WADA’s entire budget is a mere $30 million, and the U.S., the largest national contributor, provides a mere $2 million annually in funding. The McLaren investigation alone will exceed $2 million. Mr. Chairman, let me conclude by acknowledging several of our witnesses today. With us are two former Olympic champions from the U.S. team, Michael Phelps and Adam Nelson. We salute your previous accomplishments, and applaud your continued advocacy for clean sport. I also believe we should thank WADA itself, including Richard Pound and Richard McLaren for their work they have been doing to unravel the recent failures that brought us here today. Finally, I would like to acknowledge the work of Mr. Tygart and USADA. He has worked tirelessly over the years to protect the sports community from doping, and we look forward to Mr. Tygart’s testimony today. Mr. Chairman, it is an unfortunate set of events that has forced us into this room today. However, something good can come out of what Russia did if we improve our system to prevent doping and effectively sanction it when it occurs. All of us here today owe it to all the clean athletes who train day in and day out with the desire to compete clean and have a fair chance in competition. We also owe it to the brave whistleblowers, journalists, and WADA’s independent investigators—some of who took great risks to bring this story forward. I think this panel, this Congress and the international sports community needs to realize that when dealing with Russia and its approach to ensuring clean, international competitions, the honor system is simply not going to be enough. And I yield back.
02.15.2017	Washington, DC – Immigrants’ rights activist Jeanette Vizguerra should not have to face the threat of deportation, Congresswoman Diana DeGette (D-CO) said today. Vizguerra took shelter last night in a church in DeGette’s district. “The unique circumstances of this case call for compassion,” DeGette said. “Jeanette Vizguerra has lived in this country for two decades, is respected in her community and has contributed to civil society in Colorado in numerous ways. Together with other officials in Colorado, I am following up with the Trump administration on this matter. We are aggressively pursuing all avenues to ensure a just resolution.” DeGette spoke with Denver Mayor Michael Hancock and Senator Michael Bennet, along with Vizguerra’s congressman, Jared Polis, and is coordinating on this matter with them. She also heard first-hand the facts of the case from the point of view of national officials at Immigrations and Customs Enforcement. An undocumented immigrant, Vizguerra was due for a routine check-in this morning with ICE agents in Colorado. Because the stay on a previous deportation order expired last week, Vizguerra became concerned enough to alert her attorney and the media that the check-in might turn out to be anything but routine. It turns out she was right, and ICE agents were preparing to deport her upon arrival at their offices. Vizguerra’s three youngest children – ages 6, 10, and 12 – were all born in the United States. She entered the country from Mexico illegally in 1997 with her husband and eldest daughter, then age 6. That daughter, now grown, lives in the United States and has a work permit under the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program.
02.14.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Diana DeGette (CO-01), Co-Chair of the Congressional Pro-Choice Caucus, today led 161 House Democratic colleagues in demanding that Speaker Ryan stop Republicans’ unprecedented assault on women’s health care. Despite their promise to focus on jobs and the economy, Republican leaders have made attacking women’s health care their top priority during the 115th Congress. This week, the House will consider the most serious threat so far, a resolution of disapproval under the Congressional Review Act that would roll back a Title X rule designed to shield family planning clinics across the country from partisan state-level defunding efforts. “At a time when millions of constituents are phoning, showing up at our offices, and doing everything they can to stop Congress from ripping away their health care, Republicans must be entirely tone-deaf as they prepare to take this step, “ DeGette said. “Thanks to Title X funding, people who face the steepest challenges in accessing care can receive basic and potentially life-saving services at the health centers closest to them. Sadly, if the roll-back of this program succeeds, those who will suffer most are the uninsured, people with low incomes, and those living in rural and remote areas.” The letter highlights Republicans’ relentless attacks on women’s choices, access to care, and economic security. In addition to pushing to roll back the Title X rule, Republican leaders are also working to repeal the Affordable Care Act without anything to take its place, defund Planned Parenthood and advance the No Taxpayer Funding for Abortion and Abortion Insurance Full Disclosure Act (H.R. 7), which would effectively ban private insurance companies from covering comprehensive reproductive health services. Immediately after taking office, the president signed a dramatic expansion of the Global Gag Rule, which forces health providers eligible for U.S. assistance to choose between receiving U.S. funding or providing comprehensive health care services to their patients. Text of letter with the full list of cosigners is available here
02.14.2017	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Diana DeGette (D-CO), Chief Deputy Whip, issued the following statement today on the resignation of National Security Advisor Michael Flynn: “It is good that Michael Flynn is no longer in a position of trust with the U.S. government, but questions remain about his actions, whether others in the Trump transition were aware of them, and whether anyone subsequently obtained information concerning these events that may yet affect U.S. national security. This episode underscores the importance of creating an independent commission on Russian influence in the 2016 election; Americans need to know if anyone else in the White House poses an ongoing risk."
02.10.2017	Washington, DC – Congresswomen Diana DeGette (D-CO) and Louise Slaughter (D-NY), co-chairs of the Congressional Pro-Choice Caucus, this evening decried House Republicans’ plan to overturn a rule on the Title X family planning grant program using the Congressional Review Act. The rule at issue reinforces longstanding requirements that states cannot discriminate against providers for reasons unrelated to their qualifications to perform family planning services. “Thanks to Title X, health care providers in Colorado and nationwide can offer an array of family planning services, such as contraception, cancer screening and STD testing, to the men and women who need them most,” DeGette and Slaughter said. “For many people in our community, a Title X center is the only source of care available. Access to care is already in serious jeopardy thanks to the Republican majority’s reckless quest to repeal the Affordable Care Act. I am deeply disappointed in the Republicans’ decision to put even more people’s access to basic health services at risk by subjecting Title X to partisan politics.” The House Rules Committee has announced it will meet Feb. 14th to consider a resolution striking down the Title X family planning grant program using the Congressional Review Act.
01.28.2017	Denver -- Congresswoman Diana DeGette (D-CO) issued the following statement about the ongoing effects of President Donald Trump's executive order, issued Friday, that restricts the entry of refugees and others to the United States: "President Trump's executive order on refugees slammed the door to safety, security and hope for millions around the world. Reverberations are already being felt, with travelers and migrants en-route to the United States being detained at airports around the world -- even people who hold valid current green cards that normally would let them come and go at will. "America has always been a beacon to oppressed people, and while this extreme policy is a major setback, it doesn't change America's inclusive spirit."
01.23.2017	Washington, DC – Today the House of Representatives unanimously passed the EPS Improvement Act (H.R. 518). The bill, which was written and introduced by Congresswoman Diana DeGette (D-CO), along with Representatives Brett Guthrie (R-KY), Doris Matsui (D-CA) and Charlie Dent (R-PA), will amend the Energy Policy and Conservation Act to strengthen standards used to keep LED lighting safe and efficient. “Today’s vote in support of this bill brings us much closer to ensuring that our country’s energy conservation standards are up to date with the latest developments in high-tech lighting,” DeGette said. “This bipartisan bill will facilitate the continued growth of LED lighting and will help lower energy prices for businesses and households in Colorado and across the nation.” The bill clarifies the statutory definition of “external power supplies” set forth in the Energy Policy Act of 2005 and amends the conditions under which the Energy Department could undertake a rulemaking in the future. The EPCA caused the drivers for Light Emitting Diodes and Organic Light Emitting Diodes to be categorized as external power supplies. With subsequent development of LED and OLED technology and its rising popularity for previously unforeseen uses, the standards need to change.
01.19.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Diana DeGette (D-CO) has written and sent a letter, signed by 174 House Democrats, to President-elect Donald Trump urging him to reconsider his support for efforts to repeal the Affordable Care Act (ACA) and defund Planned Parenthood. The letter, which can be found here, asks the President-elect - who has said, “nobody respects women more than me” - to put his words into action by rejecting these proposals, which would have disproportionately negative impact on women and girls across the country. “Throughout this reckless quest, Republicans have made no promises nor put forward any plans to preserve the ACA’s crucial protections for women” The letter states. “Prior to the ACA, being a woman was effectively a pre-existing condition. Women were often denied insurance for having a C-section, breast cancer, or even a history of sexual or domestic abuse. When women were able to obtain coverage, they were charged much higher premiums than men based on gender alone. Thankfully, the ACA banned those discriminatory insurance company practices.” The letter demands that Mr. Trump fight back against any efforts to defund Planned Parenthood. It states: “Blocking patients from accessing care at Planned Parenthood would only exacerbate the untenable situation we face with ACA repeal. During the presidential campaign, even you acknowledged that Planned Parenthood does good work and helps millions of women and men.” The letter closes by reinforcing how much is at stake and how important this issue is to Americans, saying: “The women of America are watching, Mr. President-elect. As are the men who care about them. The true test of whether your policy agenda will harm or help women begins tomorrow.” A copy of the letter is included below and online here: January 19, 2017 The Honorable Donald J. Trump The President-elect 1717 Pennsylvania Avenue N.W. Washington, D.C. 20006 Dear President-elect Trump: Throughout your campaign, you repeatedly proclaimed, “Nobody respects women more than me.” Tomorrow, you will be sworn in as the 45th President of the United States. From that day forward, your actions—not words—will demonstrate your willingness to advance positive policies for women. We, the undersigned members of Congress, urge you to reject a policy agenda that would harm women, starting with your efforts to repeal the Affordable Care Act (ACA) and defund Planned Parenthood. Many people are fearful about how your presidency will affect women and girls. You have promised to nominate Supreme Court Justices who will overturn Roe v. Wade. You have also nominated officials with unabashedly anti-woman records to serve in cabinet posts with power to affect women’s health and day-to-day lives. Because of their fears about what lies ahead, women are already taking action to protect themselves against possible negative outcomes, such as by rushing to their doctors to obtain long-acting birth control before your inauguration. While all of that is troubling, we write today to express deep concern about the Republican plan to repeal the ACA. You and your Republican colleagues in Congress have made clear that repealing the ACA, causing as many as 30 million people to lose health insurance, is a top priority for the 115th Congress. Repeal is such a high priority that you and Republicans in Congress are willing to charge forward without even agreeing on a replacement plan, a blatant abdication of your responsibilities as representatives of the American people. People are going to get hurt in very real ways, Mr. President-elect. The American people deserve to know how Republicans plan to avoid the devastating consequences of ACA repeal. Throughout this reckless quest, Republicans have made no promises nor put forward any plans to preserve the ACA’s crucial protections for women. Prior to the ACA, being a woman was effectively a pre-existing condition. Women were often denied insurance for having a C-section, breast cancer, or even a history of sexual or domestic abuse. When women were able to obtain coverage, they were charged much higher premiums than men based on gender alone. Thankfully, the ACA banned those discriminatory insurance company practices. The ACA also provides women with affordable access to the care they need. For example, birth control and preventive services like breast cancer screenings must be covered without cost-sharing. As a result, women now save over a billion dollars each year on birth control alone. Maternity care was also a rarity on the individual insurance market prior to the ACA, with only 12 percent of plans offering coverage, often only with exorbitantly high supplemental premiums. Today, virtually all plans offer maternity care thanks to the ACA. ACA repeal would be a major step backward for women because it would allow insurance companies to once again discriminate against women by denying them care and charging them higher prices based on gender. Adding insult to injury, Speaker Paul Ryan and Republicans in Congress are shamelessly prioritizing politics over patients by proposing to defund Planned Parenthood as part of their plan to dismantle the ACA. Blocking patients from accessing care at Planned Parenthood would only exacerbate the untenable situation we face with ACA repeal. During the presidential campaign, even you acknowledged that Planned Parenthood does good work and helps millions of women and men. Planned Parenthood provides care to approximately 2.5 million patients each year, including tests for sexually transmitted diseases, breast exams, Pap tests, and contraceptive services. More than half of Planned Parenthood health centers are located in health professional shortage or medically underserved areas. In fact, one in five women has visited a Planned Parenthood health center in their lifetime. Access to affordable care in those areas would be severely hampered by blocking access to Planned Parenthood, especially when coupled with the chaos caused by ACA repeal. We urge you to give more thought to how defunding Planned Parenthood and repealing the ACA would harm women in every district in every state. Taking these steps would leave all women worse off. As President, you will have the power to prevent this looming disaster. You, more than anyone else, will have to answer to those whose benefits, coverage, and access to care is abruptly ripped away. The women of America are watching, Mr. President-elect. As are the men who care about them. The true test of whether your policy agenda will harm or help women begins tomorrow.
01.13.2017	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Diana DeGette (D-CO), along with three original cosponsors, Representatives Brett Guthrie (R-KY), Doris Matsui (D-CA) and Charlie Dent (R-PA), today introduced the EPS Improvement Act (H.R. 518), which will amend the Energy Policy and Conservation Act to strengthen standards used to keep LED lighting safe and efficient. Representatives DeGette, Guthrie, Matsui, and Dent issued the following statement on this critical piece of legislation: “By ensuring that our country’s energy conservation standards are up to date with the latest developments in high-tech lighting, we can remove obstacles to innovation without sacrificing safety. This bipartisan bill will facilitate the continued growth of LED lighting and will help lower energy prices for American businesses and households.” The bill clarifies the statutory definition of “external power supplies” set forth in the Energy Policy Act of 2005 and amends the conditions under which the Energy Department could undertake a rulemaking in the future. The EPCA caused the drivers for Light Emitting Diodes and Organic Light Emitting Diodes to be categorized as external power supplies. With subsequent development of LED and OLED technology and its rising popularity for previously unforeseen uses, the standards need to change.
01.12.2017	Washington, DC –Congresswoman Diana DeGette (D-CO) today was selected to serve on three key Energy and Commerce subcommittees working on issues of national concern that have special resonance for Coloradans. During the 115th Congress, DeGette is joining the Health and Environment subcommittees and will remain the top Democrat on the Oversight and Investigations subcommittee. “I am honored to serve on these three subcommittees, which cover issues affecting everyday life in Colorado and the long-term future of our country,” DeGette said. “We need to be vigilant about proposed laws and policies from the incoming administration. I’ll work across the political aisle whenever possible to ensure that we’re headed in the right direction, but I also won’t shy away from a fight – the stakes are too high.“ The Health Subcommittee oversees all matters related to public health, including public and private health insurance, biomedical research and the regulation of food, drugs and cosmetics. As a long-time advocate for expanded health care for all Americans and the co-author of the ground-breaking 21st Century Cures Act, which became law in December, DeGette anticipates helping to steer this vital subcommittee toward bipartisan solutions and to fight a unilateral repeal of the Affordable Care Act. The Environment Subcommittee covers all matters related to soil, air and water contamination, including nuclear waste, toxic substances and hydraulic fracturing (also known as fracking, and implementation of the Clean Air Act). A life-long Coloradan, DeGette is intimately aware of the importance of preserving the natural environment, and will use her knowledge and experience to advocate for sound policy that protects wilderness, critical ecosystems and consumers from environmental degradation. In her continued role as Ranking Member of the Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee, DeGette will guide inquiries into the federal agencies, departments and programs related to the jurisdiction of the full Energy and Commerce Committee. Recent investigations in this subcommittee have prompted additional protections against concussions in youth sports and called attention to the causes of dramatic price increases for Epi-Pens.
01.05.2017	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Diana DeGette (D-CO), co-chair of the Congressional Pro-Choice Caucus, was joined today by a group of congressional and women’s health leaders to discuss threats facing women under a Trump Administration and Republican Congress, especially a repeal of the Affordable Care Act (ACA). “We’re here to take a stand for women, in every state across this country, who are deeply concerned about the Republican leadership’s reckless plans to repeal the Affordable Care Act and send insurance markets into chaos,” DeGette said. “The bottom line is that the Republican leadership is making no promises that they will protect women against abusive and discriminatory practices by the insurance industry. “ Accompanying DeGette were fellow Co-chair Louise Slaughter (D-NY), Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi, NARAL Pro-Choice America President Ilyse Hogue and Planned Parenthood Federation of America President Cecile Richards, who spoke on the many ways repealing the ACA will hurt American women by reviving policies that denied them affordable and fair coverage. The group warned that many of the insurance industry’s unfair pre-ACA practices could be brought back after repeal, including charging some women double what men are charged for identical care, arbitrarily denying women coverage, not offering cost-sharing for birth control and preventive services, and denying maternal and newborn care services. DeGette also condemned the plan by Republican members of Congress to defund Planned Parenthood as part of their reckless effort to repeal the ACA. House Speaker Paul Ryan confirmed today that a measure to defund Planned Parenthood will be included in the Republicans’ reconciliation package along with language for the ACA repeal. “If Republicans go through with this plan, they should know what they’re doing,” DeGette said. “Repealing the ACA would rip health insurance coverage away from as many as 30 million people. The law ensures women have access to services they need, including contraception, maternity care and preventive screening for breast and cervical cancer. And Planned Parenthood health centers provide these screenings along with high-quality primary care for millions of patients. This is no mere symbolic vote or political statement. It’s a disservice to Americans and a disgrace.”
01.05.2017	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Diana DeGette (D-CO), Chief Deputy Whip, said she will vote against legislation condemning the recent United Nations resolution criticizing Israeli settlements. "I have always been a strong supporter of Israel,” DeGette said. “Consistent with this commitment, after careful reflection, I will vote against this measure. H. Res. 11 fails to move the Mideast conflict closer to a peaceful two-state solution.” DeGette cosponsored an alternative resolution supporting a two-state solution directly negotiated between Israelis and Palestinians, and rejecting UN resolutions seeking to impose final resolution to the conflict. “Many have framed the vote on H. Res. 11 as a vote for or against Israel,” DeGette added. “Reducing the complexities of this issue in such a manner is a disservice to both Israelis and Palestinians. I will continue to support efforts to facilitate a lasting two-state solution."
01.03.2017	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Diana DeGette (D-CO), today called the new rules package for the 115th Congress a shameless power grab and said she will vote against it. “What a dismal start to the new Congress,” DeGette said. “Gutting the Office of Congressional Ethics will only encourage people to consider themselves above the rules. This is part of a larger package of measures that reduce transparency in the House by placing a gag order on members and imposing an automatic fine on those who violate it. “The proposed rules package is a shameless power grab that does an injustice to democracy, and I will vote against it.”
12.20.2016	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Diana DeGette (D-CO) and more than 100 other House Democrats joined forces to call on President-Elect Donald Trump to abandon the ban on women’s reproductive health choices known as the Hyde Amendment and to remove related funding constraints. The ban, which anti-choice members of Congress have inserted into annual spending legislation for four decades, prohibits federal funds in Medicaid and other health programs from being used for abortion. This restriction on millions of women’s health care has predominantly hurt the under-privileged. In a letter to the president-elect, the 108 legislators said, “Every person should be treated with dignity, compassion and respect – and that includes upholding a woman’s right to make her own decisions about whether to end a pregnancy.” During the campaign, Trump pledged in a letter to an anti-choice group that he would make the Hyde Amendment law. The lawmakers asked him to forego that pledge and to “demonstrate your commitment to being a President for all people in the United States by eliminating the Hyde Amendment, as well as related abortion coverage and care restrictions, from your Fiscal Year (FY) 2018 Budget request.” “We urge you to begin your presidency with a clear and bold statement that abortion coverage bans have no place in our public policy,” they wrote. “This will send a strong message to Congress and the country that everyone should be able to decide when and how to start a family—no matter their income, the type of insurance they have, or where they live.” In an op-ed and other public statements earlier this year, DeGette reaffirmed her commitment to passing the EACH Woman (Equal Access to Abortion Coverage in Health Insurance) Act, which would prohibit re-introduction of the Hyde Amendment. She intends to co-sponsor it again when the new Congress meets next year.
12.16.2016	Washington, DC – In response to ongoing media reports that the U.S. intelligence community has found that the Russian Federation directed activities to influence the outcome of the U.S. elections in November, Congresswoman Diana DeGette (D-CO), today called for a bipartisan inquiry that will present its conclusions to the public. “The prospect of a foreign power meddling in U.S. elections should concern all Americans, along with those who support democracy around the world,” DeGette said. “Getting to the bottom of this alarming prospect is the job of an impartial inquiry with access to all the relevant facts, including highly classified information. Sorting through that information and presenting a coherent and responsible account must be an urgent priority for the U.S. government.” To meet these objectives, DeGette intends to cosponsor the recently-introduced Protecting Our Democracy Act (H.R. 6447). It would create a bipartisan and independent commission to interview witnesses, obtain documents, receive public testimony and, where necessary, issue subpoenas. The commission would be required to issue a final report with recommendations to Congress and the President within 18 months of the bill’s enactment. “It is irresponsible to downplay or dismiss the information that has been presented by major media about this threat,” DeGette said. “We need to defend the legitimacy of U.S. elections at the local, state and national levels. This is not a partisan issue. Nothing less than the international credibility of our country as an example and leader in promoting democracy is at stake.”
12.14.2016	WASHINGTON, DC — Representatives Diana DeGette (D-CO), Louise Slaughter (D-NY), and Frank Pallone (D-NJ) today hailed the Obama Administration’s final rule barring states from withholding federal family planning funds in a discriminatory manner from clinics that provide women’s reproductive health services. They noted that the rule issued today will shore up efforts across the country to safeguard women’s access to services protected under Title X, which have been in place for more than 25 years. Title X is the only federal program focused solely on providing family planning and related preventive services. “Title X-supported programs provide vital care for uninsured, low-income and young people nationwide,” said DeGette, co-chair of the Congressional Pro-Choice Caucus. “This updated regulation protects millions of people seeking access to these essential services. Given the intensifying attacks on women’s access to them at both the state and federal level in recent months, such protection is more important than ever.” “Women’s health care services will be under unprecedented assault from a Trump Administration, Republican leaders in Congress, and conservative state legislatures across the country. But men in blue suits and red ties shouldn’t determine what women can and should do when it comes to their own health or bodies. The Obama Administration’s actions today will protect state health care providers from political attacks that could cripple their ability to provide life-saving and preventative health care services to millions of Americans,” said Slaughter, co-chair of the Congressional Pro-Choice Caucus. “Millions of Americans rely on Title X-supported health clinics to access critical health services like cancer screenings, HIV tests, and reproductive health services,” Pallone said. “Unfortunately, Republicans have placed politics before health care by attempting to limit which providers women can access to meet these needs. Today’s action will protect women’s access to quality health care services by ensuring that quality of care and not politics govern which health providers can receive Title X federal funding.” The new regulation clarifies and reinforces that health care providers may not be excluded from federal funding for reasons unrelated to their qualifications to perform Title X-funded services, which include contraception and treatment for sexually transmitted infections, fertility, pregnancy care, and breast and cervical cancer screening. In early October, DeGette, Slaughter, and Pallone wrote to HHS Secretary Sylvia Matthews Burwell supporting the proposed update to the Title X family planning program. In their letter, they noted that at least 14 states have taken official action to target and exclude otherwise eligible providers from the Title X program. Last year, Title X’s network of health care providers served more than 4 million women, men, and young people with family planning and other preventive health care services including Pap tests, breast exams, HIV testing, and contraception.
12.08.2016	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Diana DeGette (D-CO) today hailed the decision by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development to provide a $30 million grant that she helped secure for affordable housing and neighborhood revitalization in Denver. The HUD Choice Neighborhoods Implementation (CNI) Grant will help the Denver Housing Authority speed up the completion of the Sun Valley Homes redevelopment project. Last month, DeGette wrote a strong letter of support for the project to HUD Secretary Julian Castro. “The Denver Housing Authority has a record of efficiently using federal funds to complete successful revitalization efforts that increase access to affordable housing,” DeGette said. The Sun Valley project will both improve the livability of the area and more than double its housing capacity.” The Denver Housing Authority plans to replace 333 distressed units in the Sun Valley neighborhood and redevelop them into a mixed-income, mixed-model community of 750 new rental units. The project is expected to aid greatly in the city’s efforts to expand affordable housing.
12.06.2016	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This is the last EPA hearing this Committee will hold with the Obama Administration. The EPA has not always received the support it deserves from Congress. Even as the Agency has worked to fulfill its mission of protecting human health and the environment, it has faced criticism and attack. Despite sometimes unfair opposition, EPA has commendably responded to unprecedented environmental challenges facing the country and the planet. I would like to highlight some of the agency’s accomplishments. Under the Obama Administration: The EPA has helped bring more than 190 countries together to adopt the Paris Agreement, now considered the most ambitious climate change agreement in history; The EPA has set new standards to reduce mercury and other pollutants from industrial air pollution, including boilers, cement plants, and large waste incinerators; The EPA has enacted the first-ever fuel economy standards for medium and heavy-duty trucks and put in place new fuel standards for passenger vehicles by the year 2025; And, the EPA has developed the Clean Power Plan, which will play a major role in reducing carbon pollution and enhancing air quality. I would like to thank both of our witnesses for your agency’s work. I would also like to commend both of you for your work on the Volkswagen settlement agreement, which we are here to discuss today. I am supportive of efforts to scrutinize this agreement and ensure that VW is held accountable, and I want to ensure that is the purpose of today’s hearing. We are here because of VW’s decision to cheat. For years, VW put tens of thousands of cars on the road that emitted nearly 40 times the NOx levels allowed by law. VW’s decision hurt not only its own customers, who thought they were buying clean cars, but all Americans now faced with dirtier air. The California Air Resources Board, the EPA, and the Department of Justice quickly brought action against VW. Their aim was to both make VW’s customers whole and to mitigate the effect that these cars are having on the environment. The Obama Administration recently reached a partial settlement with VW to accomplish a mitigation strategy. The settlement, which addresses only 2.0-liter diesel vehicles, requires that VW spend nearly $15 billion to settle allegations of cheating emission tests and deceiving customers. It also orders VW to remove from commerce in the United States or perform an approved emissions modification on the vast majority of the affected vehicles. Finally, it requires VW to designate a $2.7 billion mitigation trust fund to pay for NOx reduction projects and invest $2 billion in charging infrastructure for zero emission vehicles. I applaud EPA for its work. They have taken meaningful steps to make consumers whole and reverse the harm that was caused to the environment. As I said, I support efforts to investigate this settlement. But I believe we cannot fully understand the issues if VW is not represented here. They were the perpetrators of the fraud that necessitated this action in the first place. We need to hear how they will be following through on their new commitments to do right by their customers and the American people. I would encourage the Committee to hold a future hearing with VW at the table, possibly joined by some other companies and individuals affected by this settlement. I want to conclude with a message about the next Congress. As we are all aware, the President-elect has not been supportive of the EPA’s mission. He has promised to abolish the agency and to back out of global treaties to reduce greenhouse gases. He has declared climate change a hoax. These statements should give us pause. There is undeniable proof of climate change. Our planet is getting hotter. Natural disasters are more frequent and more severe. Sea ice is at record lows. We need a strong EPA to address these challenges and to work with our international partners to ensure the whole world takes these problems seriously. So as this year winds down and we look toward the 115th Congress, it is incredibly important that this Committee support the EPA in its critical role. This Committee has the tradition of working in a bipartisan way to work in the public interest. This should include addressing environmental challenges before it’s too late. I hope we can work together to accomplish this mission. I thank our witnesses for being here today and for your agency’s work. I applaud your work on this settlement to ensure consumers and the environment are protected. And more broadly, I thank the Obama Administration as a whole for its work in prioritize environmental issues and make the world safer and healthier for future generations. Thank you.
11.30.2016	To watch Congresswoman DeGette's floor speech on 21st Century Cures, click on the image above. "Today the House of Representatives overwhelmingly passed 21st Century Cures, the bipartisan bill that I led with Congressman Fred Upton (R-MI), that will dramatically improve biomedical research in America. On the House floor, I urged my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to seize on this once-in-a-generation opportunity to tackle our present and future public health challenges – and they did, by a vote of 392 to 26. I’m humbled and extremely pleased that we are one big step closer to saving millions of lives. The bill now goes to the Senate for a vote."
11.29.2016	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Reps. Diana DeGette (CO-01) and Louise Slaughter (NY-25), co-chairs of the House Pro-Choice Caucus, called on congressional leaders to disband the Select Panel ahead of a vote expected Thursday on a privileged resolution that would provide an additional $800,000 in taxpayer dollars for the panel, which has aggressively targeted women’s health providers and the scientific community. House Republicans are now on course to spend more than $1.5 million funding this partisan attack on women’s health. The congresswomen are again calling on GOP leaders to stop wasting tax dollars on it. “The Select Investigative Panel is nothing but a partisan witch hunt that has wasted taxpayer dollars while stirring up baseless, irresponsible allegations that have intimidated women, health care providers, and scientific researchers. The House majority is now on track to spend more than $1.5 million of Americans’ tax dollars chasing down bogus allegations. Enough is enough. The American people shouldn’t be forced to spend another dime on a panel designed to attack women’s health and intimidate health care providers and researchers. These attacks are likely just a preview of what's to come under a Trump Administration with Republican majorities in Washington. It’s time for Speaker Ryan and the majority in the House to end this political theater and disband the Select Investigative Panel once and for all,” said DeGette and Slaughter.
11.29.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – Vital innovations in biomedical research are within reach, potentially saving countless lives, with the House about to debate its final version of the bipartisan 21st Century Cures Act, Congresswoman Diana DeGette (D-CO) said. “This is a watershed moment for patients, their loved ones and health care professionals across the United States,” DeGette said. “We’re bringing hope to millions of people suffering from cancer, Alzheimer’s disease, diabetes and a host of other ailments.” DeGette is co-author, together with Rep. Fred Upton (R-MI), of the original 21st Century Cures Act (H.R. 6), which the House passed 344-77 in 2015. Negotiations with members of the Senate and with the White House produced a bill that melds House and Senate policies. It includes funding to address the nation’s opioid crisis and to implement Vice President Biden’s “Cancer Moonshot” initiative to facilitate more robust research. The legislation will help overcome obstacles to medical progress – from discovery to development to delivery – through investing in innovation, incorporating the patient perspective and modernizing clinical trials. Among its key provisions, the consensus version of the bill before the House will: Provide $4.8 billion to National Institutes of Health, including: $1.4 billion for President Obama’s Precision Medicine Initiative to drive research into the genetic, lifestyle and environmental variations of disease; $1.8 billion for the “Cancer Moonshot;” and $1.6 billion for the BRAIN initiative to improve our understanding of diseases such as Alzheimer's and to speed diagnosis and treatment. Provide $1 billion in grants to states to address the opioid crisis. Remove the silos at the Food and Drug Administration by transitioning it toward a disease-centric approach, and provide $500 million additional support to the FDA. Catalyze cutting-edge research by supporting potentially transformative efforts and providing opportunities for new researchers. Modernize clinical trials by harmonizing regulations protecting patients. Address the country’s mental health crisis and help the one out of five adult Americans suffering from mental illness and substance abuse disorders receive the care they need. More than 700 groups have voiced support for the House legislation. Many have participated in a variety of forums to offer feedback on the bill, and they have worked with members of both the House and Senate to convey the urgency of seeing it become law.
11.23.2016	Denver, CO – With families in Colorado and across the country about to hit the roads for the holiday season, Congresswoman Diana DeGette (D-CO) has renewed her push for authorities to overhaul an outdated federal standard governing car seatback safety and require that the government be notified whenever death or injuries from seatback collapses occur. DeGette and Senators Edward J. Markey (D-MA) and Richard Blumenthal (D-CN) today sent a letter to the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) urging an update to the 50-year-old seat safety standard that can harm or kill backseat passengers when front seatbacks collapse during a rear-end crash. The Center for Auto Safety estimates the seat safety defect leads to the death of at least 50 children per year. The letter also asks NHTSA to investigate automakers’ apparent failure, as discovered by the lawmakers’ investigation, to comply with the agency’s Early Warning Reporting (EWR) System requirements to submit information on incidents involving death or injury. Finally, the lawmakers call on NHTSA to strengthen EWR and the Fatality Analysis Reporting System (FARS) so that the public can know if seatbacks are involved in injuries and fatalities. An ongoing investigation by CBS News found 107 cases of seatback collapse across 35 states that resulted in an injury or death over the last 30 years. Several of those cases that should have been reported to EWR weren’t found in the database, which is required by law. Additionally, the Center for Auto Safety found 3,455 injuries and 326 deaths listed in the EWR in which ‘seat’ was a contributing component, but it was impossible to determine whether a seatback collapse occurred because NHTSA does not require and automakers do not provide information sufficient to do so. In the letter, the lawmakers ask NHTSA to, provide copies of all death and injury reports requested by the agency for those injuries and deaths, and to share any police report information. “NHTSA previously indicated that there was not sufficient data on seatback collapse to permit an informed decision on rulemaking action in this area,” wrote the lawmakers. “Information on injuries and fatalities due to seatback collapse would be readily available from police reports, but without a dedicated field in EWR or FARS to methodically collect and organize such information, it is likely that NHTSA will continue to claim the problem of seatback collapse does not exist or is not pervasive enough to change.”
11.18.2016	Denver – Senator Jeff Sessions should not be nominated to serve as the nation’s next attorney general due to his regressive views, said Congresswoman Diana DeGette (D-CO). “As the president’s top advisor on matters of law and justice, the man or woman in this position must possess a firm commitment to civil rights,” DeGette said. “However, Senator Sessions’ regressive record on immigration, LGBT equality and civil liberties, along with his shocking comments on the NAACP and the KKK, make him unequivocally unfit to serve in this role. I urge President-elect Trump not to make this nomination, and instead to make good on his promise to unify our divided nation. And if he does not, members of the Senate must reject Senator Sessions for this critical role.” Sessions is the U.S. Senate’s leading anti-immigration voice, urging severe restrictions on visas and drastically expanded immigration enforcement while blocking practical reforms to our country’s outdated immigration system. While in the Senate, he has vigorously opposed the repeal of Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell and voted for a constitutional amendment banning same-sex marriage. Earlier in his career, when nominated by President Ronald Reagan to be a federal judge, he was turned down by the Senate amid repeated allegations of racist language, criticism of the American Civil Liberties Union and the NAACP, and a purported joke about the Ku Klux Klan. While advising the campaign earlier this year, Senator Sessions supported Trump’s suggestion to institute a ban on Muslims entering the United States and his opposition to the 14th Amendment, which confers citizenship on people born in this country. “This proposed nomination is another disturbing sign of where the Trump administration is headed,” DeGette noted. “If Senator Sessions was not fit to be a federal judge, he's not fit to be Attorney General. His actions and attitudes on civil liberties make him completely wrong for the job.”
11.16.2016	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Diana DeGette (D-CO) joined fellow House Democrats in calling for President-elect Trump to reverse the appointment of Steve Bannon as his chief strategist. In a letter sent to Trump today, 169 House members said Bannon’s work at Breitbart, an online news and opinion source that publishes bigoted content, makes him the wrong choice to help steer an administration that will unite a divided nation. “As the Executive Chairman of Breitbart News, Mr. Bannon repeatedly and aggressively pushed stories that promote anti-Semitism, xenophobia, and racism,” the House members wrote. “During an interview last summer, Mr. Bannon bragged that Breitbart was ’the platform for the alt-right,’ a movement that upholds White Nationalism while strongly rejecting diversity in any form. Under Mr. Bannon’s leadership, Breitbart has referred to a leading Republican who opposed your election as a ’Renegade Jew,’ suggested ’Young Muslims in the West are a ticking time bomb,’ declared that ’the Confederate flag proclaims a glorious heritage’ and praised the alt-right as a ’smarter’ version of ’old-school racist skinheads.’” The letter made the case that from a new role in the White House, Bannon will further split Americans along the fault lines of race, religion, gender and sexual orientation. “We strongly believe that Mr. Bannon’s appointment will not allow the country to heal and come together as one,” it said. “As one of your top advisors, the White House chief strategist will help set the tone for your administration. The person in this role must be prepared to serve the interests of all Americans, not those of a select few.” House Republicans were invited to sign the letter, but none did. A variety of civil rights groups, including the Anti-Defamation League and the Southern Poverty Law Center, have opposed Bannon’s appointment, and U.S. citizens have protested it via social media and demonstrations across the country. Coloradans have been contacting Congresswoman DeGette’s office to applaud her stance against divisiveness, hate speech and violence and in favor of civil liberties. Yesterday, Rep. DeGette issued a statement expressing concern over Trump’s appointment of Bannon and news about potential cabinet nominees who have proven divisive or destructive to progress on civil rights, the environment or health care in previous roles. She urged the president-elect to build an administration that promotes unity and firmly repudiates hate.
11.15.2016	Washington, DC -- Congresswoman Diana DeGette (D-CO), who serves as Chief Deputy Whip, today issued the following statement about personnel choices made and actions taken as the Trump presidency takes shape: "If we remain a divided country, we won’t rise to our full promise. With the rancorous election past, it is now everyone’s duty – from the grass roots to the top leaders of this great nation – to look beyond party lines, ethnic and religious backgrounds, special interests and other divisions and to make a better future for us all. “We can’t let the gaps grow wider by the day; rather, we must come together as one. “Hateful rhetoric, vandalism and violence are unacceptable. All Americans – including immigrants, people of color, women and girls, and the LGBT community – deserve far better. Each of us can speak out about these matters, express solidarity especially with the most vulnerable and ensure that the rights of all are respected. President-elect Trump is better positioned than most to have his voice heard. “Further, as President Obama noted yesterday when asked about Mr. Trump’s selections for senior appointees in the White House and potential cabinet nominees, ‘Gestures matter.’ Immediate advisors such as Steve Bannon and proposed agency heads work with the president to set the direction for an administration; his selection of them sets its tone. “So far, the news and rumors have been disquieting – especially for people across the country who have been engaged in promoting civil rights, a cleaner environment, sustainable energy and better health care. I hope Republicans, Democrats, Independents and others will work together to build on recent gains in these areas and reassure Americans that, both before and after his inauguration, Mr. Trump intends to represent us all.”
11.03.2016	House Energy and Commerce Committee members Diana DeGette (D-CO) and Susan Brooks (R-IN) today asked the U.S. Food and Drug Administration for information about how the agency is working to address potential cybersecurity vulnerabilities in medical devices. In a letter to FDA Commissioner Dr. Robert M. Califf and Director of the Center for Devices and Radiological Health Dr. Jeffrey Shuren, DeGette and Brooks seek details regarding the agency’s plans to further reduce risks of hacking, unauthorized access, or use of malware in medical devices. The need for effective cybersecurity of medical devices has become more important with the increasing use of wireless, internet- and network-connected devices. Up to 15 million medical devices in circulation, ranging from monitors and infusion pumps to ventilators and radiological technologies, are integrated into the nation’s digitized healthcare network, creating possible avenues for cyber-attacks. As cyber threats continue to evolve at a rapid pace, FDA must work to prevent emerging threats, mitigate existing vulnerabilities, and assess the strength of a device’s cyber resilience in both pre-market and post-market contexts. “We applaud FDA and other stakeholders for the steps that have already been taken to protect patients against potential emerging threats,” the letter said. “Nevertheless, we have also seen recent headlines about the potential for unauthorized access in insulin pumps and implantable cardiac devices, among others. As technology will undoubtedly continue to evolve at a rapid pace, we must ensure that FDA is equipped with the appropriate cybersecurity expertise and resources to evaluate not only the current risks to new medical devices, but also how new threats affect the medical devices already in use.” In the letter, DeGette and Brooks pose specific questions to the FDA related to its level of collaboration with medical device manufactures and other stakeholders, efforts to enhance cybersecurity throughout a device’s entire life cycle, personnel expertise on cybersecurity and interagency coordination. A response from the agency is requested by December 16, 2016.
10.24.2016	Washington, DC – More than 20 members of Congress who are engaged in women’s health care issues today called on the Obama administration to enhance health providers’ training on women’s contraception options. In a letter to Secretary of Health and Human Services Sylvia Mathews Burwell led by Congresswoman Diana DeGette (D-CO), the House members said, “we must make certain that providers have the training and resources they need to provide quality patient counseling and effectively educate patients about the safety and effectiveness of all forms of contraception so that each woman can select the family planning method that best meets her medical needs and personal preference.” The letter noted that according to the latest available information, nearly 45 percent of pregnancies in the United States were unintentional, a much higher rate than in other developed countries, and the risk of unintended pregnancy among underprivileged women is even higher than the national average. “Unintended pregnancies can lead to negative outcomes for both women and newborns, including poorer preconception maternal health, delayed prenatal care, increased risk of prematurity, and low birth weight,” the letter said. “More can and should be done to reduce these risks and empower women by increasing awareness of and access to a full range of contraceptive options.” The members of Congress asked the Department of Health and Human Services to focus provider resources on patient-centered counseling, gaps in education about safety and effectiveness of different forms of contraception, and confusion about billing, reimbursement and provision of contraceptive services. DeGette, who co-chairs the Congressional Pro-Choice Caucus, has long been engaged in issues involving women’s health care. In circulating the letter to colleagues, she shared the success of Colorado’s Family Planning Initiative, which has made the full range of contraception available to women at no cost and has received significant national attention for cutting unintended teen pregnancy rates by nearly half. Providers who participated in the initiative were trained on patient-centered counseling, the safety and effectiveness of different forms of contraception, and state Medicaid rules.
10.05.2016	Denver, CO – Congresswoman Diana DeGette helped secure a $1.35 million grant, announced today, enabling Denver and the Regional Transportation District to improve service to riders by studying transit oriented development (TOD). In a letter in June to U.S. Department of Transportation Secretary Anthony Foxx, DeGette made a strong case for the project. It was selected competitively under the TOD Planning Pilot Program. “This is exciting news for Denver and the entire region,” DeGette said. “We’ve experienced incredible growth while also making worthwhile investments in transit through the RTD. With this grant, RTD and the city of Denver can do even more to help businesses, residents and stakeholders identify next steps to improve economic development and promote increased transit ridership.” The grant comes as Denver works to create its first-ever citywide urban transit master plan, which will be used to identity and prioritize high-capacity transit opportunities. Funds will be used to study the Colfax Connected Corridor, running roughly from downtown Denver to Aurora, which could serve as a template for all non-rail TOD corridors throughout Denver.
09.28.2016	Washington, DC – On behalf of the Congressional Diabetes Caucus, co-chairs Diana DeGette (D-CO) and Tom Reed (R-NY) hailed as a major breakthrough today’s approval by the Food and Drug Administration of a first-ever commercial version of an artificial pancreas system to improve the treatment of type 1 diabetes. “This is a huge step forward for medicine, and it will be transformative for countless people with type 1 diabetes, including my own daughter,” DeGette said. “Our work to urge the FDA forward in this process, and to fund the research through the National Institutes of Health, has paid off. I look forward to providing similar support to the next-generation technologies that are also on the verge of improving outcomes for people with this disease, which is common but devilishly difficult to address.” “We care about getting critical healthcare resources those living with this disease. This is something I am all too familiar with. My son is a type 1 diabetic. It’s only right that we continue to support these innovations and celebrate the improvement in the quality of life for so many who struggle with this disease,” said Reed. The technology approved by the FDA for patients ages 14 and up is the Medtronic MiniMed 670G hybrid closed-loop system, which consists of insulin pumps, continuous glucose monitors and software to automate the delivery insulin as needed, as a healthy pancreas does. For the past five years, DeGette and Reed have been urging the FDA to expedite review of the technology. In addition, they worked to support and expand the Special Diabetes Program at the National Institutes of Health (NIH), which has funded artificial pancreas research. The SDP was reauthorized in 2013 and is due for reauthorization in 2017; DeGette and Reed are urging their colleagues to approve it.
09.28.2016	Washington, DC – Congress today approved a bill co-sponsored by Congresswoman Diana DeGette (D-CO) to name a medical health clinic for veterans in Colorado after a war hero from Pueblo. The legislation renames the community-based outpatient clinic of the Department of Veterans Affairs in Pueblo as the ``PFC James Dunn VA Clinic” to honor the legacy of the late James Dunn, a decorated World War II Veteran and Pueblo native. “I am incredibly proud to have helped secure this fitting tribute for a local hero,” said DeGette. “Mr. Dunn represents a generation of men and women who bravely accepted the task of protecting our nation, serving America on and off the battlefield. It is our duty to honor them, particularly those who went above and beyond the call of duty.” James Dunn served with the Marines in the Pacific Theater of World War II. While stationed in Guadalcanal, he led his platoon to safety under heavy enemy fire. For his heroism, he was awarded the Navy Cross, the second highest military decoration a Marine can receive. The legislation to name Pueblo’s VA clinic in his honor was supported by a large contingent of veterans’ groups including the United Veterans Committee of Colorado and the American Legion, Department of Colorado.
09.28.2016	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Diana DeGette (D-CO), Chief Deputy Whip, today said U.S. national security interests compelled her to vote against overriding President Obama’s veto of legislation allowing lawsuits against the Saudi Arabian government over the September 11 attacks. “This bill was meant to address an unthinkable loss, but it opens the door to further damage,” DeGette said of the Justice Against Sponsors of Terrorism Act (JASTA). “It would erode the principle of sovereign immunity that protects U.S. officials working on behalf of our country overseas. Without that protection, which is rooted in reciprocity, we jeopardize their safety and, by extension, our country’s security.” JASTA would create a new exception to sovereign immunity, which protects countries and their diplomats from lawsuits. The bill is meant to let families sue Saudi Arabia for alleged complicity in the 9/11 tragedy.
09.20.2016	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Diana DeGette (D-CO) today said tomorrow’s hastily-arranged Select Panel votes are designed to harass researchers and will put their life-saving work at risk. “Enough with the smear campaigns, fishing expeditions and endless stream of subpoenas,”said DeGette, who is co-chair of the Congressional Pro-Choice Caucus and a senior member of the Panel. “Congressional bullying to drive researchers and healthcare providers out of business is a clear abuse of power and has to stop.” On Monday evening, Chair Marsha Blackburn announced to media and then to Panel members that on Wednesday they would vote on whether to begin contempt proceedings against StemExpress. Among its wide range of services to researchers around the globe, the small biotechnology company procures fetal tissue with the aim of using stem cells for vital research that will accelerate prevention and cures of significant medical conditions such as Alzheimer’s disease and multiple sclerosis. StemExpress was a key target of the deceptively-edited videos created by anti-abortion extremist David Daleiden and the “Center for Medical Progress.” Republican Panel members have embraced Daleiden’s cause from the outset of this investigation. The Panel will also consider a resolution authorizing Chair Blackburn to release a researcher’s May 11, 2016, deposition. Chair Blackburn’s broad and burdensome demands for documents and other tactics to imply criminal misconduct by this company and others have had a chilling effect on researchers and healthcare providers, DeGette said. “Overly aggressive investigations have already drummed one tissue procurement company out of business, created pressure that resulted in a significant drop in donations to StemExpress, and put a stop to promising studies and clinical trials,” DeGette noted. “Dangerous and inflammatory rhetoric by Panel members has been echoed verbatim to justify attacks on healthcare providers, including in Colorado Springs. We have long called for this panel to be disbanded before it does any more damage. This latest stunt is intended only to harass people involved in life-saving work. It is as reckless as it is baseless.”
09.14.2016	As Prepared for Delivery Mr. Chairman, I’m wondering something about the Affordable Care Act. Do you know if it covers treatment for déjà vu? There seems to be a mass outbreak of that on Capitol Hill when it comes to the ACA; here are some of the symptoms: Between the health subcommittee and the oversight subcommittee on which I’m ranking member, we’ve held over 40 hearings on the ACA since it became law in 2010. We have been through six years of repeated votes to repeal and undermine the law. We’ve seen any number of Administration officials interrogated by hostile members of Congress about their work to implement the law. These same officials have been the target of countless letters requesting briefings and documentation of every aspect of their work. Despite the hours and hours spent on these efforts, House Republicans have nothing to show for it. Instead of conducting good-faith review of the issues followed up by thoughtful, targeted legislation to improve the law -- as Congress did on previous major pieces of legislation like the Medicare Part D program -- this Congress has used its oversight powers to highlight failures while offering no solutions. And today will be more of the same. We had two hearings this Congress on the ACA’s state insurance marketplaces. But we will hear again today about how some states struggled to set up exchanges and make them work as efficiently as possible. We had a hearing earlier this Congress about the co-ops, and I’m sure we will hear again from the Majority today that many co-ops have failed or are facing challenges. I’m not denying that these are issues worthy of congressional attention. But what we will not hear from the Majority are meaningful solutions to these challenges—despite the fact that many experts say they exist. More interestingly, I am guessing, we will hear nothing about how the law is reforming the delivery of health care to millions. Highlighting solutions or making important course corrections requires a willing Congress. And at this point, Republicans aren’t willing to admit to the public that that the law has helped millions of people and simply needs fixing rather than being repealed. So far, they’re doing so only in private – in conversation with me, among others. It’s my hope that after the elections, we can all be more straightforward about what needs doing to get the ACA on the right course. In the meantime, let me take a moment to share just some of the major accomplishments we’ve seen as a result of the Affordable Care Act. Since the passage of the ACA, the United States has experienced historic reductions in its number of uninsured. The CDC reported last week that the uninsured rate is at a historic low – the lowest level in four decades. That is an accomplishment. Since the passage of the ACA, 20 million previously uninsured Americans now have coverage. This includes millions of young adults who can now stay on their parents’ plans until age 26, which will result in a cost savings for millions of families. That is an accomplishment. Since the passage of the ACA, with implementation of the marketplaces and Medicaid expansion, more than 12 million additional individuals have been able to enroll in the Medicaid and CHIP programs. That is an accomplishment. Since the passage of the ACA and the expansion of Medicaid, uncompensated care costs for hospitals have been reduced by an estimated 7.4 billion dollars. This ultimately saves taxpayers money and helps patients gain access to better care instead of flooding emergency rooms when they get sick. Another accomplishment. Since the passage of the ACA, the price of health care has increased at the slowest rate in more than half a century. Its increase is now in single digits as opposed to the double digits I remember discussing with this Committee not that long ago. That is an accomplishment. In short: the law has benefited millions of our constituents, and this Congress has a duty to share this news with the American people. It is irresponsible to ignore these successes and focus only on the shortcomings that the majority chooses to parade without end. Finally, Mr. Chairman, everyone in this room knows I am a fervent supporter of Congress’s oversight role, and I am proud of my position as Ranking Member on the Oversight Subcommittee. And I strongly believe that Congress can use its oversight powers to do an immense amount of good. But I cannot support the type of oversight we are seeing today. It is not being undertaken for the purpose of finding meaningful solutions to the problems we are uncovering. These ACA hearings only highlight failure without an eye towards fixing a problem or improving the law. I believe the collective staff hours and Member attention we have given to this topic have been a missed opportunity and a sad chapter for this Committee. But I would like to conclude on a more positive note. The Affordable Care Act has made tremendous achievements through its enactment. It has helped millions of hardworking Americans and children get access to care they never had in their lives. But implementing this law and solving this health care challenge has not been easy and this law is not perfect. It has hit snags and will continue to face hurdles. I hope the role this Committee will eventually play will be not to focus exclusively on failure, but improve the law and also the lives of the millions of Americans who send us here to do our work.
09.07.2016	Washington, DC – Congresswomen Diana DeGette and Louise Slaughter (D-NY), co-chairs of the Congressional Pro-Choice Caucus, today called for a Government Accountability Office investigation into the many barriers women face at the state and local levels when trying to access reproductive medical care, including abortion services. “We are very concerned about growing trends in the enactment of state and local laws that make reproductive health services inaccessible to women,” DeGette and Slaughter wrote in a letter to Gene Dodaro, Comptroller General of the United States. “Without realistic access to care, many women lack any practical ability to exercise their constitutional right to choose. GAO’s study pursuant to this request will support us in our efforts to ensure the women’s fundamental reproductive rights are both meaningful and protected.” In 1973, the Supreme Court made clear that the Constitution protects a woman’s choice to have an abortion in the landmark Roe v. Wade decision. The Court reaffirmed this right in June in its decision in Whole Woman’s Health v. Hellerstedt, which struck down Texas H.B. 2, a state law that placed extreme and unnecessary regulations on abortion providers. The decision also further clarified the “undue burden” standard as it relates to a woman’s fundamental right to have an abortion. Nevertheless, many states have restricted access with policies targeting clinics, doctors, or women themselves. In the letter to Comptroller General Dodaro, DeGette and Slaughter expressed concern about the negative impact that Targeted Regulations of Abortion Providers, often referred to as “TRAP laws,” are having on women across the country. The congresswomen remain concerned that many state and local laws continue to deprive women of any meaningful right to choose, restricting their constitutional rights. Click here to read the letter.
07.26.2016	Denver, CO – Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee Ranking Member Diana DeGette (D-CO), along with Energy and Commerce Committee Ranking Member Frank Pallone, Jr. (D-NJ) and Health Subcommittee Ranking Member Gene Green (D-TX), today sent letters to the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) requesting information about how regulators are working with Theranos to ensure the company complies with federal regulatory standards and addresses concerns about its flawed blood test results that impacted thousands of patients nationwide. “Given Theranos’ disregard for patient safety and its failure to immediately address concerns by federal regulators, we write to request more information about how regulators are working with Theranos to address these failures,” DeGette, Pallone and Green wrote. The letters for FDA and CMS follow a letter the Democratic Committee leaders sent to Theranos earlier this month requesting information on the company’s plan to help medical professionals and patients affected by the flawed results. Inspections of Theranos laboratories by CMS and the FDA in 2015 resulted in discoveries of a number of serious compliance failures. FDA inspections of two laboratories in August and September 2015 found the use of an unapproved medical device, recordkeeping failures, and a failure to conduct quality audits, among other issues. Following a November 2015 inspection of the company’s Newark, California facility, CMS concluded that Theranos’ was in violation of five quality requirements and requested that the laboratory “take immediate action to remove the jeopardy and bring any unmet condition-level requirements into compliance” within 10 calendar days. CMS stated that some of these compliance failures “pose immediate jeopardy to patient health and safety.” After the company failed to take steps to address cited compliance violations, CMS announced in July 2016 it will impose a number of sanctions against Theranos, including barring the company’s chief executive, Elizabeth Holmes, from owning and operating a medical laboratory for at least two years. Given the ongoing concerns about Theranos’ compliance with regulatory federal standards and the accuracy of Theranos’ blood tests, the Democratic Committee leaders requested that the agencies provide a briefing to Committee staff on numerous issues, including: -An overview of the violations and observations documented in the agencies' 2015 inspections of Theranos' California laboratories. -Additional information regarding the agencies' inspections of or plan to inspect Theranos' laboratories located in Arizona. -An update on Theranos' efforts to work with CMS to come into compliance with federal law. -Clarification on whether the blood tests marketed by Theranos are under the FDA's enforcement discretion policy for laboratory developed tests and if FDA needs additional authority to ensure that such blood tests are not marketed before FDA finds the test is safe and effective so that healthcare providers and patients can rely on test results when making important medical decisions. A copy of the letter sent to the FDA is available here and a copy of the letter sent to the CMS is available here.
07.14.2016	Washington, DC - Today, Congresswoman Diana DeGette (D-CO) rejected claims by Select Panel Chairman Marsha Blackburn that Democrats are obstructing the Panel’s “investigation." “It appears that the Select Panel majority is suffering from a complete disconnect from the truth,” DeGette said. “These false accusations against Democrats are merely a smokescreen meant to distract from the truth that the Panel has uncovered no evidence of wrongdoing and the countless improprieties employed by Republicans in their so-called investigation from the start.” Members of the Republican majority have incurred a long list of unethical and disingenuous practices during the course of their investigation, including withholding documents and information, refusing to include Democrats in discussions held with outside entities, continuing to rely on the fraudulent and thoroughly discredited videos created by David Daleiden, and most notably, endangering health care providers and researchers by deliberately releasing their names and contact information. Select Panel Democrats have called out the majority many times for their repeated violations and increasingly reckless practices, culminating in a letter signed by 181 House Democrats demanding that Speaker Ryan disband the panel. Although he refused even to meet with Democrats to discuss our concerns, on June 24, Speaker Ryan sent a letter confirming his trust in Chairman Blackburn and support for the panel in completing its work.
07.13.2016	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Diana DeGette (D-CO) today welcomed congressional passage of legislation that paves the way for a public-private partnership to improve the Jeppesen Terminal at Denver International Airport, which is in her district. “We are on our way toward a safer, more efficient passenger screening process at DIA,” DeGette said. “Through an innovative public-private partnership, we can anticipate less congestion in the Great Hall and a better security screening process in the years to come.” Both the House and the Senate have now approved an extension of authority for the Federal Aviation Administration that includes provisions allowing two pilot programs to promote security and create the “checkpoint of the future.” DeGette and other members of the Colorado delegation to Congress are committed to ensuring that the FAA and the Transportation Security Administration have the resources they need for this project. The public-private partnership stipulates that before any changes to the terminal are made, the proposal will be presented to the Denver City Council.
07.01.2016	Denver – Investigations Subcommittee Ranking Member Diana DeGette (D-CO), along with Energy and Commerce Committee Ranking Member Frank Pallone, Jr. (D-NJ) and Health Subcommittee Ranking Member Gene Green (D-TX) today sent a letter to Theranos requesting information on the company’s failure to comply with federal regulatory standards governing clinical laboratory testing, and its steps to address flawed test results sent to thousands of medical professionals and patients. The letter comes after a series of inspections over the last year by both the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) documented serious compliance issues. In one instance, CMS concluded that the violations posed “immediate jeopardy to patient and health safety.” Numerous media outlets have also reported that CMS found Edison, a Theranos’ blood-testing device, consistently returned inaccurate blood test results for patients on the blood thinner Warfarin. Too much Warfarin can lead to internal bleeding and too little can leave a patient with an increased risk of stroke. Under current law, Theranos was not required to obtain clearance by FDA of its lab developed tests, including those employing its Edison device, before marketing these tests to patients. “Given Theranos’ disregard for patient safety and its failure to immediately address concerns by federal regulators, we write to request more information about how company policies permitted systematic violations of federal law and how Theranos is working with regulators to address these failures,” DeGette, Pallone and Green wrote. “We also request information to better understand the steps Theranos is taking to correct flawed test results sent to medical professionals and patients.” The Democratic Committee leaders asked that the company provide a briefing to Committee staff in order to address numerous questions, including: How is Theranos working with regulators to come into compliance with federal law? How has Theranos changed its internal policies to prevent future compliance issues associated with its laboratories? What steps is Theranos taking to assist medical professionals and patients who many have been harmed by inaccurate test results?
06.30.2016	Denver – Congresswoman Diana DeGette and Senator Michael Bennet, both of Colorado, hailed today’s announcement of a public-private partnership to improve Denver International Airport’s Jeppesen Terminal as a solid first step toward a safer, more efficient passenger screening process. They urged Congress to vote as soon as possible to extend the FAA’s authorization so that innovative plans to improve the Terminal can continue. “Plans to reconfigure the Great Hall, beginning with this public-private partnership, will help relieve congestion for travelers and improve safety at the airport,” DeGette said. “I am proud that Denver is pioneering this effort, and expect that other U.S. airports will follow.” “With the increasing threat of attacks on our airports, DIA is taking actions to keep passengers safer and move them through security quicker,” Bennet said. “In the meantime, we will continue working to pass our legislation to provide funding for enhancements like this as well as our provision for a pilot program to support this project.” The public-private partnership stipulates that before any changes to the terminal are made, the P3 proposal will be presented to the Denver City Council. DeGette and Bennet said they would monitor its progress and seek their constituents’ views. “Congratulations to all involved in this big step on Denver’s behalf,” DeGette and Bennet said. “Now it’s up to Congress to ensure that the Federal Aviation Administration’s authority does not expire on July 15. We hope that the Senate and the House can agree on a bill providing the FAA and Transportation Security Administration the resources it needs for this project. We urge both houses of Congress to take this important next step when final legislation is passed.”
06.27.2016	Denver – Congresswoman Diana DeGette (D-CO), co-chair of the Congressional Pro-Choice Caucus, today praised the Supreme Court’s decision in Whole Woman’s Health v. Hellerstedt as a victory for women’s health that sets a strong precedent for reproductive rights. "The Supreme Court has again recognized that women in this country must be free to make their own choices about their health and are entitled to be treated with compassion, respect and dignity in making those decisions," DeGette said. "No government should usurp that right." The 5-3 decision strikes down Texas House Bill 2 (H.B. 2), a state law that placed burdensome regulations on abortion providers, and paves the way for more clinics to open and reopen in Texas and across the nation. In January, DeGette led 155 other Democrats in filing an amicus brief to the Court on the harmful and wide-ranging impact of H.B. 2. As noted in the brief, the law has forced many clinics in the state to close. Today, the Court’s decision could now halt the steady decline of women’s health providers in Texas and other states that have passed similar laws targeting health clinics. “I am pleased that this ruling will benefit women across America, but the fight to protect abortion access does not end today," DeGette said. "This is only the first step in dismantling hundreds of medically unnecessary laws aimed at making it harder for women to exercise their rights."
06.23.2016	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Diana DeGette (D-CO) vowed to keep up the drumbeat for common-sense gun safety measures that was started by Democrats' historic 26-hour sit-in on the House floor. "Far too many lives are lost to gun violence in this country," DeGette said. "And for far too many years, those who object to sensible controls over access to extremely lethal firearms have had their way. But with recent events, we have reached a moment of truth. "Congress has the opportunity now to vote on bipartisan, common-sense gun legislation that would tighten loopholes in background checks for firearm purchases and keep people who are on the terrorist watch list from buying guns. Rather than confront the issues head-on and allow votes on these two key bills, Republican House leadership chose in the dead of night to let their members slink out of town. But Democrats won't let this subject drop. We're taking the fight into our districts all across the country, and we're prepared to do whatever it takes when we reconvene." DeGette is planning to carry on the discussion during the coming days with her constituents, who by the hundreds have been phoning her office in support of the Democrats' efforts and have engaged with her on social media by the thousands. "This is a long-term effort," DeGette noted. "It's not just for a day. We will keep up the struggle, and with sufficient support from across the nation and enough political will, we will prevail."
06.23.2016	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Diana DeGette (D-CO) expressed disappointment in today’s Supreme Court ruling in the case of United States vs Texas. The decision blocks the implementation of Deferred Action for Parents of Americans and Lawful Permanent Residents (DAPA) and the expansion of Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA), programs that would provide a path to citizenship for certain undocumented residents in the United States. “Today’s ruling is a devastating blow to millions of people in Colorado and across America,” said DeGette. “Those who would have been eligible for DAPA and DACA will continue to live with the daily fear of deportation that tears families apart and destroys economic opportunity.” Initiated by the Obama Administration in 2014, DAPA provided additional time to review the legal appeals of undocumented residents identified for deportation whose children are U.S. citizens. This program, accompanied by DACA, has protected those with significant family and community ties to the United States and allowed law enforcement agencies to focus their attention instead on undocumented individuals who pose a public safety risk. Texas and 25 other states challenged these programs on the grounds that they were an overreach of executive power and prohibitively expensive for states to maintain. Last April, DeGette and other Democratic leaders in Congress filed an amicus brief with the court affirming the constitutionality of DAPA/DACA and the potential benefits they could provide for millions of people across America. Despite the ruling, DeGette remains confident that DACA and DAPA have created a blueprint that will help make comprehensive immigration reform a reality. “I commend President Obama’s efforts to reform our broken immigration system through these programs,” she said, “and I hope that the next administration and Congress will partner to provide real solutions for millions of undocumented people working to achieve their American dream.”
06.22.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Diana DeGette is taking a stand for Americans’ safety tonight by helping to sustain the historic sit-in on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives. More than 200 House and Senate Democrats have joined the effort over the course of the past ten-plus hours. They want to force the Republican leadership to act on legislation to prevent gun violence. “Congress must contend with this issue and pass common-sense legislation to curb gun violence, whatever it takes,” DeGette said after spending all afternoon with colleagues at the sit-in and then defending the microphone this evening to keep the Republican leadership from ending the demonstration. “This is a moment of truth.” The House has the opportunity to vote on two bipartisan bills – one tightening loopholes in background checks for firearm purchases, and the other preventing people on the terrorist watch list from buying guns. But House Republican leaders want to let their members leave Washington for an early summer break without confronting this critical national security issue. “We have witnessed way too many tragedies in this country involving guns, including the mass shootings at Columbine and Aurora,” DeGette said. “I want to take this opportunity to thank the countless constituents who have been with me all day long, posting supportive messages on social media and calling to show their appreciation. We’re going to keep up this fight.”
06.16.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Diana DeGette (D-CO), Co-Chair of the Pro-Choice Caucus, along with Select Panel Democratic Members sent a letter to Speaker Paul Ryan asking that he meet with them before the House adjourns for its July 4th recess to discuss their concerns about the partisan, dangerous nature of the Panel. The letter follows a May 24th letter to Speaker Ryan, in which 181 Democratic members urged him to disband the Select Panel. In the letter, DeGette and the members write, “We believe that a request coming from nearly all of the Democrats in the House warrants your respect and serious consideration and write now to ask that you meet with us before the House leaves in June for the July 4th district work period.” The letter continues, “This Panel poses a real and serious threat to life-saving research, women’s access to critical health care, and people’s lives…. The Panel also heard from preeminent researchers that fetal tissue is critical to promising research on diabetes and various neurological disorders, including Alzheimer’s, schizophrenia, and autism. These researchers informed us that fetal tissue is needed for the next phase in the treatment and cures of autoimmune diseases such as type 1 diabetes, and that they cannot unlock a cure without fetal tissue.” “Congress should support, not threaten, research that advances our understanding of fetal and human development and brings us closer to treating and curing diseases. This is particularly true as researchers are racing to understand and find possible means of addressing the Zika virus. The Panel Republicans’ anti-science agenda is putting life-saving research at risk. It is also putting people’s lives in danger.” Joining DeGette in signing the letter are Reps. Jan Schakowsky, Louise Slaughter, Jerrold Nadler, Jackie Speier, Suzan K. DelBene, and Bonnie Watson Coleman.
06.08.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Diana DeGette and leading Democratic members introduced a resolution to disband the Select Investigative Panel, which was established by House Republicans as a political weapon to attack women’s health, target health care providers, and intimidate scientists seeking to understand and ultimately cure life-threatening diseases. Panel Ranking Member Jan Schakowsky, together with DeGette and Reps. Jerrold Nadler, Jackie Speier, Suzan K. DelBene, Bonnie Watson Coleman, Frank Pallone, Jr., John Conyers, Elijah Cummings, and Louise Slaughter are original cosponsors of the legislation. “This ‘investigation’ is becoming more reckless by the day,” DeGette said. “It should have been disbanded long ago. Too often we've seen clinics and other facilities struck by violence; it’s irresponsible in the extreme to place them at risk like this.” “This Select Panel is a dangerous attack on women, their health care providers and scientific research,” said Schakowsky. “This McCarthy-like Republican witch hunt is putting lives, not just livelihoods, at risk. Today, I stand with my colleagues to introduce a resolution that will disband this partisan Republican Select Panel without further delay before more damage is done and more lives are put at risk.” “Ever since its creation, Republicans’ Select Panel to Attack Women’s Health’s sole purpose has been to drive an outrageous campaign of misrepresentation and intimidation,” said Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi. “Now, Republicans are engaged in abuses that have not been seen on Capitol Hill since the days of Joseph McCarthy. Republicans’ Select Panel is disgraceful, dangerous, and should be disbanded immediately.” “The Oversight Committee already spent months investigating allegations against Planned Parenthood and concluded that they were completely baseless, and Chairman Chaffetz conceded on national television that we found no wrongdoing whatsoever,” said Ranking Member Cummings. “Yet, to this day, neither the Oversight Committee nor the Select Panel has taken testimony from David Daleiden—the radical extremist whose group engaged in a host of potentially illegal activities targeting Planned Parenthood and other health care providers. There was absolutely no reason for House Republicans to set up yet another taxpayer-funded panel to attack women’s health and women’s rights, and its actions to date have been disgraceful. It is time to bring this abuse to an end.” “The Select Panel has never been fair or fact-based. Every day that its baseless investigation continues, tax dollars are wasted and women, scientists, and health care providers are put at risk in a way that smacks of Joseph McCarthy. It’s beyond time to finally end this dangerous, partisan witch hunt,” said Congresswoman Louise Slaughter, Ranking Member of the House Committee on Rules. “The Select Panel’s dangerous and outrageous actions must come to an end,” said Energy and Commerce Ranking Member Pallone. “This panel should have never been created in the first place, but the panel’s attempts to use the playbook of Senator Joe McCarthy are a disgrace and should not be allowed to continue.” “The Select Panel serves little worthwhile function,” said Ranking Member John Conyers, Jr. “Its principle purpose appears to be to engage in sustained attacks on women’s health care and rights. I’m particularly concerned about the Select Panel’s continuing recent publication of unredacted researcher and clinical staff names. This appears to be an effort to intimidate medical providers and may well put lives at risk.”
06.08.2016	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Diana DeGette (D-CO) praised the passage today by the U.S. Senate of Frank R. Lautenberg Chemical Safety for the 21st Century Act, which reforms U.S. chemical safety efforts under the four-decade-old Toxic Substances Control Act (TSCA). “TSCA has been flawed since it became law in 1976,” DeGette said. “Nobody likes it—not the environmental community, not chemical manufacturers, nor the parents of America, whose children are exposed to dangerous substances throughout their homes each and every day. “Right now, a badly outdated system is letting harmful chemicals come to market virtually unchecked by the EPA,” Rep. DeGette said. “We can’t let that happen anymore. Under this bill, the Environmental Protection Agency will, for the first time, regulate chemicals that pose a threat to public health and the environment. The bill is not perfect. It’s the product of a bipartisan, bicameral process that involved some compromise. But it does what needs to be done: protects the safety of Americans, especially the young and most vulnerable, from exposure to harmful chemicals.” The Senate bill is based on legislation that passed the House on May 24, 2016 with support from Congresswoman DeGette and other leaders on environmental matters who for years have been advocating reform of the Toxic Substances Control Act.
05.24.2016	Washington, DC – Almost every House Democrat joined Congresswoman Diana DeGette (D-CO) and her co-chair of the Congressional Pro-Choice Caucus, Louise Slaughter (D-NY), in a letter calling on House Speaker Paul Ryan to disband the Select Investigative Panel due to continued, escalating abuses that jeopardize Americans' safety. The panel's reckless disregard has escalated to include 36 subpoenas sent to researchers and health care providers, including a physician who was recently identified by name. "The onus is on you to put an end to this witch hunt," the letter said. "You cannot continue to turn a blind eye to the serious risks presented by the panel and still claim to fulfill your responsibilities as Speaker. We implore you not to stand idly by while tax dollars are spent on a baseless investigation that endangers women, scientists, health providers, and others involved in women's health care and biomedical research." The panel’s investigation has never been fair or fact-based. Through unilateral subpoenas, Chairman Marsha Blackburn is trying to force universities and clinics to turn over the names of their researchers, graduate students, lab and clinic staff and doctors for no legitimate congressional reason. Many people contacted by the panel have expressed fear for their safety if identified in connection with this investigation, with some repeatedly described by the Chairman and other Republicans in misleading and inflammatory terms. The members of Congress have requested a written response from Speaker Ryan by June 6th. For further reading about the letter and the history of the Panel, please see this article in The Washington Post.
05.18.2016	Washington D.C. – Congresswoman Diana DeGette (D-CO) and three colleagues – Jan Schakowsky (D-IL), Barbara Lee (D-CA) and Louise Slaughter (D-NY) released the following statement in response to the bill introduced by House Republicans that would provide insufficient funding to combat the Zika virus: “The Zika virus is a threat to communities and families across the country. Congress should do its job by providing adequate funding to protect Americans, strengthen our public health infrastructure and continue research to create a vaccine. With summer coming, it is imperative that we make the level of commitment necessary to keep the public safe." “Unfortunately, the bill that the Republican majority is bringing up for a vote this week falls far short of what is needed." “First, it would provide insufficient funding of $622 million, significantly below the President’s request of $1.9 billion and about half the level in the Senate bill.” “Second, the bill pays for Zika efforts by taking away money from another serious public health threat -- jeopardizing our ability to combat Ebola and develop a vaccine to prevent against future outbreaks. It is both short-sighted and dangerous to fund one public health crisis by undermining efforts to combat another public health crisis." “Finally, by including Hyde language that denies access to abortions for women receiving Medicaid, women in the Peace Corps and military, federal workers and others, it continues discriminatory policies that deny women vital reproductive health care services based on their income, their insurance, and where they work." “For those reasons, we oppose H.R. 5243. It is a short-term, inadequate response to a serious public health threat. We urge our Republican colleagues to work with us to pass legislation that will get the job done.” ###
05.18.2016	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Diana DeGette (D-CO) and Congressman Gene Green (D-TX), leading members of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, today issued the following statement on a new bipartisan, bicameral proposal to reform U.S. chemical safety efforts under the Toxic Substances Control Act: “For many years, we have worked to reform the Toxic Substances Control Act to direct the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency to protect Americans from harmful chemicals,” said DeGette and Green, the ranking members of the subcommittees on Oversight & Investigations and Health, respectively. “Right now, we are closer than ever before to making reform a reality. The proposal released yesterday is a clear improvement over current law and addresses the fundamental flaws of TSCA that expose the public to dangerous chemicals. It is long past time that Congress update this law, and we stand ready to work toward a final compromise that will have broad, bicameral support.” # # #
05.16.2016	Washington, D.C.– Congresswoman Diana DeGette (D-CO) and two other leading pro-choice members of Congress voiced disappointment regarding the Supreme Court’s order on Zubik v. Burwell today. “The Obama Administration’s balanced accommodation respects the beliefs of religiously-affiliated organizations and ensures that all women have access to basic contraceptive services,” said DeGette, Louise Slaughter (D-NY) and Jerrold Nadler (D-NY), who together led an amicus brief in the case. “Nearly all of the Circuit Courts of Appeals have already recognized women’s right to contraceptive services regardless of where they work. We’re confident that the lower court will do the same.” Under the Affordable Care Act, every insurance plan is required to provide preventive care for all enrollees at no out-of-pocket cost. For women, that preventive care includes any FDA-approved method of contraception. Recognizing that some employers have religious objections to contraception, the Obama Administration created an accommodation for religiously-affiliated nonprofits to ensure they could continue to express their religious objection to contraception, but their employees could still seamlessly access the health care they choose at no additional costs. In February, Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi joined DeGette, Slaughter and Nadler in submitting an amicus brief in this case on behalf of 123 Democratic members of Congress (90 House members and 33 senators). Senator Al Franken (D-MN) and Senator Patty Murray (D-WA), joined by Senate Democratic Leader Harry Reid, led the brief in the Senate. The brief argues that access to birth control is critical to women’s health. Since 2013, women have saved $1.4 billion on the birth control pill alone and more than 55 million women have accessed free birth control. Further, the Religious Freedom Restoration Act, on which the nonprofits are basing their case, was intended to protect religious rights, not exert one person’s religious beliefs over another. The current accommodation does not burden the nonprofits’ religious beliefs and achieves the government’s goal of providing more women access to critically important health care. ###
05.13.2016	As delivered Thank you so much Mr. Chairman for having this follow-up hearing on our round-table that we held on concussions and brain trauma earlier this year. I’m very pleased that the Committee is looking first to youth sports through official hearings because studies have shown that children and teens are more likely than adults to get a concussion and they take longer to recover. Athletes at the professional and college levels, they can make their own decisions about undertaking the risks associated with certain sports. But we need to ensure that children and their parents have enough data to make informed decisions about participation in youth contact sports. Part of that discussion needs to be the recognition of how valuable these sports are – both for physical fitness and team building, as you so well stated, Mr. Chairman –but I think we also need to have an open discussion about how to make them safer. I approach this issue both as a policymaker and a parent. And as I said in the round-table, I support evidence-based policymaking, and am very encouraged that we are having ongoing research to better understand brain trauma. But at our round-table, the experts said they’re going to have answers about what the protocols should be in seven to 10 years. And what I said at that hearing is, as a mom, when I’m deciding if my kid is going to play pee-wee sports, I can’t afford to wait seven to 10 years. By then, they’ll be in high school and so we need to take whatever evidence that we have right now, and we need to figure out for now what we should tell parents and what we should tell leagues as the best practices as far as we know right now. For example, at what age should children start playing tackle football? How many times a week should children be engaging in full-contact practices? And when they do begin to play, how do we teach them to tackle safely and to protect their heads and the heads of other players? And how do we ensure that coaches are educated in teaching these skills to young players? I’m sure that we can ask other questions in all youth sports, not just football. I agree that most – if not all – parents would agree that it is better to err on the side of caution. The worst case scenario would be that we discover later that some of these safety measures may have been unnecessary. But as a mom, I always want to have more safety rather than less safety, especially when we’re talking about our children’s brains. Now as we implement changes in sports now, that is not a reason to stop researching our gaps in knowledge. We need to understand the long-term effects of concussive and subconcussive injuries. We need to analyze whether the rule changes being implemented are having the desired effects. We need to study how to prevent brain injury in the first place. I also am interested in hearing from our witnesses about the differences we’re seeing in girls’ and boys’ sports and how the rates of concussion differ. I know that have been studies suggesting that women and girls report concussions at higher rates than men and boys in similar sports. I want to know about that disparity, and also if there’s any disparity about the actual effects on brains. Both of our panels contain excellent witnesses, and it’s so important to have them today. I’m really proud to welcome two witnesses from Colorado. Kelli Jantz, as you heard, tragically lost her son Jake to Second Impact Syndrome in 2004. And Kelli, I’m so proud of you because what did is you were in ensuring that concussions are taken seriously in youth sports and that parents and coaches have the information they need. As the Chairman mentioned, in 2012, Governor Hickenlooper signed the Jake Snakenberg Youth Sports Concussion Act into law in Colorado. And we’re really proud that you’ve taken his legacy to that point – we really are. Dr. Dawn Comstock is in our second panel. She’s from the Colorado School of Public Health – and, like me, a Colorado native. She’s one of the leading experts in sports injury epidemiology. Her database gathers information on injury exposure and incidence among high school athletes. She looks at injury patterns – like examining the correlation between neck strength and concussion risk – to inform prevention and mitigation strategies. I want to thank you also, Dr. Comstock, for making youth sports safer. I want thank everybody who’s here today to help us figure this out. And I also really want to say we want to see sports succeed. I can’t let this hearing go by without congratulating the World Champion Denver Broncos, for example, for which I have season tickets. And I also want to say, as I’ve said before, one of my great sadnesses is that I was unable to persuade either of my daughters to play ice hockey and they took up dance instead. But the point is, every child in this country should be safe. We love sports, we want to see sports succeed, but that means that we have to do our utmost to improve player safety and guarantee that participation in sports doesn’t mean that you have long-term health consequences. So I know, Mr. Chairman, you intend to have more hearings. I think this is the perfect place to start and I thank you again and yield back.
05.12.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Diana DeGette and the other Democratic members of the Select Investigative Panel sent a letter to Speaker Paul Ryan calling on him to end Chair Marsha Blackburn’s abusive investigation, which is being conducted in violation of House and Committee rules and practice and putting doctors and researchers in danger. The members objected to ongoing tactics targeting doctors and clinics that put patients and health-care providers at risk. In their letter, they wrote, “Just last week, for example – and after Chair Blackburn and her staff repeatedly promised Ranking Member Schakowsky that they would provide a complete list of the individuals or entities being subpoenaed but then refused to do so – the Chair issued nineteen unilateral subpoenas. Of the nineteen entities and individuals served, seventeen were never afforded an opportunity to comply voluntarily before receiving a subpoena.” These subpoenas are in addition to fifteen unilateral subpoenas issued previously. The letter continues, “Just yesterday, for example, the Chair issued a press release naming a doctor as now under investigation by the Panel. Republicans have not shared with Democrats any objective basis for targeting this individual, who has been the subject of anti-abortion violence for decades, including a 1991 fire that destroyed his family farm, killing his dog, cat, and seventeen horses in claimed retaliation for the care that he provides for women in this country. The Chair’s complete disregard for this doctor’s safety, particularly in light of the long history of targeted harassment and violence directed against him, is further evidence that this dangerous witch hunt must end.” “One deponent has already appealed to the Chairman of the Energy and Commerce Committee and to you, Speaker Ryan, in an effort to get basic protection for individual privacy and safety. Those requests have been refused or met with deafening silence. Facing the threat of contempt, that person appeared before the Panel last week. During eight hours of questioning, she was asked to “name names” by Republican staff who refused to explain how their requests bore any relation to a legitimate investigative aim. The Republican demand that people appear and name other individuals when they do so is reminiscent of Senator Joe McCarthy, whose bullying behavior ultimately resulted in censure by the U.S. Senate but not before he had damaged many American’s lives and careers with unfounded accusations.” The letter concludes, ”This investigation has uncovered no evidence of wrongdoing and Chair Blackburn’s unjustified witch hunt against researchers and doctors is putting life-saving research and health care at risk. This investigation has never been – and has no hope of becoming – fair or fact-based and we call on you to disband it.”
05.12.2016	Washington, DC – Five members of Congress who have been pushing for new regulations on methane emissions across the United States applauded the release today of the Environmental Protection Agency’s finalized rule for methane limits in the oil and gas sector. “This long-awaited move by the EPA will help keep Americans healthy and safe,” said Representatives Diana DeGette (D-CO), Matt Cartwright (D-PA), Jared Huffman (D-CA), Eric Swalwell (D-CA) and John Sarbanes (D-MD). “We now have enforceable national standards to reduce methane pollution from the oil and gas sector. This will help prevent and mitigate dangerous industrial leaks, reduce waste, and protect public health. Having proven, low-cost safeguards in place is an important step toward cleaner skies and curbing climate change.” The finalized rule came after 75 House members sent a letter in March calling on the EPA to finalize proposed rules for new and modified sources of methane emissions and to develop proposals to regulate existing sources of methane in the oil and gas industry. EPA also announced today next steps in developing a rule for methane emissions from existing oil and gas sources. Under the EPA’s new rule, companies will be required to find and repair current leaks, improve their methods of capturing natural gas from fracking operations , control new and modified pneumatic pump emissions, and limit emissions at natural gas transmission compressor stations. ###
05.11.2016	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Reps. Diana DeGette (CO-01) and Louise Slaughter (NY-25), co-chairs of the House Pro-Choice Caucus, strongly object to subpoenas sent today by Chairman Marsha Blackburn of the Select Investigative Panel to compel the testimony of several Maryland health-care organizations and a physician who was identified by name. “This latest demagoguery by the Select Panel is a dangerous attempt to intimidate legitimate health care providers and women,” DeGette and Slaughter said. “It serves to demonize people performing constitutionally protected health procedures and exposes all involved to threats and potential violence. “Such tactics are consistent with ongoing attempts by the Select Panel to intimidate scientific and clinical researchers who use fetal tissue to develop therapies that could help save lives for those inflicted with diseases such as Alzheimer's. The subpoenas were sent on the very day that the perpetrator of the deadly November shooting at a Planned Parenthood clinic in Colorado was declared incompetent to stand trial. This only highlights the hazards of stirring up suspicions of illicit activity through inference, loose talk, and irresponsible allegations.”
05.05.2016	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Diana DeGette (D-CO) said American children are safer and can look forward to a healthier future thanks to today’s final rule bringing regulation of e-cigarettes and other tobacco products under the authority of the U.S. Food and Drug Administration. “Tobacco products can make people sick and even kill them,” DeGette said. “Protecting Americans from these dangers, particularly young people intrigued by new nicotine products, is critical. The tobacco industry has been pushing back against scrutiny and regulation every step of the way, but today the right side has won the fight for our country’s health.” For years, DeGette has been pushing the FDA to regulate the production, sale and marketing of all tobacco products. She strongly supported the Family Smoking Prevention and Tobacco Control Act, also known as the Tobacco Control Act. This 2009 law granted authority to the FDA to regulate the production, sale, and marketing of tobacco products. The law was intended to prevent young people from using such products at an early age, when they are more susceptible to addiction. As a result of this law, the FDA announced four years ago that it would regulate e-cigarettes, hookahs and flavored cigars. In April 2014, the agency announced proposed new rules as an interim step toward today’s action, a step that DeGette hailed at the time. In early 2014, DeGette joined Rep. Elizabeth Esty (D-CT) in introducing H.R. 4325, the Protecting Children from Electronic Cigarette Advertising Act, which would prohibit the advertising of e-cigarettes to minors. Additionally, she has lauded the Colorado legislature for passing laws placing e-cigarettes in the same category as other tobacco products in the absence of FDA intervention.
05.04.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Diana DeGette (D-CO) is at the forefront of a congressional effort to protect young American players of basketball, football and other sports from repetitive brain trauma. Today, she and colleagues on the House Energy and Commerce Committee sent letters to leaders of collegiate and youth athletic organizations asking how they plan to prevent and mitigate these risks. “While changes at the professional level are important” the letters note, “football organizations across all levels, as appropriate, should consider rules changes and educational outreach to ensure the safety of all athletes and their developing brains. Additionally, we need to ensure that parents have accurate, up-to-date information necessary to make informed decisions about their children’s participation in football and other contact sports.” Due to drops in participation and increased publicity around the dangers of concussions, youth sports organizations have started making changes to their rules governing player contact. Recent studies suggest that significant brain damage is caused solely by repeated head impacts, or subconcussive events. According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), the problem is of special concern in youth sports because children and teens may be more vulnerable to brain injuries than adults, and take longer to recover. Today’s letters went to National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA) President Mark Emmert, National Federation of State High School Associations Executive Director Bob Gardner, USA Football Executive Director Scott Hallenbeck and Pop Warner Little Scholars, Inc. Executive Director Jon Butler. Among the questions raised: How they are addressing the risks of subconcussive hits to players, and if current rules sufficiently protect players against the long-term effects of such contact.
05.02.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Diana DeGette (D-CO), together with other top congressional leaders on energy security matters, has asked the U.S. Energy Department for specifics about our country’s efforts to stop the illegal transfer of nuclear materials overseas. Such materials could be used to harm Americans here at home or in U.S. facilities around the world. DeGette is the ranking member of the Energy and Commerce Committee’s Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee. She and her colleagues have been reviewing this matter for months, focusing especially on recent information about foreign ports and border crossings. In a letter to Energy Secretary Ernest Moniz, they sought further details of programs run by the National Nuclear Security Administration to detect and deter smuggling. “We write today because recent international developments – particularly the rise of well-funded terror groups and the curtailment of U.S.-Russian cooperation on nuclear material security – have underscored the importance of NNSA’s Nuclear Smuggling Detection and Deterrence programs,” the letter said. “These developments have prompted us to take a closer look at the status of these programs.” The NSDD has spent approximately one billion dollars over the past five years working with 59 partner countries. “The Committee seeks to increase its understanding of expenditures, technological development, and the progress of international cooperation with the program,” DeGette and her colleagues wrote. “Having full information about these matters is necessary to ensure any decisions concerning the course of this program do not inadvertently undermine its important security mission. Given the current threat environment, now is not the time to weaken our detection and interdiction programs overseas.”
04.14.2016	Washington, D.C. — Earlier today, U.S. Reps. Diana DeGette (D-CO) and David B. McKinley, P.E. (R-WV) introduced bipartisan legislation to work towards a comprehensive and long term energy policy for the United States. Their bill will establish a Commission to address the future of America’s energy needs. “Our nation needs a comprehensive energy plan,” said Rep. Diana DeGette. “Smart energy development is crucial to our economic strength, driving job creation and innovation, and essential to our continued global leadership in combating climate change. This Commission represents a great opportunity for stakeholders and experts from across the political spectrum to come together and develop a coherent plan that charts our nation’s energy course for the next several decades.” “Even in the midst of so much gridlock in Washington, this bill demonstrates that we can come together across the aisle to find common ground to meet our nation’s energy goals,” continued DeGette. “I’m so proud to have crafted this legislation with my good friend and colleague, Rep. McKinley, and I look forward to seeing our other colleagues, from both sides of the aisle, join together with us in this important endeavor.” “For too long the lack of a sound energy policy has negatively impacted our economy and made America less secure. The goal of this Commission will be to develop an energy plan that will create jobs, grow our economy, and put America on the path to energy independence by promoting affordable and reliable sources of energy,” said McKinley. “It is important that both parties come together and find common ground on our most pressing issues. Sound energy policies should not be broken by partisan divides that come and go with different administrations,” McKinley stated. Background on Biennial Energy Commission on Energy Policy Act of 2016 The legislation establishes a national bipartisan commission on energy policy composed of 15 members from a diverse group of industries that include labor organizations, utilities, energy researchers, environmentalists, and economists. The commission will: · Examine and evaluate all current laws, regulations, and federal policies pertaining to energy, energy efficiency, sources of energy (including fossil fuels, solar, wind, water and nuclear), and power sources. · Develop recommendations for future laws, regulations, and policies to guide America to energy independence. · Report to the President and Congress on its findings, conclusions, and recommendations for measures that can be taken to create a comprehensive national energy policy for the United States. ###
04.06.2016	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Diana DeGette (D-CO) and her Democratic colleagues on the House Select Investigative Panel announced the launch of a new website. The website is intended to be used as a tool for Members of Congress, the public, and the press to better understand the work of the Panel and to ensure a more transparent and balanced investigation. The site offers quick and easy access to essential facts about what’s at stake with the Republicans’ latest attack on women’s health care— including potentially life-saving medical research and access to critical reproductive health services. It also corrects misinformation and false claims about why and how this investigation is being conducted by Republicans. The site also details the Democratic affirmative investigative plan: highlighting the benefits of fetal tissue research, ensuring access to the full range of reproductive health care, exploring ways to improve infant health, and protecting patient and provider safety. In addition, the site provides a platform for public engagement, inviting people from all over the country to share their stories about how these issues have touched their lives. Rep. Diana DeGette (D-CO) said, “Women in this country are fed up with baseless attacks on their access to vital reproductive health care. That’s why it is so important for us to put the facts front and center so that we can stop this Panel’s dangerous and partisan excuse for an investigation.” Ranking Member Jan Schakowsky (D-IL) said, “My hope is that this website will help set the record straight on the Republicans’ ongoing crusade against women’s right to an abortion and other health care services. The facts and the truth matter. This website will help lift the veil and dispel the myths about how and why this investigation is being conducted.” Rep. Jerrold Nadler (D-NY) said, “The continued attempts to limit reproductive health services have now led to the establishment of yet another witch hunt investigation, built on the unsubstantiated and possibly criminal lies of those looking for any excuse to legislate against women’s personal health choices. But they cannot pick and choose which Constitutional rights to respect, or which facts to follow and which to ignore. That is why it is so important that people are able to understand the facts, to know the truth, and I believe this website will go a long way in helping us win this fight.” Rep. Jackie Speier (D-CA) said, “Americans need to know exactly how this Committee is using their money to inflame an atmosphere of terror and to pursue witch hunts against innocent graduate students, researchers, and health care providers—including people working to cure Alzheimer’s, multiple sclerosis, and the Zika virus. Read this website for yourself if you want to understand exactly how the Republicans have been conducting their inquisition. This truly is the new McCarthyism, except instead of hunting for communists they are attacking the health and rights of American families.” Rep. Suzan DelBene (D-WA) said, “Instead of conducting a fair and honest investigation focused on facts, Republicans have used this Panel to make more false allegations and insinuations that are rooted in extreme ideological opinions about women’s rights. This website will be an important tool in ensuring people can access the facts, because truth matters. And the truth is, not a single congressional committee or state Attorney General has found evidence of wrongdoing.” Rep. Bonnie Watson Coleman (D-NJ) said, “This Committee’s so-called ‘investigation’ has never been about anything other than targeting women’s health care providers and attacking women’s health. This site illuminates those attacks in a way that makes their true purpose clear ― and sheds light on the facts that the Republican majority has made every effort to ignore.” ###
04.01.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Diana DeGette, joined a bipartisan group of 44 current and former Senators and 164 current and former House members to file an amicus brief in support of the Obama administration’s historic ‘Clean Power Plan’ (CPP). The CPP will reduce carbon pollution and address climate change, save consumers $155 billion by 2030, create jobs, and prevent 90,000 childhood asthma attacks through 2030‎. The U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit is considering a challenge to the rule in West Virginia et al. v. Environmental Protection Agency. The full text of the amicus brief filed today can be found here and a full list of the 208 current and former members of Congress that signed can be found below. “We must act immediately to address the dangers of climate change,” said Rep. DeGette. “The Clean Power Plan is well within the legal authority of the EPA and will save money, save lives, and spur economic growth. I am proud to stand with a broad, bipartisan coalition of legal experts, business leaders, environmental advocates, and men and women across our country to ensure that no amount of Republican obstruction can prevent the President’s Clean Power Plan from being enacted.” The amicus brief, filed by Congressional Democrats today, argues that the Clean Power Plan rule is consistent with the text, structure, and legislative history of the Clean Air Act (CAA). Further, it argues that the rule is consistent with the goal of the CAA to “protect the Nation’s air resources so as to promote the public health and welfare and the productive capacity of its population.” Indeed, according to the brief, the Supreme Court has already affirmed that the EPA has clear authority to combat carbon pollution and regulate greenhouse gasses under Massachusetts v. EPA and American Electric Power v. Connecticut. While Congressional Republicans continue to refuse to acknowledge the existence of climate change and do the bidding of special interests who seek to stop action on climate change, a bipartisan group of current and former members of Congress as well as a broad coalition that includes legal experts, environmental groups, states and cities, and businesses including energy companies recognize the necessity and legality of the CPP, which will protect public health, and grow the clean energy economy of the future. A failure to act on climate change will also lead to more frequent extreme weather – from more severe droughts and wildfires in the west, to rising sea levels and more powerful hurricanes along our coastlines. Full list of the 208 current and former member of Congress that signed the amicus brief filed today: Senators Tammy Baldwin (D-WI), Michael Bennet (D-CO), Richard Blumenthal (D-CT), Cory Booker (D-NJ), Barbara Boxer (D-CA), Sherrod Brown (D-OH), Maria Cantwell (D-WA), Benjamin Cardin (D-MD), Thomas Carper (D-DE), Bob Casey (D-PA), Chris Coons (D-DE), Dick Durbin (D-IL), Dianne Feinstein (D-CA), Al Franken (D-MN), Kirsten Gillibrand (D-NY), Martin Heinrich (D-NM), Mazie K. Hirono, (D-HI), Tim Kaine (D-VA), Angus King (I-ME), Amy Klobuchar (D-MN), Patrick Leahy (D-VT), Edward Markey (D-MA), Robert Menendez (D-NJ), Jeff Merkley (D-OR), Patty Murray (D-WA), Gary Peters (D-MI), Jack Reed (D-RI), Harry Reid (D-NV), Bernard Sanders (I-VT), Brian Schatz (D-HI), Charles Schumer (D-NY), Jeanne Shaheen (D-NH), Debbie Stabenow (D-MI), Mark Warner (D-VA), Sheldon Whitehouse (D-RI), and Ron Wyden (D-OR). The bipartisan group of former Senators that signed the brief include: Senators George J. Mitchell (D-ME), Carl Levin (D-MI), David Durenberger (R-MN), Joseph I. Lieberman (I-CT), Timothy E. Wirth (D-CO), Thomas A. Daschle (D-SD), J. Robert Kerrey (D-NE) and Tom Harkin (D-IA). Representatives Alma S. Adams (D-NC), Pete Aguilar (D-CA), Karen Bass (D-CA), Xavier Becerra (D-CA), Ami Bera (D-CA), Donald S. Beyer Jr. (D-VA), Earl Blumenauer (D-OR), Suzanne Bonamici (D-OR), Brendan F. Boyle (D-PA), Robert A. Brady (D-PA), Corrine Brown (D-FL), Julia Brownley (D-CA), Cheri Bustos (D-IL), G. K. Butterfield (D-NC), Lois Capps (D-CA), Tony Cárdenas (D-CA), John C. Carney, Jr. (D-DE), André Carson (D-IN), Matt Cartwright (D-PA), Kathy Castor (D-FL), Joaquin Castro (D-TX), Judy Chu (D-CA), David N. Cicilline (D-RI), Katherine M. Clark (D-MA), Emanuel Cleaver, II (D-MO), James E. Clyburn (D-SC), Steve Cohen (D-TN), Gerald E. Connolly (D-VA), John Conyers, Jr. (D-MI), Joe Courtney (D-CT), Joseph Crowley (D-NY), Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD), Danny K. Davis (D-IL), Susan A. Davis (D-CA), Peter A. DeFazio (D-OR), Diana L. DeGette (D-CO), John K. Delaney (D-MD), Rosa L. DeLauro (D-CT), Suzan K. DelBene (D-WA), Mark DeSaulnier (D-CA), Theodore E. Deutch (D-FL), Debbie Dingell (D-MI), Michael F. Doyle (D-PA), Tammy Duckworth (D-IL), Donna F. Edwards (D-MD), Keith Ellison (D-MN), Eliot L. Engel (D-NY), Anna G. Eshoo (D-CA), Elizabeth H. Esty (D-CT), Sam Farr (D-CA), Chaka Fattah (D-PA), Bill Foster (D-IL), Lois Frankel (D-FL), Ruben Gallego (D-AZ), John Garamendi (D-CA), Alan Grayson (D-FL), Raúl M. Grijalva (D-AZ), Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL), Janice Hahn (D-CA), Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL), Denny Heck (D-WA), Brian Higgins (D-NY), Jim Himes (D-CT), Michael M. Honda (D-CA), Steny H. Hoyer (D-MD), Jared Huffman (D-CA), Steve Israel (D-NY), Sheila Jackson Lee (D-TX), Hakeem Jeffries (D-NY), Eddie Bernice Johnson (D-TX), Henry C. "Hank" Johnson, Jr. (D-GA), William R. Keating (D-MA), Robin L. Kelly (D-IL), Joseph P. Kennedy, III (D-MA), Daniel T. Kildee (D-MI), Derek Kilmer (D-WA), Ann McLane Kuster (D-NH), James R. Langevin (D-RI), John B. Larson (D-CT), Brenda L. Lawrence (D-MI), Barbara Lee (D-CA), Sander Levin (D-MI), John Lewis (D-GA), Ted W. Lieu (D-CA), Daniel Lipinski (D-IL), Dave Loebsack (D-IA), Zoe Lofgren (D-CA), Alan Lowenthal (D-CA), Nita M. Lowey (D-NY), Ben Ray Luján (D-NM), Michelle Lujan Grisham (D-NM), Stephen F. Lynch (D-MA), Carolyn B. Maloney (D-NY), Sean Patrick Maloney (D-NY), Doris Matsui (D-CA), Betty McCollum (D-MN), Jim McDermott (D-WA), James P. McGovern (D-MA), Jerry McNerney (D-CA), Gregory W. Meeks (D-NY), Grace Meng (D-NY), Gwen Moore (D-WI), Seth Moulton (D-MA), Patrick E. Murphy (D-PA), Jerrold Nadler (D-NY), Grace F. Napolitano (D-CA), Richard E. Neal (D-MA), Donald Norcross (D-NJ), Eleanor Holmes Norton (D-DC), Beto O’Rourke (D-TX), Frank Pallone, Jr. (D-NJ), Bill Pascrell, Jr. (D-NJ), Donald M. Payne, Jr. (D-NJ), Nancy Pelosi (D-CA), Ed Perlmutter (D-CO), Scott H. Peters (D-CA), Chellie Pingree (D-ME), Mark Pocan (D-WI), Jared Polis (D-CO), David Price (D-NC), Mike Quigley (D-IL), Charles B. Rangel (D-NY), Kathleen M. Rice (D-NY), Cedric L. Richmond (D-LA), Lucille Roybal-Allard (D-CA), Raul Ruiz (D-CA), C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD), Bobby L. Rush (D-IL), Gregorio Kilili Camacho Sablan (D-MP), Linda T. Sánchez (D-CA), Loretta Sanchez (D-CA), John P. Sarbanes (D-MD), Jan Schakowsky (D-IL), Adam B. Schiff (D-CA), Kurt Schrader (D-OR), Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (D-VA), José E. Serrano (D-NY), Brad Sherman (D-CA), Albio Sires (D-NJ), Louise M. Slaughter (D-NY), Adam Smith (D-WA), Jackie Speier (D-CA), Eric Swalwell (D-CA), Mark Takai (D-HI), Mark Takano (D-CA), Mike Thompson (D-CA), Dina Titus (D-NV), Paul D. Tonko (D-NY), Niki Tsongas (D-MA), Chris Van Hollen (D-MD), Juan Vargas (D-CA), Debbie Wasserman Schultz (D-FL), Maxine Waters (D-CA), Bonnie Watson Coleman (D-NJ), Peter Welch (D-VT), Frederica S. Wilson (D-FL), and John Yarmuth (D-KY). The bipartisan group of former House members that signed the brief include: Representatives Sherwood Boehlert (R-NY), Tom Downey (D-NY), Bill Hughes (D-NJ), George Miller (D-CA), Jim Moran (D-VA), Milton “Bob” Carr (D-MI) and Henry A. Waxman (D-CA). ###
03.30.2016	WASHINGTON, DC — Congresswoman Diana DeGette (CO-01) and Congresswoman Louise Slaughter (NY-25), co-chairs of the House Pro-Choice Caucus, released this statement in reaction to Donald Trump’s comments today that "there has to be some form of punishment" for women who have an abortion, a medical procedure protected under the constitution: “The constitutionally protected rights of women to make their own health care decisions have continuously been under siege in Congress, the courts, and the campaign trail. Donald Trump’s comments today have taken those attacks to a whole new level. His remarks have no place in our political discourse. The Supreme Court recognized long ago the constitutional right of all women to access safe, legal reproductive health care—including abortion services. The House Pro-Choice Caucus condemns Donald Trump’s extreme comments today and will continue fighting to protect the rights of women across the country.” ###
03.24.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today Congresswoman DeGette released the following statement in response to the Republican Chair of the Select Investigative Panel’s plan to issue 17 additional subpoenas: “It is clear that collecting the names of researchers, students, personnel, and physicians who provide abortion care and perform research with fetal tissue is nothing more than a dangerous stunt meant to intimidate the men and women who have dedicated their careers to reproductive health care and lifesaving medical research. This panel is no longer just attacking medical research and women’s access to health care, it is now putting the lives of health care providers and medical researchers at significant risk. “As the Ranking Member of the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigation I have years of experience asking tough questions to witnesses who would prefer not to disclose certain information. I fully intend to use my experience and expose this Select Panel’s ‘investigation’ for what it is: a potentially dangerous partisan charade.” Background: Republicans are abusing their congressional power by refusing to tell Democrats who they are subpoenaing, or specifically what they are demanding. House and Committee rules require the Chair to notify and consult with the Ranking Member 72 hours before issuing a subpoena. In this instance, the Chair told the Ranking Member but, in refusing even to provide the names of the intended recipients or copies of the subpoena, has refused to consult in any meaningful way. Republicans did share that some of the subpoenas are to entities that have redacted names of individuals in their productions and others are to entities that have never received a written request for information. Typically, congressional committees first request information in writing in order to attempt to obtain the information through a letter request before they issue subpoenas for that information. Subpoenas are usually taken as a last resort, not first step, in an investigation. After the release of the highly-edited and now widely-discredited videos, incidents of harassment against Planned Parenthood increased ninefold during the month of July 2015. Last November, an anti-abortion extremist murdered three people, injured nine others, and terrorized doctors and patients at a Planned Parenthood health center. The shooter used the phrase “no more baby parts” to explain his attack. And the uptick in violence and threat was so significant that the FBI issued an Intelligence Assessment warning. It also resulted in an order from a U.S. district judge blocking the release of additional videos. ###
03.23.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Diana DeGette issued the following statement hailing Donna Lynne’s work for Colorado and supporting her nomination for Lieutenant Governor. “Donna Lynne is a health care visionary and a remarkable business and community leader. Donna Lynne will be a fantastic lieutenant governor, and having worked closely with her for years, I look forward to continuing our work together as she serves our great state.”
03.17.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – Rep. Diana DeGette (D-CO), House Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Fred Upton (R-MI), and Ranking Member Frank Pallone, Jr. (D-NJ)issued the following statement following a meeting at the White House with Vice President Joe Biden on H.R. 6, the 21st Century Cures Act. Senate HELP Committee Chairman Lamar Alexander (R-TN) and Ranking Member Patty Murray (D-WA) also attended this afternoon’s meeting. DeGette, Upton, and Pallone commented: “Today’s meeting with Vice President Biden and Senate leaders was positive and productive. The #Path2Cures connects both the White House and U.S. Capitol, and we welcome the vice president’s enthusiastic participation in this bipartisan effort. As many patients and their families are too painfully aware, there’s not much time. But the good news is, we are more than half way there as we’ve already done the legwork in the House and the Senate is making headway on its innovation package. “We are seeing a tremendous opportunity for Cures, with our legislative efforts coupled with the ‘moon shot’ and the administration’s Precision Medicine Initiative, there is no question that 21st Century Cures is the right vehicle to get this done. We will all continue working together - House, Senate, and White House – until we are successful in delivering #CuresNow for patients across America.” ###
03.15.2016	The Prevent Cancer Foundation recently honored Rep. Diana DeGette (D-CO) and House Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Fred Upton (R-MI) for their work on H.R. 6, the 21st Century Cures Act. Momentum continues to build in the effort to deliver safe and effective #CuresNow. The Prevent Cancer Foundation is the only nonprofit in the United States focused solely on cancer prevention and early detection. Since its founding in 1985, the foundation has invested nearly $142 million in support of research, advocacy, education, and outreach. The foundation’s president, Carolyn “Bo” Aldigé, presented the Cancer Champion awards during the foundation’s recent gala and praised Upton and DeGette for their leadership on the 21st Century Cures Act. Aldigé commented that she hoped to welcome the duo back next year “for a celebration of its passage.” “Bo Aldigé and the Prevent Cancer Foundation have been pioneers in the prevention effort, and they have truly made a difference. We are all on the path to cures together, and we are delighted to have the Prevent Cancer Foundation on our side as the momentum continues in the effort to deliver #CuresNow,” said DeGette and Upton ###.
03.15.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – One day after the National Football League (NFL) admitted at a House Energy and Commerce Committee roundtable that there is a link between football and degenerative brain disorders, U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette joined Democratic leaders of the House Energy and Commerce Committee today and sent a letter to NFL Commissioner Roger Goodell asking what the League plans to do now to prevent repetitive brain trauma. DeGette, the Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee Ranking Member, joined Energy and Commerce Full Committee Ranking Member Frank Pallone, Jr. (D-NJ), Health Subcommittee Ranking Member Gene Green (D-TX), and Commerce, Manufacturing and Trade Ranking Member Jan Schakowsky (D-IL), who wrote that yesterday’s acknowledgement by NFL official Jeff Miller represented a significant break from the NFL’s previous refusal to acknowledge a connection between football and chronic traumatic encephalopathy (CTE), a neurodegenerative brain disease. “We are encouraged by the NFL’s willingness to accept the science linking the repetitive hits inherent to football with CTE,” the four lawmakers wrote in their letter to Commissioner Goodell. “We seek to better understand whether this new attitude will translate into additional actionable measures to prevent repetitive brain trauma in current players, encourage programs and protocols to protect children in the youth leagues, and provide support for current and retired players at risk of this disease. The NFL’s leadership on this issue can serve as a guide to other professional sports leagues and youth sports organizations seeking to limit risks for their players.” The four lawmakers asked the NFL to answer four questions by March 29 including what programs, initiatives and protocols the NFL is considering implementing to protect current NFL players and youth participating in its affiliated youth league. ###
03.10.2016	Washington, DC – Today, as President Obama and Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau announce new commitment to combat climate change, 75 Democratic Members of Congress wrote to EPA Administrator Gina McCarthy, encouraging the agency to finalize proposed rules for new and modified sources of methane emission and to develop proposals to regulate existing sources of methane in the oil and gas industry. The previously-announced proposed rules for new and modified sources of methane would avoid the equivalent of 7.7. to 9 million metric tons of carbon dioxide by 2025. Action to limit existing sources could eliminate another 75 million metric tons by 2025, putting the United States closer to achieving the Obama Administration’s Climate Action Plan goals. “Reducing methane from existing sources is the necessary next step in order to meet the Administration’s goals under the Climate Action Plan,” the members wrote. “Acting on existing sources now will result in significant savings, and provide a level playing field going forward. We also suggest that EPA examine methane emissions downstream in the oil and gas sector to see if further reductions are achievable.” The signers were led by Reps. Diana DeGette (CO-01), Jared Polis (CO-02), Matt Cartwright (PA-17), Eric Swalwell (CA-15), Jared Huffman (CA-02), and John Sarbanes (MD-03). Full text of the letter, including all signers, is available below. March 10, 2016 The Honorable Gina McCarthy Administrator U.S. Environmental Protection Agency 1200 Pennsylvania Avenue NW Washington, D.C. 20460 Dear Administrator McCarthy, We write today to encourage the Environmental Protection Agency to finalize standards to limit methane emissions in the oil and gas sector from new and modified sources. Colorado finalized first-in-the-nation methane controls for oil and gas in 2014, and Pennsylvania and California are now taking steps toward regulating sources of methane emissions. We are pleased to see the EPA pursuing a complementary suite of regulations for new and modified sources and urge you to take further action to regulate existing sources of methane emissions this year. Reducing methane emissions from this industry is a cost-effective way to combat climate change, improve public health and reduce the waste of natural gas. According to the EPA, more than $1 billion worth of natural gas is lost throughout the oil and gas supply chain annually. And without limits on methane pollution, the agency projects a 25 percent increase in leakage over the next 10 years. When methane is leaked, so too are other dangerous air pollutants, including smog-forming volatile organic compounds (VOCs) and air toxics including benzene, toluene, ethylbenzene and xylene. These pollutants are associated with a range of health impacts, including reduced lung function, asthma attacks, hospitalization and chronic respiratory damage. Reducing methane emissions will also lead to reduction of these pollutants, lessening exposures and health risks for communities near oil and gas development. As the methane leak at a natural gas storage facility in Aliso Canyon, California highlighted, methane emissions can have a direct, severe impact on the lives of our constituents. EPA estimates that its proposal will avoid the equivalent of 7.7 to 9 million metric tons of carbon dioxide emissions by 2025, with net climate benefits of $120 to $150 million. Importantly, this doesn’t take into account the health benefits of reductions in other pollutants. In addition to the health and climate impacts of the rule, there are also economic benefits. Off-the-shelf technology already exists to reduce air pollution from oil and gas sources. It is readily available and affordable and supports jobs in the burgeoning methane mitigation industry. Finally, Colorado’s recent rules cover new as well as existing sources, and we would like to see EPA use its authority under Section 111(d) of the Clean Air Act to regulate existing sources this year. Reducing methane from existing sources is the necessary next step in order to meet the Administration’s goals under the Climate Action Plan. Acting on existing sources now will result in significant savings, and provide a level playing field going forward. We also suggest that EPA examine methane emissions downstream in the oil and gas sector to see if further reductions are achievable. Thank you for proposing standards to limiting methane emissions from the oil and gas sector. We look forward to working with you to finalize a suite of methane rules this year. Sincerely, ____________________ ____________________ Diana DeGette Jared Polis ____________________ ____________________ Matt Cartwright Eric Swalwell ____________________ ____________________ Jared Huffman John P. Sarbanes ____________________ ____________________ Alan S. Lowenthal Gerald E. Connolly ____________________ ____________________ Chris Van Hollen Paul Tonko ____________________ ____________________ Henry C. “Hank” Johnson, Jr. Sander M. Levin ____________________ ____________________ Alcee L. Hastings Michael M. Honda ____________________ ____________________ Donald S. Beyer, Jr. Charles B. Rangel ____________________ ____________________ Donna F. Edwards Raúl M. Grijalva ____________________ ____________________ Mark DeSaulnier Niki Tsongas ____________________ ____________________ Jan Schakowsky Lois Capps ____________________ ____________________ Barbara Lee Susan A. Davis ____________________ ____________________ Ted Lieu Jackie Speier ____________________ ____________________ Grace F. Napolitano Michael E. Capuano ____________________ ____________________ Eleanor Holmes Norton Adam B. Schiff ____________________ ____________________ Eliot L. Engel William R. Keating ____________________ ____________________ Suzanne Bonamici Katherine M. Clark ____________________ ____________________ Kathy Castor Tim Ryan ____________________ ____________________ Zoe Lofgren Ed Perlmutter ____________________ ____________________ James P. McGovern Jerry McNerney ____________________ ____________________ Bill Pascrell, Jr. Mike Quigley ____________________ ____________________ Scott H. Peters Betty McCollum ____________________ ____________________ Robert C. “Bobby” Scott Doris O. Matsui ____________________ ____________________ Mark Takai Robert A. Brady ____________________ ____________________ Chellie Pingree Mark Takano ____________________ ____________________ Anna G. Eshoo Lloyd Doggett ____________________ ____________________ Jim McDermott Gregory W. Meeks ____________________ ____________________ Elijah E. Cummings Mark Pocan ____________________ ____________________ Maxine Waters Seth Moulton ____________________ ____________________ Steve Israel Luis V. Gutiérrez ____________________ ____________________ Lucille Roybal-Allard Bonnie Watson-Coleman ____________________ ____________________ James R. Langevin Alan Grayson ____________________ ____________________ John Conyers, Jr. Donald M. Payne, Jr. ____________________ ____________________ Grace Meng Keith Ellison ____________________ ____________________ Judy Chu Karen Bass ____________________ ____________________ Peter Welch Emanuel Cleaver ____________________ ____________________ Ami Bera, M.D. Steve Cohen ____________________ Kathleen M. Rice
03.08.2016	DENVER, CO – During a roundtable at the Community College of Denver, U.S. Reps. Diana DeGette (CO-01) and John Sarbanes (MD-03) unveiled the Government By the People Act (H.R 20), a bold new reform that would help everyday people in Denver and across the country fight back against wealthy and well-connected special interests. The Government By the People Act would return political speech and power back to the American people by establishing a small-donor campaign finance system that competes with today’s big-money politics. The bill would provide voters with a refundable $25 tax credit to support a candidate’s campaign and would boost that donation with a six-to-one match. Taken together, the tax credit and matching funds would create a viable new campaign finance system to compete with today’s big-money politics. By giving candidates the ability to power their campaigns with the energy of everyday people – rather than going hat in hand to wealthy special interests – the Government By the People Act would allow Congress to better channel the will of the people and advance policies supported by most Americans – without them being distorted by the corrosive influence of special interests. “For a democracy to really work, people need to participate and to feel that their voice matters,” said Rep. DeGette. “The Government By the People Act helps ordinary Americans achieve the kind of influence in campaigns and elections that is too often reserved for a few. By reversing that trend, we can help every voice get heard and ensure that everyone believes they have a say in America.” “Whether it’s creating good jobs, education, health care or the environment, wealthy campaign donors and well-connected Washington insiders are blocking progress on the issues that everyday people in San Diego and across the country care most about,” said Congressman Sarbanes. “We need to break Congress’ reliance on big-money donors so that we can return to a government of, by and for the people.” To learn more about H.R. 20, the Government By the People Act, visit: https://sarbanes.house.gov/bythepeople.
03.02.2016	Washington, D.C. – As the Supreme Court begins hearing oral arguments today in Whole Woman’s Health v. Hellerstedt, members of the House Pro-Choice Caucus called on the court to uphold Roe v. Wade and reject efforts to undermine a woman’s constitutionally protected right to make her own choices about her body. Despite the court finding a constitutional right for women to make their own health care decisions, politicians at the national, state, and local level continue to try to deny women access to the full range of medical services they need. Such attempts have had dangerous repercussions for women who lack access to medical services and are forced to take matters into their own hands. “Women across our country must be able to access reproductive health care services when they need them, where they need them,” said caucus co-chairs Slaughter and DeGette. “For more than forty years, the Supreme Court has recognized the constitutional right of all women to access safe, legal reproductive health care—including abortion services. The Supreme Court should reaffirm that right in this case and strike down laws specifically designed to place dangerous limits on access to reproductive health care.” In January, Representatives Slaughter and DeGette helped lead a group of 155 Democrats and 2 Independents in filing an amicus brief in this case, which addresses the impact of Texas’s 2013 extreme anti-abortion law, known as HB2. This law imposes requirements designed to make it harder for women to exercise their constitutionally protected reproductive rights. The lead petitioner in the case, Whole Woman’s Health, is the sole remaining abortion clinic in Texas’ vast Rio Grande Valley, and would be forced to close if HB2 were allowed to take effect. If the Supreme Court upholds HB2, the number of health care clinics providing abortions in Texas would drop by more than 75 percent to ten clinics statewide. Additionally, 900,000 women of childbearing age would be forced to drive more than 300 miles to get an abortion. Several members of the House Pro-Choice Caucus will be joining pro-choice allies at the steps of the Supreme Court today. Members including caucus co-chair DeGette, House Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi, and Democratic Whip Steny Hoyer have also released videos calling on the court to ensure continued reproductive health care access. Links to each of the videos is available below. Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi Democratic Whip Steny Hoyer Congresswoman Diana DeGette Congresswoman Alma Adams Congresswoman Suzanne Bonamici Congresswoman Julia Brownley Congresswoman Judy Chu Congresswoman Katherine Clark Congresswoman Bonnie Watson Coleman Congresswoman Suzan DelBene Congresswoman Lois Frankel Congressman Ted Lieu Congressman Jim McDermott Congresswoman Gwen Moore Congressman Jerry Nadler Congresswoman Chellie Pingree Congressman Mike Quigley Congresswoman Jan Schakowsky Congressman Mark Takano Congressman Chris Van Hollen Congressman Marc Veasey Congresswoman Debbie Wasserman Schultz A link to a playlist for all of the videos can be found here. ###
02.29.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Representatives Diana DeGette (D-CO) and Renee Ellmers (R-NC) led their colleagues to pass H.R. 4444, a bipartisan bill that will update the Department of Energy’s conservation standards and continue to encourage the innovations in LED lighting that have accelerated over the last decade. “By ensuring our country’s energy conservation standards are up to date with the latest developments in high-tech lighting, we can keep our country on the cutting edge of energy-efficient appliances,” said Rep. DeGette. “This common-sense bill will allow the LED lighting revolution to continue and, in turn, help lower energy prices for every American business and household. I look forward to working with my colleagues in the Senate to pass this bill through their chamber so that we can get it to the President’s desk as soon as possible.” H.R. 4444, the EPS Improvement Act of 2016, will clarify and modernize energy conservation rules for External Power Supply Drivers (EPS) set in place by the Energy Policy Act of 2005. These rules stated that certain lighting products could be defined as an External Power Supply (EPS), such as certain Light Emitting Diodes (LED) and Organic Light Emitting Diodes (OLED) drivers. This, however, was not the intent of Congress, as LED and OLED drivers were not on the market at the time the Congressional definition was drafted. While EPS use a single stage power conversion, SSL drivers utilize a two stage power conversion design. The DOE EPS efficiency standards are based on a single stage design, making it impossible for LED and OLED to meet the standard. The EPS Improvement Act of 2016 passed the House of Representatives by voice-vote after receiving unanimous support in its Energy and Commerce Committee markup. ###
02.26.2016	Washington, DC – Today, Representatives Diana DeGette (D-CO-01) and Renee Ellmers (R-NC-02) led their colleagues to advance their bill, the EPS Improvement Act of 2016 through committee. The EPS Improvement Act of 2016 would ensure Light Emitting Diode (LED)-lighting technology is able to continue its proven track-record of energy-efficiency innovation. “It is vital that we keep policy intended to encourage the development of energy-efficient technology current with the latest energy-efficient innovations,” said Rep. DeGette. “This bill updates Department of Energy energy-efficiency standards, allows the LED lighting revolution to continue, and lowers prices for every American business and household. I look forward to working with my colleagues to bring this to the House floor next week and pass it as soon as possible.” The EPS Improvement Act of 2016 advanced through full committee markup by voice vote. ###
02.17.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Representative Diana DeGette (D-CO) and Democratic leaders on the House Energy and Commerce Committee wrote to U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) Secretary Anthony Foxx and U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Administrator Gina McCarthy seeking answers from the agencies regarding the ongoing methane leak in Southern California. Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee Ranking Member Diana DeGette, along with Full Committee Ranking Member Frank Pallone, Jr. (D-NJ), and Energy and Power Subcommittee Ranking Member Bobby L. Rush (D-IL), sent a letter to the agencies requesting a briefing on the matter and what both agencies are doing to mitigate the potentially disastrous effects of this leak, given the shared jurisdiction. The leaders asked that the Committee be briefed by January 13th. The toxins being continuously emitted into the air are having significant climate and public health impacts. In the letter, the lawmakers note that, “As of January 5, over 78,000 met­ric tons of meth­ane are estimated to have es­caped, the equi­valent of burning more than 737 million gallons of gasoline.” Additionally, nearby residents are continuing to be relocated and those still in the surrounding area are reportedly getting sick from constantly breathing in the chemicals that are added to the gas. “This is far more than just a nuisance for neighbors. We are seeing another potentially catastrophic man-made disaster with far-reaching impacts on the environment and public health,” said DeGette, Pallone, and Rush. “We are asking these agencies to provide the Committee with specific information as to how this leak is being addressed at the federal level so that the thousands of families affected finally get the answers they deserve.” Read the full text of the letter here. ###
02.03.2016	WASHINGTON, DC — In anticipation of Super Bowl 50’s showdown between the Denver Broncos and the Carolina Panthers, U.S. Representatives Diana DeGette (CO-01) and Alma Adams (NC-12) placed hometown dishes on the line in a wager on whose team will triumph this Super Bowl Sunday in Santa Clara. The loser will be responsible for providing local food and drink from her congressional district to the other member. Representative Mike Honda (CA-17) has agreed to officiate the wager and keep the competition ‘friendly’. “My Broncos play their best game when the odds are stacked against them. With Peyton calling plays and the league’s best defense shutting down anything that comes their way, we have what it takes to bring another Lombardi Trophy back to Denver,” said Rep. DeGette. “The sweetness of this Broncos victory will go perfectly with a plate of cookies, chicken and biscuits, and a Cheerwine.” “Throughout the playoffs, I’ve had wagers in place with Members of Congress from Washington and Arizona. My Panthers pulled through every game and I’m looking forward to those Members of Congress paying out with their home state goods,” said Rep. Adams. “This Sunday will be no different. The Panthers will be the Super Bowl 50 champions and will take home that Lombardi Trophy. I can’t wait to join them at the White House when the President congratulates them. I’m so sure of it, I’m willing to provide Rep. DeGette with a hat from my prized collection.” "While the Niners and Raiders rest up for Super Bowl LI, I will proudly welcome NFL fans from both the Rockies and the Carolinas to see how amazing life can be in America's greatest valley – Silicon Valley,” said Rep. Honda. “As an impartial referee, I will sample both wagers to ensure both teams have tried their hardest. In exchange, I'll provide the winner with a celebratory bottle of fine California wine. For the loser, a sixer of the best craft beer in the country to calm their sorrows." Rep. DeGette wagered bison burgers and beer from Denver Beer Company. She is, once again, fully confident that some of Colorado’s finest culinary delights will remain in her possession. Rep. Adams wagered homemade cookies from the Carolina Cookie Company in Greensboro, Cheerwine from Salisbury, and North Carolina’s Bojangles’ chicken and biscuits. Congresswoman Adams is so confident in the Panthers, she has even placed a hat from her beloved 1,000 plus collection on the line, if they don’t win. ###
02.02.2016	Washington, D.C. – Today, Pro-Choice Caucus co-chairs, Reps. Diana DeGette (D-CO) and Louise Slaughter (D-NY) led over 120 of their Democratic colleagues and called for an end to ongoing, politically-motivated House and Senate investigations into Planned Parenthood, in light of the many independent state investigations across the country that have cleared Planned Parenthood of wrongdoing. The Pro-Choice Caucus co-chairs joined their colleagues in both chambers on a letter to Republicans calling for an end to partisan investigations of Planned Parenthood in the House and Senate, following the Texas grand jury’s decision last week to exonerate Planned Parenthood and indict the creators of the highly fabricated, deceptive undercover videos designed to discredit Planned Parenthood and undermine women’s access to health care on federal charges. In their letter to Republicans, they wrote: “Our country faces serious challenges when it comes to issues like supporting working families, creating good jobs, and boosting wages. The families and communities we represent rightly want us focused on efforts like these—not political attempts to undermine women’s access to health care and investigate their personal health care decisions. We urge you to listen to them.” Twelve states join the Texas Grand Jury—Kansas, Florida, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Georgia, Indiana, Nevada, Washington, Massachusetts, Michigan, Missouri and South Dakota— and have concluded independent state investigations and cleared Planned Parenthood of wrongdoing. An additional eight states—California, Iowa, Delaware, Idaho, Minnesota, New Hampshire, Virginia, and Colorado—have declined to even investigate, citing a lack of evidence of wrongdoing in the first place. Full text of the letter is below: Dear Speaker Ryan, Majority Leaders McCarthy and McConnell, and Majority Whip Cornyn: As you know, on Monday, January 25th, 2016, a Texas grand jury exonerated Planned Parenthood and instead, indicted the creators of highly edited, deceptive videos designed to undermine our nation’s largest provider of women’s health care on felony charges of tampering with government records. In addition to the Texas grand jury, twelve other states have concluded independent investigations and cleared Planned Parenthood of wrongdoing. In light of overwhelming evidence that the House and Senate’s taxpayer-funded efforts to undermine Planned Parenthood are based purely on political pandering, not facts, we write today to again encourage that Congressional Republicans disband the House Select Investigative Committee, end all ongoing Congressional investigations examining Planned Parenthood, and stop to political efforts to undermine women’s access to health care. The willful misuse of federal resources to push an anti-women and anti-abortion agenda in the Congress is both inappropriate and wasteful. Since July 15, 2015, when the Center for Medical Progress first released deceptive, edited videos designed to discredit Planned Parenthood, Congressional Republicans have launched five separate investigations into Planned Parenthood, four in the House and one in the Senate. The House has voted five times and the Senate three times to defund Planned Parenthood, and House Republicans held a five-hour hearing with Planned Parenthood’s CEO, Cecile Richards, in which her attempts to provide informed responses were repeatedly rebuffed. The inappropriate political nature of Congressional Republican attacks on Planned Parenthood is especially stark in light of overwhelming evidence clearing Planned Parenthood of wrongdoing. Twelve states—Kansas, Florida, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Georgia, Indiana, Nevada, Washington, Massachusetts, Michigan, Missouri and South Dakota—have concluded independent state investigations and cleared Planned Parenthood of wrongdoing. An additional eight states—California, Iowa, Delaware, Idaho, Minnesota, New Hampshire, Virginia, and Colorado—have declined to even investigate, citing a lack of evidence of wrongdoing in the first place. These House and Senate “investigations” not only undermine taxpayers’ trust in Congress’s integrity, but they also put women and families at risk. Already, the House Select Investigative Committee has engaged in a widespread “document collection” process that is undermining the privacy and safety of patients, healthcare providers, and scientists seeking cures through medical research—while wasting valuable federal resources in the process. The Select Committee’s targeting of women who have received abortions, and the doctors that provide them with such care, is dangerous and a deeply concerning violation of patient privacy and the public trust. As the Republican District Attorney of Harris County said, “[W]e must go where the evidence leads us. All the evidence uncovered in the course of this investigation was presented to the grand jury.” Unfortunately, the House Select Committee does not wish to focus on the evidence, including the concerning number of illegal activities in which the perpetrators chose to engage We urge you to use this as an opportunity to: · disband the taxpayer funded Select Investigative Committee on Planned Parenthood and all other ongoing Congressional investigations; · fully reimburse U.S. taxpayers the more than $400,000 that Republicans have wasted to create the Committee; · and put an end to the partisan political attempts to appeal to extreme conservatives by undermining women’s health and rights. Our country faces serious challenges when it comes to issues like supporting working families, creating good jobs, and boosting wages. The families and communities we represent rightly want us focused on efforts like these—not political attempts to undermine women’s access to health care and investigate their personal health care decisions. We urge you to listen to them. ###
02.01.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – Following the World Health Organization’s declaration that the Zika virus, which is transmitted by mosquitos and may cause birth defects, is a public health emergency, Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-01) and bipartisan leaders from the House Energy and Commerce Committee today reached out to U.S. government health experts. The leaders requested briefings in the immediate future from Dr. Thomas Frieden, Director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), Dr. Nicole Lurie, Assistant Secretary for Preparedness and Response at the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS), and Dr. Anthony Fauci, Director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases at the National Institutes of Health (NIH). In addition to requesting the briefings, Rep. DeGette and bipartisan leaders from the House Committee on Energy and Commerce posed a number of questions to the three agencies about the U.S. public health response to the growing Zika crisis. The committee anticipates holding a hearing in the coming weeks. In the letters to the three agencies, the bipartisan leaders write, “The Zika virus is an emerging public health threat linked to a rise in babies born with microcephaly, a very serious condition characterized by a small head and brain. … With Zika now circulating in 24 countries and territories in the Caribbean and Central and South America, there is increased concern that the virus could reach the continental U.S. According to a new study in the journal The Lancet, the Zika virus has the potential to spread across warmer and wetter parts of the Western hemisphere as mosquitoes pick up the virus from infected travelers and then spread the virus to other people. Infectious disease models estimate as many as 200 million people in the U.S. live in areas that might be conducive to the spread of Zika during summer months.” Rep. DeGette and her committee colleagues are seeking an update on what is known about the virus and its impact on pregnant women, what questions remain unanswered, what actions are being taken to counteract the threat of Zika, and if these actions are adequate and timely. The letters were signed by Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee Ranking Member Diana DeGette (D-CO), full committee Chairman Fred Upton (R-MI), Ranking Member Frank Pallone, Jr. (D-NJ), Health Subcommittee Chairman Joseph Pitts (R-PA), Health Subcommittee Ranking Member Gene Green (D-TX), and Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee Chairman Tim Murphy (R-PA). Read the letter to CDC HERE. Read the letter to HHS HERE. Read the letter to NIH HERE. ###
01.15.2016	DENVER, CO — Ahead of Sunday’s second round NFL play-off matchup where the Denver Broncos will host the Pittsburgh Steelers, U.S. Representatives Diana DeGette (CO-01) and Mike Doyle (PA-14) placed a ‘friendly’ wager on whose team will win and advance to the AFC Championship Game. The loser will be responsible for providing local food from their Congressional District to the other Member. “My Broncos have the strong leadership, powerful rushing game, and punishing defense that’ll have Rep. Doyle’s Steelers wishing they’d never taken the field,” said Rep. DeGette. “I’m confident that after the Broncos handle their business on the field, I’ll be more than ready to enjoy a classic Pittsburgh sandwich, even if it’s paired with a non-Colorado brew. " “I’m looking forward to watching the Steelers crush the Broncos on Sunday,” Congressman Doyle said. “The only downside is that when the Steelers win – yes, when the Steelers win – we’ll be eating food from Denver instead of Pittsburgh’s finest. Rep. DeGette wagered homemade, Denver-style tamales and beer from Wynkoop Brewing Company. She is fully confident that both those tamales and the beer will remain in her possession. Rep. Doyle wagered some of Pittsburgh’s world-famous Primanti Brothers’ sandwiches and Iron City Beer to wash them down with. ###
01.14.2016	DENVER, CO – Congresswoman Diana DeGette (CO-01) issued the following statement hailing Planned Parenthood's RICO lawsuit filed today in federal court against the Center for Medical Progress, an anti-choice front group that attacked the health care provider in a series of videos last year: "Planned Parenthood, its employees, and its volunteers have faced vitriol, death threats, and violence in their work to deliver health care services to the millions of women and men who seek them. The series of deceptively-edited videos released last summer was a clear attempt to attack Planned Parenthood and its mission. Indeed, the complaint filed today alleges ‘an elaborate criminal conspiracy’ by the Center for Medical Progress. "Not only have multiple Congressional investigations--including my Energy and Commerce Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee--found no wrongdoing by Planned Parenthood, they detail the actions taken by the Center for Medical Progress that may have violated state and federal laws. I am proud to stand with Planned Parenthood as they demand their day in court for these unrelenting and possibly illegal attacks." ###
01.08.2016	WASHINGTON, DC — Representative Diana DeGette and Democratic leaders on the House Energy and Commerce Committee sent letters to the National Institutes of Health (NIH) and the Foundation for the National Institutes of Health (FNIH), requesting more information regarding the National Football League’s (NFL) involvement in the administration of a $30 million “unrestricted” grant it gave to NIH for scientific studies. Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee Ranking Member Diana DeGette (D-CO), along with Full Committee Ranking Member Frank Pallone, Jr. (D-NJ), Health Subcommittee Ranking Member Gene Green (D-TX), and Commerce, Manufacturing, and Trade Subcommittee Ranking Member Jan Schakowsky (D-IL) expressed concern regarding the league’s alleged attempt to influence the selection of scientists conducting chronic traumatic encephalopathy (CTE) research as part of this $30 million grant. In an article published last month, ESPN alleged that the NFL “backed out” of funding a seven year, $16 million study by NIH to attempt to study chronic traumatic encephalopathy (CTE), a neurodegenerative disease associated with repetitive head impacts. Originally, the study was to have been funded by a $30 million donation from the NFL to NIH, which the NFL described as an “unrestricted” gift to the agency. However, when NIH awarded the grant to Dr. Robert Stern, a Boston University researcher who has been critical of the NFL, the League allegedly pulled funding for the CTE research. Additionally, conflicting reports have surfaced about the provisions of the agreement between the NFL and NIH. While the NFL maintained that the $30 million gift was “unrestricted” in nature, ESPN reports that the League actually retained “veto power” over projects it funded. Given NIH’s status as the world’s preeminent biomedical agency, the lawmakers expressed their concern “about the potential implications of outside entities attempting to exercise ‘veto power’ or other influence over the selection of NIH research applicants, and we therefore seek to better understand the role the NFL has played in the allocation and administration of its $30 million ‘unrestricted’ grant.” The members requested that NIH provide documents and information to the Committee by February 1, 2016 in order to better understand the nature of the agency’s agreement with the NFL. The full text of the letter to NIH can be found here, and the full text of the letter to FNIH is available here.
01.07.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Representative Diana DeGette (D-CO) and Democratic leaders on the House Energy and Commerce Committee wrote to U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) Secretary Anthony Foxx and U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Administrator Gina McCarthy seeking answers from the agencies regarding the ongoing methane leak in Southern California. Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee Ranking Member Diana DeGette, along with Full Committee Ranking Member Frank Pallone, Jr. (D-NJ), and Energy and Power Subcommittee Ranking Member Bobby L. Rush (D-IL), sent a letter to the agencies requesting a briefing on the matter and what both agencies are doing to mitigate the potentially disastrous effects of this leak, given the shared jurisdiction. The leaders asked that the Committee be briefed by January 13th. The toxins being continuously emitted into the air are having significant climate and public health impacts. In the letter, the lawmakers note that, “As of January 5, over 78,000 met­ric tons of meth­ane are estimated to have es­caped, the equi­valent of burning more than 737 million gallons of gasoline.” Additionally, nearby residents are continuing to be relocated and those still in the surrounding area are reportedly getting sick from constantly breathing in the chemicals that are added to the gas. “This is far more than just a nuisance for neighbors. We are seeing another potentially catastrophic man-made disaster with far-reaching impacts on the environment and public health,” said DeGette, Pallone, and Rush. “We are asking these agencies to provide the Committee with specific information as to how this leak is being addressed at the federal level so that the thousands of families affected finally get the answers they deserve.” Read the full text of the letter here.
01.05.2016	Washington, D.C. – Today, U.S. Representatives Diana DeGette (D-CO), Louise Slaughter (D-NY), Judy Chu (D-CA), and Marc Veasey (D-TX) along with U.S. Senators Patty Murray (D-WA) and Richard Blumenthal (D-CT), led a group of 155 Democrats and 2 Independents in filing an amicus brief in the case of Whole Woman’s Health v. Cole, which is currently pending before the Supreme Court of the United States and represents the most comprehensive challenge to the Supreme Court’s historic ruling in Roe v. Wade in nearly a decade. In the brief, Democrats call on the justices to uphold Roe v. Wade and reject efforts to undermine a woman’s constitutionally protected right to make her own choices about her own body. “As a fundamental right guaranteed by the Constitution, and one that strikes at the heart of ordered liberty and individual autonomy—indeed, one recognized by 63% of our country—a woman’s right to decide whether to carry a pregnancy to term or to seek critical medical services, including abortion, should be insulated from the shifting political rhetoric and interest groups whose sole purpose is to erode the right to choose to bring a pregnancy to term afforded to women under Roe,” Members of Congress wrote in the brief. Whole Woman’s Health v. Cole addresses the impact of Texas’s 2013 extreme anti-abortion law, known as HB2. This law imposes requirements designed to make it harder for women to exercise their constitutionally protected reproductive rights. The lead petitioner in the case, Whole Woman’s Health, is the sole remaining abortion clinic in Texas’s vast Rio Grande Valley, and would be forced to close if HB2 were allowed to take effect. If the Supreme Court upholds HB2, the number of health care clinics providing abortions in Texas would drop by more than 75 percent to ten clinics statewide. Additionally, 900,000 women of childbearing age would be forced to drive more than 300 miles to get an abortion. Texas is not alone. Fourteen states have laws in place that impose restrictions on doctors and clinics similar to those in Texas. More than half of states now have Targeted Regulation of Abortion Providers, also known as TRAP, laws and policies on the books that undermine women’s constitutionally protected rights under Roe. The amicus brief highlights how extreme state laws like HB2 have worked to erode women’s constitutionally protected health care rights, and urges the Supreme Court to continue to uphold women’s rights as affirmed under Roe v. Wade and protected under Planned Parenthood v. Casey. Read the amicus brief here. ###
12.18.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Diana DeGette (CO-01) released the following statement after voting for the Fiscal Year 2016 omnibus appropriations bill, which passed the House 316-113: "Last-minute rushes to pass omnibus bills are a flawed way to run our government and to make policy choices on behalf of the American people. Federal spending essentially defines our priorities as a nation, be they education, defense, health, or anything else. When we fail to give each of these priorities the individual attention they deserve, we inevitably make choices and funding decisions that are not as carefully thought out as they should be. "In addition, this bill carries dozens of policy provisions that should be considered on their own merit and not latched onto a funding bill. Doing so inevitably leads to passage of undeserving policy choices that would not stand on their own, and many of these policies will undermine the programs and efforts that this bill funds. This cheapens the investments the American people want us to make on behalf of virtually every priority the country has. "Both in its general approach and in many specific provisions, I find much to object to in this omnibus funding bill, but it is the only realistic option available to keep the federal government operating through the coming year. It also includes additional investments that will greatly benefit people in Colorado and across the country. Among the provisions worth highlighting are investments in biomedical research and development at the NIH and FDA, investments in clean energy at the National Renewable Energy Lab, and transportation investments that will help build Colorado infrastructure and continue our flood recovery efforts. “I supported this omnibus to avoid greater damage to the country and in hope that the Congress, in particular its Republican leadership, will do better going forward." ###
12.09.2015	WASHINGTON – Today, U.S. Reps. Diana DeGette (CO-01) and Louise Slaughter (NY-25) along with U.S. Senators Richard Blumenthal (D-Conn.), Jeanne Shaheen (D-N.H.), and Michael Bennet (D-Colo.) announced resolutions they have introduced in the House and Senate, respectively, to condemn violence against women’s health providers and patients across the United States following the horrific attack outside of a Colorado Springs Planned Parenthood that left three dead and nine wounded. The resolutions recognize that violence, intimidation, and threats against women’s health care providers and their patients has persisted for decades, with an increase in incidents of arson, vandalism, and threats over the past six months, further recognizing the serious impact that demonizing, extreme rhetoric has on creating a climate that is dangerous for those who would provide or seek access to comprehensive health care services. The members reiterated a woman’s constitutional right to make her own health care decisions and have access to health care services without fear of violence or harassment.‎ “No one should have to face intimidation or violence when going to the doctor, but for too many women, threats and attacks have been a reality simply because they have sought reproductive health care,” said Rep. DeGette. “This is simply unacceptable, and I am joining colleagues in both the House and Senate to say that such threats and attacks must stop. The recent attack in Colorado Springs and other incidents across the country underscore the urgency we all feel that this violence must stop right away.” “No American should feel intimidated or threatened because of where they choose to access health care,” said Rep. Slaughter. “The violence directed toward patients and doctors at a health clinic in Colorado Springs is unconscionable, as are the hateful rhetoric and lies that have been hurled against Planned Parenthood by those who seek to do away with Americans’ right to choose. These despicable acts are an attack on the one-in-five women who have received basic health care from Planned Parenthood and we won’t stop fighting to defend the right of all Americans to make their own health care decisions.” “This measure recognizes the deeply insidious, perpetual threats and violence against providers of life-saving health care services to millions of women across the country,” said Senator Blumenthal. “I am proud to lead this resolution with my colleagues to condemn unacceptable intimidation and attacks that interfere with a woman’s right to safe health care. This resolution stands against the recent extremist, repugnant rhetoric that seeks to demonize the providers and their essential services to American women.” “The violence directed at health care providers and women seeking reproductive health care services is deplorable,” said Senator Shaheen. “Nobody should have to live in fear for either providing or receiving reproductive healthcare that’s protected under the Constitution. This resolution is an opportunity for Congress to stand united against this senseless violence and incendiary rhetoric.” “No one should ever have to fear for their life when they walk into a clinic to receive health care,” said Senator Michael Bennet. “Last month in Colorado Springs, we lost three people because of one man’s deranged actions. A brave police officer and two loyal individuals accompanying friends to doctor’s visits – all young parents in their prime– were killed. Planned Parenthood offers critical care to tens of thousands of women in Colorado every year. People should know they will be safe, whether they are accessing preventative care, cancer screenings, or their constitutionally protected right to reproductive services at Planned Parenthood or any health care facility.” Co-sponsoring the House Resolution with DeGette and Slaughter are Representatives Alma Adams (D-N.C.), Brad Ashford (D-Neb.), Karen Bass (D-Calif.), Ami Bera (D-Calif.), Don Beyer (D-Va.), Earl Blumenauer (D-Ore.), Suzanne Bonamici (D-Ore.), Brendan Boyle (D-Pa.), Julia Brownley (D-Calif.), Lois Capps (D-Calif.), Kathy Castor (D-Fla.), Judy Chu (D-Calif.), David Cicilline (D-R.I.), Katherine Clark (D-Mass.), Yvette Clark (D-N.Y.), Steve Cohen (D-Tenn.), John Conyers (D-Mich.), Joe Crowley (D-N.Y.), Elijah Cummings (D-Md.), Rosa DeLauro (D-Conn.), Suzan DelBene (D-Wash.), Mark DeSaulnier (D-Calif.), Ted Deutch (D-Fla.), Tammy Duckworth (D-Ill.), Donna Edwards (D-Md.), Eliot Engel (D-N.Y.), Elizabeth Esty (D-Conn.), Sam Farr (D-Calif.), Chaka Fattah (D-Pa.), Bill Foster (D-Ill.), Lois Frankel (D-Fla.), Marcia Fudge (D-Ohio), Ruben Gallego (D-Ariz.), Raul Grijalva (D-Ariz.), Luis Gutierrez (D-Ill.), Janice Hahn (D-Calif.), Alcee Hastings (D-Fla.), Ruben Hinojosa (D-TX), Michael Honda (D-Calif.), Jared Huffman (D-Calif.), Sheila Jackson Lee (D-TX), Hakeem Jeffries (D-N.Y.), Eddie Bernice Johnson (D-TX), Hank Johnson (D-Ga.), William Keating (D-Mass.), Ann Kirkpatrick (D-Ariz.), Ann McLane Kuster (D-N.H.), Brenda Lawrence (D-Mich.), Barbara Lee (D-Calif), John Lewis (D-Ga.), Ted Lieu (D-Calif.), Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.), Nita Lowey (D-N.Y.), Michelle Lujan Grisham (D-N.M.), Carolyn Maloney (D-N.Y.), Doris Matsui (D-Calif.), Betty McCollum (D-Minn.), Jim McDermott (D-Wash.), Jim McGovern (D-Mass.), Seth Moulton (D-Mass.), Patrick Murphy (D-Fla.), Jerrold Nadler (D-N.Y.), Grace Napolitano (D-Calif.), Donald Norcross (D-N.J.), Eleanor Norton Holmes (D-District of Columbia), Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.), Ed Perlmutter (D-Colo.), Scott Peters (D-Calif.), Chellie Pingree (D-Maine), Mark Pocan (D-Wis.), Jared Polis (D-Colo.), David Price (D-N.C.), Charles Rangel (D-N.Y.), Kathleen Rice (D-N.Y.), Cedric Richmond (D-La.), Raul Ruiz (D-Calif.), Loretta Sanchez (D-Calif.), Jan Schakowsky (D-Ill.), Adam Schiff (D-Calif.), Brad Sherman (D-Calif.), Jackie Speier (D-Calif.), Mark Takai (D-Hawaii), Mark Takano (D-Calif.), Mike Thompson (D-Calif.), Dina Titus (D-Nev.), Paul Tonko (D-N.Y.), Niki Tsongas (D-Mass.), Chris Van Hollen (D-Md.), Debbie Wasserman Schulz (D-Fla.), Bonnie Watson Coleman (D-N.J.), Peter Welch (D-Vt.) and John Yarmuth (D-Ky.). Co-sponsoring Senate Resolution 327 with Blumenthal, Shaheen and Bennet are Senators Tammy Baldwin (D-Wisc.), Mark Warner (D-Va.), Patrick Leahy (D-Vt.), Ed Markey (D-Mass.), Tom Udall (D-N.M.), Mazie Hirono (D-Hawaii), Brian Schatz (D-Hawaii), Kirsten Gillibrand (D-N.Y.), Al Franken (D-Minn.), Sheldon Whitehouse (D-R.I.), Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.), Ben Cardin (D-Md.), Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.), Jack Reed (D-R.I.), Barbara Boxer (D-Calif.), Robert Menendez (D-N.J.), Patty Murray (D-Wash.), Chris Coons (D-Del.), Barbara Mikulski (D-Md.), Timothy Kaine (D-Va.), Ron Wyden (D-Ore.), Cory A. Booker (D-N.J.), Dick Durbin (D-Ill.), Martin Heinrich (D-N.M.), Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.), Chris Murphy (D-Conn.), Chuck Schumer (D-N.Y.), Maria Cantwell (D-Wash.), Sherrod Brown (D-Ohio), Tom Carper (D-Md.), Angus King (I-Maine), Jon Tester (D-Mont.), Claire McCaskill (D-Mo.), and Debbie Stabenow (D-Mich.).‎ Full text of resolution follows: Resolution Condemning Violence Targeting Women’s Health Condemning violence against women’s health care providers and patients accessing such health care Whereas, the constitutional right to make health care decisions about their own bodies has been an established right for over 43 years; Whereas Eisenstadt v. Baird, 405 U.S. 438 (1972) confirmed the constitutional right of all women to legally access birth control; Whereas Roe v. Wade, 410 U.S. 113 (1973), was decided 42 years ago and reaffirmed that women have a constitutional right to comprehensive reproductive health care; Whereas for decades, women’s health care providers and people accessing the services they provide have been subjected to intimidation, threats, and violence; Whereas since 1993, there have been eleven murders and numerous attempted murders of individuals associated with care provided at women’s health centers; Whereas nearly 7,000 violent acts have been reported against providers at women’s health centers since 1977, including bombings, arsons, death threats, kidnappings, and assaults, as well as more than 190,000 reported acts of disruption, including bomb threats and harassing calls; Whereas, within the past six months, there have been an increase in arsons, vandalisms and threats at Planned Parenthood and other women’s health centers, including in Aurora, Illinois; Pullman; Washington; Louisville, Kentucky; and Claremont, New Hampshire; and on November 27, 2015, three people were killed and nine people were injured when a gunman attacked a Planned Parenthood health center in Colorado Springs, Colorado; Whereas, demonizing, extreme rhetoric contributes to a climate that is dangerous for those who would provide or access comprehensive health care services; Whereas more than 40 percent of Planned Parenthood’s patients are people of color, who are therefore disproportionately impacted by attacks on women’s health centers; and Whereas one in five women will use Planned Parenthood for health care, which in 2013, provided over 1.4 million emergency contraception kits, nearly 4.5 million tests and treatment for sexually transmitted infection and nearly 900.000 cervical cancer screenings and breast exams and continues to be the nation’s leading reproductive health care provider and, along with many other reproductive health providers, continues to provide expert, quality reproductive health care in safe and supportive environments across the country. Be it resolved, that the United States Senate: 1. Denounces the attacks on women’s health care centers, providers, and patients; 2. Affirms that all women have the right to access reproductive health care services without fear of violence, intimidation, or harassment. ###
12.04.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Diana DeGette (CO-01) joined 184 House Democrats and 34 Senate Democrats to file an amicus brief last night in support of the petition for certiorari to the Supreme Court seeking review of the U.S. Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals ruling, which blocked the Secretary of Homeland Security from implementing the Deferred Action for Parents of Americans and Lawful Permanent Residents (DAPA) program and expanding the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program. These programs were announced by President Obama last November as part of his Executive Actions on Immigration. “President Obama’s decision to review immigration enforcement priorities and re-focus our resources on national security threats and violent criminals is both in line with the Constitution and with the views of the majority of Americans,” said Rep. DeGette. “I am proud to file this amicus brief in support of the President’s actions, and I look forward to working with my colleagues here in the House to finally address the need for comprehensive immigration reform. Too many aspiring Americans have been forced to live in limbo while Republicans in Congress drag their feet and ignore reality; the time to fix our broken immigration system is now.” The brief makes the case, from the perspective of 218 Members of Congress, that DAPA and expanded DACA are consistent with Congressional intent and the Executive’s longstanding legal authority to establish national immigration enforcement priorities and exercise discretion in the enforcement of our immigration laws. As stated in the brief: Congress has “granted the Secretary [of Homeland Security] broad discretion in determining how to carry out the immigration laws, and has explicitly directed the Secretary to establish policies and priorities for enforcement of those laws.” Rep. DeGette and her congressional colleagues are deeply concerned that the Fifth Circuit Court decision interferes with Congress’s ability to grant the Executive the flexibility and discretion as necessary to enforce the law in a rational, effective, and efficient manner. The ruling would instead “force Congress to specifically prescribe every priority and power with detailed enforcement instructions,” the practical effect of which – if allowed to stand – would strip the Executive of broad authority to make discretionary judgments on how best to enforce the nation’s immigration laws where Congress has not prescribed a specific action, and would devastate millions of individuals, families, and communities across the nation. Full text of the amicus brief can be found here. Additional Background: On November 20, 2014, the Obama Administration announced plans to expand the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program and to create a new Deferred Action for Parental Accountability (DAPA) program to offer temporary protection from removal to the parents of American citizens and lawful permanent residents. On February 16, 2015, a federal district court in Texas blocked the implementation of those programs, and on November 9th, a divided panel of the Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals upheld this ruling. The Administration is petitioning the Supreme Court to review this decision. The Democratic Members’ amicus curiae brief is in support of the government’s petition. Summary of key points: Congress has entrusted the Secretary of Homeland Security with broad discretion in the enforcement of the nation’s immigration laws. For decades, Congress has recognized the executive branch’s authority to exercise discretion in the enforcement of our immigration laws. When the Immigration and Nationality Act was first enacted in 1952, Congress authorized the Executive to adopt regulations, issue instructions, and take other acts necessary to implement the law. With the creation of the Department of Homeland Security in 2002, Congress explicitly directed the Secretary of Homeland Security to establish “national immigration enforcement policies and priorities.” The Fifth Circuit decision undermines Congress’s ability to place critical responsibility in the hands of the agency with the relevant expertise and capabilities. The ruling would alarmingly curtail Congress’s ability to delegate discretionary authority to the Executive, forcing Congress to specifically prescribe every priority and power delegated to the Secretary of Homeland Security with detailed enforcement instructions. The Fifth Circuit decision interferes with rational, effective, and efficient enforcement of federal law by removing the Secretary’s broad authority to make discretionary judgments on how best to enforce the nation’s immigration laws where Congress has not prescribed a specific action. If allowed to stand, the ruling would drastically impair effective administration of our immigration laws, throwing well-established immigration practices into disarray and harming millions of individuals around the country. ###
12.02.2015	In a column published today in the Huffington Post, Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-01) called for anti-choice activists and politicians to cease the use of vitriol that may have inspired last Friday’s shootings at a Planned Parenthood clinic in Colorado Springs. Statements by the alleged shooter to law enforcement bear close resemblance to incendiary phrases pushed by lawmakers since this summer. “I certainly do not think that my colleagues intended to condone or encourage violence. Still, the connection between the words used by both public officials and the alleged shooter is chilling, and it demands that we examine the vitriol used in debates about women’s reproductive health, particularly coming from anti-choice activists,” said Rep. DeGette. You can read the full piece at the link here and pasted below. Words Matter: the Relationship Between Political and Public Debates and Violence in Our Communities By Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-01) As last Friday’s attack at a Planned Parenthood facility unfolded, news reports showed a dangerous and chaotic situation—one that sadly took the lives of Ke’Arre Stewart, Jennifer Markovsky, and Officer Garrett Swasey and injured nine others. As I watched the now all-too-familiar reports, I feared this attack was connected to the controversy around Planned Parenthood that anti-choice groups created and promoted since this summer. Reports suggest that this was indeed the case, as the alleged shooter apparently made a comment about “no more baby parts” to law enforcement officials. That this attack was carried out at a Planned Parenthood facility is sadly unsurprising. This past September, the FBI reported increased threats to reproductive health care facilities. At the same time, an FBI Intelligence Assessment warned that attacks were "consistent with the actions of lone offenders using tactics of arsons and threats all of which are typical of the pro-life extremist movement." The report went on to caution that "likely criminal or suspicious incidents will continue to be directed against reproductive health care providers, their staff and facilities.” Just as this attack fits the profile of incidents about which the FBI warned, the alleged shooter’s words to law enforcement share a chilling similarity with those used by prominent anti-choice figures, including many of my colleagues in Congress. When he created a select panel after deceptively-edited videos tried to implicate Planned Parenthood in wrongdoing, former House Speaker John Boehner referenced the “baby parts business.” In fact, all of the Republican members of the select panel have made multiple public references to “baby body parts” or “body parts.” Since July of this year, Republicans on the select panel have used the calculated and provocative phrase at least 33 times. I certainly do not think that my colleagues intended to condone or encourage violence. Still, the connection between the words used by both public officials and the alleged shooter is chilling, and it demands that we examine the vitriol used in debates about women’s reproductive health, particularly coming from anti-choice activists. Words matter, and people with sincere but conflicting opinions must be willing to engage and debate in ways that do not lead to the kinds of threats and violence that we now see directed towards women’s reproductive health facilities. As someone who has worked on these issues for quite some time, I know that debates and discussions can be more meaningful, illuminating, and productive when we avoid the vitriol that leaves us investigating a crime scene, caring for nine injured shooting victims, and mourning the lives of three. ###
11.17.2015	WASHINGTON D.C. - Today, Representative Diana DeGette (CO-01) applauded President Obama’s announcement that Minoru Yasui, a lifelong champion of freedom and equal rights who challenged the constitutionality of laws that directly targeted Japanese Americans during World War II, will posthumously receive the Presidential Medal of Freedom. “Our country needs brave men and women like Minoru Yasui precisely at its darkest and most difficult moments,” said Rep. DeGette. “I am proud to have joined with Congressman Honda and many others to nominate Mr. Yasui for this well-deserved recognition. His devotion to the ideals of our constitution teaches an important lesson to all Americans: that while it may take time, the rule of law and our legal system will always overcome the power of fear and racial discrimination.” Mr. Yasui was a civil and human rights leader who, after graduating from the University of Oregon School of Law, intentionally defied the military curfew imposed upon American citizens of Japanese descent to serve as a test case on its constitutionality. Mr. Yasui was ultimately convicted and spent nine months in solitary confinement before losing his appeal in front of the U.S. Supreme Court in 1943. After the war, Mr. Yasui dedicated his life to advocating for equality within Denver and across the nation. His commitment to justice went well beyond the Japanese American committee, extending to rights for Latinos, African Americans, Native Americans, young people, seniors, people with disabilities, and many others. In that work he helped found the Urban League of Denver, the Colorado Latin Leadership, Advocacy and Research Organization, and the Denver Indian Center. His lifetime of advocacy exemplifies what is possible within our democratic process. ###
11.04.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Representative Diana DeGette (CO-01) joined five of her Democratic colleagues who will serve on the House Republicans’ new Select Committee to Attack Women’s Health. This new, select, committee is the fourth in the House to investigate Planned Parenthood over alleged sales of fetal tissue by Planned Parenthood Affiliates. “I am proud to join a group of my Democratic colleagues and look forward to working with them to conduct an honest investigation that upholds the Energy and Commerce Committee’s long tradition of legitimate oversight,” said Rep. DeGette. “After multiple investigations found no evidence of wrongdoing or unlawful activity by Planned Parenthood, I will work to ensure this select committee pursues the facts and avoids, yet another, taxpayer funded witch hunt. The stakes for the over five million men and women who receive reproductive health care from Planned Parenthood every year are simply too high for partisan foolishness.” Planned Parenthood has provided education, information, and services to men and women across the country for 98 years. Their affiliates and doctors serve over five million patients every year, preventing an estimated 516,000 unintended pregnancies annually. Rep. DeGette will be joined by Democratic Reps. Jan Schakowsky (IL-09), Jerrold Nadler (NY-10), Jackie Speier (CA-14), Suzan DelBene (WA-01), and Bonnie Watson Coleman (NJ-12) on the Select Committee. ###
11.02.2015	WASHINGTON – Rep. DeGette (CO-01) joined her fellow House Energy and Commerce Committee leaders to make the following statement after the Environmental Protection Agency announced today that it is expanding its investigation of Volkswagen’s emissions issues to include additional Porsche, VW, and Audi models, with three liter diesel engines. The EPA investigation began in September when EPA announced that certain models of VW Diesel Engines (Model Years 2009-2015) had been fitted with so-called “defeat-devices” to allow these vehicles to beat state and federal emissions testing standards. “The latest revelations raise the question, where does VW’s road of deceit end? The EPA expanding its investigation prompts questions regarding the prevalence of the emissions cheating and how it went undetected for so long,” said Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations Ranking Member Diana DeGette, Subcommittee Chairman Tim Murphy (R-PA), full committee Chairman Fred Upton (R-MI), and Ranking Member Frank Pallone, Jr. (D-NJ). “Our bipartisan investigation continues - it’s time for Volkswagen to fully come clean.” The Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee held a hearing on “Volkswagen’s Emissions Cheating Allegations: Initial Questions” in October. The leaders also requested documents from VW and information from EPA to assist the committee’s ongoing investigation. ###
10.29.2015	WASHINGTON - Today, U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-01) urged Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Administrator Gina McCarthy to conduct a more thorough undertaking than the EPA’s initial draft assessment of the potential impacts of hydraulic fracturing on drinking water resources. “The American people deserve to know how their drinking water could be affected by hydraulic fracturing,” said Rep. DeGette. “But instead of an answer to that question, they are being handed a report that lacks scientific rigor. Without access to well site data and prospective studies of hydraulic fracturing operations this assessment cannot draw conclusions of any significant value.” “The limitations of this study are not due to a failure of the EPA to perform thorough scientific research, but rather they are due to constraints in their ability to access necessary data. I have advocated for years to increase disclosure requirements of all hydraulic fracturing fluid data and this study’s limitations all but prove the necessity of these requirements. This study’s limitations demonstrate clearly that the safety of our drinking water cannot simply rely on industry’s willingness to share either information on the harmful chemicals they use or provide access to the sites they are used at. I urge the EPA investigators to continue their investigation of the potential impacts of hydraulic fracturing on drinking water. They can rest assured knowing my work to provide them the tools to fully conduct their investigation is far from over.” The EPA’s Draft Assessment of the Potential Impacts of Hydraulic Fracturing for Oil and Gas on Drinking Water Resources was commissioned in 2009 by Rep. DeGette and former Rep. Maurice Hinchey. It was commissioned in order to provide a substantive, scientific assessment of hydraulic fracturing to better inform policy decisions. The full text of the letter is available below and at this link. 10/29/2015 The Honorable Gina McCarthy Administrator Environmental Protection Agency 1200 Pennsylvania Ave NW Washington, DC 20460 Re: Draft Assessment of the Potential Impacts of Hydraulic Fracturing for Oil and Gas on Drinking Water Resources Dear Administrator McCarthy: Thank you for undertaking an assessment of the potential impacts of hydraulic fracturing on our drinking water resources. Former Representative Maurice Hinchey and I secured funding for this study in 2009, and I have been carefully watching its progress since. It is important for the American people and the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to fully understand the potential impacts of hydraulic fracturing on human health and the environment. As a representative of a western state with limited water resources, any threat to drinking water is of concern. EPA found in this assessment that while there are mechanisms by which hydraulic fracturing activities could impact drinking water resources, the practice has not led to widespread, systemic impacts to the drinking water of the United States. This characterization of the overall impact of hydraulic fracturing, however accurate, is not particularly useful to policymakers and does not add to our scientific understanding. Rather, the draft assessment’s value lies in its research to characterize currently little understood or unknown pathways to contamination of drinking water from hydraulic fracturing. Even in these areas, however, EPA’s assessment has serious limitations because agency researchers were stymied in their attempts to gather new data. The report makes clear that “the limited amount of data collected before and during hydraulic fracturing activities reduces the ability to determine whether hydraulic fracturing affected drinking water resources in cases of alleged contamination.”[1] But it fails to mention that EPA’s findings were limited due to obstruction by oil and gas companies. Their obstruction prevented EPA from directly observing the hydraulic fracturing lifecycle for research purposes, as well as collecting any data at those sites. Oil and gas companies initially agreed to work with EPA on prospective studies as outlined in the assessment’s work plan, but ultimately did not grant EPA access to well sites to gather data and samples prospectively.[2] The lack of industry cooperation is disappointing but not surprising. EPA also planned retrospective case studies to investigate reported instances of drinking water contamination by hydraulic fracturing.[3] These studies were completed but not included in the draft assessment and were instead published separately. It is unclear why these highly anticipated elements of EPA’s research were removed from the draft assessment and are now not part of the assessment’s public review and comment. Yet again, a significant area of research was cut from the draft assessment, and the utility of the draft assessment was circumscribed. EPA also sought to identify the chemicals used in hydraulic fracturing and assess how spills might affect drinking water. EPA identified 1,076 different chemicals used in hydraulic fracturing fluids, with 147 identified as significantly toxic, based on an analysis of disclosures to FracFocus.[4] As an advocate of disclosure of all hydraulic fracturing fluid data and as a lead cosponsor of the Fracturing Responsibility and Awareness of Chemicals Act, I would be remiss not to point out that this portion of EPA’s analysis is also limited not only by what chemicals well operators claim as confidential business information, but also more broadly by what companies have chosen to voluntarily disclose in some states. Again, EPA’s ability to study the potential impacts of hydraulic fracturing is at the mercy of what the industry chooses to divulge. The limitations of this assessment for policymakers are not for lack of attempts by EPA to initiate new research that would expand our understanding of hydraulic fracturing. A recently published study in the Proceedings of the National Academies that implicated hydraulic fracturing fluids in groundwater contamination reckoned that “the public cannot ascertain the cause of most shale gas-related problems because the full datasets are often not released publicly and explained.”[5] I remain concerned that EPA does not know and cannot estimate the potential impacts of drinking water contamination due to hydraulic fracturing. The assessment identifies several mechanisms by which a spill, leak, or migration of hydraulic fracturing fluids could potentially contaminate drinking water, but it does not evaluate how these events would affect human health and the environment.[6] EPA’s report should more clearly emphasize that America’s drinking water resources are at risk from potential spills of hydraulic fracturing fluids, and that EPA is unable to clearly track these potential impacts due to insufficient reporting requirements. The lack of data to inform this high-profile assessment demonstrates how little we know about this widespread practice, and highlights the need for more sophisticated, independent research in order to gain the understanding of hydraulic fracturing that policymakers need. I will continue to work for changes in current law to give EPA the tools they need to make a more significant assessment of the impacts of hydraulic fracturing. In the meantime, I urge EPA to use every tool available to enlarge to our scientific understanding of hydraulic fracturing as it works toward finalizing this assessment. ### [1] U.S. EPA (2015) Assessment of the Potential Impacts of Hydraulic Fracturing for Oil and Gas on Drinking Water Resources (pp. 22) [Executive Summary]. (EPA/600/R-15/047c) Washington, D.C. [2] U.S. EPA (2011) Plan to Study the Potential Impacts of Hydraulic Fracturing on Drinking Water Resources (pp.66). (EPA/600/R-11/122) Washington, D.C. [3] Ibid., pp. 63. [4] U.S. EPA (2015) Assessment of the Potential Impacts of Hydraulic Fracturing for Oil and Gas on Drinking Water Resources (pp. 12) [Executive Summary]. (EPA/600/R-15/047c) Washington, D.C. [5] Llewellyn G, Dorman F, Westland JL, Yoxtheimer D, Grieve P, Sowers T, Humston-Fulmer E, Brantley S (2015) Evaluating a groundwater supply contamination incident attributed to Marcellus Shale gas development. Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences 112(20): 6325-6330. [6] U.S. EPA (2015) Assessment of the Potential Impacts of Hydraulic Fracturing for Oil and Gas on Drinking Water Resources (pp. 4) [Executive Summary] (EPA/600/R-15/047c) Washington, D.C.
10.08.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Rep. Diana DeGette (D-CO), Ranking Member on the Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee, and full Committee Ranking Member Frank Pallone, Jr. (D-NJ) led Democrats on the Energy and Commerce Committee to demand answers from Volkswagen regarding the company’s intentional efforts to circumvent the Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) emissions requirements for certain models of diesel engine passenger vehicles. Volkswagen, one of the world’s largest automakers, violated the Clean Air Act, misled consumers, and put public health at risk by knowingly installing manipulative software in their vehicles that effectively tricked emissions tests and released up to 40 times the allowable amount of pollutants into the air. “We know Volkswagen purposefully deceived millions of their customers and sold them cars designed to cheat emissions testing,” said Rep. DeGette. “Now those customers are left with cars belching much higher levels of pollution. Those customers don’t have any answers about when or how their car will be fixed or what kind of car they will be left with. Volkswagen owes its drivers a solution to this deception, it owes answers to my committee about who knew what and when, and finally it owes an apology to its customers.” Volkswagen has admitted that the “defeat devices,” designed to circumvent EPA emission standards for certain air pollutants, were installed in their diesel cars. According to Volkswagen, 11 million vehicles worldwide and about 500,000 vehicles in the United States contain this defeat device. “We are here today because Volkswagen lied—they lied to regulators, their consumers, and the American public,” said Ranking Member Frank Pallone. “Over the past five years, the world’s three largest automakers have come before this Committee to admit that they have cheated the system and lied to American consumers. There seems to be a pervasive culture of deception in this industry, and it is has to stop now.” At today’s Oversight and Investigations hearing, lawmakers questioned Michael Horn, President and CEO of Volkswagen Group of America, Inc., about who at Volkswagen knew about or authorized this fraudulent activity, what will be done to address the unresolved emissions issue, and how the company intends to make right by their customers and rebuild public trust. Last month, Rep. DeGette and Ranking Members Pallone, along with Chairmen Upton and Murphy, as part of the Committee’s ongoing investigation, requested information from Volkswagen and EPA in order to more fully review the facts and circumstances regarding Volkswagen’s reported Clean Air Act violations. The letters request that the information and documents be provided to Committee leaders by Tuesday, October 13, 2015. ###
10.01.2015	Washington, D.C. - Congresswoman Diana DeGette (D-CO) and Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX) today introduced bipartisan legislation, H.R. 3660, that would direct the Congressional Budget Office (CBO) to analyze scientific medical data to provide information on the savings of preventive health initiatives beyond the traditional 10-year scoring window. The bill, known as the Preventive Health Savings Act of 2015, aims to modernize the way CBO scores preventive health legislation, allowing for a longer “scoring” window in which to assess the long-term health savings that are possible from preventive health initiatives. “Preventive care is essential to keep Americans healthy and drive down unnecessary spending,” said Rep. DeGette. “Our laws prevent health care spending projections from taking into account long-term savings. It’s time we allow the CBO to make decisions based on science and informed by long term cost projections. I look forward to continuing this bipartisan work that will save money and keep Americans healthy.” “Minimizing the cost of a significant and complex problem such as chronic disease is not an easy or quick endeavor,” said Rep. Burgess. “Allowing the CBO to analyze scientific data, and having the ability to provide projects past the ten year scoring window will provide a more accurate projection for programs with children and other populations or diseases with longer development periods. This legislation is a responsible approach and will ensure that the government calculates the savings of preventative health.” “To address a chronic disease escalation that threatens to affect our society and economy for the next several decades, we need long-term thinking that transcends the way Congress traditionally thinks about policy and budgets. Innovations that can prevent illness and improve population health for generations shouldn’t be stymied by an arbitrary 10-year budget window. The Preventive Health Savings Act will grant lawmakers the flexibility to combat cancer, heart disease, diabetes and other devastating conditions,” said Mary R. Grealy, President of the Healthcare Leadership Council. This legislation is supported by: Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics, Alliance for Aging Research, Allscripts, Alzheimer’s Association, America’s Essential Hospitals, America’s Health Insurance Plans (AHIP), American Association of Cardiovascular and Pulmonary Rehabilitation (AACVPR), American Association of Clinical Endocrinologists (AACE), American Association of Diabetes Educators, American Clinical Laboratory Association, American College of Gastroenterology, American College of Occupational and Environmental Medicine, American College of Osteopathic Family Physicians, American College of Preventive Medicine, American College of Radiology, American Council on Exercise, American Diabetes Association, American Osteopathic Association, American Podiatric Medical Association, American Society for Metabolic and Bariatric Surgery, American Society of Bariatric Physicians, Amgen, Ascension Health, athenahealth, BioReference Laboratories, BlueCross BlueShield of Tennessee, Boehringer Ingelheim, Campaign to End Obesity Action Fund, Cancer Support Community, Cardinal Health, Cleveland Clinic, Council for Affordable Health Coverage, Dialysis Patient Citizens, Eisai, Endocrine Society, Healthcare Leadership Council, Healthways, IHRSA: International Health, Racquet & Sportsclub Association, Indiana University Health, Johnson & Johnson, Marshfield Clinic, McKesson Corporation, Medtronic, MemorialCare Health System, Merck, National Alliance on Mental Illness, National Association of Chain Drug Stores (NACDS), National Association of Pediatric Nurse Practitioners, National Business Coalition on Health, National Business Group on Health, National Retail Federation, Novartis, Novo Nordisk, Obesity Action Coalition, Omada Health, Partnership for Prevention, Partnership to Fight Chronic Disease, Pfizer, Population Health Alliance, Premier healthcare alliance, Prescriptions for a Healthy America, Prevent Cancer Foundation, Rite Aid, Sanofi US, SCAN Health Plan, Society for Women’s Health Research, Sports & Fitness Industry Association, Takeda Pharmaceuticals, Texas Health Resources, The Endocrine Society, The Obesity Society, Third Way, VHA Inc., VNAA, VSP Vision Care, Weight Watchers, Women Heart: The National Coalition for Women with Heart Disease, and YMCA of the USA. To download the PDF of the legislation click here. ###
09.30.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Rep. DeGette (CO-01) and Rep. Mark Takai (HI-01) introduced the Tobacco to 21 Act, an effort to end smoking among young Americans. The Tobacco to 21 Act would raise the minimum legal tobacco age of sale for tobacco nationwide. “More Americans will die this year from smoking related illnesses than lost their lives defending our freedom in World War II,” said Rep. DeGette. “As a mother, I see it as my duty to protect the health of our young people. If we can save well over 200,000 lives by raising the minimum legal age to buy tobacco products; that is not only smart policy, it is our moral obligation.” “Tobacco is a highly-addictive, deadly substance and I am pleased to join my colleague, Diana DeGette, in introducing the “Tobacco to 21 Act” in the House. It is well known that smokers who start at an earlier age are more prone to developing tobacco-related disease and premature death, with a higher risk of suffering permanent neurological receptor changes from nicotine addiction, and this important bill will prevent people from starting smoking early. As a Representative of Hawaii, a state which has already increased the tobacco purchasing age to 21, I am proud to put forward similar legislation on the federal level,” said Rep. Mark Takai. Tobacco use remains the leading cause of premature death in the United States, costing approximately 500,000 Americans their lives each year. Additionally, tobacco use costs the United States approximately $170 billion each year in direct medical costs and $156 billion in lost productivity every year. The Senate companion bill, S. 2100 was introduced by Sen. Brian Schatz along with Sens. Dick Durbin (IL), Sherrod Brown (OH), Ed Markey (MA), Barbara Boxer (CA), Jack Reed (RI), Elizabeth Warren (MA), Mazie Hirono (HI), Richard Blumenthal (CT), and Sheldon Whitehouse (RI). ###
09.28.2015	WASHINGTON, DC — As House Republicans announced plans to create a select committee to investigate Planned Parenthood, Pro-Choice Caucus co-chairs Reps. Diana DeGette (D-CO) and Louise Slaughter (D-NY) today released the following statement: "Our country has urgent issues that must be addressed, starting with preventing another partisan government shutdown in just a few days' time. Instead, House Republicans have unveiled plans to create a Benghazi-style committee to attack Planned Parenthood, proving that GOP efforts to restrict access to health care are snowballing out of control. Trotting out heavily edited videos to justify another publicly funded smear campaign against Planned Parenthood is the lowest form of political pandering and will do nothing to solve the very real problems facing our nation. "Republicans have already wasted millions of dollars on their attempts to take away Americans' health care and millions more fabricating a scandal over Benghazi even after three committees found the charges were baseless. And with multiple committees looking into Planned Parenthood without finding any laws broken, Republicans are returning to a tactic that wastes taxpayer money and produces no substantive information. While Republicans apparently can't find the money to fix our crumbling roads, bridges, and schools, they're jumping out of their seats to waste millions of taxpayer dollars on yet another political stunt. "This move by Republican leaders is nothing more than a taxpayer-funded witch hunt intended to rationalize their efforts to restrict Americans' access to health care. We urge Republican leaders, in the strongest possible terms, to not waste the House's time, money, or dignity on this craven political ploy." ###
09.11.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-01) joined with her colleagues on the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Environment and the Economy and questioned witnesses from the Environmental Protection Agency, Department of Defense, Government Accountability Office, and Department of Energy about their response to the Animas River spill and called for a stronger approach to cleanup at abandoned mines in Western states. “We all play a vital role in ensuring America’s lands including the thousands and thousands of sites like Gold King Mine across the West are clean and safe for future generations,” said Rep. DeGette. “It is past time we overcome the roadblocks that have slowed cleanup of abandoned mines and work to provide the EPA and other agencies the resources and authority to properly oversee cleanup at contaminated sites. The Gold King Mine spill was an environmental disaster, and if we do not act, this will happen again. Leaks and spills on a smaller scale are happening every day. I stand ready to work with my colleagues and ensure this does not continue.” On August 5, 2015, the Gold King Mine spill released three million gallons of contaminated water into the Animas River. Water tested in the Animas River shortly after the spill registered at 12,000 times the normal level of lead but has since come down in response to coordinated cleanup efforts. As a member of the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Environment and the Economy, Rep. DeGette helps to regulate all matter related to soil and water contamination including Superfund, the Safe Drinking Water Act, and the Toxic Substances Control Act. ###
09.03.2015	Denver – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-01) announced her support for the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action concerning Iran’s nuclear program and offered the following statement: “After careful consideration and extensive research and outreach to experts, administration officials, and concerned citizens in the first Congressional District, I have decided to support the nuclear agreement between the United States, Iran, and our international coalition partners. This treaty is our best option to achieve the national security objectives of America and its allies. “After years of negotiations, the United States and its key partners secured an agreement to roll back the Iranian nuclear program in exchange for halting the economic sanctions that have restricted the Iranian economy. I have been a strong supporter of our sanctions policy and its goal of extracting concessions from the Iranian regime. Thanks to the negotiations that started because of these sanctions, Iran will now be subject to strict monitoring of numerous activities and will disable much of its current infrastructure that could be used to produce a nuclear weapon. “By our best intelligence estimates, Iran currently has the capability to produce a nuclear weapon in about two months; under the terms of the international agreement, this capability would be rolled back. If properly implemented, this agreement would increase the time period Iran would need to produce a nuclear weapon to over a year for at least a 12 to 15 year period, and would require Iran to comply with international nuclear disarmament protocols. “The plan of action also requires 24/7 monitoring of the nuclear supply chain, provides for the lifting of sanctions only when Iran has complied with all the international inspection steps, and allows re-imposition of sanctions by the United States if Iran fails to comply. Nuclear experts have been particularly supportive of the technical details surrounding the agreement, and it increases the likelihood that the terms of the deal will be carried out as we expect. “Since a final deal was announced, I have heard from a number of people expressing heartfelt concerns, and I have taken their reservations seriously. However, I see no realistic alternative that will offer the United States and its allies better security and diplomatic options than the negotiated deal. With a reduced nuclear threat, we will be better positioned to manage other challenges for which the Iranian regime is responsible. This agreement in no way limits the ability of the United States and our allies to act in response to Iran’s disruptive actions and human rights abuses outside the limits of the agreement. “I am also grateful to people who have reached out to me to express their support for this agreement. We all share a desire to keep the United States and our allies safe and to achieve peace and stability in the world’s troubled regions. Making this happen will continue to challenge us all and demand our attention. “If this agreement is fully carried out, it will mark a major change in the security and diplomatic environment in the Middle East. There is no trust involved in this effort, because our nation’s security is not built on trust; it is built on our ability to strictly verify our safety and the safety of our allies. In supporting the agreement, I will vigilantly monitor its progress and the broader regional situation. This treaty must serve our national interest for years to come, and I will hold this and future administrations to that standard.” ###
08.31.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-01) renewed her call for the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigation to release full, unedited video footage of Planned Parenthood Federation of America staff and associated facilities obtained by the Center for Medical Progress. In the four weeks since Rep. DeGette first called for the release of unedited footage, the Center for Medical Progress has continued to post heavily edited videos with dozens of film splices used to distort and misrepresent the actions of Planned Parenthood and its affiliates. “While heavily edited video footage may be acceptable for YouTube it is not fit for an Energy and Commerce Oversight and Investigation hearing,” said Rep. DeGette. “I wrote to Chairman Murphy four weeks ago and made it clear to him that if a thorough investigation is to proceed, it is vital the Committee consider authentic and complete video. This includes any exculpatory footage that may be in the possession of the Center for Medical Progress.” Rep. DeGette’s letter to Oversight and Investigation Chairman Tim Murphy (PA-18) stated her deep disappointment in the Chairman’s intention to open an investigation based on a clearly manipulated, deceptively edited video by an organization using ethically and legally questionable tactics. The letter clarified that a credible investigation must be preceded by the release of full, unedited video footage. Rep. DeGette’s letter was sent on July 28, 2015. ###
08.24.2015	Washington, D.C. – Representatives Diana DeGette and Ben Ray Luján of New Mexico have called for an oversight hearing on the Gold King Mine spill that released 3 million gallons of wastewater into the Animas and San Juan Rivers. Both members serve on the Energy and Commerce Committee, and Rep. DeGette is Ranking Member on the Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee. The lawmakers sent a letter to Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Fred Upton and Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee Chairman Tim Murphy requesting the hearing. “The EPA’s Office of Inspector General has announced plans to examine both the cause of this spill and the agency’s response. In addition, Administrator Gina McCarthy has indicated that the EPA will initiate an independent investigation of the disaster,” the lawmakers wrote in the letter. “We request that the Energy and Commerce Committee hold a hearing to carefully examine these reviews so that we can identify what happened and ensure that the spill is cleaned up; that those responsible are held accountable; and that impacted communities are made whole. Since there are thousands of abandoned mines, we must work together to prevent similar disasters from occurring in the future.” The full text of the letter is available here and below: August 21, 2015 The Honorable Fred Upton The Honorable Tim Murphy Chairman Chairman Energy and Commerce Committee Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations Dear Chairman Upton and Chairman Murphy: On August 5, 2015, an Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) team working to investigate and address contamination at the Gold King Mine in San Juan County, Colorado unexpectedly initiated a large release of mine waste water into the upper portions of Cement Creek. Three million gallons of waste water flowed down the Animas River into the San Juan River. The plume of pollution caused a surge of heavy metals and harmful contaminants – including lead, arsenic, beryllium, cadmium and mercury – that threatened the safety of precious water resources that many utilize for irrigation, drinking water, their animals, and other traditional or cultural practices. As a result, water restrictions were put in place and the States of Colorado, New Mexico, and the Navajo Nation each declared a state emergency. The EPA’s Office of Inspector General has announced plans to examine both the cause of this spill and the agency’s response. In addition, Administrator Gina McCarthy has indicated that the EPA will initiate an independent investigation of the disaster. We request that the Energy and Commerce Committee hold a hearing to carefully examine these reviews so that we can identify what happened and ensure that the spill is cleaned up; that those responsible are held accountable; and that impacted communities are made whole. Since there are thousands of abandoned mines, we must work together to prevent similar disasters from occurring in the future. Attached, please find two letters. The first is an August 10th letter to Administrator McCarthy expressing significant concerns with the EPA’s initial response and its failure to adequately communicate with impacted communities. The second is a letter to the President expressing the need to focus all available federal resources to address this disaster. We look forward to hearing from you on this important issue. Sincerely, Ben Ray Luján Diana DeGette Member of Congress Member of Congress ###
08.06.2015	Denver – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-01) commemorated the 50th anniversary of the Voting Rights Act by joining Colorado civic leaders to call for renewed protections for people to cast their ballots. “Even in the age of Citizens United and super PACs, the most powerful political tool anyone has is their vote,” said Rep. DeGette. “Fifty years ago, the Voting Rights Act ensured that every American of every race, color, and creed could exercise that right. I am working in Congress to put a stop to efforts that are undoing the fifty years of progress that the Voting Rights Act delivered, and I call on my colleagues and on all Americans to stand up and speak out for our right to vote.” DeGette was joined by civic leaders and activists working on greater voter participation and community engagement, including members of the American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU), Anti-Defamation League (ADL), Colorado Fair Share, Colorado Black Women for Political Action, Colorado Progressive Coalition, Denver Clerk and Recorders Office, Mi Famila Vota, NAACP, Common Cause, CoPIRG, Change Corps, and Colorado Latino Forum. The Voting Rights Act continues to protect minority voters from many forms of discrimination; just yesterday, the U.S. Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals struck down a Texas voter identification law over Voting Rights Act violations. However, the U.S. Supreme Court overturned important enforcement provisions of the law in 2013, giving many states more leeway to enact new voting restrictions that especially hinder poor, disadvantaged, and minority groups. ###
08.05.2015	Denver, CO – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-01) announced today that she has introduced the Colorado Wilderness Act of 2015, a statewide wilderness bill and product of decades of work. The bill contains some of the last remaining, best wild areas in the state. The Act proposes to protect 32 separate areas consisting of more than 715,000 acres. It will preserve a wide range of wilderness quality public land including high mountain peaks and critical lower elevation red rock canyons. Said Rep. DeGette of the proposal, “As I’ve traveled the state over the years, meeting with stakeholders and listening to Coloradoans, I’ve heard people across the state emphasize the importance of wilderness and their reasons are as diverse as the individuals calling for their protection, ranging from the support it brings to local businesses and our economy to habitat protection and the Colorado lifestyle.” “Businesses like mine exist because of the quality of the water, habitat and species that we are lucky enough to enjoy here in Colorado,” said Johnny Le Coq, CEO/Founder of Fishpond, Inc., a Colorado owned and operated outdoor recreation business and certified B Corp. “They, along with our quality of life and the outdoor recreation opportunities provided, are what draw people to the state, driving our economy and businesses like mine. We must protect them.” The legislation is a citizen based proposal with support from county commissions, business and residents across Colorado. Many of the areas are Wilderness Study Areas which means that they are already managed as wilderness and their management won’t change but it will bring certainty for stakeholders. "Congresswoman DeGette understands the need for balanced use of our public lands, yet is visionary in recognizing that there are some special and unique lands that should be set aside and preserved in perpetuity as wilderness,” said George Newman, Pitkin County Commissioner. “These are such lands." Environmental Learning for Kids (ELK) Executive Director, Loretta Piñeda explained, "Youth in our program have been inspired by some of Colorado's most special places. We have been able to provide impactful outdoor experiences, science education and career exploration opportunities to thousands, educating our youth on the importance of the preservation and conservation of our public lands, creating stewards today, and leaders tomorrow. These experiences have transformed the way our youth think of themselves in relation to the natural world, and their power in imparting positive influences, inspiring many youth to pursue natural resource careers and become advocates for the protection of these important natural areas." Congresswoman DeGette first introduced the bill in 1999, and the proposal was originally developed by concerned citizens around the state who spent many more years surveying potential public lands and meeting with the public and stakeholders to develop a statewide proposal. After painstakingly, incorporating all the data and feedback they asked Rep. DeGette to help them protect these last remaining critical areas. ###
07.28.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-01) joined Energy and Commerce Oversight and Investigation Subcommittee Chairman Tim Murphy (PA-18) to continue the panel’s multi-year investigation into the continued pattern of safety violations at federal laboratories working biochemical pathogens. “The work being done by researchers to protect us from bio-terrorism is vital to our nation’s public health,” said Rep. DeGette. “It is troubling, however, that after years of safety violations we continue to conduct research on this dangerous pathogen without thoroughly knowing how to inactivate it. This permissive and frankly unacceptable culture of taking risks with dangerous substances is a threat to public safety and must be changed immediately.” Today’s Oversight and Investigation hearing on the “Continuing Concerns with the Federal Select Agent Program: Department of Defense Shipments of Live Anthrax,” was convened after live anthrax spores were inadvertently shipped from the Army’s Dugway Proving Ground to a lab conducting research on bioterror pathogens. Since this incident, the Department of Defense has issued a moratorium on shipping inactivated anthrax from its labs. ###
07.24.2015	WASHINGTON –U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-01) issued the following statement after Fiat Chrysler Automobiles filed a safety recall notice due to cybersecurity vulnerability in approximately 1.4 million vehicles: “The typical driver already has plenty to worry about when he or she gets behind the wheel. Even so, the automotive cyber vulnerabilities described in the press this week and acknowledged by today’s recall sound like the plot of a science fiction movie, and as the Internet of Things becomes a larger part of our lives, these weaknesses become ever-more real. Automakers and NHTSA must maintain a special vigilance as more internet-enabled vehicles take the road to ensure the driving public stays safe.” ###
07.23.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-01) joined with Reps. David Cicilline (RI-01) and John Lewis (GA-05) and Senators Jeff Merkley (D-OR), Tammy Baldwin (D-WI), and Cory Booker (D-NJ) to introduce the Equality Act, a landmark bill that would extend vital non-discrimination protections to include LGBT individuals. Specifically, the Equality Act would amend the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and other existing laws to prohibit discrimination based on actual or perceived sexual orientation or gender identity in the areas of employment, education, credit, housing, federal funding, jury service, and public accommodations. “In a society built on the principle that all are created equal, discrimination of any kind is harmful to our democracy,” said Rep. DeGette. “No American should be evicted from a home, fired from a job, or bullied in school because of who they are. I will continue to stand with my colleagues in defense of equality for all Americans and will continue this fight until discrimination of all kinds is eradicated in our country.” Currently, Colorado state law prohibits discrimination against LGBT individuals in the workplace, at school, or in public accommodations, however, most states do not have such protections. For example, it is still legal in 31 states to fire an employee because they are gay or transgender. In 28 states, same-sex couples have no legal recourse if their landlord decides to evict them from their home, and only 14 states have laws prohibiting discrimination against LGBT students in school. The Equality Act would work to correct these injustices. ###
07.14.2015	WASHINGTON –U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-01) headed the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigation’s latest effort to examine fraud and abuse in Medicare Part D. Vulnerabilities in the Medicare Part D prescription drug program. Today’s hearing focused on inappropriate prescribing and diversion of opioids; this is the subcommittee’s fifth hearing in an ongoing investigation of the prescription drug abuse epidemic across the country. “Prescription drug abuse is a serious problem facing communities in the Denver metro area and across our country,” said Rep. DeGette. “Over 2.1 million Americans live with a prescription opioid addiction while 467,000 Americans are addicted to heroin. It is unacceptable that vulnerabilities in Medicare Part D are making these dangerous drugs more readily available to people who would abuse them. I will continue to work with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to stamp out fraud and abuse that puts our communities at risk.” Drug diversion and overprescribing remain serious challenges to the Part D program. Between 2006 and 2014, Part D spending for commonly abused opioids grew by 156 percent, outpacing the growth in spending for all Part D drugs. Additionally, generic Vicodin was the number one prescribed drug in the Part D program in 2013. ###
07.10.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – The U.S. House of Representatives today approved H.R. 6, the 21st Century Cures Act, by a vote of 344-77. The nonpartisan legislation will help to bring our health care system into the 21st Century, investing in science and medical innovation, incorporating the patient perspective, and modernizing clinical trials, to deliver better, faster cures to more patients and loved ones in need. The bill’s authors, Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee Ranking Member Diana DeGette (CO-01), House Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Fred Upton (MI-07), Health Subcommittee Chairman Joe Pitts (PA-16), full committee Ranking Member Frank Pallone, Jr., (NJ-06), and Health Subcommittee Ranking Member Gene Green (TX-29) commented: “Today, we took a big leap on the path to cures, but we still have much work left to do. The 344 votes today should be a springboard for action. On to the Senate.” H.R. 6, the 21st Century Cures Act: Support: H.R. 6 has 230 original bipartisan co-sponsors. Over 700 groups have voiced support. More information: Learn more about the legislation HERE. What’s Next: Continue to follow along on Facebook and Twitter as #Cures2015 continues on the path to becoming a law. ###
07.08.2015	Washington, D.C. - Today, U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-01) joined Rep. Barbara Lee (CA-13), Rep. Jan Schakowsky (IL-09), and 62 co-sponsors to introduce the Equal Access to Abortion Coverage in Health Insurance Act or EACH Woman Act. The bill would ensure health coverage of abortion for every woman regardless of her income, how she is insured or where she lives. In essence the bill would end the harmful Hyde Amendment policies that restrict a woman’s ability to make the best healthcare decisions for herself and her family. “We are done playing defense against attacks on women’s health,” said Rep. DeGette. “Today’s introduction of the EACH Woman Act marks the first step in our march toward the day when each and every woman can make her own decisions about pregnancy.” “Each and every day, the rights of women are under attack in America – today, we push back because every person has a right to healthcare. The EACH Woman Act is a bold and groundbreaking step forward. This legislation would ensure that every woman can access ALL of her healthcare options, regardless of how much money she earns or where she lives,” said Rep. Lee. “Regardless of how someone personally feels about abortion, none of us, especially elected officials, should be interfering with a woman’s right to make her own healthcare decisions just because she is poor.” “I am proud to co-lead the EACH Woman Act because it is time for us to go on offense to ensure every woman has access to abortion services. All women, no matter their income level, what state they live in or what health insurance plan they have, should have access to the full range of reproductive health services,” said Rep. Jan Schakowsky. “Each woman should be treated fairly, and this Act will help achieve that reality.” A newly released poll, conducted by Hart Research, found that eighty-six percent of voters agreed that “however we feel about abortion, politicians should not be allowed to deny a woman’s health coverage because she is poor.” Support was strong across age ranges and the statement won the support of 79 percent of Republican surveyed. More than half of those surveyed expressed support for a bill similar to the EACH Woman Act. Additional information about the poll is available here. The bill has already won the support of 30 national and state organizations. ###
07.03.2015	WASHINGTON – Yesterday, the House Committee on Energy and Commerce Republicans filed a substitute amendment to H.R. 6, the 21st Century Cures Act. In a last minute change, the new language fell $1.25 billion short in mandatory funding for research at the National Institutes of Health (NIH). “The 21st Century Cures Act has the ability to bring new treatments and cures to millions of patients across our country who are suffering from rare diseases. By incorporating the patient perspective, removing barriers to research collaboration, and modernizing clinical trials, 21st Century Cures will spur health care innovation and keep our country on the cutting edge of biomedical research.” said Energy and Commerce Ranking Member Pallone, Subcommittee on Health Ranking Member Green and Rep. DeGette. “Given this, we are disappointed that after careful consideration and countless hours of working closely together to strengthen this bill and ensure the NIH receives a full $10 billion, this amendment falls short. We stand with millions of patients, ready to work with our Republican colleagues to find a new method to pay for the funding hole that unfortunately remains for NIH research. We remain fully committed to pass a bill that lives up to the promise of 21st Century Cures.” The House Committee on Rules is scheduled to meet on Wednesday, July 8, at 3 pm to consider the rule for the changed bill before it proceeds to the House Floor. ###
06.26.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-01) and Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Fred Upton (MI-06) will headline a panel on Saturday with former Food and Drug Administration Commissioner Margaret Hamburg at the Aspen Ideas Festival 2015: Spotlight Health. DeGette and Upton will discuss H.R. 6, the 21st Century Cures Act, and provide insight into their multiyear effort to help patients and bring the health care innovation infrastructure into the 21st century. H.R. 6 includes policies to incorporate the patient perspective, modernize clinical trials, remove barriers to research collaboration, embrace personalized medicine, and help the entire biomedical ecosystem coordinate more efficiently. DeGette and Upton will then road trip together across the continental divide from Aspen to Dennver to meet with health care leaders in the Denver Metro Area. To follow their trip on Twitter, Facebook, and Instagram use #RoadTrip4Cures. DeGette last year hosted a roundtable discussion about 21st Century Cures in Denver and earlier this year she joined Upton in his home district in Southwest Michigan for #CuresInTheMitten. # # #
06.26.2015	Washington – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-01) released the following statement after the U.S. Supreme Court affirmed the right to marry: “Finally, every loving couple in the United States may choose to express their commitment in marriage and be assured of its legal benefits and responsibilities. This is a proud moment in our ongoing march towards full equality. “I was particularly touched by Justice Kennedy’s observation about the children of same sex couples, who have borne the burden of the inequality of their parents’ relationships, observing: ‘[e]xcluding same-sex couples from marriage thus conflicts with a central premise of the right to marry. Without the recognition, stability, and predictability marriage offers, their children suffer the stigma of knowing their families are somehow lesser. They also suffer the significant material costs of being raised by unmarried parents, relegated through no fault of their own to a more difficult and uncertain family life.’ “That stigma ends now. “I have proudly officiated services for same sex couples, and I have my minister’s license ready to perform more.” ###
06.25.2015	WASHINGTON - Today, members of Colorado’s Congressional delegation introduced a bill to create two new U.S. District Court judgeships for the District of Colorado. Colorado’s population has grown 66 percent in the three decades since a new judgeship was added, precipitating a judicial crisis. Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-01) introduced the legislation and was joined by Reps. Jared Polis (CO-02), Scott Tipton (CO-03), Doug Lamborn (CO-05), Mike Coffman (CO-06), and Ed Perlmutter (CO-07). “It is vital to the legal fabric of Colorado that our court system be able to address the needs of our citizens,” said members of the delegation. “Our state has grown dramatically in the past three decades, while the resources available to our district court system have not kept pace. Currently, District Court judges address 40 percent more cases than the national standard and do so while traversing one of the largest states in the country. Our bill takes an important step toward providing the court system the additional judges it needs to serve our constituents’ needs.” The United States District Court for the District of Colorado serves the entire state of Colorado. Other than Alaska, the District of Colorado is geographically the second largest federal judicial district with one primary courthouse - meaning District and Magistrate Judges travel throughout the state to meet needs across the district. The Court has seven Judgeships, the last created in 1984. Since 1984, the population of Colorado has increased by 66%. ###
06.24.2015	WASHINGTON- U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-01) offered strong support for Homeland Security Secretary Jeh Johnson’s decision to limit the detainment of mothers and children involved in deportation proceedings in jail-like facilities and called for an end to family detention altogether. “Secretary Johnson took an important first step toward sufficiently considering the health and well-being of mothers and children,” said Rep. DeGette. “Allowing families that have shown their need for asylum or other relief under our laws to avoid long-term detention is both in line with our nation’s longstanding commitment to the well-being of refugees and an efficient use of our resources. I stand with the many families whose health and safety will be improved by these changes to our detention practices. It is clear that detaining mothers and children is not the answer. I will continue to fight for an end long-term family detention in our country.” Secretary Johnson’s decision came after Rep. DeGette repeatedly joined more than 100 of her colleagues to call for an end to the Obama Administration’s policy of detaining mothers and children involved in deportation proceedings in jail-like facilities. The first letter by Rep. DeGette and her colleagues detailed some of the most disturbing problems affecting vulnerable individuals being held by the department. DeGette also called for an end to the department’s policy to set a number of beds to always be occupied in detention facilities, which creates an incentive to detain individuals who do not pose a threat to public safety, and urged the department to end the use of immigration detainers. Most recently, Rep. DeGette joined with her colleagues to call for an end to the continued detention of mothers and children in secure, jail-like facilities. Their letter cited dozens of years of academic studies that show the serious adverse effects of long-term detention on families and children. ###
06.17.2015	WASHINGTON – Today, U.S. Rep Diana DeGette worked with House Energy and Commerce colleagues on both sides of the aisle to protect the freedom of the open and global internet. “The internet has shepherded in an unprecedented era of global connectivity and economic growth, said Rep. DeGette. “As more people worldwide use the internet every day, we need to transition to a model of internet governance that includes a diversity of voices. The DOTCOM Act would ensure that this transition protects users and looks out for the safety of the open and global internet. Our economy is tied to freedom and openness of the internet, and I urge my colleagues to stand in support of those freedoms and their immeasurable benefits to our economy. ” The DOTCOM Act would ensure that the transition of internet governance to a multi-stakeholder model for making decisions about the future of internet is done with proper oversight and without unnecessary delay. The multi-stakeholder model would allow businesses, civil society, and technical experts to reach consensus without government interference. ###
06.08.2015	WASHINGTON, DC—U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-01) joined colleagues on the House Energy and Commerce Committee to urge the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to compel manufacturers to more clearly convey the serious risks associated with the use of opioid pain relievers. Twenty-two Democratic members of the Committee, led by Rep. DeGette, Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee Ranking Member, as well as full Committee Ranking Member Frank Pallone, Jr. (D-NJ) and Health Subcommittee Ranking Member Gene Green (D-TX), wrote to FDA Acting Commissioner Dr. Stephen Ostroff to request that the agency require labeling of all opioids to reflect the same safety warnings. Currently, only extended-release and long-acting opioids have prominently displayed warnings, known as “black box warnings,” that indicate the significant potential for abuse, overdose, addiction, and neonatal abstinence syndrome. The Democratic Committee leaders asked that these same warnings be placed on immediate release opioids, which have the same risks and accounted for over 90% of the opioids prescribed in the United States in 2009, according to FDA. “Between 2000 and 2010, there was a fourfold increase in the use of prescribed opioids for the treatment of pain. This increase in opioid prescriptions has been mirrored by a fourfold increase in opioid-related overdose deaths: between 1999 and 2010, the death rate from prescription opioids more than quadrupled,” the lawmakers highlighted in the letter. They continued, “Given the national public health crisis of prescription drug overdoses, an issue that has been a subject of extensive examination by the House Committee on Energy and Commerce, Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations, we believe this common sense approach would equip patients and prescribers with information necessary to make informed decisions regarding the risks of opioid analgesics.” The lawmakers also highlighted the skyrocketing incidence of neonatal‎ abstinence syndrome. According to a recent study in the New England Journal of Medicine, from 2004 through 2013, the incidence of NAS quadrupled. They noted, “It is critical that pregnant women and their physicians have access to clear, concise information about the risks of NAS when considering whether to prescribe opioid therapies during pregnancy, and we are concerned that the current labeling for IR opioids does not meet this threshold.” The leaders requested a response to their letter as well as an approximate timeline for any planned labeling change by June 29, 2015. The full text of the letter can be found here. ###
06.04.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. DeGette (CO-01) joined Energy and Commerce Committee Ranking Member Frank Pallone, Jr. (NJ-06) and Energy and Environment Subcommittee Ranking Member Paul Tonko (NY-20) to release the following statement today in response to the draft assessment released by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) regarding potential impacts of hydraulic fracturing activities on drinking water resources: “While the current draft indicates that the overall percentage of contamination cases may be small, it acknowledges there have been contamination events. When it comes to the water we drink, every instance of contamination must be considered serious. “It is also important to note that this study relied on voluntary reporting, which affects both the quality and scope of the data available. This is an unfortunate consequence of the lack of federal regulation of hydraulic fracturing. “Congress must be looking closely at ways to close these data gaps moving forward in order to prevent any further contamination.” ###
06.03.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Rep. DeGette joined with Energy and Commerce Committee Ranking Member Frank Pallone (NJ-06), Commerce, Manufacturing, and Trade Subcommittee Ranking Member Jan Schakowsky (IL-09), a victim of Takata’s defective airbags, and other advocates to demand Congress act now to protect drivers and passengers from defective Takata airbags and to prevent another year of recalls like 2014 – which set all-time records. Earlier this year, Reps. DeGette, Pallone, Schakowsky, led Democrats from the Energy and Commerce Committee and introduced H.R. 1181, the Vehicle Safety Improvement Act. H.R. 1181 would improve motor vehicle safety and protect drivers and passengers from manufacturing negligence. “Whenever any of us gets behind the wheel of a car, we need to trust that our car, and every vehicle on the road around us, is safe,” said Rep. DeGette. “The Vehicle Safety Improvement Act helps restore a culture of safety among automakers, parts suppliers, and federal regulators. We can't eliminate every single car accident, but we can help to prevent unnecessary ones. And that will keep us all safer.” “I am glad that the Committee is refocusing on the Takata recall, but the analysis has taken too long – we need action,” said Rep. Schakowsky. “The Vehicle Safety Improvement Act would increase auto safety reporting, oversight, and accountability and help reduce the likelihood of another Takata-like failure. We should advance the bill to the floor and pass it without delay. The American people can’t afford to wait.” “Air bags are meant to save lives, not take lives. Yet, a supposed safety feature has become a safety hazard in more than 40 million vehicles,” said Rep. Pallone. “The safety of automobile passengers must be a top priority in Congress. And while oversight is important, it’s time for legislative action, starting with the Vehicle Safety Improvement Act.” “I’ve experienced firsthand the pain that a lack of reporting and sufficient oversight can cause related to a vehicle defect.” said Angelina Sujata, a victim of a defective Takata airbag. “Airbags are supposed to save you, not hurt you. I am hopeful, though, that lessons can be learned from the tragedies that stemmed from defective airbags and vehicles and that the Vehicle Safety Improvement Act of 2015 can help to create this much needed change.” H.R. 1181, the Vehicle Safety Improvement Act, legislation to improve motor vehicle safety, was introduced by Commerce, Trade and Manufacturing Subcommittee Ranking Member Jan Schakowsky (IL-09), Energy and Commerce Committee Ranking Member Frank Pallone (NJ-06), Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee Ranking Member Diana DeGette (CO-01), and other Committee Democrats earlier this year. On Tuesday, June 2, the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Commerce, Manufacturing, and Trade will hold a hearing on the Takata airbag recall. ###
05.27.2015	DeGette Calls on Obama Administration to End Family Detention WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette called on Homeland Security Secretary Jeh Johnson to end the Obama Administration’s policy of detaining mothers and children involved in deportation proceedings in jail-like facilities. Rep. DeGette and 135 of her colleagues raised issues ranging from excessive confinement, delays in due process, developmental problems for children, and serious medical concerns in a letter to Secretary Johnson. “We must prioritize the health and well-being of mothers and children while also prioritizing our enforcement objectives,” wrote Rep. DeGette and her colleagues. “Detaining mothers and children in jail-like settings is not the answer. We have an opportunity to do the right thing and are confident that DHS has the capacity to honor our Nation’s longstanding commitment both to the protection and well-being of refugee families and to law enforcement and public safety.” Detention policies by the Department of Homeland Security have come under increasing scrutiny, and the letter by Rep. DeGette and her colleagues detailed some of the most disturbing problems affecting some of the most vulnerable individuals being held by the department. DeGette has also called for an end to the department’s policy to set a number of beds to always be occupied in detention facilities, which creates an incentive to detain individuals who do not pose a threat to public safety, and urged the department to end the use of immigration detainers. The full text of the letter is available below and at this link. May 27, 2015 Secretary Jeh Johnson U.S. Department of Homeland Security Washington, DC 20528 Dear Secretary Johnson: We are troubled by the Department of Homeland Security’s continued detention of mothers and children in secure, jail-like facilities. For nearly one year we have been closely following the troublesome conditions of confinement, due process issues, and serious developmental and medical concerns of those being detained. Many of us have raised these matters in writing and continue to bring concerns to DHS through individual case examples and systemic complaints. We believe your Department has heard many of our concerns but has not fully grasped the serious harm being inflicted upon mothers and children in custody. We believe the only solution to this problem is to end the use of family detention. The recent announcement by Immigration and Customs Enforcement on family detention does not acknowledge that even detention for a brief period of time, especially in a secure setting, is detrimental to child development. Based upon his 39 years of clinical experience and interviews with families at the Karnes Residential Center, the Dean of Social Work at the University of Texas, Dr. Luis Zayas, found that the children at Karnes are “facing some of the most adverse childhood conditions of any children I have ever interviewed or evaluated.”[1] In his affidavit, Dean Zayas concluded that “[d]etention has had serious and long-lasting impacts on the psychological health and well-being” of the families at Karnes and that these impacts were evident in families who were detained for as little as two weeks. We believe it is undeniable that detention in a secure facility is detrimental to mothers and children and is not reflective of our values as a Nation. Children require special protections and should not be placed in jail-like settings. We are particularly troubled by the current practice of family detention because the detained population is largely comprised of refugees fleeing violence and persecution in their home countries. We have heard horrific stories of sexual assault, intense physical violence, kidnapping, and sex trafficking. These stories come not only from adult mothers, but also from young children who have been victims of such abuse. Detaining children who have already been victims of abuse exacerbates past trauma and raises unique and serious problems. DHS has repeatedly used deterrence as a justification for the existence of family detention, but this theory has not been substantiated with compelling evidence. Moreover, a federal court in the District of Columbia rejected this argument and found that DHS cannot detain asylum-seeking mothers and children from Central America for the purpose of deterring other migrants from entering the country.[2] We agree and believe that the hypothetical recurrence of a future refugee flow does not justify the very real harm being inflicted upon mothers and children in a secure setting. Lastly, we are disturbed by the fact that many mothers and children remain in family detention despite serious medical needs. In the past year, we have learned of the detention of children with intellectual disabilities, a child with brain cancer, a mother with a congenital heart disorder, a 14-day-old baby, and a 12-year-old child who has not eaten solid food for two months, among many others. Recently, we learned of a three-year-old child at the Berks County Residential Center who was throwing up for three days and was apparently offered water as a form of medical treatment. It was only after the child began throwing up blood on the fourth day that the facility finally transferred her to a hospital.[3] This is simply unacceptable. We cannot continue to hear reports of serious harm to children in custody and do nothing about it. We must prioritize the health and well-being of mothers and children while also prioritizing our enforcement objectives. Detaining mothers and children in jail-like settings is not the answer. We have an opportunity to do the right thing and are confident that DHS has the capacity to honor our Nation’s longstanding commitment both to the protection and well-being of refugee families and to law enforcement and public safety. Sincerely, ________________________ ________________________ ________________________ Hon. Zoe Lofgren Hon. Lucille Roybal-Allard Hon. Luis V. Gutiérrez ______________________________ ______________________________ Hon. Nancy Pelosi, Democratic Leader Hon. Steny H. Hoyer, Democratic Whip ______________________________ ______________________________ Hon. John Conyers, Jr. Hon. Charles B. Rangel ______________________________ ______________________________ Hon. Marcy Kaptur Hon. Eliot L. Engel ______________________________ ______________________________ Hon. Nita M. Lowey Hon. José E. Serrano ______________________________ ______________________________ Hon. David E. Price Hon. Rosa L. DeLauro ______________________________ ______________________________ Hon. Maxine Waters Hon. Jerrold Nadler ______________________________ ______________________________ Hon. Corrine Brown Hon. Gene Green ______________________________ ______________________________ Hon. Alcee L. Hastings Hon. Eddie Bernice Johnson ______________________________ ______________________________ Hon. Carolyn B. Maloney Hon. Nydia M. Velázquez ______________________________ ______________________________ Hon. Lloyd Doggett Hon. Chaka Fattah ______________________________ ______________________________ Hon. Sheila Jackson Lee Hon. Elijah E. Cummings ______________________________ ______________________________ Hon. Danny K. Davis Hon. Diana DeGette ______________________________ ______________________________ Hon. Rubén Hinojosa Hon. Adam Smith ______________________________ ______________________________ Hon. Gregory W. Meeks Hon. Lois Capps ______________________________ ______________________________ Hon. Barbara Lee Hon. Janice D. Schakowsky ______________________________ ______________________________ Hon. Steve Israel Hon. Rick Larsen ______________________________ ______________________________ Hon. Betty McCollum Hon. Adam B. Schiff ______________________________ ______________________________ Hon. Linda T. Sánchez Hon. G. K. Butterfield ______________________________ ______________________________ Hon. Emanuel Cleaver Hon. Al Green ______________________________ ______________________________ Hon. Gwen Moore Hon. Doris O. Matsui ______________________________ ______________________________ Hon. Albio Sires Hon. Yvette D. Clarke ______________________________ ______________________________ Hon. Steve Cohen Hon. Keith Ellison ______________________________ ______________________________ Hon. Henry C. “Hank” Johnson, Jr. Hon. Jerry McNerney ______________________________ ______________________________ Hon. Peter Welch Hon. Donna F. Edwards ______________________________ ______________________________ Hon. Gerald E. Connolly Hon. Ben Ray Luján ______________________________ ______________________________ Hon. Chellie Pingree Hon. Paul Tonko ______________________________ ______________________________ Hon. Mike Quigley Hon. Judy Chu ______________________________ ______________________________ Hon. John Garamendi Hon. Theodore E. Deutch ______________________________ ______________________________ Hon. David N. Cicilline Hon. Eleanor Holmes Norton ______________________________ ______________________________ Hon. Pedro R. Pierluisi Hon. Ruben Gallego ______________________________ ______________________________ Hon. Sander M. Levin Hon. Jim McDermott ______________________________ ______________________________ Hon. Xavier Becerra Hon. Robert C. “Bobby” Scott ______________________________ ______________________________ Hon. Sam Farr Hon. Earl Blumenauer ______________________________ ______________________________ Hon. Ron Kind Hon. Loretta Sanchez ______________________________ ______________________________ Hon. Michael E. Capuano Hon. Joseph Crowley ______________________________ ______________________________ Hon. John B. Larson Hon. Grace F. Napolitano ______________________________ ______________________________ Hon. Susan A. Davis Hon. Michael M. Honda ______________________________ ______________________________ Hon. Raúl M. Grijalva Hon. Tim Ryan ______________________________ ______________________________ Hon. Chris Van Hollen Hon. Jared Polis ______________________________ ______________________________ Hon. Bill Foster Hon. Julia Brownley ______________________________ ______________________________ Hon. Tony Cardenas Hon. Lois Frankel ______________________________ ______________________________ Hon. Jared Huffman Hon. Hakeem S. Jeffries ______________________________ ______________________________ Hon. Derek Kilmer Hon. Grace Meng ______________________________ ______________________________ Hon. Beto O’Rourke Hon. Raul Ruiz ______________________________ ______________________________ Hon. Mark Takano Hon. Juan Vargas ______________________________ ______________________________ Hon. Robin L. Kelly Hon. Katherine M. Clark ______________________________ ______________________________ Hon. Donald Norcross Hon. Pete Aguilar ______________________________ ______________________________ Hon. John Lewis Hon. Frank Pallone, Jr. ______________________________ ______________________________ Hon. James E. Clyburn Hon. Anna G. Eshoo ______________________________ ______________________________ Hon. Michael F. Doyle Hon. James P. McGovern ______________________________ ______________________________ Hon. Robert A. Brady Hon. Frederica S. Wilson ______________________________ ______________________________ Hon. Kathy Castor Hon. John A. Yarmuth ______________________________ ______________________________ Hon. Karen Bass Hon. Cedric L. Richmond ______________________________ ______________________________ Hon. Janice Hahn Hon. Suzan K. DelBene ______________________________ ______________________________ Hon. Donald M. Payne, Jr. Hon. Alan Grayson ______________________________ ______________________________ Hon. Dina Titus Hon. Joaquin Castro ______________________________ ______________________________ Hon. Tammy Duckworth Hon. Joseph P. Kennedy, III ______________________________ ______________________________ Hon. Daniel T. Kildee Hon. Alan Lowenthal ______________________________ ______________________________ Hon. Michelle Lujan Grisham Hon. Mark Pocan ______________________________ ______________________________ Hon. Eric Swalwell Hon. Marc A. Veasey ______________________________ ______________________________ Hon. Donald S. Beyer, Jr. Hon. Bonnie Watson Coleman ______________________________ ______________________________ Hon. Mark DeSaulnier Hon. Debbie Dingell ______________________________ ______________________________ Hon. Ted Lieu Hon. Mark Takai ______________________________ ______________________________ Hon. Norma J. Torres Hon. Gregorio Kilili Camacho Sablan ______________________________ ______________________________ ###
05.27.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-01) released the following statement after the Environmental Protection Agency and the Army Corps of Engineers issued the final Clean Water Rule earlier today: “I’m so pleased to see the Clean Water Rule finalized today by the Administration. The final rule clarifies Clean Water Act jurisdiction after previous court decisions left one in three people across our nation in danger of losing access to clean drinking water. This long-overdue rule will provide certainty for businesses and agriculture, and I will work to make sure it is implemented fairly. Clean water is something everyone deserves.” ###
05.20.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-01) joined with House Energy and Commerce Ranking Member Frank Pallone (NJ-06) and offered their Republican counterparts priority issues to explore and continue the Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigation’s long tradition of substantive, bipartisan oversight. Their letter to Energy and Commerce Chairman Fred Upton (MI-06) and Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigation Chairman Tim Murphy (PA-18) applauded the work of the Subcommittee so far and laid out their priorities for use of the subcommittee’s oversight jurisdiction. “We have explored influenza preparedness and vaccine effectiveness, federal programs targeting serious mental illness, oversight of the Chemical Safety Board, cybersecurity, and prevention and treatment of opioid abuse. The Subcommittee has a strong legacy of effective and substantive bipartisan oversight, and we seek to continue that tradition,” said Reps. DeGette and Pallone. “We therefore write to propose several important topics that merit oversight in the coming months. We believe that each of these topics represent key areas of jurisdiction for the Subcommittee. Moreover, each represents a matter that affects millions of Americans and that the Subcommittee could pursue in a bipartisan fashion.” Their letter requested the Subcommittee consider the following topics: antibiotic resistance; increasing immunization rates for vaccine-preventable diseases; challenges facing FDA’s foreign inspection offices; Medicare and Medicaid waste, fraud, and abuse; the rising cost of prescription drugs; rising e-cigarette use among youth; continuing examination of high-containment laboratories; auto safety oversight and legislative solutions; hydraulic fracturing: protection of water sources and wastewater recovery, handling, storage, and processing; continuation of cybersecurity: protection of personal data and critical infrastructure; wireless cramming. To read the letter in its entirety click here. ###
05.19.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-01), the Ranking Democrat on the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations, issued the following statement after the Department of Transportation announced new steps to address defects in Takata air bags: “I am pleased to see the Department of Transportation and the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) continue to demand answers and action as they work to protect the safety of the driving public. The sometimes lengthy process with Takata has also demonstrated that more work is needed to realize the goal of quickly identifying and addressing auto safety issues. Congress should be ready to offer the legal authority and resources needed to make that happen.” ###
05.19.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-01) voted against H.R. 2353, which would extend transportation authority into July while failing to provide any long-term solutions to funding problems, and she released the following statement regarding her vote: “Every driver, pedestrian, and transit user knows that we have major infrastructure needs that aren’t being met, and the funding challenges to meet those needs are hardly a surprise to anyone in Congress. This makes the continued failure to find a long-term solution to this problem completely unacceptable. With Colorado’s limited construction season, we need financial certainty to move priority projects forward and pay for the workers and materials needed to get the job done right. Congress needs to do its job and find a solution that goes beyond the next few weeks.” ###
05.14.2015	Washington, D.C. –Today, Rep. DeGette (CO-01) applauded the swift approval of the bipartisan 21st Century Cures Act. The legislation advanced by voice vote after subcommittee members from both sides of the aisle expressed strong support for the effort, led by Rep. DeGette and the Chairman of the Committee on Energy and Commerce, Rep. Fred Upton. 21st Century Cures seeks to bring new, cutting edge treatments and cures to patients and their families. “Our time is now. For more than a year we have been listening and diligently working on policies that we believe will truly make a difference in the lives of families and patients,” said Rep. DeGette in a joint statement with Chairman Upton. “21st Century Cures is for them. It is their optimism, hope, and drive that have kept us moving forward. In the coming days we will continue working to make improvements to this important bill and prepare for a full committee markup next week.” The 21st Century Cures Act is the product of more than a year of bipartisan work. From the beginning, Rep. DeGette and Chairman Upton brought interested stakeholders to the table to get ideas and feedback on what can be done to speed up the discovery, development, and delivery of life saving cures and treatments. This June, Rep. DeGette will host Chairman Upton in Denver to meet with local stakeholders and hear from patients right here in Colorado. ###
05.14.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-01) stood with dozens of bipartisan Members of Congress in opposition to the practice of bulk collecting US citizens’ phone and email records. “It has been 14 years since Congress first passed the PATRIOT Act—over my strenuous objections—and gave law enforcement unprecedented authority to collect the phone records of US citizens,” said Rep. DeGette. “ While I support intelligence gathering to keep our country safe, it is clear that collecting large swaths of phone records for Americans with no connection to terrorism does little to protect our safety and harms the fundamental freedoms that define our nation. It is past time for us to end the government’s unnecessarily broad authority to collect any individual’s records without proper oversight.” The PATRIOT Act, which first passed in 2001, has been reauthorized three times since then, and controversial Section 215 is set to expire on June 1st. The legislation expanded the surveillance powers of intelligence and law enforcement agencies and lowered the standards under which information gathering techniques would be allowed. “While The USA Freedom Act would take some steps to limit carelessly permissive intelligence gathering permitted under the PATRIOT Act, it does not go far enough to protect the civil liberties of American citizens who have done nothing to justify the collection of their private information, added Rep. DeGette. “I voted against the Patriot Act when it first passed in 2001 and I am proud to have voted today to end one of its most damaging sections.” The USA Freedom Act passed the House by a vote of 338 to 88. ###
05.12.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Reps. Diana DeGette (CO-01) and Louise Slaughter (NY-25), co-chairs of the House Pro-Choice Caucus, issued the following statement after House Republican leaders revived their misguided attempt to pass H.R. 36, adding additional barriers to women seeking medical and abortion services: “Republican politicians in Washington and around the country continue to try to insert themselves into women’s personal health care decisions and restrict women’s ability to make constitutionally protected medical choices. Their latest attempt in Congress with H.R. 36 singles out women enduring some of the most traumatic circumstances imaginable and forces further indignity by requiring them to effectively get permission to regain some control over their bodies, their health, and their safety. Every woman has a constitutional right to make health care choices in the manner she sees fit and everyone in America should see this cynical attempt to seize control from women for what it is.” ###
04.30.2015	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-01) joined with members of the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health to hold the first legislative hearing on her bipartisan 21st Century Cures draft legislation. Rep. DeGette joined Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Fred Upton (MI-06) to introduce a discussion draft of their proposal on Tuesday along with Ranking Member Frank Pallone (NJ-06), Health Subcommittee Chairman Joe Pitts (PA-16), and Subcommittee Ranking Member Gene Green (TX-29). “From its very first day, 21st Century Cures has been driven by the needs of patients,” said Rep. DeGette. “In the past year, Fred and I have made tremendous progress towards legislation that will bring groundbreaking cures to the patients who need them and delivering important new resources for the National Institutes of Health. While we have much more to do, I look forward to continuing our work together so that we can deliver a bill worthy of the patients who are waiting for the life-changing and possibly life-saving advance that will help them.” The subcommittee heard expert testimony from Dr. Kathy Hudson, Deputy Director for Science, Outreach and Policy at the National Institutes of Health, Dr. Janet Woodcock, Director of the Center for Drug Evaluation and Research at the U.S. Food and Drug Administration and Dr. Jeff Shuren, Director of the Center for Devices and Radiological Health at the U.S. Food and Drug Administration. To learn more about 21st Century Cures please click here. ###
04.29.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – After nearly a year of listening to patients, innovators, researchers, providers, consumers, and regulators, bipartisan Energy and Commerce Committee leaders have released a discussion draft marking continued progress in the 21st Century Cures initiative. On Thursday, exactly one year to the day since full Committee Chairman Fred Upton (R-MI) and Rep. Diana DeGette (D-CO) launched the initiative, the Subcommittee on Health will hold a legislative hearing to review the draft. The committee has held eight hearings, issued a number of white papers, and committee members have hosted more than two-dozen roundtables across the country to generate ideas for this initiative. The discussion draft is the product of months of bipartisan negotiations and bipartisan staff continues working toward finalized legislation. Chairman Upton, Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee Ranking Member DeGette, full committee Ranking Member Frank Pallone, Jr. (D-NJ), Health Subcommittee Chairman Joe Pitts (R-PA), and Health Subcommittee Ranking Member Gene Green (D-TX) together released the draft. The draft legislative text is available online here. The five bipartisan leaders said, “We’ve done things differently with 21st Century Cures, taking our time to listen and solicit feedback from every corner of the health care innovation infrastructure. It is because of this transparent, collaborative process that we are now ready and excited to take the next step in boosting research and delivering hope to patients and families all across the country. The ideas outlined in this draft represent a year of listening and working together to develop a product that we believe will truly help patients and bring our health care innovation infrastructure into the 21st century.” The bipartisan leaders continued, “While we have made significant progress over the last year, there is still work left to do, and our staffs, as they have done for months, will continue working round the clock to ensure that the finalized legislation can gain broad support. We look forward to Thursday’s testimony from the NIH and FDA and appreciate the input and involvement of all those who have been a part of this truly collaborative effort.” The discussion draft includes provisions to: • Incorporate the patient perspective in the discovery, development, and delivery process. • Increase funding for the National Institutes of Health, both through reauthorization and $10 billion over five years in mandatory funding, starting in FY 2016. • Foster development of treatments for patients facing serious or life-threatening diseases. • Repurpose drugs for serious or life-threatening diseases and conditions. • Modernize clinical trials. • Break down barriers to increased collaboration and data sharing among patients, researchers, providers, and innovators. • Help the development of personalized and precision medicines so the right patient can receive the right treatment at the right time. • Provide for continued work in the telehealth space. • Advance a truly interoperable health care system. • Provide clarity for developers of software products used in health management and medical care. A complete section-by-section summary of the discussion draft is available online here. A one-page summary is available online here. Dr. Kathy Hudson, Deputy Director for Science, Outreach, and Policy at the National Institutes of Health, Dr. Janet Woodcock, Director of the Center for Drug Evaluation and Research at the Food and Drug Administration, and Dr. Jeff Shuren, Director of the Center for Devices and Radiological Health at the FDA will testify at Thursday’s hearing. Learn more about 21st Century Cures online here. ###
04.15.2015	Reps. Diana DeGette (CO-01) and Louise Slaughter (NY-25), the co-chairs of the House Pro-Choice Caucus, criticized emerging Republican plans to move legislation interfering with the District of Columbia’s newly-passed protections for women and their reproductive health choices. “Women’s personal medical decisions aren’t their bosses’ business, and they certainly aren’t Congress’s business either,” said Reps. Slaughter and DeGette. “No woman should have an employer or a politician interfering with her personal medical decisions, and women living in Washington, D.C. certainly don’t deserve extra interference from Republicans in Congress. We support the efforts of the D.C. Council and will work to make sure these bills become law.” The Reproductive Health Non-Discrimination Amendment Act prohibits D.C. employers from discriminating against employees based on their personal reproductive health decisions. The House Oversight and Government Committee has announced plans for next Tuesday to mark up a resolution of disapproval filed by Rep. Diane Black (TN-06). Under the Home Rule Act of 1973, all legislation passed by the District of Columbia must be transmitted to Congress for a review period before it can take effect. Anti-discrimination bills, including the Reproductive Health Non-Discrimination Amendment, were transmitted for a 30-legislative day review period on March 6, 2015. A bill takes effect at the expiration of the review period unless a resolution of disapproval is enacted into law during that period. ###
04.13.2015	Denver, CO – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-01) was joined yesterday by Reps. Ed Perlmutter (CO-07) and Jared Polis (CO-02) as well as leaders of Adams County, Commerce City, and the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service in unveiling the newly named Pat Schroeder Visitor Center of the Rocky Mountain Arsenal National Wildlife Refuge. The naming ceremony took place in honor of former Colorado Congresswoman Pat Schroeder, who served in the U.S. House of Representatives for 24 years from 1973 to 1997. During her time in Congress, Rep. Schroeder was a strong advocate for the environment. At the time, her district included the Rocky Mountain Arsenal, and she was instrumental in getting its clean-up started. She then introduced legislation to establish it as a wildlife refuge in 1991, which passed in 1992. It is considered a key accomplishment for the area during her time in office. Said Rep. DeGette, “It all started with a bald eagle. Bald eagles persisted even when the area was inhospitable to wildlife, and so people’s perspective of the area began to change. Pat saw the potential in this special place and worked hard to permanently protect it. Now, this refuge provides sanctuary for wildlife and for people. It provides recreation; it provides inspiration.” In 2010, the Arsenal’s cleanup program reached the point where it could be handed over to the Department of Interior, and today the Refuge is home to more than 300 species of wildlife including bison, mule deer, and burrowing owls. It totals 15,000 acres, making it one of the largest urban refuges in the country. The Refuge also provides environmental education and interpretive programs, catch-and-release recreational fee fishing, 10 miles of hiking trails, wildlife viewing opportunities, site tours for the public and a self-guided wildlife drive auto tour. ###
04.13.2015	DENVER, CO – Congresswoman Diana DeGette (CO-01) announced that Connor Bramley, a student at Columbine High School, has won Colorado’s First Congressional District Art Competition with an oil paint piece entitled, “Guacamole.” The Congressional Arts Competition is a congressional program that is held throughout the country by members of Congress to raise awareness of the importance of art education and to recognize outstanding art students from their districts. The winning piece will be displayed with others from across the nation in the U.S. Capitol building in Washington, D.C. The competition was open to all high school students in the First Congressional District. A panel of volunteers from the local arts community assisted the Congresswoman in judging the annual competition. “I am always impressed by the artwork of our high school students here in the Denver Metro Area,” said Rep. DeGette. “As a member of the Congressional Arts Caucus, young artists like Connor, Honor, and Shawn reinforce for me how important it is that we fight for arts programming in schools. Congratulations, Connor, Honor, and Shawn. Thank you for sharing your incredible talent with us all.” Honor Miles from Denver School of the Arts won 1st Runner up with her work, “Jim Crow.” Shawn Michaelis, who attends Colorado’s Finest Alternative High School, won 2nd Runner up with “Bird Flu.” Two plane tickets have been provided to Connor by Southwest Airlines so that he may attend a ribbon cutting ceremony in June in Washington D.C. with Congresswoman DeGette. There will also be a reception held by Congress for all the winners from across the country. ###
04.07.2015	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette along with Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi, Democratic Whip Steny Hoyer, Assistant Democratic Leader James E. Clyburn, Democratic Caucus Chair Xavier Becerra, Democratic Caucus Vice-Chair Joseph Crowley, Congressman John Conyers, Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren and other House Democrats filed an Amicus Brief in support of the Obama Administration’s appeal in the Fifth Circuit case of Texas v. United States. “I support the executive actions. I hope the court works this out as expeditiously as possible so that my constituents eligible for deferred action can have the peace of mind that their families will not be torn apart,” Rep. DeGette said. 181 House Democrats filed the brief on Monday in the appeal of Texas v. United States, which has reached the U.S. Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals following a federal district court ruling that granted a preliminary injunction that temporarily blocks the Secretary of Homeland Security from implementing the Deferred Action for Parents of Americans and Lawful Permanent Residents (DAPA) program and expanding the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program, announced by the President of the United States last November as part of his Immigration Accountability Executive Actions. In supporting the government’s position, the brief expresses the perspectives of Members of Congress that the deferred action programs (DAPA/expanded DACA) comport with Congressional will. The deferred action programs derive from the Executive’s longstanding legal authority to exercise discretion in the enforcement of our immigration laws, to take necessary actions to carry out the Executive’s authority under the Immigration and Nationality Act, and to establish national immigration enforcement policies and priorities. As such, they are traditional exercises of prosecutorial discretion that have been frequently used by administrations of both political parties for more than sixty years and repeatedly recognized by federal courts, including the Supreme Court. As stated in the brief: “Congress has vested the Secretary of Homeland Security with broad discretion to determine how best to implement the immigration laws, including the particular decisions embodied in the Deferred Action Memorandum.” The brief argues that House Democrats, as representatives of diverse communities across the United States, “have witnessed how an approach to enforcement of the immigration laws that does not focus on appropriate priorities, such as felons or national security threats, undermines confidence in the Nation’s immigration laws, wastes resources, and needlessly divides families.” These deferred action programs are vital for appropriately using limited enforcement resources, shoring up America’s economy and strengthening families. As stated in the brief, the district court’s ruling extends much broader than its procedural rationale under the Administrative Procedures Act, as it challenges “Congress’s decision to commit to the Secretary the discretion to set enforcement priorities and to determine how best to implement those priorities—including, if necessary, by channeling how subordinate agency personnel exercise their own discretion in enforcing federal law.” The Democratic Members’ brief makes it clear that the district court’s decision interferes not only with the Executive’s authority granted by Congress, but also Congress’s authority: “The ruling therefore threatens the Executive’s ability to enforce statutes, within resource constraints, in a manner that remains faithful to Congress’s intent, and in turn threatens Congress’s ability to enact effective legislation.” Full text of the amicus brief can be found here. Additional Background: On November 20, 2014, the Obama Administration announced plans to expand the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program and to create a new Deferred Action for Parental Accountability (DAPA) program to offer temporary protection from removal to the parents of American citizens and lawful permanent residents. On February 16, 2015, a federal district court in Texas preliminarily enjoined the implementation of those programs. The Administration is appealing that decision and has requested expedited consideration of the appeal. The Democratic Members’ amicus curiae brief is in support of the government’s appeal. Summary of key points: • Congress has entrusted the Secretary of Homeland Security with broad discretion in the enforcement of the Nation’s immigration laws. o For decades, Congress has repeatedly recognized the executive branch’s authority to exercise discretion in the enforcement of our immigration laws. o When the Immigration and Nationality Act was first enacted in 1952, Congress authorized the Executive to adopt regulations, issue instructions, and take other acts necessary for implementing the law. o With the creation of the Department of Homeland Security in 2002, Congress explicitly directed the Secretary of Homeland Security to establish “national immigration enforcement policies and priorities.” The one guideline that Congress has repeatedly imposed in recent years is that the Secretary should prioritize the identification and removal of people convicted of crimes based upon the severity of those crimes. • Courts have long recognized that Congress left it up to the Executive to determine how best to implement the immigration laws. o When the Fifth Circuit rejected a similar challenge brought by the State of Texas to the Federal government’s immigration enforcement efforts, the court recognized that our immigration laws “commit[…] enforcement of the INA to [the Secretary’s] discretion.” o Just three years ago, the Supreme Court explained that the “broad discretion exercised by immigration officials,” including “whether it makes sense to pursue removal at all,” is “[a] principal feature of the removal system.” o The deferred action programs are a rational and effective way to prioritize enforcement and carry out the will of Congress. • The issuance of the memorandum is unreviewable under the Administrative Procedures Act and fulfills the Executive’s constitutional duty to faithfully execute the law. And even if it were reviewable under the APA, the issuance of the memorandum would not trigger the APA’s notice-and-comment requirements. A full list of Members is provided below: Alma S. Adams Pete Aguilar Karen Bass Joyce Beatty Xavier Becerra Ami Bera Donald S. Beyer, Jr. Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. Earl Blumenauer Suzanne Bonamici Madeleine Z. Bordallo Brendan F. Boyle Robert A. Brady Corinne Brown Julie Brownley Cheri Bustos G. K. Butterfield Lois Capps Michael E. Capuano Tony Cárdenas John C. Carney, Jr. André Carson Matt Cartwright Kathy Castor Joaquin Castro Judy Chu David N. Cicilline Katherine M. Clark Yvette D. Clarke Wm. Lacy Clay Emanuel Cleaver James E. Clyburn Steve Cohen Gerald E. Connolly John Conyers, Jr. Jim Costa Joe Courtney Joseph Crowley Elijah E. Cummings Danny K. Davis Susan A. Davis Peter A. DeFazio Diana DeGette John K. Delaney Rosa L. DeLauro Suzan K. DelBene Mark DeSaulnier Theodore E. Deutch Debbie Dingell Lloyd Doggett Michael F. Doyle Tammy Duckworth Donna F. Edwards Keith Ellison Eliot L. Engel Anna G. Eshoo Elizabeth H. Esty Sam Farr Chaka Fattah Bill Foster Lois Frankel Marcia L. Fudge Tulsi Gabbard Ruben Gallego John Garamendi Alan Grayson Al Green Gene Green Raúl M. Grijalva Luis V. Gutiérrez Janice Hahn Alcee L. Hastings Denny Heck Brian Higgins James A. Himes Rubén Hinojosa Michael M. Honda Steny H. Hoyer Jared Huffman Steve Israel Sheila Jackson Lee Hakeem S. Jeffries Eddie Bernice Johnson Henry C. "Hank" Johnson, Jr. Marcy Kaptur Williams R. Keating Robin L. Kelly Joseph P. Kennedy, III Daniel T. Kildee Derek Kilmer Ron Kind Ann Kirkpatrick James R. Langevin John B. Larson Brenda L. Lawrence Barbara Lee Sander M. Levin John Lewis Ted Lieu Dave Loebsack Zoe Lofgren Alan S. Lowenthal Nita M. Lowey Ben Ray Luján Michelle Lujan Grisham Carolyn B. Maloney Sean Patrick Maloney Doris O. Matsui Betty McCollum Jim McDermott James P. McGovern Ann McLane Kuster Jerry McNerney Gregory W. Meeks Grace Meng Gwen Moore Seth Moulton Patrick E. Murphy Jerrold Nadler Grace F. Napolitano Richard Neal Richard M. Nolan Donald Norcross Eleanor Holmes Norton Beto O'Rourke Frank Pallone, Jr. Bill Pascrell Jr. Donald M. Payne, Jr. Nancy Pelosi Ed Perlmutter Scott Peters Pedro R. Pierluisi Chellie Pingree Stacey E. Plaskett Mark Pocan Jared Polis David E. Price Mike Quigley Charles B. Rangel Kathleen M. Rice Cedric L. Richmond Lucille Roybal-Allard Raul Ruiz C. A. Dutch Ruppersberger Bobby L. Rush Tim Ryan Gregorio Kilili Camacho Sablan Linda T. Sánchez Loretta Sanchez John P. Sarbanes Janice D. Schakowsky Adam B. Schiff David Scott Robert C. “Bobby” Scott José E. Serrano Terri A. Sewell Brad Sherman Albio Sires Louise McIntosh Slaughter Adam Smith Jackie Speier Eric Swalwell Mark Takai Mark Takano Bennie G. Thompson Mike Thompson Dina Titus Paul Tonko Norma J. Torres Niki Tsongas Chris Van Hollen Juan Vargas Marc A. Veasey Filemon Vela Nydia M. Velázquez Debbie Wasserman Schultz Maxine Waters Bonnie Watson Coleman Peter Welch Frederica S. Wilson John A. Yarmuth # # #
03.20.2015	WASHINGTON, DC —Today, U.S. Representatives Diana DeGette (CO-01), Jared Polis (CO-02), Matt Cartwright (PA-17), and Jan Schakowsky (IL-09) joined in a press call to introduce and discuss their bills that comprise the “Frack Pack.” The four “Frack Pack” bills are designed to address the hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, boom of the last decade and the failure of patchwork environmental protections to keep pace. Loopholes and exceptions written into the Safe Drinking Water Act, the Clean Water Act, and the Clean Air Act have kept landmark environmental laws from protecting the health and safety of individuals and families living in communities affected by fracking. By closing loopholes, the “Frack Pack” bills would hold the energy industry to the same standards that apply to everyone. “My bill, the FRAC Act, works to knit together the patchwork of state regulations that the energy industry must comply with to form a consistent and effective system to protect our groundwater,” said Rep. DeGette. “People deserve not only to know exactly what chemicals are being used in the fracking wells in and near their communities but also for fracking to be subject to the protections of the Safe Drinking Water Act just like any other industry would be. I look forward to growing support for both the FRAC Act and the vital bills that make up the ‘Frack Pack.’” “These common sense initiatives represent an unprecedented, bipartisan push to level the playing field surrounding our policies on oil and gas development,” said Rep. Polis. “Our nation’s economy continues to benefit from domestic energy production and as the industry grows, these policies simply close loopholes and make extraction processes safer, bringing the industry in line with protections required by nearly every other mineral development sector.” “My legislation, the FRESHER Act addresses the severe lack of oversight and permitting of storm water runoff within the oil and gas industries. This loophole presents a danger to the nation’s waterways and other key assets, especially in areas where hydraulic fracturing has increased in prevalence,” said Rep. Cartwright. “The pieces of legislation that make up “The Frack Pack” are common sense and I urge my colleagues from both sides of the aisle to get on board.” “My bill, the SHARED Act, says that if you’re going to frack, you need to test and report on the impacts of that activity on water quality. The bill would require testing of water sources near hydraulic fracturing operations and the public disclosure of the results of that testing,” said Rep. Schakowsky. “It’s simple, straightforward, and it would make sure that families know whether their water is safe to drink and use. I will work to do all that I can to advance this legislation, the Frack Pack bills, and other efforts to protect our precious water sources.” “The best way to safeguard our families’ health – and the health of the planet – is to ban this drilling altogether,” said Margie Alt of Environment America. “Until then, we must do everything we can to protect the people living on the frontline of fracking.” The four “Frack Pack” bills, the FRAC Act, the FRESHER Act, the BREATHE Act, and the SHARED Act were introduced today. ###
03.18.2015	WASHINGTON – Today, U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-01) addressed the Atlantic Council about the promise of wearable internet medical devices and the patient privacy protection challenge they present policy makers. “As more medical and internet technologies like the Fitbit and Continuous Glucose Monitoring System (CGMS) reach a wearable size, the insights we stand to gain about health in real time increasingly inform how we treat medical conditions,” said Rep. DeGette. “These cutting edge developments are a valuable tool for patients and medical providers, and as policymakers we must ensure that both patient privacy protections and technological innovation remain at the center of the conversation. I look forward to working with my partners from both sides of the aisle to ensure that networked medical treatment remains a core component of mine and Chairman Upton’s 21st Century Cures Initiative.” Rep. DeGette Address at the Atlantic Council on the Risk and Reward of Wearable Medical Technologies The Atlantic Council has been a thought leader since it was founded in 1961. The Council works to bring together researchers, experts, and policymakers from both sides of the aisle to build a network of individuals invested in innovative policy solutions. This morning’s program, Cyber Risk Wednesday: The Healthcare Internet of Things: Rewards and Risks is a segment in the Atlantic Council’s ongoing Cyber Statecraft Initiative. The 21st Century Cures Initiative is a bi-partisan, multi-year initiative led by Rep. DeGette (D-CO) and House Energy and Commerce Chairman Fred Upton (R-MI) that looks comprehensively at the steps needed to accelerate the pace of cures in America from research and development to the FDA approval process. Since the Initiative was announced in November of 2014, Rep. DeGette and Chairman Upton have conducted roundtable discussions and full committee hearings as well as broadly collaborating with the National Institutes of Health (NIH), Food and Drug Administration (FDA), and other agencies, in addition to the nation’s patients and scientific pioneers in academia and industry. More information about the 21st Century Cures Initiative can be found here. ###
03.11.2015	Washington, DC – The Colorado Congressional delegation today welcomed the Senate Veterans’ Affairs Committee’s pledge to work with the delegation to schedule a field hearing and site visit to the Aurora VA Hospital. The delegation sent a bipartisan letter to the committee's chairman, Senator Johnny Isakson (R-GA), and ranking member, Senator Richard Blumenthal (D-CT), last month requesting the visit to look into the mismanagement that has delayed construction of the facility. “We appreciate the committee's willingness to come to Colorado and devote time and attention to this project,” Bennet said. “Our veterans have waited long enough for the facility they were promised and have earned. And, workers at the site need certainty that construction won’t be halted. The visit and field hearing will help us hold the VA accountable, impress upon the committee the urgent need to finish construction, and build support in Congress for approval of the steps necessary to do so.” “I’m pleased that the Senate Veterans Affairs Committee is recognizing the seriousness of the issues facing the Eastern Colorado Health Care System Replacement Facility (Denver Replacement Facility),” Gardner said. “Our veterans deserve the absolute best care that we can provide, and it’s critically important that the Senators with oversight of the VA come to Colorado to see how veterans are being harmed by the terrible mismanagement of this project. From there, we can all work towards a solution that provides every resource needed by the men and women who have served our country so bravely.” “Of all of the issues and challenges facing the VA, the mess at the Aurora facility has stood out, and I am glad that the Colorado Congressional delegation’s joint efforts are getting the attention we seek,” DeGette said. “This hearing will shine an additional spotlight on what has gone wrong, and we must continue to work together so that everyone understands the full scope of this problem and buys into the best solution to fix it.” “I appreciate the decision by the SVAC and thank you to all of my colleagues in the Colorado delegation for participating in this important effort,” Lamborn said. “This field hearing will be an important step toward ensuring that our brave veterans receive the care that they have earned.” “I’m pleased the Senate Veterans’ Affairs Committee is moving forward with a site visit to the Aurora VA hospital,” said Rep. Perlmutter. “This is an important step to fully fund and complete the project as quickly and efficiently as possible to serve the veterans across the Rocky Mountain region.” “I am glad the Senate is finally taking action on this critical issue,” said Rep. Mike Coffman, a Marine Corps combat veteran and Chairman of the House Veterans Affairs Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations. “Our veterans deserve a 21st century hospital and our taxpayers deserve a VA that is better stewards of their hard earned tax dollars. We need action on this hospital and I am encouraged to see more involvement from the Senate.” “Our veterans in Colorado have waited far too long as the VA has worked through bureaucratic issues and construction disputes over the past several years,” said Rep. Jared Polis. “This Senate Veterans Affairs Committee field hearing and site visit will shine a light on the need to complete this project promptly so that the Coloradans who put their lives on the line for us have access to the facilities and care they deserve.” “With delays, significant cost overruns, and mismanagement par for the course on this project, if ever there was a need for a Congressional oversight hearing, this is it. Veterans deserve better than the continued issues plaguing the Denver Replacement Facility,” said Tipton. “I look forward to working with my Colorado colleagues, Chairman Isakson and Ranking Member Blumenthal to get construction on track and advance further needed reforms to prevent similar problems from happening in the future with VA construction programs.” “The problems plaguing the construction of the Denver Replacement Facility merit congressional oversight. Projects of this kind should be completed in a timely and fiscally responsible manner,” said Congressman Buck. “I’m glad Sens. Bennet and Gardner have taken a proactive role in ensuring the mismanagement of the project is addressed moving forward.” # # #
03.11.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette issued the following statement after reports detailed a letter sent by 47 Republican U.S. Senators that attempts to undercut ongoing nuclear talks: “America's power and moral authority in the world have long been enhanced by the fact that, for all of our country’s diversity and individuality, our government has always spoken to the world with one voice. 47 Republican members of the Senate have chosen to undermine that hard-earned credibility and jeopardize highly sensitive negotiations the United States is leading alongside some of our most important allies. Their actions are deeply irresponsible and deserve complete and universal condemnation if we want to continue to stand as the world's diplomatic leader and achieve our national security interests in the ongoing nuclear talks.” ###
03.03.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-01) issued the following statement after the House passed a bill to fund the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) through the remainder of the fiscal year: “Finally, Republican leaders recognized what has been clear for weeks: whatever their disagreements with President Obama and his actions to address our broken immigration system, Congress must provide the necessary resources to protect our homeland from attacks and be prepared to respond to natural disasters. While we should have taken this action weeks ago, I am pleased to see this get done at last.” ###
03.03.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette issued the following statement after Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu addressed the U.S. Congress: “Prime Minister Netanyahu voiced well-known concerns about the Iranian nuclear program, and his comments on a potential negotiated deal to curtail that program deserve scrutiny. I will be looking to ensure the pending deal prevents nuclear proliferation, curtails regional tensions, and protects the Israeli state and people. “As a longtime supporter of Israel and its special relationship with the United States, I am disappointed that the planning and timing of this speech have created a political storm and have obscured the greater issues at play. We should have serious discussions and pointed, respectful debate about the best way to achieve our national interests and further the American-Israeli relationship.” Rep. DeGette did not attend Prime Minister Netanyahu’s address due to a longstanding scheduling conflict. ###
02.27.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-01) issued the following statement after voting against H.J.Res. 35, which would continue to jeopardize long-term funding for the Department of Homeland Security: “For weeks, Washington has been consumed by a crisis of its own making. Instead of doing the responsible thing, House Republican leaders refuse to consider a clean funding plan for the Department of Homeland Security and continue with this invented political logjam. In the meantime, dedicated public safety workers don’t know whether their next paycheck will come, and important grants for Colorado first responders remain frozen. It is well past time for Republican leaders to do the responsible thing and fund the Department of Homeland Security for the rest of the year. "This situation is only made worse by the fact that it all stems from right-wing outrage over the President's temporary, partial plan to address our broken immigration system. We should address our immigration issues in a comprehensive way and fund the department charged with keeping America safe.” ###
02.26.2015	WASHINGTON – Today, U.S. House Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-01) commended the Federal Communications Committee (FCC) vote to approve regulation that will reinstate legal protections to keep internet content open. “It is vital that all Americans have access to a free and open Internet that continues to drive economic growth and the free exchange of ideas,” said Rep. DeGette. “For the last thirteen months, we have lacked legal protections to maintain this freedom, and I am glad this step was taken to restore a regulatory framework. I will continue working with my committee colleagues and the FCC on a bipartisan basis to maintain a vibrant, free, and open Internet..” Rep. DeGette serves on the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Communications and Technology, which oversees the FCC as well as other agencies tasked with regulating telecommunications and issues related to cyberspace. On Wednesday of this week, the Subcommittee held a hearing on the need for FCC action to reinstate an enforceable regulatory framework to ensure the Internet remains free and open. Today’s FCC ruling came after the U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit struck down the previous regulatory framework last January. Today’s FCC order ends a thirteen month period in which there was no enforceable framework. ###
02.25.2015	WASHINGTON, DC —Today, Representatives Diana DeGette (CO-01), Ed Perlmutter (CO-07), and Jared Polis (CO-02) made the following statement calling for an immediate vote in the House on a clean bill to fund the Department of Homeland Security (DHS): “For months now we have heard Republican leaders promise there would be no DHS shutdown on their watch and that we cannot play games with our national security. Yet today we are a mere 48 hours away from the brink of a security crisis that has been manufactured by the Republican leadership’s inability to stand up to the extremists in their party. “The security of our nation is not a political pawn. The men and women who put their lives on the line every day to protect our skies, secure our borders, and fight terrorism should never have to worry about if or when they will get their next pay check. In Colorado, this GOP crisis is putting at risk more than $49 million in DHS funding which helps us prepare for, prevent, and recover from disasters, better equip our firefighters, and ensure our local law enforcement agencies are ready to stop threats of terrorism. In addition, we have nearly 2,500 direct DHS employees who will be impacted by this reckless shutdown. “These political games must stop, and they must stop immediately. Every House Democrat has cosponsored a clean DHS funding bill and we trust enough Republicans care about our national security to pass it.” ###
02.20.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-01) published a BuzzFeed community post today to celebrate the designation of Browns Canyon as a National Monument. Browns Canyon in Chaffee County, Colorado is Colorado’s eighth National Monument. “The designation of Browns Canyon as a National Monument ensures this beautiful and unique place will be protected for generations to come,” said Rep. DeGette. “I have worked for years to protect Browns Canyon, and this designation would not have been possible without the tireless efforts of a broad coalition of dedicated conservationists, sportsmen and women, lawmakers, and – most importantly – members of the community.” Browns Canyon National Monument will include approximately 21,000 acres of land around the upper Arkansas River that are renowned destinations for fishing, rafting, white-water kayaking, and hiking. Rep. DeGette has been working with local stakeholders to protect Browns Canyon since she first introduced the Colorado Wilderness Act in 1999. To see the post in its entirety, click either the following link or the screenshot of the post:10 Reasons President Obama Declaring Browns Canyon a National Monument is a Big Deal ###
02.18.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-01) issued the following statement after the announcement that President Obama will use the Antiquities Act to name Browns Canyon a new National Monument. Rep. DeGette has worked with local partners since 1999 who asked for her assistance to protect the area. She introduced legislation that would protect Browns Canyon as a wilderness area as part of her Colorado Wilderness Act: “I am so pleased to see that the President recognizes the special qualities of Browns Canyon and the need to preserve this extraordinary area. He heard loud and clear the voices of the local community calling for protection. That is also why so many of us have included Browns Canyon in legislation to offer a permanent response. It has been a part of my bill, the Colorado Wilderness Act, since I first introduced it in 1999. I’m also pleased to hear that existing uses such as water rights and grazing will be protected and will continue as before the designation. The local economy will benefit, recreationists will benefit and wildlife will benefit.” ###
02.12.2015	WASHINGTON — On Thursday, Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee Ranking Member Diana DeGette (CO-01) joined Health Subcommittee Ranking Member Gene Green (TX-29) and Ranking Member Frank Pallone, Jr. (NJ-06) along with every democratic member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee to introduce the CHIP Extension and Improvement Act of 2015. The legislation would extend funding for the Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP) for four years to protect coverage for millions of children and families, and strengthen the program by providing states with secure funding and new tools to improve enrollment and retention. “It is vital that we act quickly to ensure access to health care for millions of low-income kids nationwide. This is a critical program that provides everything from routine check-ups to X-ray services for tens of thousands of children and pregnant mothers here in Colorado,” said DeGette. “I am proud to have been a longtime champion of this program and I look forward to working with my colleagues to pass this bill. Together, we can move closer to the day that no child in this country will be forced to go without health care.” “With CHIP funding set to end on September 30, 2015, Congress must act without delay to stabilize and protect this essential program,” Green said. “CHIP is absolutely critical to meeting the health needs of millions of our nation’s children and families. Currently, over eight million children are covered through this program and nearly 600,000 in Texas. I’m proud to stand with my colleagues on the Energy and Commerce Committee to introduce this legislation, and I’m hopeful that members can once again come together to ensure that States are able to continue operating their programs.” In addition to providing funding for CHIP through 2019, the CHIP Extension and Improvement Act of 2015 makes a number of program improvements to reduce bureaucracy and increase state flexibility. The legislation maintains the 23 percent “bump” increasing states’ matching rates and the maintenance-of-effort provision so that states do not change Medicaid and CHIP eligibility standards. Among other improvements, the legislation provides states with a permanent option to use “Express Lane Eligibility,” which reduces administrative burdens for both states and beneficiaries. “CHIP provides children across the country the high-quality and affordable healthcare services they need in order to grow up to be healthy adults. Since 1997, it has proven vital for millions of American children and their families,” said Congressman Pallone. “Congress must continue funding for this essential program, so that no child loses this coverage. This legislation sends a strong message from Democrats on Energy and Commerce that we must provide states with the certainty of four more years of funding in CHIP, and I intend to work vigorously with all of my colleagues in both the House and the Senate to get this done without delay.” A Senate companion bill was also introduced Thursday by Senators Sherrod Brown (D-OH), Debbie Stabenow (D-MI), Ron Wyden (D-OR), and Bob Casey (D-PA). The bill, entitled the Protecting & Retaining Our Children’s Health Insurance Program Act of 2015 (PRO-CHIP), would also extend CHIP funding through 2019. Since it was enacted in the Balanced Budget Act of 1997, CHIP has been successful in cutting the uninsured rate of children in half. CHIP remains an essential program for ensuring that coverage for children is affordable and accessible and provides age-appropriate benefits that children need. ###
02.06.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Oversight & Investigations Subcommittee Ranking Member Diana DeGette, Energy and Commerce Committee Ranking Member Frank Pallone Jr., and Commerce Manufacturing & Trade Subcommittee Ranking Member Jan Schakowsky sent a letter to Chairmen Fred Upton, Michael Burgess, and Tim Murphy requesting hearings on the rise in subprime auto loans to low-income consumers. Over the past five years, the dollar value of new subprime loans has doubled. Those loans are offered at very high interest rates to low-income borrowers, some of whom have no source of income and are at almost immediate risk of delinquency and default. The securitization of those loans – repackaging them into bonds that are bought and sold by everyone from individual investors to pension funds to insurance companies – spreads the risk of those bad lending practices from individual borrowers to the entire economy. This rise in subprime loans is frighteningly similar to the rise in subprime mortgages that preceded the housing collapse in 2008. Unlike real estate, auto lenders are utilizing new technologies to pressure delinquent borrowers and to repossess their cars. Increasingly, starter interrupt devices – which allow lenders to use GPS to track a vehicle’s whereabouts and disable a vehicle remotely – have been used in association with subprime loans. GPS technology in these devices has allowed lenders to follow the movements of subprime borrowers. Ignitions have been turned off at stoplights, gas stations, and even on highways. Those activities present serious privacy and safety concerns. The members urged a prompt hearing at the Energy and Commerce Committee, which they argue is well-suited to address this growing issue. “With jurisdiction over the relevant agencies, including the Federal Trade Commission, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, and the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration,” the members wrote, “we can ensure that action is taken to protect the public from unscrupulous vehicle financing practices. In addition, we can ensure the safety of the driving public and others that share our roads is appropriately considered.” The full text of the letter click here or see below. February 5, 2015 The Honorable Fred Upton Chairman Committee on Energy and Commerce 2125 Rayburn House Office Building Washington, D.C. 20515 The Honorable Michael C. Burgess Chairman Subcommittee on Commerce, Manufacturing, and Trade 2125 Rayburn House Office Building Washington, D.C. 20515 The Honorable Tim Murphy Chairman Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations 2125 Rayburn House Office Building Washington, D.C. 20515 Dear Chairman Upton, Chairman Burgess, and Chairman Murphy: We are writing to request that the Energy and Commerce Committee hold hearings to examine the rise in the issuance of subprime auto loans to low-income consumers. These hearings should focus on whether subprime auto lenders are creating loan terms that deceptively, unfairly, or abusively exploit Americans who cannot afford, and may not even fully comprehend the terms of, such loans. In addition, we should examine increasingly common requirements that purchasers’ cars be outfitted with starter interrupt devices, which allow lenders to remotely disable ignitions. A Committee hearing would give members a better understanding of these developments and an opportunity to assess the need for appropriate legislation. Subprime loans are defined as those loans issued to borrowers that have credit scores at or below 620-640, out of a maximum of 850. These loans can be issued for amounts that are twice the value of the cars purchased, with a total cost – including interest rates – that can more than triple the true value. Today, 25 percent of new auto loans are considered subprime, up from 15 percent in 2009. In the second quarter of 2014, lenders issued $20.6 billion worth of subprime auto loans, which is a doubling of subprime loan volume since the same quarter in 2010. While it is vitally important that people who need a car are able to acquire a loan, interest rates charged on many subprime auto loans could be considered usurious – in some cases, annual rates exceed 29 percent. Those rates – and the inability of some borrowers to repay their loans – have put more and more drivers at risk of defaulting on their loans and losing their cars to repossession. There was an increase in delinquencies within 60 days of loan issuance of more than eight percent from the third quarter of 2013 to the third quarter of 2014. First, the Committee should explore investor demand in subprime auto loan securities. The packaging of subprime auto loans into securities has increased significantly in recent years – rising more than 300 percent since 2010. Those securitizations – in which lenders pool thousands of these loans into bonds that are sold to mutual funds, pension funds, hedge funds, and insurance companies – could threaten every area of our economy, much like the mortgage-backed securities that led to the Great Recession. To keep up with investor demand, lenders are extending their reach to more credit-challenged borrowers. This leads to some lenders lengthening the duration of their loans. Stretching out the repayment period of loans increases the total cost to consumers. Twenty-five percent of new car loans in the months of October and November 2014 were 73 to 84 months-long, and 40 percent of new car loans were between 61 and 72 months-long. Second, we should examine why borrowers are getting loans they cannot afford. An investigative report in the New York Times detailed how some auto dealers are fueling the crisis by falsifying loan applications with inaccurate income or employment information. Auto dealers who falsify documents make considerable profits on the sale of vehicles, but bad actors don’t stop there. The difference between the interest rate the lender is charging and the rate the consumer ends up paying is pure profit to the auto dealer. Third, we should scrutinize the increase in lenders using cars as collateral. We are seeing an increase in “title loan” storefronts in disadvantaged and underbanked communities. These title loans often have interest rates from 80 percent to over 500 percent, and are not issued based on a borrower’s ability to repay. The results have been devastating, with repossessions on one in six title loans. The rise in subprime auto loans has coincided with a similar increase in repossessions. In the first quarter of 2014, repossessions increased 78 percent from the first quarter of 2013. After repossession, consumers are left with car debt but without access to the transportation they need to get to work to earn the money needed to repay their debt. This vicious debt cycle can propel borrowers into bankruptcy. Fourth, we should go beyond the direct issue of auto lending practices and investigate the usage of starter interrupt devices by subprime lenders, which presents a serious privacy and safety concern. These devices – which allow lenders to use GPS to track a vehicle’s whereabouts and disable a vehicle remotely – are now installed in an estimated one in four vehicles that are subject to subprime loans. Lenders are using this technology to locate and quickly repossess cars or alternatively, shut the cars down, which has been termed “electronic repossession.” Consumers have not been just stranded at home, they have reported being left without transportation at work or at a gas station. Even more troubling, the potential of these devices to disable vehicles while they are operating presents a serious safety issue for everyone on our roads. Consumers have explained that their cars were turned off while idling at stoplights, in dangerous neighborhoods, and even while driving on the highway. Some borrowers also have been “geo-fenced,” alerting lenders whenever the borrowers are not traveling within their normal routine to and from work. One consumer reported being tracked to a domestic violence shelter. All Americans are entitled a right to privacy, but borrowers with low credit scores are often left with an impossible choice: sacrifice their right to privacy or their access to a vehicle. The Energy and Commerce Committee is ideally situated to carry out such an examination. With jurisdiction over the relevant agencies, including the Federal Trade Commission, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, and the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, we can ensure that action is taken to protect the public from unscrupulous vehicle financing practices. In addition, we can ensure the safety of the driving public and others that share our roads is appropriately considered. Charging low-income borrowers burdensome – and perhaps ultimately unpayable – interest rates for vitally necessary goods must be stopped. Likewise, Americans of all economic backgrounds expect and deserve a right to privacy and safety in their car. While cars are essential to livelihood, consumers must be protected against these harmful practices. For these reasons, we respectfully ask that you schedule hearings on subprime auto lending as soon as reasonably possible. Sincerely, Diana DeGette Frank Pallone, Jr. Jan Schakowsky Ranking Member Ranking Member Ranking Member Subcommittee on Oversight Commerce and Investigations Manufacturing, and Trade
02.02.2015	WASHINGTON – Today, Energy and Commerce Committee Ranking Member Frank Pallone Jr., Health Subcommittee Ranking Member Gene Green, Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee Ranking Member Diana DeGette sent a letter to Chairmen Fred Upton, Joe Pitts, and Tim Murphy requesting a hearing on the current measles outbreak and the importance of vaccinations to prevent the spread of measles. This public health issue returned to public attention last year after an outbreak in Ohio, and a December outbreak that began at Disneyland has led to over 100 measles cases in 14 states and Mexico. The members wrote that in 2000, fourteen years prior to the current outbreak, “the U.S. was able to eliminate measles because of a highly effective vaccination program and a strong public health system,” and that measles’ resurgence can likely be traced to “several outbreaks in communities with groups of unvaccinated people.” They added that “for the 42 patients for whom vaccination status is known, 34 were unvaccinated and three received partial vaccinations.” The full text of the letter is available below and online here. February 2, 2015 The Honorable Fred Upton Chairman Committee on Energy and Commerce 2125 Rayburn House Office Building Washington, D.C. 20515 The Honorable Joe Pitts Chairman Subcommittee on Health Committee on Energy and Commerce 2125 Rayburn House Office Building Washington, D.C. 20515 The Honorable Tim Murphy Chairman Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations Committee on Energy and Commerce 2125 Rayburn House Office Building Washington, D.C. 20515 Dear Chairman Upton, Chairman Pitts, and Chairman Murphy: We are writing to urge you to hold a hearing on the current measles outbreak and the importance of vaccinations to prevent the further spread of measles. The California-centered outbreak, which began at Disneyland in December 2014, has now led to over 100 measles cases in 14 states.[1] Measles is an infectious disease that is prevalent in many parts of the world. Each year, approximately 20 million are infected worldwide and 122,000 people die due to the disease.[2] Measles is a highly transmissible viral disease. In the decade before the measles vaccine was introduced in the United States, more than three million individuals were infected each year.[3] It is estimated that 90% of people exposed to the disease will be infected unless they have been vaccinated. Since the introduction of the combination MMR (measles, mumps, and rubella) vaccine, there has been a 99% reduction in the number of measles cases, relative to the pre-vaccine era.[4] In 2000, measles was declared eliminated in the United States.[5] Public health experts determined that the U.S. was able to eliminate measles because of a highly effective vaccination program and a strong public health system to detect and respond to outbreaks. However, in 2008, the U.S. experienced several outbreaks in communities with groups of unvaccinated people. [6] And 2014 saw a record number of measles cases, with 644 cases in 27 states, the highest number in the United States since 2000. CDC experts attribute these recent outbreaks to (1) more measles cases than usual in countries Americans travel to, and (2) the spreading of measles in pockets of unvaccinated individuals in the United States. The current measles outbreak originated at Disneyland in Anaheim, California in December 2014.[7] The outbreak has spread beyond those who visited Disneyland and is infecting people in the broader community. The bulk of the cases are in California, where one in four patients have been hospitalized. There are also several confirmed cases in Arizona, and state public health officials have warned that the outbreak has reached “a critical point.”[8] For the 42 patients for whom vaccination status is known, 34 were unvaccinated and three received partial vaccinations.[9] Public health officials have emphasized that vaccination is the most important strategy to prevent measles.[10] They have also advised caution for children under the age of 1 who are too young to be vaccinated. We urge you to schedule a hearing on this urgent public health matter to prevent the spread of measles. Thank you for your consideration of this request. Sincerely, ### Frank Pallone, Jr. Gene Green Diana DeGette Ranking Member Ranking Member Ranking Member Subcommittee on Health Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations ###
01.30.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-01) commended President Obama as he announced a new Precision Medicine Initiative and offered the following statement: “Thanks to our world-class medical doctors and scientists, we have the potential to support researchers as they make discoveries in a lab and translate them into new medical treatments and cures for patients. It’s up to policymakers to support this effort and make sure that patients can get the best care possible. The commitment of President Obama and his administration is a tremendous boost to cutting-edge discoveries and cures. “I am committed to working with Congressman Fred Upton and our colleagues as we develop legislation to further strengthen and support new biomedical breakthroughs. With the shared commitment of a bipartisan coalition in Congress, the Obama Administration, and scientists and researchers across the country, we can help millions of people lead healthier lives.” ###
01.28.2015	WASHINGTON – Today marks the 8th Annual Data Privacy Day, which has served as a day for both businesses and consumers to come together in support of our vital right to information security on the internet. Reps. Diana DeGette (CO-01) and Joe Barton (TX-06), co-Chairs of the Congressional Bi-Partisan Privacy Caucus, issued the following joint statement: “We live in a digital age of smartphones, tablets, and social media. More than ever before, we are able to connect to our families and friends across the globe because of dramatic steps forward in technological innovation. As technology becomes a larger part of our personal and professional lives, we must ensure that everybody knows how to protect their personal information online. It is vital that consumers are informed about their rights to privacy online. It is also vital that businesses are held accountable for keeping consumers’ information safe. Digital innovation and preserving personal privacy can and should go hand in hand.” “As the co-Chairs of the Congressional Bi-Partisan Privacy Caucus, we look forward to working with our colleagues on both sides of the aisle, as well as our partners in the federal government and private industry. We all share an interest in improving privacy protections and will work to find a series of long term solutions.” Data Privacy Day commemorates the 1981 signing of Convention 108, the first legally binding international treaty dealing with privacy and data protection. Data Privacy Day is held on January 28th every year. ###
01.27.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-01) issued the following statement after House Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Fred Upton released potential proposals that have been submitted for inclusion in the 21st Century Cures initiative, which Chairman Upton and Rep. DeGette have been leading: “From the beginning of the 21st Century Cures initiative, Chairman Upton and I have paid special attention to public engagement, idea-sharing, and feedback. In that vein, I appreciate his effort today to publicly share possible legislative language on a number of proposals that might be included in an eventual bill. As Chairman Upton and I begin to draft the bill itself, we look forward to receiving feedback on the issues identified in his draft document and other suggestions. While I don’t endorse the draft document, I know that with continued engagement, we can reach a bipartisan consensus to help advance biomedical research and cures.” ###
01.26.2015	WASHINGTON, DC — Today, U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-01) joined U.S. Reps. Elizabeth Esty (CT-05), Rosa DeLauro (CT-03), Raul Ruiz (CA-36), and Cheri Bustos (IL-17) to introduce the Protecting Children from Electronic Cigarette Advertising Act, H.R. 478, which would prohibit advertising and marketing of e-cigarettes to children. While e-cigarettes remain largely unregulated on the federal level, over 1.8 million middle and high school students nationwide have tried e-cigarettes. Over 75% of them have also smoked traditional cigarettes. Between 2011 and 2013, the percentage of middle and high school students who have tried e-cigarettes more than tripled. “We have seen clear examples of e-cigarette companies copying the marketing tactics that tobacco companies used to devastating success,” said Congresswoman DeGette (CO-01). “No nicotine product should be in the hands of kids, and by stopping e-cigarette marketing that reaches teens, we can keep young Americans from having to live with nicotine’s health consequences later in life.” “While the federal government continues to drag its feet, more and more of our children are getting hooked on nicotine. Alarmingly, one in four Connecticut high school students has tried e-cigarettes. Children and adolescents are not using e-cigarettes and vaporizers to quit smoking, but instead are using these devices to start smoking. That’s why I introduced the Protecting Children from Electronic Cigarette Advertising Act to prohibit the advertising and marketing of e-cigarettes to children. E-cigarette companies are using shameful tactics, such as using Joe Camel-like cartoons in advertisements and creating e-cigarette flavors like bubblegum and cotton candy, to addict our children early—and guarantee another generation of smokers. We have made too much progress reducing nicotine use to roll back the clock now,” said Congresswoman Esty (CT-05), who worked on smoking prevention and cessation as a lawyer, a state legislator, and a PTA volunteer in her children’s classrooms. “We must continue to fight the scourge of nicotine use among our nation’s youth, including e-cigarettes,” said Congresswoman DeLauro (CT-03), a member of the subcommittee responsible for funding the Food and Drug Administration. “Multiple reports, including from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, and Yale indicate that many more adolescents are seeking out these potentially dangerous nicotine delivery systems. Even worse, companies are aggressively targeting this market with candy-flavored products and celebrity endorsements. They are not healthy and fun; they are lethal, addictive, dangerous toxic nicotine delivery devices. Just one teaspoon of liquid nicotine can be lethal to a child. We should treat e-cigarettes like other tobacco products and stop companies from marketing them to children and teenagers. I am proud to join Congresswoman Esty in reintroducing this bill that would do just that.” "I have seen the destructive effects of nicotine addiction first hand working in the emergency room,” said Dr. Ruiz (CA-36). “It is unconscionable that tobacco companies are targeting our youth in an attempt to get them addicted at an early age. This bill is a firm step toward prohibiting the advertising of e-cigarettes to children and stopping tobacco companies from creating a new generation of smokers." “As a mother of three, the health and well-being of our nation’s children is always top of mind,” said Congresswoman Bustos (IL-17). “That’s why I’ve joined with my colleagues to lead a renewed effort to prevent e-cigarettes from getting into kids’ hands. Though e-cigarettes don’t share all of the qualities of tobacco cigarettes, companies shouldn’t be allowed to market them to young people. Our bill will help snuff out these deplorable advertising tactics before a new generation becomes hooked on nicotine.” Full text of the Protecting Children from Electronic Cigarette Advertising Act can be viewed here. ###
01.23.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-01) led her Democratic colleagues in standing against the latest Republican attack on women’s health care. The No Taxpayer Funding for Abortion and Abortion Insurance Full Disclosure Act of 2015 was hastily pushed to the House floor by Republican leadership and will make it more difficult and more expensive for women to receive comprehensive health care coverage. “This bill would vastly expand the current restrictions on a woman’s right to get her own health care through her insurance that she, her family, and her doctor think they need with her own private money,” said Rep. DeGette. “Under H.R. 7, people who buy their insurance through exchanges and their employers would not be able to spend their own private dollars buying insurance that they need for themselves and their families. This would be a terrible wedge between parents and their doctors.” In addition to restricting access to vital reproductive health care for women across this country, H.R. 7 would raise taxes on small businesses whose comprehensive coverage includes abortion coverage for their employees. Given that roughly 87 percent of private health insurance plans include coverage for abortion services, passage of this bill would levy a tax hike a on a large swath of American families and small businesses. “The vast majority of Americans think that a woman’s private health care decisions should be made between herself, her family, and her doctor,” added Rep. DeGette. “Why aren’t we spending our time this week talking about how the women of America can get better paychecks? Why aren’t we spending our time this week talking about how the women and men of America can get tax credits so that the children that they do have can get quality childcare. Why aren’t we spending our time this week talking about how women and men should be able to get paid the same amount for doing the same job. That’s what I think this Congress should be doing, not passing these bills which are false statements about a woman’s private decisions about her health care.” ###
01.22.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, on the 42nd anniversary of the Supreme Court decision in Roe v. Wade, Representatives Diana DeGette (D-CO) and Louise Slaughter (D-NY), Co-Chairs of the House Pro-Choice Caucus, and U.S. Senators Barbara Boxer (D-CA) and Patty Murray (D-WA), the Ranking Member of the Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions Committee, introduced a bicameral resolution in support of women’s reproductive health and standing up for a woman’s ability to make health care decisions for herself and her family. “A woman’s right to make her own health care decisions is fundamental, yet that right is under constant attack from Republican Congressional leaders and their political allies. We must stand for this fundamental right, stand up to baseless attacks on the right to choose, and stand by America’s women,” said Representative DeGette. “If you had told me that 42 years after Roe v. Wade, we would still be debating whether women should have access to contraception and abortion services, I wouldn’t have believed it. I thought we had turned that corner,” Representative Slaughter said. “When the court made their ruling in Roe v. Wade, what it really did was give women control over their own lives. It gave them the ability to make their own health care decisions without some politician in a blue suit and a red tie interfering. Before then, women’s educations, livelihoods, and even their lives were out of their control because of a lack of access to family planning. I remember when it was nearly impossible for women to attend college or have a job if they were pregnant, and had to seek out back-alley abortions in dire circumstances. Women in America don’t want to go back to those dark ages.” “We are not going to let Republicans turn back the clock and we are not going to let them endanger the health and lives of America’s women – we are going to stand up and fight back,” said Senator Boxer. “It’s disappointing that after telling workers and families they would work across the aisle and focus on jobs and the economy, Republicans are instead introducing bill after bill attacking a woman’s constitutional right to make her own decisions about her own health care,” Senator Murray said. “But we’ve got a message for them: Not on our watch.” Thirty-two Senators joined Boxer and Murray in introducing the resolution: Senators Tammy Baldwin (D-WI), Richard Blumenthal (D-CT), Cory Booker (D-NJ), Sherrod Brown (D-OH), Maria Cantwell (D-WA), Ben Cardin (D-MD), Chris Coons (D-DE), Dick Durbin (D-IL), Dianne Feinstein (D-CA), Al Franken (D-MN), Kirsten Gillibrand (D-NY), Martin Heinrich (D-NM), Mazie Hirono (D-HI), Tim Kaine (D-VA), Angus King (I-ME), Amy Klobuchar (D-MN), Ed Markey (D-MA), Claire McCaskill (D-MO), Bob Menendez (D-NJ), Barbara Mikulski (D-MD), Chris Murphy (D-CT), Gary Peters (D-MI), Bernie Sanders (I-VT), Brian Schatz (D-HI), Chuck Schumer (D-NY), Jeanne Shaheen (D-NH), Debbie Stabenow (D-MI), Jon Tester (D-MT), Tom Udall (D-NM), Elizabeth Warren (D-MA), Sheldon Whitehouse (D-RI), and Ron Wyden (D-OR). The full text of the resolution is below:Whereas access to comprehensive reproductive health care is critical to improving the health and well-being of women and their families and is an essential part of their economic security; Whereas access to affordable contraceptives, including emergency contraceptives, and medically accurate information prevents unintended pregnancies, thereby improving the health of women, children, families, and society as a whole; Whereas Roe v. Wade, 410 U.S. 113 (1973), was decided 42 years ago and clarifies that women have a constitutional right to plan their families and futures; Whereas private reproductive health care decisions should be decided by women and their health care providers; Whereas the requirement under the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (Public Law 111–148) that all insurance plans cover contraception without cost sharing has saved women at least $483,000,000, and more than 30,000,000 women are eligible for this benefit; Whereas research suggests that increasing the rate of contraceptive use may be associated with the decline in teen pregnancy by 50 percent since 1990; Whereas elected officials in many States and Congress have attempted to block or curtail women’s access to medical care and information in order to fulfill a political agenda, and they have often succeeded in such attempts; Whereas there have been numerous attempts, both legal and legislative, to allow insurance companies and employers to deny women coverage for all contraceptive methods approved by the Food and Drug Administration, even though the law requires such coverage, and such methods are based on a foundation of scientific evidence; Whereas since the enactment of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, States have enacted hundreds of laws restricting access to women’s reproductive health care and 24 States have enacted laws that reduce abortion coverage in plans that are offered through the Exchanges established under the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act; and Whereas 24 States have laws or policies that interfere with women’s health care providers in a way that undermines, instead of strengthens, patient safety: Now, therefore, be it Resolved, That the Senate supports efforts to— (1) ensure that all women have access to the best available, scientifically-based health care and information; (2) ensure that women can make their own private health care decisions with access to comprehensive, unbiased information and confidentiality; (3) ensure that women and families, not their employers, make their own decisions about their health care; (4) prohibit employers or government entities from interfering with or denying reproductive health care services guaranteed by law, including access to contraception without cost; (5) promote preventive health care services and wellness for women; (6) guarantee the constitutionally protected right to safe, legal abortion services; (7) ensure that women have access to health care that fosters safe childbearing, with resources available to reduce maternal and infant morbidity and mortality; (8) ensure that all women have access to comprehensive, affordable insurance coverage that includes pregnancy-related care, such as prenatal care, miscarriage management, family planning services, abortions, labor and delivery services, and postnatal care; and (9) enact legislation that improves and expands women’s access to reproductive health care regardless of the State. ###
01.21.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-01) praised President Obama’s continued focus on expanding America’s economic growth to include middle class families and those working to get there, and she offered the following statement: “While America’s economy is transitioning from recovery to sustained growth, our top priority must be to ensure that middle class families in Colorado and across the country share in that growth. No single policy will make this happen, but if we make it a top goal that informs all of our efforts, we can make substantial progress so that working Americans reap the benefit of their efforts. “I am particularly pleased that the Obama Administration is working to unlock the potential of biomedical research breakthroughs. This topic is a focus of mine, and I look forward to working with everyone interested in finding new discoveries, improving people’s health, and saving lives.”
01.16.2015	WASHINGTON – Today, Congresswomen Diana DeGette (D-CO) and Louise M. Slaughter (D-NY), co-chairs of the House Pro-Choice Caucus, criticized House GOP leaders for trying to include language in their 20-week abortion ban bill that hearkens to previous statements made by GOP lawmakers about 'legitimate rape.’ As currently written, the legislation set to come to the floor next week contains an exception for rape and incest, but only if the incident is reported to law enforcement. According to the Rape, Abuse, and Incest National Network (RAINN), 68 percent of sexual assaults over the last five years went unreported. According to recent reports in Politico and National Journal, women in the GOP conference are rebelling against GOP leadership over the offensive language. Representatives DeGette and Slaughter also expressed dismay that House Republicans are choosing to spend the third week of the Congressional session on attacking women’s health, and said that pushing the controversial bill so early in the term sent a clear signal to women across the country about the Republicans’ real priorities for the next two years. “Forcing women to go on-the-record about such a traumatic experience as a prerequisite to getting help is unconscionable, and adds to the pain of women who are survivors of rape or incest,” the Representatives said. “Families across this country don’t want politicians inserting themselves into these extremely personal decisions, much less defining whether a rape or case of incest was legitimate or not. Every national poll shows that voters want government to help create jobs and improve the economy – let’s focus on that for a change and stay out of people’s private personal decisions.” Ironically, House Republicans are planning on bringing up the bill on the anniversary of Roe v. Wade, which granted a constitutional right to privacy.
01.15.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-01) criticized the House Republican leadership plan to withhold funding for the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) unless it included policy riders attacking the Obama Administration’s plan to address our broken immigration system and our current undocumented population. “The Republican leadership proposal irresponsibly ties funding for our nation’s safety and security to a political disagreement with the President,” said Rep. DeGette. “If they get their way, hundreds of thousands of young DREAMers who were brought here as young children and have demonstrated their commitment to contributing to our society will be deported. Families will be split apart, children will lose their parents, and our immigration authorities will be forced to divert precious resources away from deporting felons and threats to national security.” The Republican plan defunds the President’s Deferred Action for Parental Accountability (DAPA) and dismantles the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrival (DACA) program. Additionally, the plan would prevent efforts to promote border security and public safety by blocking all parts of the President’s plan other than the pay raise for Immigrations and Customs Enforcement officers. “It is highly troubling that leadership thinks this is smart policy or acceptable behavior,” said Rep. DeGette. “They are not only playing politics, they are playing with people’s lives and the futures of their families. I will continue to stand with my colleagues and protect the millions of families that would be ripped apart by this bill. I look forward to voting on a DHS funding bill that is clean of Republican political games.” ###
01.12.2015	WASHINGTON – Today, U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-01) won the unanimous support of her Democratic colleagues to continue serving as the Ranking Democrat on the House Energy and Commerce Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee. The subcommittee has the responsibility to oversee all agencies and programs within the full Energy and Commerce Committee’s broad jurisdiction. “I am honored to have the trust of my colleagues, and we have a basic responsibility to hold government and industry to the highest standard,” said Rep. DeGette. “We have conducted important, bipartisan investigations through the years that have gotten answers and delivered real changes for the American people. I look forward to continuing to work with O&I Chairman Tim Murphy and all of my colleagues in that tradition.” In addition to serving as Ranking Member of Oversight and Investigations, Rep. DeGette will continue to serve on the Subcommittee on Communications and Technology, which oversees the Federal Communications Commission and America’s policies affecting the technology sector, and the Subcommittee on Environment and the Economy, which oversees the country’s major environmental laws.
12.11.2014	U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-01) offered the following statement opposing the omnibus appropriations legislation that includes numerous policy provisions that are unrelated to the need to fund government operations through next September: “The American public is sick of back-room deals made in order to perform Congress’s most fundamental job: keeping the government open and operating. I cannot support an omnibus appropriations bill that includes policy riders rolling back reforms to the banking system and allowing a ten-fold increase in campaign donations to political parties. Special treatment for the wealthy and influential should not be the price of avoiding a shutdown. The American people deserve better, and time is quickly running out for this Congress to deliver.”
12.11.2014	U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-01) offered the following statement following her vote opposing H.R. 5806: “I have long supported tax incentives for charitable giving. H.R. 5806 includes several provisions that make it easier for individuals and businesses to give to charities of their choosing, and I have supported these in the past. Charitable organizations and those who give to them deserve the certainty of permanent tax provisions instead of short-term extensions, which are particularly ineffective when passed retroactively. “Unfortunately, the House Republican leadership is using a double standard on budget matters by voting on tax measures that increase the deficit but refusing to consider funding for unemployment insurance and other important programs unless the costs are fully offset. This is a dangerous precedent that could open the door to adding $500 billion to the national debt if all tax extenders are made permanent. “I hope we will have the opportunity in the next Congress to vote on balanced tax reform legislation that simplifies the tax code and puts our government in a stronger fiscal position.”
12.08.2014	WASHINGTON – Today, Representatives Diana DeGette (D-CO) and Louise Slaughter (D-NY), co-Chairs of the House Pro-Choice Caucus, criticized an attempt to attack women’s health by attaching an ideological policy rider to a funding bill that must pass before December 11th to avoid a government shutdown. The rider would double down on the Supreme Court’s controversial Hobby Lobby decision by allowing corporations to exercise a “conscience clause” to deny certain types of health coverage mandated under the Affordable Care Act to their employees. In a letter to Speaker John Boehner, Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi, Appropriations Committee Chairman Hal Rogers and Ranking Member Nita Lowey, DeGette and Slaughter expressed their dismay that some Members would risk shutting down the entire federal government over an ideological objection to women’s health coverage. Read the letter below: Dear Speaker Boehner, Leader Pelosi, Chairman Rogers and Ranking Member Lowey, Recent news reports have indicated that several colleagues in the House of Representatives hope to use forthcoming appropriations legislation as a vehicle for language that would severely compromise women’s health. As co-chairs of the House Pro-Choice Caucus, we write to express our strong opposition to subverting the legislative process in order to promote ideological platforms. The legislative proposals that we understand have been discussed would effectively undo the preventive services benefits of the Affordable Care Act and allow a private right of action for any individual or corporation that feels it has experienced a violation of "conscience” as a result of providing any health care service to which they have an objection. This broad language goes far beyond other related proposals previously rejected in the Senate and would severely restrict access to necessary health care services, especially for women. This kind of political maneuvering – using must-pass legislation to accomplish a “wish list” of one faction of Congress and risking a government shutdown - is precisely the kind of behavior the American people detest. We urge you in the strongest possible terms to keep any appropriations legislation considered before the close of the 113th Congress free from ideological policy riders. Sincerely, Louise M. Slaughter Member of Congress Diana DeGette Member of Congress
11.26.2014	WASHINGTON – Today, U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-01) urged President Obama to consider designating Browns Canyon as a National Monument and closely examine community support for protecting the area. Rep. DeGette expressed her support in a letter to the President as the 113th Congress draws to a close. “Browns Canyon has been a top priority for protection in Colorado for decades, and a National Monument designation would receive broad local support, offer permanent environmental benefits, and help the local economy,” DeGette wrote in the letter. She added that Browns Canyon “stands out for its unique geologic features, its important wildlife habitats, and the broad recognition that this area is best served by maintaining its pristine condition.” Rep. DeGette has been the primary sponsor of the Colorado Wilderness Act since 1999. In that time, she has worked with partners across Colorado to identify suitable areas for wilderness designation and build necessary support from local communities for such a change. Browns Canyon has always been a part of Colorado Wilderness Act proposals and has stood out with its strong local support. With her letter to President Obama, Rep. DeGette joined Colorado Senators Michael Bennet and Mark Udall, who have both urged President Obama to use his authority under the Antiquities Act to designate Browns Canyon as a National Monument. Full text of Rep. DeGette’s letter to the president is available below: November 26, 2014 President Barack Obama The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, D.C. 20500 Dear Mr. President: I write to encourage your Administration to consider Browns Canyon, located in Chaffee County, Colorado, for designation as a National Monument by your authority under the Antiquities Act of 1906. Browns Canyon has been a top priority for protection in Colorado for decades, and a National Monument designation would receive broad local support, offer permanent environmental benefits, and help the local economy. Over the past 15 years, I have worked to pass the Colorado Wilderness Act with partners from across the state, and one of my highest priority areas for wilderness designation in that legislation has been Browns Canyon. This area stands out for its unique geologic features, its important wildlife habitats, and the broad recognition that this area is best served by maintaining its pristine condition. Surrounding communities have benefitted tremendously from the fishing and rafting activities nearby on the Upper Arkansas River, and the unique topography in Browns Canyon offers challenging hiking and stunning views. As you may know, both of Colorado’s Senators support National Monument designation for Browns Canyon and have developed legislation to do so. Like Senators Udall and Bennet, I remain committed to legislative action to protect wild areas across Colorado, but the time has come for your administration to hear from Chaffee County stakeholders and consider a National Monument designation. In the short and medium term, Congress will most likely fail to act legislatively, but citizens in the nearby area and across Colorado cannot wait. A National Monument designation will provide environmental and economic certainty and security that Colorado needs. I have heard many different opinions as I have traveled the state to build support for new Colorado wilderness areas, but those opinions are often rooted in a set of shared statewide values. Coloradoans want to preserve their history, their special quality of life, and their opportunities. I believe designation of Browns Canyon as a National Monument would do just that, and I look forward to working with the Administration and my colleagues in Congress to make this happen. Colorado’s beautiful lands are one of our state’s greatest resources. They not only provide clean air, clean water and critical wildlife habitat, they help drive tourism as our state’s number one economic engine. It is critically important we protect our remaining wild areas so that future generations have access to the same benefits we enjoy today. Sincerely, Diana DeGette Member of Congress ###
11.21.2014	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-01) offered the following statement after President Obama announced several Immigration Accountability Executive actions: “I am disappointed that the effort to finally reform our immigration system has come to the point where temporary measures dealing with a fraction of the problem carry so much weight. The President’s policy will have a real, but only temporary, effect for less than half of the current undocumented population. “As has been true for years, the way to deal with this problem on an enduring level is for Congress to act; the Senate passed a bill more than 500 days ago, but House Republican leaders persist in their refusal to bring any proposal to a vote. And for every hysterical reaction to tonight’s announcement coming from my colleagues, I would remind them that all it takes to supersede President Obama’s announced action is to pass legislation dealing with our immigration problems. The ball remains in the Republican leaders’ court.” ###
11.17.2014	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-01) issued the following statement after voting against H.R. 5682: “We shouldn’t let politics interfere with scientific review of major projects, but unfortunately, House Republican leadership did just that with today’s vote. The Keystone XL pipeline proposal is undergoing review at the State Department, and this environmental review should be allowed to proceed without Congress getting involved. We should respect the well-established process we have to make sure a project is in the best interest of the country.” ###
10.06.2014	U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette issued the following statement after the U.S. Supreme Court declined to review several cases where lower courts overturned bans on same-sex marriage: "Today marks another important step towards full equality: the Supreme Court declined to take up appeals from gay marriage opponents in five different states. This means that those five states – and others including Colorado – should soon overturn marriage bans. The Colorado Supreme Court should promptly accept this decision and let all loving couples choose to marry freely. And the day is soon coming that everyone in the nation will enjoy this basic right."
10.01.2014	WASHINGTON -- Today Energy and Commerce Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee Ranking Member Diana DeGette, Health Subcommittee Ranking Member Frank Pallone, Jr., and full Committee Ranking Member Henry A. Waxman sent a letter to Chairmen Fred Upton, Joe Pitts, and Tim Murphy outlining the key-short term and long-term questions that should be addressed in hearings on Ebola. Last month, these members urged Committee leaders to hold a hearing on the Ebola crisis. The members wrote that the emergence of the first case of Ebola diagnosed in the U.S. “should not be a cause for panic, “but “should serve as a wake-up call regarding the need to address the ongoing public health disaster in Africa and to ensure that the domestic public health system is adequately prepared for Ebola cases or for other emerging public health issues.” The full text of the letter is available below and online here. October 1, 2014 The Honorable Fred Upton Chairman Committee on Energy and Commerce 2125 Rayburn House Office Building Washington, D.C. 20515 The Honorable Joe Pitts Chairman Subcommittee on Health 2125 Rayburn House Office Building Washington, D.C. 20515 The Honorable Tim Murphy Chairman Subcommittee on Oversight & Investigations 2125 Rayburn House Office Building Washington, D.C. 20515 Dear Chairman Upton, Chairman Pitts, and Chairman Murphy: On September 4, 2014, we requested that the Committee hold a hearing on the Ebola outbreak. We were therefore glad to see your statement yesterday that the Committee will be holding hearings on Ebola in the coming weeks. We look forward to working with you in a bipartisan way on this important public health issue. Yesterday’s announcement about an Ebola case in the United States should not be cause for panic. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) and other federal and local public health officials appear to be taking all of the appropriate steps to stop the disease and prevent its spread in our country. Still, there are many questions about the case in Dallas, including how the patient contracted the disease, why the Dallas hospital initially discharged the patient, and what measures are being taken to trace the patient’s contacts. And the emergence of this case of Ebola should serve as a wake-up call regarding the need to address the ongoing public health disaster in Africa and to ensure that the domestic public health system is adequately prepared for Ebola cases or for other emerging public health issues. We should address these issues in a thorough but time-sensitive and appropriate way. Our investigation should also be focused to ensure that we are not unnecessarily diverting the time or resources of public health leaders at a critical time. We believe we should address key short-term questions about the response to the crisis, including: 1.Do CDC, USAID, other public health agencies, and U.S. military forces have adequate funding in place to address the immediate public health crisis in Liberia, Sierra Leone, and Guinea? How long will this funding last? 2.Are these agencies coordinating effectively with each other, with public health officials from affected countries, and with public health officials from other countries and non-governmental organizations providing assistance? What other factors may be slowing the pace of delivery of services in the affected countries, and what is needed to overcome these barriers? 3.Are CDC and other federal, state, and local officials adequately funded to address the costs – such as tracing, isolating, and diagnosing all potentially affected contacts – of the Dallas patient or any future potential patients with Ebola in the U.S.? 4.Are U.S. officials and officials in affecting countries adequately screening travelers to and from Africa to prevent importation of additional cases into the United States? Do Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) officials have needs for additional diagnostic or other tools to prevent individuals with Ebola from entering the U.S. undetected? 5.Are hospitals and health providers adequately informed of CDC guidelines for assessing and treating potential Ebola patients who seek care? Are they following these guidelines? Do they have the equipment and material to effectively isolate patients and handle Ebola-contaminated medical waste? We should also ensure that we are addressing important long-term questions so that we can learn the lessons from this case and improve the public health system’s response to the next outbreak or other public health emergency. These questions include: 1.How have stagnant or declining budgets for U.S. public health agencies affected their ability to respond in this crisis? What budgetary changes are needed to ensure that these agencies have the resources necessary to prevent, detect, and respond to global or domestic public health emergencies? 2.Are there long-term plans in place to assist in rebuilding the public health systems of affected African countries and to address the secondary economic and humanitarian costs of the outbreak in these countries? 3.Do the agencies involved in the development of treatments and vaccines for public health emergencies and biological threats – including the Biomedical Advanced Research and Development Authority (BARDA), the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases (NIAID), the Defense Threat Reduction Agency (DTRA), and the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) – have the funding necessary to accomplish their goals? Do these agencies have appropriate processes in place to establish priorities for high-risk diseases? Do they have the necessary statutory authority to respond to the need for vaccines and treatments during public health emergencies? 4.Are federal regulations and policies related to hospitals and other medical facility emergency preparedness adequate to respond in the event of future emergencies? Are such regulations appropriately communicated to facilities and vendors involved in responding to such crises? Are additional tools necessary to improve the capacity of health providers and to ensure that they are following proper guidelines for infectious and emerging diseases like Ebola? Our investigation and hearings should be aimed at understanding immediate needs and applying lessons learned to prevent future outbreaks from reaching the magnitude of the current epidemic. We look forward to working with you to meet these goals. Sincerely, Henry A. Waxman Frank Pallone, Jr. Diana DeGette Ranking Member Ranking Member Ranking Member Subcommittee on Health Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations ###
09.24.2014	WASHINGTON -- Today, U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-01) joined Reps. Waxman, Dingell, Pallone, and Sens. Harkin, Rockefeller, Durbin, and Blumenthal to release a new report that found that hundreds of tobacco advertisements and images glorifying smoking and e-cigarettes appear in magazines with large teen readerships. The report finds that “tobacco companies continue to glamorize smoking in advertisements in magazines with large youth readership” and that “magazines frequently contain alluring images of smokers in their editorial content.” The report identified hundreds of advertisements, photos, and other images – many featuring alluring images of celebrities – glamorizing smoking and e-cigarette use. These advertisements and images appeared most frequently in Entertainment Weekly, Rolling Stone, US Weekly, People, and Time. Along with the report, the members of Congress wrote to the magazine publishers urging them to act to help reduce teen tobacco use. The members wrote that “we hope you will reconsider your policies and voluntarily act to reduce cigarette, e-cigarette, and other tobacco product advertising and cut the number of editorial and news images of cigarette, e-cigarette, and other tobacco product in your policies. Eliminating them will help reduce teen smoking, which is a goal we should all share.” Rep. DeGette serves as the Ranking Member to the Energy and Commerce Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee. In addition, the report and letters were sent by Energy and Commerce Committee Ranking Member Henry A. Waxman; Rep. John D. Dingell; Health Subcommittee Ranking Member Frank Pallone, Jr.; Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee Chairman Tom Harkin; Commerce, Science and Transportation Committee Chairman John D. Rockefeller IV; Senate Majority Whip Dick Durbin; and Senator Richard Blumenthal. The full report is available online here. The letters to magazines are available here: Entertainment Weekly, Rolling Stone, US Weekly, People, and Time. A sample of the advertisements and images found in the magazines are available here: tobacco advertisements, e-cigarette advertisements, and magazine images. ###
09.18.2014	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-01) issued a statement supporting the House vote on the McKeon Amendment, which authorizes the Obama Administration to train and equip vetted Syrian opposition elements and requires frequent reporting on these activities. Rep. DeGette voted for the amendment, which passed 273 to 156. “President Obama asked Congress to authorize specific actions to support Syrian groups who are struggling against both ISIL and the Assad regime. It was appropriate for the President to ask for this authority, and I support his request because he has explained the scope of these activities and how they fit into our national security strategy in the region. “Several weeks ago, I had the chance to meet a key Syrian opposition leader. Based on information I received in that meeting and on U.S. military intelligence, I am convinced this effort can support our objective of weakening ISIL through a multinational strategy. The stringent reporting requirements in the authorization will ensure robust Congressional oversight.” ###
09.15.2014	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-01) offered the following statement after statistics released by General Motors show that at least 19 fatalities are connected to faulty ignition switches recalled by the company: “The jump in acknowledged fatalities connected to GM’s faulty ignition switches shows that we don’t yet know the human toll of their failure. I am especially disturbed that GM is now admitting to at least six more deaths, yet CEO Mary Barra clung to the company’s old disclosure of 13 during direct questioning from my colleagues and I at the Energy and Commerce Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee. People lost their lives because of GM’s incompetence and failures, and their families deserve more recognition than a line item in a claims report. Ms. Barra and GM have more questions to answer.” ###
09.11.2014	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-01) released the following statement commemorating the anniversary of the terrorist attacks on September 11, 2001: “While thirteen years have gone by, the United States still mourns the terrible attacks of September 11, 2001. Whether we knew those who died in the attacks as family, friends, or simply as fellow citizens and human beings, we continue to feel their loss. This anniversary reminds me, and I hope all of us, to look out for one another and work together to make our world a better place.” ###
09.10.2014	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-01), the Ranking Democrat on the Energy and Commerce Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee, asked Republican committee leaders to hold a public hearing to look into troubling incidents of domestic violence involving professional athletes and their handling by professional leagues. This issue has received renewed attention after disturbing new video surfaced of professional football player Ray Rice striking his then-fiancé. “The penalties imposed by professional sports leagues on players who commit such violence vary widely,” wrote Rep. DeGette in a letter to Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Fred Upton (MI-06) and Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee Chairman Tim Murphy (PA-18). “As the Committee with primary jurisdiction over professional sports, we could play an important role in standing up for victims of domestic violence by asking professional sports leagues to explain in a public hearing how they are acting to educate their players about violence against women, what they are doing to prevent them from engaging in such violence, and whether they are administering appropriate punishments for athletes who commit violence against women.” The full text of the letter is below and here: September 10, 2014 The Honorable Fred Upton Chairman Committee on Energy and Commerce 2125 Rayburn House Office Building Washington, D.C. 20515 The Honorable Tim Murphy Chairman Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations Committee on Energy and Commerce 2123 Rayburn House Office Building Washington, D.C. 20515 Dear Chairman Upton and Chairman Murphy: A video released earlier this week showing Baltimore Ravens player Ray Rice striking his fiancé and knocking her unconscious has ignited a public controversy about the prevalence of domestic violence by National Football League (NFL) players and the NFL’s response to this violence. In the wake of this recent incident, I am writing to ask that you hold a hearing to examine and investigate the problem of domestic violence by professional athletes. Mr. Rice’s case gained public attention earlier this year, when a February 2014 video was released showing him dragging his unconscious fiancé from an elevator.[1] The new video released on Monday shows the graphic and full footage from inside the elevator. In the video, Mr. Rice is seen striking his fiancé until she loses consciousness and collapses, and then dragging her out of the elevator and nudging her until she regains consciousness. When the first video was released, the NFL responded by issuing Mr. Rice a two game suspension and a $500,000 fine. Domestic violence victim advocacy groups criticized the NFL for a response they deemed too lenient, pointing to harsher penalties imposed on players for violations of NFL rules such as smoking marijuana.[2] After the latest video was released, the Baltimore Ravens organization immediately released a statement releasing Mr. Rice and NFL Commissioner Roger Goodell placed him under an indefinite suspension.[3] This swift action is commendable, but it also raises additional questions about the NFL’s initial investigation and response to the incident.[4] One report in July 2014 claimed that the league had access to tapes from inside the elevator at the time the initial suspension was imposed, but the league claims that while it requested the tape in the course of its investigation, it did not receive it and that Commissioner Goodell only saw the tape on Monday when it was released to the public.[5] The Associated Press reported earlier today that a law enforcement official provided the video to the NFL on April 9, 2014.[6] Unfortunately, this is not the only incident of domestic violence among players in the NFL. A USA Today database of NFL player arrests identified at least 33 separate incidents where NFL players on 22 NFL teams were charged with domestic violence or sexual assault in the past five years.[7] An analysis by the website fivethirtyeight.com found that “relative to the income level … and poverty rate … of NFL players, the domestic violence arrest rate is downright extraordinary.”[8] NFL players are not the only professional athletes that have been charged with domestic abuse. NBA players Royce White, DeAndre Liggins, Jared Sullinger, and Ty Lawson all faced domestic violence charges in 2013.[9] NHL player Semyon Varlamov was arrested on domestic violence charge, including second degree kidnapping and third degree assault, in October 2013.[10] Former MLB All-Star Andruw Jones was arrested on domestic violence charges in December 2012.[11] The penalties imposed by professional sports leagues on players who commit such violence vary widely. In August, the NFL revised their domestic violence policy and now imposes a six-game suspension without pay for a first offense and a lifetime ban for the second offense.[12] The NBA imposes a minimum 10-game suspension for a first felony conviction but has no specific rules for domestic violence.[13] The National Hockey League (NHL) and Major League Baseball (MLB) do not have any rules set in place for violent behavior by their players.[14] In 2006, MLB pitcher Brett Myers was allowed to start a game the day after he was observed by witnesses punching his wife on a downtown Boston street.[15] Professional athletes are role models, and when they abuse women – particularly when they are not held appropriately accountable for their behavior – it normalizes such violence and sends the wrong message to young men and women. Esta Soler, President and Founder of Futures Without Violence, stated, “It’s important that, like every workforce, every institution that has these problems [be it] the NFL [or] the NBA, grapples with the problem of violence against women in a highly responsible way. Players are seen as role models for the next generation. Our athletes are revered in our society and it’s really important that we give them the tools so that they don’t get in trouble.”[16] We should not allow this behavior to continue unaddressed, and professional sports leagues should take action to prevent domestic violence by their players and make it clear that such behavior will not be tolerated. This Saturday marks the 20thanniversary of the Violence Against Women Act. As the Committee with primary jurisdiction over professional sports, we could play an important role in standing up for victims of domestic violence by asking professional sports leagues to explain in a public hearing how they are acting to educate their players about violence against women, what they are doing to prevent them from engaging in such violence, and whether they are administering appropriate punishments for athletes who commit violence against women. I hope you will consider my request and that we can hold this hearing before Congress recesses until the November elections. Sincerely, Diana DeGette Member of Congress
09.04.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Energy and Commerce Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee Ranking Member Diana DeGette joined by Energy and Commerce Committee Ranking Member Henry A. Waxman and Health Subcommittee Ranking Member Frank Pallone, Jr. sent a letter to Chairmen Fred Upton, Joe Pitts, and Tim Murphy requesting a hearing on the rapidly growing Ebola outbreak in West Africa. The letter was sent in the wake of an urgent warning by CDC Director Thomas Frieden that “I could not possibly overstate the need for an emergency response” and that the virus is “spiraling out of control.” The members write, “The House is scheduled to be in session only ten days this month. We should use this time wisely and hold hearings on this important global health issue as expeditiously as possible.” The full text of the letter is available below and online here.
09.03.2014	Denver – Today, U.S. Rep DeGette issued the following statement on the 50th anniversary of the signing of the Wilderness Act, the landmark law that has conserved and protected 110 million acres of wilderness areas: “Today we celebrate the National Wilderness Preservation System, which has transformed our relationship with wild lands and special places across the nation. In Colorado, our treasured lands are among our greatest resources, are central to our lifestyle, and are essential to the economy. These lands not only provide vital wildlife habitats and clean air and water; they also support tourism as our state’s number one economic engine. “It is critical that we build on the success of the Wilderness Act and continue to protect additional wild areas for future generations. That is why I continue to sponsor the Colorado Wilderness Act, which would protect remaining wild areas in our state. During this time, I have sought and integrated input from communities across Colorado and will continue to do so until this legislation becomes law. We all know the importance of protecting these special places and preserving our heritage.” More information on the Colorado Wilderness Act is available here. The full text of the Colorado Wilderness Act is available here.
09.02.2014	DENVER – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette(CO-01) will host a Denver roundtable with senior NIH and FDA officials and Colorado’s medical research leaders to discuss ways to speed and improve medical cures as part of her 21st Century Cures initiative. The conversation will focus on personalized medicine and will take place Wednesday, September 3rd at 9:30 A.M. MT at National Jewish Health. Rep. DeGette launched the 21st Century Cures initiative with Rep. Fred Upton (R-MI), the Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee. This spring and summer, they have hosted a series of hearings and roundtables taking a comprehensive look at what steps Congress can take to accelerate the pace of medical cures in America. The discussion is covering the full arc of this process – from the discovery of clues in basic science, to streamlining the drug and device development process, to unleashing the power of digital medicine and social media at the treatment delivery phase. The effort has generated considerable excitement within the research and health communities, and as the effort continues, Rep. DeGette will continue to shape this conversation and ultimately draft major legislation to help orient policy to reflect the findings of these roundtables. WHO: Rep. Diana DeGette Dr. Eric Green, Director, National Human Genome Research Institute, National Institutes of Health Dr. Janet Woodcock, Director, Center for Drug Evaluation and Research, Food and Drug Administration Dr. Frank Accurso, Director, Cystic Fibrosis Clinical Research, Children’s Hospital Colorado and University of Colorado Denver David Brunel, CEO, Biodesix Dr. David Schwartz, Director, Personalized Medicine Initiative, Chair of the Department of Medicine, University of Colorado Dan Theodorescu, Director, Cancer Center, University of Colorado Dr. Gregory P. Downey, Executive Vice President of Academic Affairs and Professor of Medicine and Pediatrics at National Jewish Health WHEN: Wednesday, September 3rd, at 9:30 A.M. MT WHERE: National Jewish Health, Molly Blank Conference Center, 1400 Jackson Street, Denver WHAT: DeGette, national and Colorado experts discuss how personalized medicine can bring advances in scientific knowledge about cures to help save lives. ###
08.13.2014	WASHINGTON – Today, U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-01) joined a bipartisan group of 12 lawmakers from the U.S. Senate and U.S. House of Representatives to highlight a new Government Accountability Office (GAO) report entitled, “Medicare Program Integrity: Increased Oversight and Guidance Could Improve Effectiveness and Efficiency of Postpayment Claims Reviews.” The report, which was undertaken following a bipartisan and bicameral request to GAO, found that the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) should take additional steps to improve sufficient oversight and guidance to ensure contractor compliance with CMS regulations and to prevent claim review duplication during the auditing of Medicare providers and suppliers. CMS utilizes four types of contractors (Medicare administrative contractors, error rate contractors, recovery auditors and anti-fraud contractors) to conduct postpayment reviews of Medicare claims in an effort to control and reduce improper payments. Each contractor has a unique role in combating improper payments. However, the lack of CMS guidance and clear requirements has resulted in duplicative work by various contractors and a lack of consistency in the communications between the contractors conducting audits and the providers/suppliers being audited. The provider community has raised numerous concerns about the consistency and accuracy of the audit process over the past few years and this report is the first effort to determine what steps could be taken to improve the process. The information in this report can now be used by Congress and CMS to help make improvements and ensure more consistent oversight of both the contractors and audit process. Key findings from the GAO report follow and a full copy of the report can be found HERE: CMS’s Current Duplication Reduction Efforts are Insufficient: CMS established the Recovery Audit Data Warehouse to track recovery audit activities thereby preventing duplication of reviews. However, the database was not designed to provide information on all possible duplication, and its data are not reliable because other postpayment contractors did not consistently enter information about their reviews. CMS has not provided sufficient oversight of these data or issued complete guidance to contractors on avoiding duplicative claims reviews. Communication Between Recovery Auditors and Providers is Flawed: CMS requires auditors to include certain content in correspondence with providers, but requirements are not always clear and vary across contractor types. Contractors vary in their compliance with their requirements. CMS’s oversight of correspondence varies across contractors, which decreases assurance that contractors consistently comply with requirements. In the correspondence reviewed, GAO found high compliance rates for some requirements, but low compliance rates for requirements about communicating providers’ rights, which could affect providers’ ability to exercise their rights. Current CMS Coordination Strategies Should be Improved: CMS has strategies to coordinate contractors’ activities; however, these strategies have not led to consistent requirements across contractor types or full coordination between contractors. CMS concurred with the findings of the report and plans to improve CMS oversight and guidance as a result. In addition to Rep. DeGette, the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations Ranking Member, the report was also requested by Sen. Ron Wyden (D-Oregon), Finance Committee Chairman; Sen. Orrin Hatch (R-Utah), Finance Committee Ranking Member; Sen. Tom Carper (D-Delaware), Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee (HSGAC) Chairman; Sen. Tom Coburn (R-Oklahoma), HSGAC Ranking Member; Sen. Chuck Grassley (R-Iowa), Judiciary Committee Ranking Member; Sen. Claire McCaskill (D-Missouri), HSGAC Subcommittee on Contracting Oversight Chairwoman; Sen. Bob Corker (R-Tennessee); Rep. Fred Upton (R-Michigan), Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman; Rep. Henry A. Waxman (D- California), Energy and Commerce Committee Ranking Member; Rep. Charles Boustany, M.D. (R-Louisiana), Ways and Means Subcommittee on Oversight Chairman; and Rep. John Lewis (D-Georgia), Ways and Means Subcommittee on Oversight Ranking Member. ###
08.08.2014	WASHINGTON – Today, Ranking Members Diana DeGette, Henry A. Waxman, and Frank Pallone, Jr., called on the FDA to use its enforcement authority to take immediate action to protect children from the harms of tobacco. Once FDA finalizes its proposed regulation to assert jurisdiction over various types of tobacco products, like e-cigarettes and cigars, the agency could do this by bringing enforcement cases against manufacturers of such products that are using flavoring or marketing tactics that appeal to children. Since passage of the Tobacco Control Act in 2009, which banned the marketing of flavored cigarettes, manufacturers of e-cigarettes and cigars have been targeting children and teenagers with youth-friendly marketing tactics such as flavoring their products cherry crush, grape, and bubble gum. These tactics are highly effective; as a result, e-cigarettes and flavored cigars are exploding in popularity among youth. In the letter, the members write, “Unless prompt action is taken, the recent trends of soaring use by teenagers of these products will continue. The new products will become so entrenched that our opportunity to protect children from becoming lifelong addicts of these products vanishes… That is why it is so urgent that FDA utilize its ample enforcement discretion as described in these comments until such time as FDA promulgates a regulation to accomplish all of these critical restrictions to protect children. FDA has the authority to craft a compliance policy that fully protects our youth and should do so without delay.” The full text of today’s letter is available online here, with the accompanying letter sent on August 6 here. Also available online is a report released earlier this year detailing the dramatic increase in e-cigarette marketing to teenage audiences. ###
08.05.2014	DENVER – Today, U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-01) and Colorado Business Leaders called on Congress to reauthorize the Export-Import Bank before the charter expires at the end of September. “The Export-Import Bank is a vital lifeline for businesses and Congress needs to act to support jobs in Colorado and across the nation,” said Rep. DeGette. “The Export-Import Bank provides businesses with critical resources to compete in the global economy and increases exports of products made right here at home.” Rep. DeGette is an original cosponsor of H.R. 4950, Protecting American Jobs and Exports Act, which would reauthorize the Export-Import Bank for 7 years. According to the Colorado Business Roundtable, 680,000 jobs in Colorado are tied to exports and imports. In Colorado’s 1st Congressional District, the Export Import Bank has supported 17 companies (including 14 small businesses) with close to $100 million in exports since 2007. According to the U.S. Department of Commerce, U.S. exports have accounted for a third of overall economic growth in U.S. in the last five years and now account for almost 14 percent of our total economy. Rep. DeGette was joined by: Jeff Wasden, President, Colorado Business Roundtable Tom Teynor, CEO, Coolerado Corporation Ed Johnson, President & CEO, Advanced Probing Systems Alan Ziglin, VP and CFO Fiberlok Chuck Ward, Senior Vice President of Public Affairs, Denver Metro Chamber of Commerce Kristy Schloss, President and CEO, Schloss Engineered Equipment and Chair, Rocky Mountain District Export Council ###
07.31.2014	WASHINGTON – Today, U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-01) issued the following statement after the Central Intelligence Agency admitted to searching a computer system used exclusively by congressional investigators: “It is appalling to think that the CIA would illegally spy on the United States Congress, especially after Director Brennan made assurances that this did not happen. CIA leadership owes Congress and the American people a full, public accounting of what happened and what is being done to prevent any such actions ever again. Our intelligence agencies must operate within the law and respect the Constitutional separation of powers.” ###
07.30.2014	WASHINGTON – Today, U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette issued the following statement after the House passage of H.R. 3230, The Veterans Access, Choice and Accountability Act: “The bipartisan legislation that passed the House today should help to bring the fundamental reforms needed to resolve the systemic problems and mismanagement within the Department of Veterans Affairs. While the passage of this legislation will deliver key resources for our veterans, this issue will continue to require our nation’s attention moving forward. There is no substitute for our continued commitment to ensure our veterans receive the care they have earned.”
07.30.2014	WASHINGTON – With House Speaker John Boehner preparing to wrap up July’s legislative activity without passing meaningful bills in a number of areas, U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-01) called on Republican House leadership to bring up legislation that would address the country’s needs. Instead, Speaker Boehner is spending time to pursue a partisan lawsuit attacking the President while the American people look to Congress to do something productive. “We have important work to do and not a lot of time left to do it, but House Republican leaders are wasting time, money, and energy on partisan fights,” said Rep. DeGette. “Before Members of Congress return home for August, we should pass legislation that deals with our top priorities. If the House does not deal with substantive issues in the next few days, Speaker Boehner should delay the August district work period until we have the chance to get some real work done.” With time running out on the House’s legislative calendar, Rep. DeGette suggested that House leadership consider the following substantive bills and issues: 10. H.R. 377, the Paycheck Fairness Act. 9. H.R. 1010, the Fair Minimum Wage Act. 8. H.R. 4582, the Students’ Emergency Loan Refinancing Act. 7. H.R. 5051, the Protect Women's Health From Corporate Interference Act. 6. A federal budget that supports our priorities as a country and invests in our future. 5. Reauthorization of the Export-Import Bank. 4. Tax reform to make our tax code modern and fair. 3. A long-term surface transportation reauthorization. 2. H.R. 15, comprehensive immigration reform. 1. Anything, really.
07.23.2014	WASHINGTON – Today, U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-01) and Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Fred Upton (MI-06) hosted a roundtable discussion with leading experts on personalized medicine and its potential to shape our nation’s health care system. In her opening remarks, Rep. DeGette stated, “We know that many advancements in science and technology have been made that can lead to more successful developments of treatments and cures. As we learn more about the science, we can target potential treatments and cures more effectively on impacted populations.” Rep. DeGette joined Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Fred Upton to launch 21st Century Cures, a new initiative that aims to accelerate the pace of cures and medical breakthroughs in the United States. The 21st Century Cures Initiative is engaging the National Institutes of Health (NIH), Food and Drug Administration (FDA), and other agencies, as well as the nation’s patients and scientific pioneers in academia and industry. Since the initiative was launched, the Committee on Energy and Commerce has conducted six hearings and three roundtables with leading experts. The following white papers have also been released as part of the initiative’s extensive efforts: 21st Century Cures: A Call to Action (May 1, 2014), 21st Century Cures: An Update on the President's Council of Advisors on Science and Technology 2012 Report on Propelling Innovation (May 12, 2014),21st Century Cures: Patients (May 16, 2014),21st Century Cures: Digital Health Care (June 17, 2014). More information about the 21st Century Cures Initiative can be found here.
07.18.2014	DENVER – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-01) commended President Obama after the White House announced the Monday signing of an executive order that will prohibit federal contractors from discriminating on the basis of sexual orientation or gender identity, and she issued the following statement: “No one should face discrimination on the job because of who they love, and I appreciate President Obama setting an important standard by prohibiting discrimination against LGBT federal contractors. We ultimately must pass legislation to ensure this protection for every American worker, and the House should take up the Employment Non-Discrimination Act, but the President has taken meaningful action with this executive order. If you want to do business with the federal government, you must respect the rights of everyone working for you.” ###
07.18.2014	DENVER – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-01) issued the following statement after Colorado reported its June unemployment rate had fallen to 5.5 percent, the lowest level since October 2008. “Our continued economic progress and job growth are welcome news for Colorado workers, job seekers, and business owners. The Great Recession dealt a painful blow, and we are now in a position to turn a slow but steady recovery into strong and consistent growth. Colorado is full of hardworking and talented people, and we are poised to reach new economic heights.” ###
07.16.2014	WASHINGTON – Congressional democratic investigators have uncovered additional and alarming problems at Centers for Disease Control (CDC) facilities that should have alerted officials to serious safety lapses. Inspections by the USDA Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (APHIS) reported incidents ranging from paperwork errors to breaches in basic safety procedures. While some inspections of CDC facilities have been previously reported, these additional inspections indicate this problem has been more pervasive than previously thought. Energy and Commerce Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee Ranking Member Diana DeGette (CO-01) will seek answers to how these errors occurred. A memo prepared by Democratic committee staff that details these additional inspections and incidents is available here. Last month, CDC employees at the agency’s Bioterrorism Rapid Response and Advanced Technology (BRRAT) lab transferred potentially live samples of anthrax to two other labs, exposing dozens of CDC employees to this public health threat.
07.15.2014	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senators Mark Udall and Michael Bennet and Reps. Diana DeGette (C0-01), Ed Perlmutter (C0-07) and Jared Polis (C0-02) sent a letter to Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid and Speaker of the House John Boehner calling for quick passage of legislation to sustain the Highway Trust Fund. In the letter, the delegation wrote, “In states like Colorado with a limited construction season, disruption to construction and maintenance schedules are particularly concerning as delays can quickly push completion of a project into the next season, increasing the overall cost of a project. And while projects languish, the men and women who work to turn plans into reality may be furloughed or let go, at the peak of the usual construction season.” Close to half of the Colorado Department of Transportation’s $1.1 billion annual budget comes from federal funding. The Federal Highway Administration has projected nearly $1 billion shortfall in the Highway Trust Fund by the close of the current fiscal year on September 30, 2014. The Department of Transportation Secretary Anthony Foxx has already announced procedures for limiting highway funds for states starting in August. The full text of the letter is available below and online here. July 14, 2014 The Honorable Harry Reid Majority Leader U.S. Senate S-221 U.S. Capitol Washington, D.C. 20510 The Honorable John Boehner Speaker U.S. House of Representatives H-232 U.S. Capitol Washington, D.C. 20510 Dear Leader Reid and Speaker Boehner: As the August District Work Period rapidly approaches, we write to you of our grave concerns with the solvency of the Highway Trust Fund. As you are aware, the Federal Highway Administration has projected a nearly $1 billion shortfall in the Highway Trust Fund by the close of the current fiscal year on September 30, 2014. On July 1st, Secretary Foxx announced procedures for limiting highway funds to states, slated to begin in August. This disruption of funding to states will hamper planning, construction and repair of our transportation system. In states like Colorado with a limited construction season, disruption to construction and maintenance schedules are particularly concerning as delays can quickly push completion of a project into the next season, increasing the overall cost of a project. And while projects languish, the men and women who work to turn plans into reality may be furloughed or let go, at the peak of the usual construction season. This issue comes down to jobs and infrastructure and where they fall on our priority list as legislators. Governors, Mayors, County Commissioners and trade associations spanning the political spectrum have implored Congress to address this looming threat. The consequences to our constituents should we fail to shore up the Trust Fund are entirely foreseeable and avoidable. Less than a year since a government shutdown, we cannot send the message that political dogmas trump common sense. We, as members of the Colorado Congressional Delegation, are pulling together to underscore the devastating impact of insolvency of the Highway Trust Fund. We urge you to act to address the imminent shortfall prior to the August District Work Period. Sincerely, Mark Udall United States Senator Michael F. Bennet United States Senator Diana DeGette Member of Congress Ed Perlmutter Member of Congress Jared Polis Member of Congress
07.15.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C.- Today Ranking Members Henry A. Waxman, Anna G. Eshoo, and Diana DeGette sent a letter to John Roth, Inspector General of the Department of Homeland Security (DHS), requesting an investigation into allegations of anti-competitive conduct by Motorola in the sale of public safety telecommunications’ equipment and services. In March, the McClatchy newspapers published a series of articles, which found that “government officials have handed [Motorola] noncompetitive contracts, used modifications of years-old contracts to acquire new systems, or crafted bid specifications to Motorola’s advantage.” A McClatchy article highlighted that “Auditors who track the use of grants from [DHS] and other agencies have given little scrutiny to the behavior of state and local officials who tilt procurements toward Motorola, including those who ignore requirements that its radios fully interact with other brands.” In the letter the members wrote, “We are concerned that the state and local jurisdictions discussed in the McClatchy articles, as well as many other jurisdictions, may have squandered federal grants, provided in part by DHS, as a result of questionable practices by Motorola. If the allegations in the McClatchy articles are true, millions of federal tax dollars may have been wasted, and millions more are at risk. We therefore ask that you initiate an investigation to determine whether the abuses described in the McClatchy articles occurred and if so, whether DHS grants were involved. If DHS grants were involved, we ask that you please propose changes to prevent a recurrence of these abuses.” The text of the letter is available here.
07.10.2014	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-01) commended Denver Clerk and Recorder Debra Johnson for her decision to immediately begin issuing marriage licenses to loving same-sex couples. Earlier today, a Boulder District Court judge denied an injunction to prevent issuing marriage licenses to same-sex couples, and Rep. DeGette offered the following statement: “Debra Johnson has acted quickly and decisively after today’s court ruling, and I fully support her efforts to offer marriage licenses to every Denver couple who wants to make that commitment. Marriage is challenging yet rewarding, and everyone deserves to have their relationship recognized under the law. “Personally, I’ve dusted off my Universal Life Minister’s card and look forward to helping couples start their married lives together.” ###
07.09.2014	WASHINGTON – Today, Reps. Diana DeGette (D-CO) and Louise M. Slaughter (D-NY), co-Chairs of the House Pro-Choice Caucus, and Rep. Jerrold Nadler (D-NY), a veteran member of the House Judiciary Committee and one of the leaders in the fight for the Religious Freedom Restoration Act (RFRA) of 1993, will introduce legislation in response to the Supreme Court’s decision in Burwell v. Hobby Lobby and Conestoga Wood v. Burwell. The Protect Women’s Health from Corporate Interference Act of 2014 would explicitly prohibit for-profit employers that maintain a group health plan for its employees from using religious beliefs to deny employees coverage of contraception or any other vital health service required by federal law. The bill exempts federally mandated health services from RFRA while keeping in place the existing exemption for religious employers (e.g., houses of worship) and accommodation of religious non-profits who do not wish to provide contraceptives. Senators Patty Murray (D-WA) and Mark Udall (D-CO) are introducing companion legislation in the Senate. “This bill will ensure that employee access to critical health services is not at the mercy of their bosses’ religious beliefs,” said Reps. DeGette, Slaughter, and Nadler. “Congress never intended to allow corporate employers to block employee access to critical preventive services like birth control. We hope that our colleagues will join us in acting quickly to correct the Supreme Court’s decision in Burwell v. Hobby Lobby. Our bill simply protects employees’ rights to all federally mandated health services, including contraception. A woman’s private medical decisions should be between her, her doctor, and whomever else she wishes to consult – they should not be subject to approval by politicians, Supreme Court justices, or bosses.” “This critical legislation will protect women’s health care services guaranteed by the Affordable Care Act and safeguard their rights,” said Marcia D. Greenberger, Co-President of the National Women’s Law Center. “Women have worked for and earned the right to have their health needs covered—just as men do. This legislation makes it unmistakably clear that businesses, in the name of religion, can neither discriminate against their female employees nor impose their religious beliefs on them. Bosses should stick to what they know best—the board room and the bottom line—and stay out of the bedroom and exam room.” "Last week, we heard a collective gasp across the country as Americans everywhere tried to make sense of five male Justices on the Supreme Court deciding that our bosses could have control over our birth control in the Hobby Lobby decision," said Ilyse Hogue, President of NARAL Pro-Choice America. Today, we hear those gasps turn to cheers as we see champions in Congress move to right this wrong. Ninety-nine percent of American women use some form a of birth control in our lifetimes, and all medical experts agree that these remedies should be included in comprehensive healthcare. Anything less than this amounts to discrimination against women in the workplace. If there's one thing we can agree upon more than the idea that politicians aren't equipped to decide for us how and when and with whom we have families, it's that our bosses are even less so. This bill is the first step in making sure those personal healthcare decision stay where they belong -- in the hands of the women whose lives are affected." “With this bill, Congress can begin to fix the damage done by the Supreme Court’s decision to allow for-profit corporations to deny their employees birth control coverage. The Supreme Court last week opened the door to a wide range of discrimination and denial of services. This bill would help close the door for denying contraception before more corporations can walk through it," said Cecile Richards, President, Planned Parenthood Action Fund. "As the nation's leading advocate for women’s reproductive health care, Planned Parenthood Action Fund is committed to making sure women can get the no-copay birth control benefit that we and others fought so hard to pass and protect. No woman should lose access to birth control because her boss doesn't approve of it.” The contraceptive coverage provision of the ACA has been a success in increasing access to this critical health service for women. As of 2013, 27 million women were covered by this new requirement. Twenty-four million more prescriptions for oral contraceptives were filled with no copayment in 2013 than in 2012, and women have saved $483 million in out of-pocket costs for oral contraceptives. Ninety-nine percent of sexually-active women use birth control at least once in their lifetimes, and the Centers for Disease Control declared it one of the Ten Great Public Health Achievements of the 20th Century. While the most common reason women use contraception is to prevent pregnancy, 58 percent of oral contraceptive users cite non-contraceptive health benefits as reasons for using the pill. Fourteen percent of birth control pill users, more than 1,500,000 women, rely on the birth control pills for only non-contraceptive purposes. ###
07.02.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-01), co-chair of the House Pro-Choice Caucus, and Rep. Jerrold Nadler (NY-10), a leader in the fight for the Religious Freedom Restoration Act (RFRA) of 1993, announced that they will introduce legislation in response to Monday’s Supreme Court ruling in Burwell v. Hobby Lobby. They will ensure that for-profit employers cannot use RFRA to override women’s access to contraception. “Congress never intended RFRA to be used by employers as a means of interfering with private health care choices of their employees,” said Reps. DeGette and Nadler. “The law kept in place the core principle that religion does not excuse for-profit businesses from complying with our nation’s laws. It is now up to Congress to ensure that the Court’s ruling does not interfere with access to critical preventive health care services. “While the majority opinion misunderstands the importance of contraceptive coverage for women’s health when Justice Alito wrote that their decision would have ‘precisely zero’ impact, we believe Congress can and should take action,” Reps. DeGette and Nadler added. “In reality, women working for many for-profit corporations will now need new insurance coverage for contraception, and we can ensure they can still access this essential health service through legislation.” While the U.S. House is currently not in session, Reps. DeGette and Nadler have begun working with their colleagues to draft legislative language and plan to introduce bills as soon as possible. While drafting is underway, Reps. DeGette and Nadler expect to have two separate pieces of legislation, each addressing one of the issues raised by Monday’s decision.
06.30.2014	WASHINGTON – Today, Congresswoman Diana DeGette (D-CO) and Louise M. Slaughter (D-NY), co-Chairs of the House Pro-Choice Caucus and leaders of a 91-member amicus brief filed in the United States Supreme Court in support of the government in Burwell v. Hobby Lobby Stores and Conestoga Wood Specialties Corp. v Burwell, issued the following statement reacting to the court’s ruling this morning: “With this ruling, the Court has allowed certain employers the freedom to impose their personal religious beliefs on their employees and has awarded another one of our precious constitutional rights – the right to free exercise of religion – to for-profit corporations,” Reps. Slaughter and DeGette said. “Despite the Court’s attempt to single out women’s health care in today’s opinion, it leaves the door open to employers being able to deny coverage of other essential health services such as a child’s vaccine or a life-saving blood transfusion based on religious beliefs. The ruling could also open the door for more for-profit corporations to challenge other laws based on their religious beliefs. A woman’s private medical decisions should never be subject to the approval of bosses, politicians, religious leaders, or anyone else, and we are disappointed that the Court has abandoned this long-standing interpretation of the Constitution’s right to privacy.” Follow the House Pro Choice Caucus on Twitter at @HouseProChoice for updates throughout the day. A recent Reuters/Ipsos poll shows that a majority of Americans support the contraception mandate. According to the poll, “The poll asked whether employers should be able to choose what forms of contraceptives their health plans provide based on their religious beliefs. Of those responding, 53 percent disagreed and 35 percent agreed. Of those surveyed, 12 percent said they did not know.” For those disagreeing that employers should be able to deny access to certain contraception, 40 percent strongly disagreed, and 13 percent somewhat disagreed.
06.26.2014	WASHINGTON – U.S. Reps. Diana DeGette (CO-01) and Louise Slaughter (NY-25), co-chairs of the House Pro-Choice Caucus, issued the following statement after the U.S. Supreme Court released its decision in McCullen v. Coakley, which affirms the legality of buffer zones outside of healthcare facilities while striking down Massachusetts’ 35-foot fixed buffer zone law over specific issues: “No one should have to face threats or intimidation while seeking constitutionally protected healthcare, and the Supreme Court has now restricted the protections available to patients with the McCullen decision. This affirmation is an essential point in today’s decision. We hope Massachusetts and other states take action to protect patients in a manner that the Court allowed today. We will continue to work with leaders around the country to protect women and their families from harassment and violence. "While the Supreme Court today overturned a large ‘fixed’ buffer that covers sidewalks and other public spaces, the framework first established by Colorado’s buffer bill and upheld in the 2000 Hill decision offers a template to follow. Patients can still receive protection from a ‘floating’ buffer when they approach a clinic, doctor’s office, or other health facility." ###
06.25.2014	WASHINGTON – Today, U.S Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-01) issued the following statement after the 10th Circuit Court of Appeals in Denver, Colorado ruled that Utah’s ban on same-sex marriage is unconstitutional: “The historic ruling made by the 10th Circuit Court today brings us one step closer to achieving long-overdue marriage equality in Colorado and across the country. The court’s finding that: ‘The Fourteenth Amendment protects the fundamental right to marry, establish a family, raise children, and enjoy the full protection of a state’s marital laws’ provides as strong a legal justification as possible for equality. “Personally, I am eager to dust off my Universal Life Church minister’s credential and one day perform marriage ceremonies for all Colorado couples.” ###
06.24.2014	WASHINGTON – U.S. Reps. Diana DeGette (CO-01) and Louise Slaughter (NY-25), the co-chairs of the House Pro-Choice Caucus, issued the following statement after the House Appropriations Committee passed an amendment to permit Peace Corps volunteers to receive abortion coverage in cases of case of rape, incest or when the life of the mother is at stake: “Peace Corps volunteers deserve the same access to health services that are a right in America, especially since they often work in areas with limited health care infrastructure. In cases of rape, incest, or when the life of the mother is threatened, Peace Corps volunteers need the same abortion coverage we provide to others in such difficult circumstances. The modest change agreed to by our colleagues at the Appropriations Committee is nonetheless an important one, and we look forward to passing this provision in the House.” ###
06.24.2014	WASHINGTON – Today, U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-01) and Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Fred Upton (MI-06) hosted a roundtable discussion with leading experts in the field of digital health care as part of the bipartisan 21st Century Cures initiative. “The 21st Century Cures initiative is a rare effort in Congress where there are no preconceptions about what we are going to do before we do it.” said Rep. DeGette. “I am excited that this initiative will take a big picture look at our health care system in this country: the research, approval process, and how we get it to clinical application to make it more affective for patients and keep our preeminence in the world as the leader in biomedical research. “There are a lot of topics that can fall under digital health care: tele-medicine, the potential for harnessing the vast amount of information collected via electronic health records for research, and the development of mobile medical applications. The opportunity to hear directly from the leading experts at today’s discussion will have an important impact on our approach to medical innovation in the United States going forward.” Click here to watch the roundtable discussion. Rep. DeGette recently joined Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Fred Upton to announce the launch of 21st Century Cures, a new initiative that aims to accelerate the pace of cures and medical breakthroughs in the United States. The 21st Century Cures Initiative is broadly collaborating with the National Institutes of Health (NIH), Food and Drug Administration (FDA), and other agencies, as well as the nation’s patients and scientific pioneers in academia and industry. Since the initiative was launched, the Committee on Energy and Commerce has conducted two hearings and two roundtable with leading experts. The following white papers have also been released as part of the initiative’s extensive efforts: 21st Century Cures: A Call to Action (May 1, 2014), 21st Century Cures: An Update on the President's Council of Advisors on Science and Technology 2012 Report on Propelling Innovation (May 12, 2014),21st Century Cures: Patients (May 16, 2014),21st Century Cures: Digital Health Care (June 17, 2014). More information about the 21st Century Cures Initiative can be found here.
06.23.2014	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-01) urged Iraq and Afghanistan veterans to sign up for the Veterans Affairs Airborne Hazards and Open Burn Pit Registry, which is now available online. “Returning service members have spoken to me about suspiciously similar breathing and respiratory problems, and I worked with my colleagues in Congress to understand the extent of this problem,” said Rep. DeGette. “Congress instructed the VA to develop this registry so that veterans can report their exposure to airborne hazards connected to their service, and we can take action to deal with these health issues.” Veterans can register their burn pit exposure with the VA here. Rep. DeGette has introduced related legislation, The Helping Veterans Exposed to Toxic Chemicals Act, with Rep. Tim Bishop (NY-01) to establish three Centers of Excellence in the prevention, diagnosis, mitigation, treatment, and rehabilitation of health conditions related to open burn pit and other environmental exposures. National Jewish Health in Denver has already developed expertise in these types of occupational lung exposures, and the legislation is endorsed by IAVA (Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans of America), The Sergeant Sullivan Center, and BurnPits360. ###
06.19.2014	WASHINGTON — Today Ranking Members Diana DeGette and Henry A. Waxman sent a letter to Chairmen Fred Upton and Tim Murphy to request hearings on the implications to seniors, taxpayers, Part D drug plans, and the Medicare program of the high costs of Sovaldi, the new Hepatitis C drug manufactured by Gilead Pharmaceuticals. The drug costs $84,000 for a course of treatment and a new analysis by researchers from Georgetown University and the Kaiser Family Foundation finds that Medicare Part D coverage for Sovaldi alone will increase Medicare drug spending by $6.5 billion - 8%- in 2015. In the letter the members wrote, “Hearings before the Committee could help us understand the implications of Sovaldi’s high cost on the Medicare Part D program and on seniors and taxpayers. We could seek to understand Gilead’s pricing strategy and examine why Part D plans are unable to effectively negotiate for lower prices despite the fact that Sovaldi is available in other countries, under Medicaid, and to the VA at a significantly lower cost. We could also examine legislative solutions, like the Medicare Drug Savings Act (H.R. 1588), which would require drug manufacturers to provide Part D drugs to low income individuals at the same low prices they provide to Medicaid.” The members concluded, "It is not too late for Congress to take action to ensure that Part D premiums and costs are not adversely impacted by the high costs of Sovaldi. We therefore ask that you hold these hearings as soon as possible." The text of the letter is available online here and below. June 19, 2014 The Honorable Fred Upton Chairman Committee on Energy and Commerce 2125 Rayburn House Office Building Washington, DC 20515 The Honorable Tim Murphy Chairman Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations 2125 Rayburn House Office Building Washington, DC 20515 Dear Chairman Upton and Chairman Murphy: We are writing to ask that you hold hearings on the implications to beneficiaries, taxpayers, Medicare Part D drug plans, and the Medicare program as a whole of the costs of Sovaldi, the new Hepatitis C drug manufactured by Gilead Pharmaceuticals. A new analysis by researchers from Georgetown University and the Kaiser Family Foundation finds that Medicare coverage for Sovaldi – which is sold for $1,000 per pill and $84,000 for a 12-week course of treatment – will increase Medicare Part D drug spending by up to $6.5 billion in 2015. This is an astonishing amount. Medicare coverage of just this one drug would raise overall Medicare Part D drug spending by as much as 8%.[1] These spending increases will be reflected in higher out-of-pocket costs and premiums for seniors and higher taxpayer costs. In March 2014, we wrote to Gilead to ask for a briefing on the high cost of Sovaldi.[2] The company provided this briefing, but did not provide a compelling justification for the high price they are charging for most patients in the United States.[3] Gilead indicated that the company provides substantial discounts on the drug in several other countries, and public reports indicate that the VA and Medicaid programs will also receive substantial discount on Sovaldi. Regrettably, these discounts are not available to Medicare Part D plans. According to the new study’s authors, “it is likely to be hard for [Part D] plans (and thus for Medicare) to have an impact on the price in the case of Sovaldi. … Part D sponsors have little negotiating power.” [4] Hearings before the Committee could help us understand the implications of Sovaldi’s high cost on the Medicare Part D program and on seniors and taxpayers. We could seek to understand Gilead’s pricing strategy and examine why Part D plans are unable to effectively negotiate for lower prices despite the fact that Sovaldi is available in other countries, under Medicaid, and to the VA at a significantly lower costs. We could also examine legislative solutions, like the Medicare Drug Savings Act (H.R. 1588), which would require drug manufacturers to provide Part D drugs to low income individuals at the same low prices they provide to Medicaid. Medicare Part D plans have submitted their plan bids for 2015, and premiums will be made public in August. It is not too late for Congress to take action to ensure that Part D premiums and costs are not adversely impacted by the high costs of Sovaldi. We therefore ask that you hold these hearings as soon as possible. Sincerely, Henry A. Waxman Ranking Member Diana DeGette Ranking Member ###
06.16.2014	DENVER – Today, U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-01) issued the following statement in response to President Obama’s announcement of an executive order banning discrimination by federal contractors on the basis of sexual orientation or gender identity. “Equality is a founding American principle. Today’s executive order brings us a big step closer to living up to our ideals: now, everyone doing business with the federal government cannot discriminate on the basis of sexual orientation or gender identity. President Obama’s action today follows a worthy tradition preventing employment discrimination among federal contractors, often as an important step for expanding such bans more broadly. I am happy to see this significant step taken, and I look forward to our country taking other steps on our journey to reaching full and true equality.” ###
06.11.2014	WASHINGTON – Today, U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-01) called for new approaches to encourage further investments in drug innovation. The hearing on “21st Century Cures: Examining the role of Incentives in Advancing Treatments and Cures for Patients” was conducted in the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health. “We know there are many different types of incentives currently in place that help spur research and development in both the drug and device space,” said Rep. DeGette. “These range from funding for research and public private partnerships to tax credits and various exclusivity periods. Today’s hearing is an important opportunity to identify areas where we may need to create new approaches to ensure continued investment in the development of treatments and cures.” Rep. DeGette recently joined Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Fred Upton to announce the launch of 21st Century Cures, a new initiative that aims to accelerate the pace of cures and medical breakthroughs in the United States. The 21st Century Cures Initiative is broadly collaborating with the National Institutes of Health (NIH), Food and Drug Administration (FDA), and other agencies, as well as the nation’s patients and scientific pioneers in academia and industry. Since the initiative was launched, the Committee on Energy and Commerce has conducted two hearings and a roundtable with leading experts. The following white papers have also been released as part of the initiative’s extensive efforts: 21st Century Cures: A Call to Action (May 1, 2014), 21st Century Cures: An Update on the President's Council of Advisors on Science and Technology 2012 Report on Propelling Innovation (May 12, 2014), 21st Century Cures: Patients (May 16, 2014). More information about the 21st Century Cures Initiative can be found here.
06.10.2014	WASHINGTON, DC— Today Ranking Member Henry A. Waxman and Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee Ranking Member Diana DeGette sent a letter to Chairmen Fred Upton and Tim Murphy requesting a hearing on recent findings from the U.S. Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board (CSB). The release of these new findings explain why the blowout preventer (BOP) in use on the BP Deepwater Horizon oil rig failed to prevent the catastrophic explosion and oil spill in 2010. The explosion killed 11 and caused the release of 4.9 million barrels of oil into the Gulf of Mexico. In the letter, the members wrote, “Four years ago, the Committee and its subcommittees held 10 hearings into the causes and impact of the Deepwater Horizon explosion and oil spill and passed bipartisan legislation addressing our findings. Given the new information uncovered by CSB’s investigation, we request that you schedule a hearing to examine these findings and explore what regulators and the oil and gas industry have done and will do to ensure the safety of offshore production.” The full text of the letter is available below and online here. June 10, 2014 The Honorable Fred Upton Chairman Committee on Energy and Commerce 2125 Rayburn House Office Building Washington, D.C. 20515 The Honorable Tim Murphy Chairman Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations 2125 Rayburn House Office Building Washington, DC 20515 Last week, the U.S. Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board (CSB) released new findings explaining why the blowout preventer (BOP) on the BP Deepwater Horizon oil rig failed to prevent the catastrophic explosion and oil spill on April 20, 2010.[1] We request that you schedule a hearing to review the new findings and examine the implications for BOPs still in use today. The CSB investigation offers a new theory on why the Deepwater Horizon BOP failed to shear the drill pipe and prevent the unmitigated flow of oil into the ocean from the out-of-control well. CSB concluded that the drill pipe passing through the BOP buckled within minutes of the initial well blowout due to “effective compression,” a phenomenon caused by large differences in pressure between the inside and outside of the pipe. This warped the pipe enough to prevent the BOP’s blind shear ram from cutting and sealing the well; instead, the blades squeezed and punctured the pipe, allowing oil to flow into the ocean. CSB also identified other problems with the BOP’s redundant automatic safety systems, including faulty wiring and drained batteries, and pointed to inadequate maintenance, inspection, and testing protocols as to why these problems went undetected. CSB concluded that the BOP exhibited “multiple deficiencies that demonstrate Transocean and BP did not treat or manage it as a safety-critical device.”[2] Four years ago, the Committee and its subcommittees held 10 hearings into the causes and impact of the Deepwater Horizon explosion and oil spill and passed bipartisan legislation addressing our findings.[3] Given the new information uncovered by CSB’s investigation, we request that you schedule a hearing to examine these findings and explore what regulators and the oil and gas industry have done and will do to ensure the safety of offshore production. Thank you for your attention to this matter. Sincerely, Henry A. Waxman Ranking Member Diana DeGette Ranking Member Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations [1] U.S. Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board, Explosion and Fire at the Macondo Well: Investigative Report, Volume 2 (June 5, 2014). [2] Id. at 93. [3] For a list of hearings and other investigation activities, see Committee on Energy and Commerce Democrats, Energy and Commerce Committee's Investigation of the Deepwater Horizon Explosion and Oil Spill (online at https://democrats.energycommerce.house.gov/index.php?q=page/energy-and-commerce-committees-investigation-of-the-deepwater-horizon-explosion-and-oil-spill). ###
06.05.2014	DENVER – Today, U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-01) announced that young Coloradoans previously enrolled in the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program can now renew their status for an additional two-year period. DACA was established to provide young immigrants who came to the United States as children a status that defers deportation actions for a two-year period and also grants work authorization. “It is critical that young Coloradoans enrolled in DACA know they can renew their deferral for an additional two-year period and they should act quickly to avoid gaps in their status,” said Rep. DeGette. “While I welcome today’s announcement that will give more than half a million young immigrants the chance to renew their status, it is only a temporary fix to an ongoing problem. These children were brought to the United States by their parents and families for a better life and now live in fear of separation under our broken immigration system. Comprehensive immigration reform will provide much-needed support to our friends and neighbors, strengthen our communities, and grow our economy.” This morning, the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) announced that it will now accept renewal requests from the more than half a million individuals currently enrolled in DACA. USCIS also made public a revised form for both individuals requesting renewal and initial applications, which is available here. The first DACA approvals will begin to expire in September 2014. To avoid any lapse, individuals must file their renewal request before their current status expires. USCIS encourages individuals requesting a renewal to do so approximately four months before the expiration. Additional information to renew and enroll in DACA can be found here.
06.05.2014	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-01) issued the following statement after General Motors announced findings of an internal report on ignition switch failures and plans to create a victim compensation fund: “I am deeply troubled by the findings in the Valukas report. GM’s internal assessment confirms many of the troubling details our ongoing House investigation is uncovering. Siloed responsibilities and a corporate culture that deemphasized safety created an environment that allowed problems to linger, leading to additional accidents and loss of life. As we incorporate the findings in the Valukas report into what we have discovered in our investigation so far, I expect further clarification and explanation from GM will be necessary. “We also need more details to understand how accident victims may receive compensation from GM as well as what legal rights individuals may have to waive as a condition of payment. These issues are complicated by the timing of GM’s recent bankruptcy and the dates accidents occurred. While proactive attention on the company’s part is welcome, I will pay close attention to make sure victims’ rights are respected.” Rep. DeGette serves as the Ranking Democrat on the Energy and Commerce Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee, which is conducting investigations into GM and its handling of faulty ignition switches that contributed to numerous accidents. ###
05.30.2014	WASHINGTON – Today, U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-01) called for the Department of Veterans Affairs to investigate and release state- and site-level information about the scheduling and access management practices of Veterans Health Administration facilities after the department released an initial audit summary. This system-wide audit was quickly conducted after abuses of the VA’s scheduling system were uncovered at multiple facilities across the country. Veterans who were seeking treatment at VA facilities and faced delayed appointments and suffered health consequences as a result of the unreported delays. “The VA has done a commendable job in releasing this system-wide information as we all try to get to the root of this problem,” said Rep. DeGette. “We now need to dig a little deeper to understand which facilities were falsifying records, how they were doing so, and who was directly responsible. To get to that level of detail, the VA needs to audit each facility and release state- and site-level information. Only then can we ensure facilities are operating properly and veterans are receiving the level of care they deserve.” Last week, Rep. DeGette was joined by Senators Mark Udall and Michael Bennet and Congressmen Ed Perlmutter and Jared Polis in asking President Obama and former Veterans Affairs Secretary Shinseki for specific audit details on facilities that serve Colorado veterans. ###
05.30.2014	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-01) offered the following statement after President Obama accepted the resignation of Secretary of Veterans Affairs Eric Shinseki: “Eric Shinseki served our country honorably as a combat soldier, general, and cabinet secretary. As more information about systemic problems within the Veterans Health Administration has come to light, it has become clear that fundamental reforms are needed, starting with new leadership. “Congress must do its part to solve these problems, providing the resources needed to handle expanding responsibilities at the VA as well as genuine oversight of the department’s operations. Secretary Shinseki’s resignation will not solve any problems unless this change in leadership is coupled with a commitment to reform from everyone involved. Our veterans deserve nothing less.” ###
05.27.2014	DENVER – Today, U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-01) issued the following statement in recognition of Memorial Day: “We all pause to recognize the service of our brave men and women in uniform. Many of our nation’s sons and daughters – in both recent times and throughout our history – have made the ultimate sacrifice while defending our democracy. Their courage and selflessness will continue to inspire Americans for generations to come.” ###
05.22.2014	WASHINGTON –U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-01) issued the following statement after today’s vote on an amended version of H.R. 3361, the USA Freedom Act: “I was prepared to vote today for the USA Freedom Act, which struck a careful balance between national security imperatives and American’s right to basic freedoms. However, significant changes were made late in the legislative process that would create loopholes that would allow collection of the very personal data we are trying to protect. I voted against this bill because I am concerned that it would allow the NSA to conduct mass surveillance with little oversight. I hope that we can return to that balance as the legislative process continues.” ###
05.20.2014	Today, U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-01) offered the following statement after the House passed the bipartisan conference report on the Water Resources Reform and Development Act (WRRDA): “The collaborative work that both parties and chambers put into this bill shows in its worthwhile reforms and strong, bipartisan support. The conference report improves on planning, review, and oversight provisions the House originally passed last Fall, and innovative financing will help move key ventures off the drawing board and into development. In addition, the Army Corps of Engineers will be able to respond more quickly and effectively when key infrastructure is damaged, allowing communities to rebuild. As we have recently experienced serious natural disasters in Colorado, we can appreciate the importance of quickly helping communities to recover.” ###
05.16.2014	WASHINGTON – Today, U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-01) released the following statement after the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) and U.S. Department of Transportation announced an agreement for General Motors to pay a civil penalty and assist in NHTSA’s investigation into defective ignition switches. Rep. DeGette serves as the ranking Democrat on the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations, which is leading the Congressional investigation of this incident: “Today’s agreement is a sign of continued cooperation between GM and the investigations that are continuing, both at NHTSA and on the Hill. Our committee is continuing our aggressive investigation, and I expect more answers and better transparency about past actions and the ongoing recall efforts.” ###
05.07.2014	WASHINGTON – Today, U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-01) led a Congressional hearing on the status of the Affordable Care Act’s implementation as the Ranking Member of the Energy and Commerce Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee. In her opening statement, DeGette debunked analysis compiled by House Republicans following a questionnaire of the nation’s largest health care companies. “In their quest for knowledge, my colleagues on the other side of the aisle, sent out a questionnaire to insurers that manipulated the payment deadlines to skew the understanding of how new insurance coverage is performing,” said Rep. DeGette. Rep. DeGette highlighted that, of the eight million people who enrolled in the federal and state health insurance marketplaces, three million waited until the last month of enrollment. “I wish we could sit down with the Affordable Care Act, figure out what the flaws are, and figure out how we can work in a bipartisan way to fix it. Instead what we get is a misleading analysis, which said only 67% of enrollees paid for the coverage they enrolled in on the exchanges. How does that happen? They cut off the responses on April 15, at least two weeks before many of the premiums of these three million people were even due for payment. The report was misleading because almost half of enrollees in the health care exchanges did not even have to make their initial premium payment until April 30.” Click here to watch Rep. DeGette’s opening statement. Rep. DeGette also pointed to a recent poll conducted by Gallup that indicates in the last six months, the percentage of adults without insurance has dropped by about 20%. “What that means is there are more than eleven million Americans with insurance today than there were six months ago. Premiums are below the levels predicted by the Congressional Budget Office, and the agency has once again has reiterated that the Affordable Care Act has slowed inflation, saved billions of dollars, and will even reduce deficits. “By any rational, reasonable measure, we can call this law a success. That success will make a real difference in people’s lives. That is what is important here. My suggestion is let’s look at the successes, let’s look where we need to make improvements, and let’s work together to do just that.” ###
05.01.2014	WASHINGTON – Today, U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-01) issued the following statement after the U.S. Department of Education released a list of higher education institutions under investigation for possible violations of federal law over handling of sexual violence and harassment complaints: “I would much rather be promoting one of the many exciting things happening around Denver than calling attention to its problems, but we cannot ignore sexual violence or sexual harassment occurring in our communities or on our school campuses. I find it disturbing that three Denver universities may have failed to properly address sexual violence and harassment, and if so, school leaders must stand up and take action. I am willing to help each of these schools work to address problems, but I will not hesitate to speak up if they fall short. We all—and our students, especially—deserve better.” ###
04.30.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – House Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Fred Upton (R-MI) today announced the launch of 21st Century Cures, a new initiative that aims to accelerate the pace of cures and medical breakthroughs in the United States. Chairman Upton, along with committee member Rep. Diana DeGette (D-CO), explain in a new video that over the next several months, members will take a comprehensive look at the full arc of this process – from discovery to development to delivery – to determine what steps we can take to ensure we are taking full advantage of the advances this country has made in science and technology and use these resources to keep America as the innovation capital of the world. The committee seeks to broadly collaborate with the National Institutes of Health (NIH), Food and Drug Administration (FDA), and other agencies, as well as the nation’s patients and scientific pioneers in academia and industry. The committee’s extensive effort will include white papers, roundtables, and hearings, as well as the solicitation of input from interested parties, large and small. Excerpts: Upton: In the 21st century, health care innovation is happening at lightning speed. From the mapping of the human genome to the rise of personalized medicines that are linked to advances in molecular medicine, we have seen constant breakthroughs that are changing the face of disease treatment, management, and cures. DeGette: Health research is moving quickly, but the federal drug and device approval apparatus is in many ways the relic of another era. We have dedicated scientists and bold leaders at agencies like the NIH and the FDA, but when our laws don’t keep pace with innovation, we all lose. Upton: If we want to save more lives and keep this country the leader in medical innovation, we have to make sure there’s not a major gap between the science of cures and the way we regulate these therapies. DeGette: That is why, for the first time ever, we in Congress are going to take a comprehensive look at what steps we can take to accelerate the pace of cures in America. We are looking at the full arc of this process – from the discovery of clues in basic science, to streamlining the drug and device development process, to unleashing the power of digital medicine and social media at the treatment delivery phase. Upton: We know we don’t have all the answers. That’s why we’re asking questions first. We are listening. We want to know how to close the gaps between advances in scientific knowledge about cures and the regulatory policies created to save more lives. Learn more about 21st Century Cures online here, and join the effort on Facebook and Twitter and follow the conversation using the hashtag #Path2Cures. ###
04.24.2014	WASHINGTON – Today, U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-01) issued the following statement after the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) announced new rules to partially extend its authority to the growing e-cigarette industry. The proposed rules would ban the sale of e-cigarettes, pipe tobacco, and cigars to individuals under 18 years old. Additionally, individuals purchasing these products would be required to confirm their age by presenting photo identification. Some states have already put similar measures in place in the absence of earlier FDA intervention. “Knowing how serious the health consequences for tobacco use can be, we must hold new nicotine products to high scrutiny,” said Rep. DeGette. “I am pleased to see the FDA begin to take some steps to regulate these products, but this step must be a first one. We have seen generations of smokers live with a lifetime of health problems after they became hooked at a young age, and we cannot allow today’s marketers to do the same thing to kids now. I will continue to work with Congresswoman Esty and others to stop e-cigarette marketing that targets minors.” In March, DeGette joined Rep. Elizabeth Esty (D-CT) in introducing H.R. 4325, the Protecting Children from Electronic Cigarette Advertising Act, which would prohibit the advertising of e-cigarettes to minors.
04.19.2014	DENVER – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-01) offered the following statement ahead of tomorrow’s 15th anniversary of the Columbine High School shooting: “Fifteen years ago, our community was forever changed by the massacre at Columbine High School. Through the years, we have worked to heal, though for the families and friends of those who died, their losses remain. As we pause to honor the memories of those we lost, I hope we can all strive to love and care for one another.” ###
04.10.2014	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-01) released the following statement after General Motors announced the suspension of two engineers connected to the recall of 2.6 million vehicles with defective ignition switches: “Today’s announcement from GM shows they continue to take this investigation seriously, and I take this news as a sign of progress. This is also an indication that the public does not yet know the full story about what went wrong, and GM needs to share their full findings with Congressional investigators as soon as possible” ###
04.08.2014	WASHINGTON – Today, U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-01) called on her colleagues to pass the Paycheck Fairness Act as the country recognizes Equal Pay Day, which marks the day when, more than three months into the year, women’s wages finally catch up to what men were paid in the previous year. Last month, the Denver Post reported on a Bureau of Labor Statistics analysis that found women in Colorado on average earn 78 cents for every dollar earned by men, losing out on approximately $10,000 each year. “This issue not only affects women, but it also affects the growing number of families that rely on two paychecks to make ends meet,” said Rep. DeGette. “Equal pay is a key component to securing prosperity for Colorado’s families and our economy, which is why we need to pass the Paycheck Fairness Act and work to close this gap.” The Paycheck Fairness Act strengthens the Equal Pay Act and closes pay loopholes, and it as provides accountability for blatant pay discrimination. In 2008 and 2009, the Democratic-led House passed the Paycheck Fairness Act, but it failed to pass in the Senate due to Republican opposition. In 2012, House and Senate Republicans once again blocked legislation in both chambers. The Senate will hold a vote to advance the Paycheck Fairness Act today, but yet again this vital legislation faces significant opposition. ###
04.07.2014	WASHINGTON –U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-01) called on the Obama Administration to change its deportation polices following today’s report in the New York Times. Nearly 67% of the nearly 2 million unauthorized immigrants deported during President Obama’s time in office had minor infractions such as traffic violations or no criminal record at all. This report paints a different picture of the Administration’s publicly-stated goal of narrowing enforcement efforts on serious criminals. “The President has made his concern about separating families very clear, but this new report reveals a stark contrast between the Administration’s public goal and its record on deportations,” said Rep. DeGette. “Too many parents who dream of a better life for their children are living in fear because of the threat of deportation. It is time for the Administration to align its policies at headquarters with the reality on the ground.” The Times analysis covered government data on more than 3 million deportations over the last ten years. According to the report, the largest increase of deportations involved illegal immigrants with traffic violations, which increased from 43,000 during the last five years of the Bush Administration to 193,000 during the Obama Administration. That same period indicates that convictions for people who re-entered the country to reunite with family members tripled under the Obama Administration to more than 188,000. “We all know our immigration system is broken, but we cannot needlessly tear apart families in the meantime. Republican leadership in the House should take up immigration reform immediately, and the Obama Administration should focus enforcement efforts on serious criminals—not people trying to build better lives for their families.” ###
04.01.2014	WASHINGTON – Today, U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-1) presided as Ranking Member of the Energy and Commerce Oversight and Investigation Subcommittee’s hearing on the recent General Motors (GM) recall of over 2.5 million vehicles linked to defective ignition switches. The committee heard testimony today from GM CEO Mary Barra and National Highway Traffic Safety (NHTSA) Acting Administrator David Friedman. “Internally, GM opened multiple investigations into the ignition switch issue, each of which concluded that the switch was bad. In 2005, GM identified solutions to the problem, but concluded that quote, ‘the tooling cost and piece price are too high … thus, none of the solutions represents an acceptable business case.’ Documents provided by GM show that this unacceptable cost increase was only 57 cents.” The document provided by GM can be found here. Rep. DeGette presents one of the faulty ignition switches used in several GM models “GM knew about this problem in 2001 and received more than 130 warranty claims from owners about this problem over the next decade. But GM never informed the public or reported the problem to federal safety regulators." VIDEO: Rep. DeGette's Opening Statement “Company officials quietly redesigned the switch, but they did it in secret and they never changed the part number. The company put even more cars with bad switches on the road from 2008-2011. Between 2003 and 2014, GM learned of hundreds of reports of ignition switch problems – through customer complaints, warranty claims, lawsuits, press coverage, field reports, and even more internal investigations. But time and time again, GM did nothing. The company continued to sell cars knowing they were unsafe – and more than a dozen people are now dead because of this defect." VIDEO: Rep. DeGette questions GM CEO Mary Barra "Here is what we know. We know that GM has recalled over 2.5 million vehicles because of defective ignition switches. We know they should have done it much, much earlier. We know that GM failed to provide federal regulators with key information. And we know that at least 13 people are dead, and that there have been dozens of crashes because GM produced cars that had a deadly defect.” “I know some of those families are here today, and I want to express my deepest sympathies. I want to tell them something more. We are going to get to the bottom of this, we are going to figure out what happened and we are going to make sure it doesn’t happen again.”
03.27.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (D-CO) joined Reps. Elizabeth Esty (D-CT), Jan Schakowsky (D-IL), Cheri Bustos (D-IL), Raul Ruiz (D-CA), and Tim Bishop (D-NY) in introducing the Protecting Children from Electronic Cigarette Advertising Act to prohibit the advertising of e-cigarettes to children. Despite serious health concerns, e-cigarettes are currently unregulated. Manufacturers are targeting children and teens through advertising to get them hooked early on nicotine. According to the Centers for Disease Control, 1.8 million middle and high school students nationwide have tried e-cigarettes, and over 75% of them have also smoked traditional cigarettes. And these numbers are increasing dramatically. In a single year, 2011 to 2012, the percentage of middle and high school students using e-cigarettes more than doubled. “The e-cigarette industry has revived past tactics used to promote tobacco products to America’s youth,” said Rep. DeGette. “In essence, they are using ‘Joe Camel’ campaigns in the era of Facebook and Instagram. For far too long, advertising tactics just like these were used to hook generations of Americans to addictive and deadly tobacco products. We have significantly reduced smoking in part by banning the marketing techniques aimed at younger consumers, and we need to hold e-cigarettes to the same standard.” “Having actively worked on smoking prevention and cessation throughout my career and in my kids’ classrooms, I am very concerned about the widespread marketing of e-cigarettes to children,” said Rep. Esty. “Nicotine, a highly addictive drug, has serious impacts on children and adolescent brain development. Advertisements that highlight flavors like bubblegum or gummy bears and promote cartoon characters are shameless efforts to addict our kids. We’ve made too much progress reducing tobacco use to roll back the clock. This bill is an important first step, and I look forward to working with my colleagues to get it passed.” “As a mother of three sons, the health and well-being of our nation’s children will always be a primary concern,” said Rep. Bustos. “That’s why I’m joining with my colleagues today to lead a new effort to help prevent e-cigarettes from getting into kids’ hands. Though e-cigarettes don’t share all of the qualities of tobacco cigarettes, they are still proven to be addictive and pose a variety of health risks, and companies shouldn’t be allowed to market them to young people, period. Our bill will help snuff out these deplorable advertising tactics before a new generation becomes hooked on nicotine.” "As a physician, I have seen the devastating effects of nicotine addiction first hand,” said Dr. Ruiz. “It is unconscionable that tobacco companies, through the marketing of candy-like flavors, are targeting our youth. This legislation aims to prohibit the advertising of e-cigarettes to children and stop tobacco companies from creating a new generation of addicted smokers." “After decades spent working to curb youth tobacco use and the cigarette advertising targeted at children, we must remain vigilant for new attempts to get kids hooked on nicotine products,” said Rep. Bishop. “Although the electronic cigarettes that are being marketed may not contain tobacco, they contain many of the other harmful substances found in cigarettes – including nicotine. We cannot allow these products to be marketed towards children.” Click here to view some stark side-by-side comparisons of the marketing tactics by e-cigarette manufacturers and those by the major cigarette manufacturers before these practices were banned. Electronic cigarettes, also called e-cigarettes, are battery-operated products designed to deliver chemicals, often nicotine, in the form of an inhaled aerosol. Currently, unlike traditional cigarettes and other tobacco products, e-cigarettes can be legally sold to minors under the age of 18 in many states. According to the Surgeon General, 9 out of 10 smokers began smoking before age 18. There are serious health concerns with e-cigarettes, which may contain carcinogens and toxic chemicals like diethylene glycol, a chemical used in antifreeze. Studies have shown that nicotine use negatively impacts children’s brain development. The Protecting Children from Electronic Cigarette Advertising Act prohibits advertising, promoting, or marketing e-cigarettes in a manner that increases children’s use of e-cigarettes. The bill would allow for enforcement by state attorneys general and other officials, while also providing a mechanism for states to work with the Federal Trade Commission. This bill is a U.S. House counterpart to the U.S. Senate bill, S.2047. The bill has been endorsed by the American Academy of Pediatrics, the American Public Health Association, the American Heart Association, the American Lung Association, the American Cancer Society Cancer Action Network, and the Campaign for Tobacco-Free Kids. Letters of support are attached. ###
03.26.2014	Washington, D.C. – Today, U.S. Reps. Diana DeGette (CO-01), Ed Perlmutter (CO-07) and Jared Polis (CO-02) signed onto a petition renewing their call to House Republican Leadership to allow a vote on H.R. 15, a bipartisan, comprehensive immigration reform measure. The nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office projects comprehensive immigration reform will lower deficits by $900 billion. Furthermore, the Center for American Progress estimates it will bring in more than $1 trillion to the U.S. economy. “Our nation has needed comprehensive immigration reform for some time,” said Rep. DeGette. “Reform will support our friends and neighbors, strengthen our communities, and grow our economy. Republican leadership needs to stop coddling their most radical members and work for the good of the country; that means passing bipartisan, comprehensive immigration reform now.” "Reforming our broken immigration system makes sense -- in fact - dollars and cents," said Perlmutter. "There is bipartisan support among the American people AND in Congress to pass immigration reform. We can't delay. The time is now to move forward to fix the system, create American jobs, lower our deficit, strengthen our borders and give millions of undocumented Americans an earned pathway to citizenship." “Today we took steps to bypass an extreme wing of the House leadership that has been thwarting a bipartisan majority’s efforts to pass H.R. 15, a comprehensive immigration reform bill,” said Representative Polis. “This legislation, which I am proud to cosponsor, would bring tremendous benefits to families and businesses across Colorado and the nation, creating jobs, fueling innovation, and energizing our economy.” Colorado Senators Mark Udall and Michael Bennet also have urged House Republican leaders to pass the bipartisan immigration reform measure that already passed through the Senate by a vote of 68-32. ‪###
03.25.2014	WASHINGTON – Today, the House Pro-Choice Caucus led a press conference to discuss the Supreme Court’s hearing of oral arguments in the cases of Hobby Lobby vs. Sebelius and Sebelius v. Conestoga Wood, where for-profit corporations are challenging the Affordable Care Act’s requirement that private insurance plans cover birth control along with other preventive health services on the grounds that it violates the business owners’ religious beliefs. In January, Pro-Choice Caucus Co-Chairs Louise Slaughter (D-NY) and Diana DeGette (D-CO) led an amicus brief from 91 members of Congress arguing that the contraceptive coverage requirement does not violate the right to free exercise of religion guaranteed under the Constitution. “A woman’s personal decision about her health should remain exactly that: her decision, and not her boss’s business,” Representatives Slaughter and DeGette said. “These lawsuits are based on the faulty premise that a CEO’s religious beliefs extend to the corporation they control, and that those religious beliefs can be used to dictate the health decisions of their employees. The impact on millions of American women who obtain contraception and other reproductive health services through private health insurance is at stake, but the underlying constitutional implications – legalizing discrimination under the guise of religious freedom and giving corporations the same religious rights as individual persons – should provide the court with more than enough justification for rejecting these misguided lawsuits.” Prior to the Affordable Care Act, women were subjected to a discriminatory practice known as ‘gender rating’ – which caused women to be routinely be charged more than men for the same health care coverage. The Affordable Care Act has done away with this practice, and has required companies to cover critical women’s health services including mammograms, maternity care, and oral contraception at no extra cost. A ruling in favor of the petitioners would set a frightening precedent. Business owners could use the ruling to refuse to cover blood transfusions, children’s vaccines, HIV medications or other critical medical treatments based on their personal religious beliefs, and could open the door owners to legally discriminate against customers who do not share the same religious beliefs. ###
03.25.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee Chairman Tim Murphy (R-PA) and Ranking Member Diana DeGette (D-CO) today provided a progress report on the committee’s investigation into General Motors Company’s (GM) and the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration’s (NHTSA) response to consumer complaints related to stalling, airbag non-deployment, and ignition switch problems. GM CEO Mary Barra and NHTSA Acting Administrator David Friedman are both confirmed to testify at a hearing on April 1, now beginning at 2 p.m. in room 2123 of the Rayburn House Office Building. The hearing is entitled, "The GM Ignition Switch Recall: Why Did It Take So Long?" In response to the committee’s letters sent earlier this month, the committee began receiving documents and information today. “On Tuesday evening we received the first installment of documents from GM, and we expect that NHTSA will provide documents by the end of this week. Our task is now to sort through these pages, and find an answer to the simple question posed by both the public and the families who lost loved ones in these crashes: why did it take so long to address these safety problems and concerns?" said Murphy. "To get to the bottom of what went wrong, Congress needs to get answers straight from the top, and I am pleased we will hear directly from GM's chief executive, Mary Barra. I'm encouraged by her cooperation so far and hope that will continue so that we can work together to ensure Americans are safe on the road," said DeGette. Additional hearing details, the Majority Memorandum, a witness list, and witness testimony will be available here as they are posted. ###
03.21.2014	DENVER, CO – As the Detroit News reported today, General Motors (GM) CEO Mary Bara will testify on April 1, 2014 before the Energy & Commerce’s Oversight & Investigations Subcommittee following GM’s recall that is linked to 13 deaths due to the faulty ignition switch that causes airbag failure. The Oversight & Investigations Subcommittee – on which U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-01) serves as Ranking Member – will also hear from The National Highway Traffic Safety (NHSTA) Acting Administrator David Friedman. “I am eager to hear from GM and NHSTA about what they knew, when they knew it, and why these troubling patterns were not identified earlier,” said DeGette. “We need to get to the bottom of why it took a decade to act after so many safety complaints, injuries, and deaths. I will use the full investigative power of our committee to ensure everything possible is done to keep drivers and passengers safe. We cannot accept the unnecessary loss of more lives.” Last month, GM announced recalls for six vehicles models totaling an approximately 1.6 million vehicles worldwide. Two weeks ago, the New York Times reported on incidents involving GM vehicles and possible delays by the NHTSA in identifying problems. GM and NHSTA have both provided briefings to the Energy and Commerce Committee’s staff as the first step in the investigation. Last week, DeGette and bipartisan leaders requested information, documents, and communications from GM and NHSTA related to the vehicle incidents and delays. The recall covers six GM models: 2005-7 Chevrolet Cobalts; the 2007 Pontiac G5; 2003-7 Saturn Ions; 2006-7 Chevrolet HHRs; 2006-7 Pontiac Solstices and the 2007 Saturn Sky.
03.21.2014	DENVER, CO – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-01) issued the following statement on the Affordable Care Act, which marks its fourth anniversary this Sunday, March 23: “Four years ago, President Obama signed the Affordable Care Act into law, providing millions of Americans – many for the very first time – access to quality, affordable health coverage. Today, consumers enjoy protections against the health insurance industry’s worst historical practices, including annual and lifetime limits on coverage and denial of coverage due to pre-existing health conditions. Thanks to the Affordable Care Act, young adults are able to stay on their parents' health care plan until age 26, seniors are enjoying significant prescription drug savings, and all Americans have access to preventive care and services without cost. Additionally, the Affordable Care Act is the single greatest achievement in women’s health in a generation: for the first time, women in America cannot be charged more for health care simply because of their gender. “While there have been setbacks during the implementation of the law, more than 5 million people nationwide have signed up to receive plans through the health insurance marketplaces. Thanks to the Affordable Care Act, more Americans now have the economic and health security that every family deserves. “Even as Americans are relying on its benefits, the Affordable Care Act has been the target of unprecedented and relentless political attacks. Just last week, House Republicans held their 51st vote to obstruct, repeal, and undermine this vital law. And next week, the Supreme Court will hear arguments brought by for-profit corporations that claim the contraceptive coverage requirement under the Affordable Care Act violates their religious freedom. If these challenges are successful, women's personal health decisions will instead be in the hands of their bosses. “Four years after the Affordable Care Act became the law of the land, it is time to work together to ensure every American has access to quality, affordable health care and the personal security it provides.”
03.18.2014	DENVER – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-01) announced that Rachel Napierkowski, a senior at Bishop Machebeuf High School, has won Colorado’s First Congressional District Art Competition with her pen and ink piece entitled, “The King Crane”. The Congressional Arts Competition is a congressional program that is held throughout the country by members of Congress to raise awareness of the importance of art education and to recognize outstanding art students from their districts. The winning piece will be displayed with others from across the nation in the U.S. Capitol building in Washington, D.C. The competition was open to all high school students in the First Congressional District. A panel of volunteers from the local arts community assisted the Congresswoman in judging the annual competition. “Congratulations to Rachel, as well as all of the students who participated in the competition. Congratulations also to Machebeuf High School for fostering their students’ artistic abilities,” said Rep. DeGette. “As a member of the Congressional Arts Caucus, I am committed to advancing and strengthening art programs in schools so all students can reach their potential.” Shawn Michaelis from Colorado’s Finest High School won First Runner up with his work, “Dizzy Getting Bizzy”. Anna Le Pham, who also attends Machebeuf High School, won Second Runner up with “Still Life.” Two plane tickets have been provided to Rachel by Southwest Airlines so that she may attend a ribbon cutting ceremony in June in Washington D.C. with Rep. DeGette. There will also be a reception held by Congress for all the winners from across the country. ###
03.12.2014	WASHINGTON – Today, U.S. Reps. Diana DeGette (CO-01) and John D. Dingell (D-MI12) wrote to the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHSTA) urging regulators to set safety standards for tire pressure monitoring systems (TPMS) that span the life of a vehicle. “While safety standards for new vehicles were set a few years ago, nothing has been done to extend these standards throughout a vehicle’s life,” said DeGette. “Providing this clarity is critical to improving the safety of our vehicles.” Under the TREAD Act, NHSTA is to require all new motor vehicles to be equipped with a warning system if a tire is significantly underinflated. A NHSTA report in 2012 indicated that tire-related issues contribute to approximately 200,000 accidents a year. NHTSA further determined in the report that tire and wheel failure is a leading factor in vehicle-attributed accidents. The full text of the letter can be found below and here. March 12, 2014 The Honorable David J. Friedman Acting Administrator National Highway Traffic Safety Administration 1200 New Jersey Avenue, S.E. West Building Washington, D.C. 20590 Dear Acting Administrator Friedman: We write to encourage the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) to provide clarity and guidance about the treatment of tire pressure monitoring systems (TPMS) in the aftermarket. As you are aware, NHTSA’s April 2012 report, Tire-Related Factors in the Pre-Crash Phase, indicates that tire-related issues contribute to approximately 200,000 accidents a year. NHTSA further determined in that report that tire and wheel failure is a leading factor in accidents where the critical reason for the crash was attributed to the vehicle. TPMS helps mitigate such accidents by keeping drivers aware of their vehicles’ tire pressure status. Additionally, TPMS is an active safety system that requires service and repair throughout a vehicle’s lifetime. While NHTSA has specified clear TPMS standards for original equipment manufacturers, I understand there is still need for guidance clarifying that this active safety system should be maintained for the life of the vehicle according to original equipment manufacturers’ procedures and requirements. Clarification by NHTSA in this area will help the service and repair industry perform its job effectively and ensure the safety benefits TPMS provides are fully realized. Thank you for your kind consideration of our request. Should you require additional information, please feel free to be in touch with us, or have a member of your staff contact Andrew Woelfling in Congressman Dingell’s office at 202-225-4071 or Eleanor Bastian in Congresswoman DeGette’s office at 202-225-4431. Sincerely, John D. Dingell Member of Congress Diana DeGette Member of Congress ###
03.10.2014	WASHINGTON, DC— Today Ranking Member Henry A. Waxman and Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee Ranking Member Diana DeGette sent a letter to Chairmen Fred Upton and Tim Murphy requesting a hearing on the impact of states' refusal to expand Medicaid coverage under the Affordable Care Act on uninsured Americans suffering from mental illness and substance abuse. The American Mental Health Counselors Association found that nearly 3.7 million uninsured adults with serious mental health and substance abuse conditions will be ineligible for Medicaid coverage because they live in a state that refused to expand the program. This comes on top of over $4 billion in state cut to their mental health budgets between 2009 and 2012, even as demand for public mental health services has increased. The Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations has held four hearings, roundtables, and forums on mental health issues, but has yet to address this important issue for individuals with mental illnesses. The full text of the letter is available below and online here. March 10, 2014 The Honorable Fred Upton Chairman Committee on Energy and Commerce 2125 Rayburn House Office Building Washington, DC 20515 The Honorable Tim Murphy Chairman Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations Committee on Energy and Commerce 2125 Rayburn House Office Building Washington, DC 20515 Dear Chairman Upton and Chairman Murphy: We are writing to urge you to hold a hearing on the impact of states’ refusal to expand Medicaid coverage under the Affordable Care Act on uninsured Americans suffering from mental illness and substance abuse. Last month, the American Mental Health Counselors Association released a report revealing that nearly 3.7 million uninsured adults with serious mental health and substance use conditions will be ineligible for Medicaid simply because they live in one of the 25 states that refused to expand the program under the Affordable Care Act. This includes over 768,000 individuals with a serious mental illness, such as major depression, schizophrenia, or bipolar disorder; over 1.5 million individuals suffering from serious psychological distress, such as panic, anxiety, and mood disorders; and nearly 1.4 million individuals dealing with a substance use disorder. In Chairman Murphy’s home state of Pennsylvania alone, there are 203,000 uninsured individuals with serious mental health or substance use conditions who will not receive care because the state declined to expand the program. Between 2009 and 2012, states cut approximately $4.35 billion from their mental health budgets, even as demand for public mental health services increased. With the federal government covering the full cost of Medicaid expansion through 2016, we cannot understand why governors and state legislatures have purposely prevented millions of low-income Americans in desperate need of lifesaving healthcare services from obtaining quality, affordable insurance. A hearing will let us examine their rationale for refusing to provide coverage. The full Committee and the Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations have held four hearings and requested hundreds of thousands of pages of documents since October 1, 2013, to investigate technical problems with Healthcare.gov that prevented some individuals from signing up for insurance in the initial days and weeks of the open enrollment period. And you have shown an admirable interest in the plight of individuals with mental illnesses, holding four hearings, roundtables, and forums – and planning for a fifth later this month – to investigate concerns about whether these individuals are receiving appropriate care. Yet you have not held a single hearing examining how the state governors and legislatures’ refusal to expand Medicaid will prevent millions of Americans with mental illnesses from obtaining health insurance. We request that you hold a hearing on this topic as soon as possible. Sincerely, Henry A. Waxman Ranking Member Diana DeGette Ranking Member Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations ###
03.05.2014	WASHINGTON – Today, U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (C0-01) urged her colleagues to focus on the priorities that the American people want Congress to address and stop spending taxpayers’ time passing grandstanding bills. Rep. DeGette did so after House passage of H.R. 4118, which marked the 50th vote by House Republicans to repeal and undermine the Affordable Care Act. “Today’s vote marks the 50th attempt by House Republicans to obstruct, undermine, and repeal the Affordable Care Act, jeopardizing the benefits millions of Americans have gained under the law,” said Rep. DeGette. “Despite the repeated failure of these political tactics, House Republicans show no signs of ending their crusade to put health insurance companies back in charge of Americans’ health care. “At the same time, House Republican leadership has failed to act on this priorities that Americans actually want Congress to deal with: creating jobs, securing genuine opportunity for people to get ahead, and growing our economy. We could work together on meaningful legislation to renew emergency unemployment insurance, raise the minimum wage, and tackle comprehensive immigration reform; instead, Congress reached a sad milestone with another vote to take health care benefits from millions of Americans.” Thanks to the Affordable Care Act, 4 million Americans and counting are enrolled in health insurance marketplaces, 3.1 million young adults have stayed on their parents’ plans until 26, and millions more have secured coverage through Medicaid expansion. In addition, 129 million Americans with pre-existing conditions can get coverage without being charged more or losing coverage when they get sick. ###
03.05.2014	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-01) offered the following comment after the Secretary of Energy Advisory Board issued a new report advising the full disclosure of chemicals used in hydraulic fracturing: “I am pleased to see the Energy Department’s Advisory Board had adopted the same approach I have been calling for under the FRAC Act. Companies can publicly disclose the list of the chemicals they use without revealing secrets about the exact formula. If this type of public disclosure is planned for drilling on federal lands run by the Bureau of Land Management, we should give the public that same information for every drilling well, and Congress can make that happen by passing the FRAC Act.” ###
02.27.2014	WASHINGTON - Today, U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-1) presided as Ranking Member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce Oversight and Investigation Subcommittee’s hearing on fighting the illegal supply chains of counterfeit drugs. Rep. DeGette highlighted the dangers of drug counterfeiting and questioned government agency leaders and other experts on how best to tackle this serious issue. DeGette shows the package quality of counterfeit drugs “Counterfeit drugs can contain dangerous impurities, incorrect ingredients, improper dosages, and also have improper handling. These fraudsters spend a lot of time recreating labels and packaging for these dangerous drugs so that they look exactly like the real thing,” said DeGette. “They spend more time worrying about what the packaging is going to look like to fool the consumer and a lot less time worrying about whether there is actual medication inside.” “We have seen a number of troubling counterfeit drug cases recently. Criminals have tampered with pharmaceuticals used to treat illnesses like cancer and HIV/AIDS,” said DeGette. “Drugs used to treat schizophrenia were replaced with aspirin, counterfeit cancer drugs were tainted with nonsterile tap water, and counterfeit AIDS drugs have been found to lack any active ingredient.” During the hearing, DeGette cited a recent FDA survey that found approximately one in four Americans purchase prescription drugs online. “Most consumers purchase prescription drugs from reputable businesses, but there are thousands of rogue internet pharmacies. We need to have partnerships between the pharmaceutical companies, government agencies, non-profit agencies, and a variety of sources to let people know how dangerous it can be to buy drugs online.” DeGette continued, “Consumers should never have to fear that the prescription drug they need may actually make them sick or endanger the lives of their loved ones.” ###
02.27.2014	DENVER –U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (D-CO) has nominated 18 high school students from Colorado’s First Congressional District to the United States service academy of their choice. “I’m proud of each of these students, and we can all look forward to their promising futures,” said DeGette. “It is a great honor to pursue a career in public service, and I am gratified to see some of Colorado’s best and brightest choose to continue their education and begin their careers in service to our country.” Each year, the U.S. Service Academies (U.S. Air Force Academy, U.S. Military Academy, U.S. Naval Academy, and U.S. Merchant Marine Academy) accept a limited number of students. In order to be admitted, students must receive a congressional nomination from either their U.S. Representative or Senator and must meet the highly competitive educational and extracurricular standards that are set by the individual academies as well as standards for physical aptitude and medical fitness. As part of their application process students must receive a nomination from a Member of Congress. Since many more individuals apply for a nomination than can be nominated, it is a competitive process. A volunteer citizen advisory board helps Congresswoman DeGette select the strongest candidates. The full list of nominees is below, along with the high school they currently attend. U.S. Air Force Academy 1. Michael Chado* – Lakewood High School 2. Tyler Linnebur – Collegiate Academy of Colorado 3. Colby Pedrick – U.S. Air Force Academy Prep Academy 4. Charles Bruce* – Denver School of Science and Technology 5. Cassidy Hicks – South High School U.S. Military Academy 1. Daniel Luna* - John F. Kennedy High School 2. Jess Randol* – East High School 3. Dallas Faircloth – U.S. Military Prep Academy 4. Taylor Dugdale – Columbine High School 5. Lauren McGovern* – George Washington High School U.S. Naval Academy 1. Zachary Lowe – Chatfield Senior High School 2. Alexander Abrashoff* – Dakota Ridge High School 3. Cory Christianssen – John F. Kennedy High School 4. Anthony Giuntini – Mother of Divine Grace High School 5. Whitney Navarro – Kent Denver U.S. Merchant Marine Academy 1. Emily Gramer – Littleton High School 2. Courtney Geisert – Columbine High School 3. Naudia Sweets – South High School *Denotes acceptance into the respective service academy as of today ###
02.25.2014	WASHINGTON – Today, U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-01) and Rep. Joe Barton (TX-06), Co-Chairs of the Congressional Bi-Partisan Privacy Caucus, released the following statement after the U.S. Department of Education issued new guidance on school districts’ handling of student data: “Educators have a special obligation to protect the children in their care, and that obligation extends to the personal information of minors. As schools and school systems handle larger volumes of student data and store more information online, the privacy implications for students’ personal information grow much more complex, and educators at every level must prioritize student privacy. “We appreciate Secretary Duncan’s attention to this issue, and today’s guidance is part of an ongoing effort to better protect personal information in a changing educational environment. This work will have to continue as educators become more data-driven and more student information is collected. Education innovations will be for naught if the personal data they draw on is not secured.” ###
02.24.2014	WASHINGTON – Today, U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-01) released the following statement after Rep. John Dingell (MI-12), the Dean of the House and longest-serving federal legislator in American history, announced his retirement: “John Dingell has been a towering figure in Congress and a living example of our potential to do great things on behalf of the American people. The United States is a healthier, safer, and fairer place because of Chairman Dingell. Whether he was grilling witnesses in the committee room or pulling colleagues aside to help pull a legislative deal together, Chairman Dingell demonstrated a mastery of legislative skill, preparation, good humor, and tenacity. “I count myself lucky to call John Dingell my mentor and my friend. The first time he put his long arm around me and said, ‘Diana, I have a little chore for you…’ I knew big things were coming. To study at his knee has been an unforgettable professional experience that I will carry with me forever.” ###
02.14.2014	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-1) issued the following statement after the Departments of Justice and Treasury announced new guidance for financial institutions that clarifies reporting requirements and enforcement priorities, paving the way for interested institutions to do business with regulated marijuana businesses in Colorado and Washington State: “Colorado lawmakers, regulators, and law enforcement have been working diligently to carry out the will of the voters and responsibly manage recreational marijuana sales. As businesses in Denver and across Colorado have raised concerns about their lack of access to financial institutions, today’s guidance offers a needed step towards clarity and safety for retail stores. “I am encouraged by this guidance, as it shows that the federal government is acknowledging the will of Colorado voters. I still believe Congress should pass my bi-partisan bill to ensure that states that pass their own laws dealing with marijuana are not undermined by the federal government.” ###
02.11.2014	WASHINGTON, DC— Today, Energy and Commerce Committee Ranking Member Henry A. Waxman and Oversight Subcommittee Ranking Member Diana DeGette praised the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) for releasing its long-awaited permitting guidance for oil and gas hydraulic fracturing activities using diesel fuels. This guidance clarifies that a company must obtain a permit under the Safe Drinking Water Act (SDWA) before using diesel fuels in hydraulic fracturing and provides information for permit writers on how to protect underground sources of drinking water. “The Safe Drinking Water Act is intended to prevent underground injection that could endanger drinking water sources,” said Rep. Waxman. “EPA has taken an important step toward that goal by clarifying the existing requirement that oil and gas companies obtain permits before using diesel in hydraulic fracturing and giving regulators more tools to ensure drilling proceeds safely and responsibly.” "Nearly ten years ago, the Republican-led Energy Policy Act of 2005 singled out the potential dangers associated with using diesel in fracking fluid," said Rep. DeGette. "While today’s guidance was a long time coming, I am glad to see that the EPA recommends robust oversight whenever diesel fuels are used for fracking. My bi-partisan Fracturing Responsibility and Awareness of Chemicals (FRAC) Act takes additional steps necessary to protect the health of our communities.” In 2005, Congress passed the Energy Policy Act, which contained a provision limiting the application of SDWA to hydraulic fracturing except when diesel is used. Until today, EPA has not issued any regulations or guidance to implement this statutory change, raising questions about how state and EPA permit writers should apply the law. In 2011, Democrats on the House Energy and Commerce Committee released an analysis showing that oil and gas service companies had continued to use diesel fuels in their fracturing fluids without obtaining permits. EPA’s guidance clearly states that EPA, where it directly implements underground injection control (UIC) program, and states and tribes with primary enforcement authority “must issue a Class II permit prior to the injection of diesel fuels in the [hydraulic fracturing] fluid or propping agents.” It provides technical recommendations for how EPA permit writers can mitigate the potential risks of diesel fuel injection during hydraulic fracturing. This guidance applies only to permit writers in states where EPA is the permitting authority for the UIC program, although states and tribes with enforcement authority may adopt the recommendations. ###
02.04.2014	Today, U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-01) and Rep. Joe Barton (TX-06), Co-Chairs of the Congressional Bi-Partisan Privacy Caucus, released the following statement after Transportation Secretary Anthony Foxx announced that new cars would soon be required to have connected vehicle technologies: “Americans must have confidence that their privacy and personal data is protected under any mandatory connected vehicle program,” said Barton and DeGette. “Vehicle-to-vehicle communications will generate enormous amounts of data about people’s driving and personal movements, and we must ensure that this private information can be safeguarded. “We look forward to working with Secretary Foxx to address these concerns, and we hope that the Department of Transportation will collaborate with congressional stakeholders and members of the auto industry at every stage of their work.” As technological innovations are increasingly connecting people, computers, and everyday devices, the Congressional Bi-Partisan Privacy Caucus explores data privacy and security issues and seeks to positively impact policymaking in this important area. ###
01.29.2014	WASHINGTON – Today, U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-01) issued the following statement on her vote against the Conference Report on H.R. 2642, the Federal Agriculture Reform and Risk Management Act of 2013. “I voted against the conference report today because the cuts to the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) in the final bill are untenable. It is sad that Congress cannot provide the necessary funding to Americans who are struggling to put food on the table.” ###
01.28.2014	Bill Would Restrict Right to Use Private Funds for Abortion GOP Rep. Claimed Targeting Women’s Health “Promotes Job Creation” WASHINGTON – Today, U.S. Representatives Louise M. Slaughter (D-NY) and Diana DeGette (D-CO), co-chairs of the Pro-Choice Caucus in the House of Representatives, slammed the passage of another GOP bill attacking women’s health. The fraudulently-titled “No Taxpayer Funding for Abortion Act” would actually place restrictions on how women can spend their own money in purchasing private health insurance plans. “H.R. 7 is a reflection of a Majority that is out of touch with the American people, and struggling to understand fundamental truths about reproductive health – and we really mean struggle,” Rep. Slaughter said on the Floor of the House. “This extreme legislation was originally sponsored by a man, originated from a subcommittee composed of 13 men, and was passed out of the Judiciary Committee with the votes of 21 Republican men. This has been the problem for a long time – men in blue suits and red ties determining what women can and should do when it comes to their own health.” View Slaughter’s quote here. View Slaughter’s full floor speech here. “There is no taxpayer funding for abortion and the Affordable Care Act does not change that,” Rep. DeGette said. “This extreme legislation not only restricts comprehensive health care for women, it undermines a woman’s right to make her own health care decisions under her insurance policy, with her own money.” View DeGette’s floor speech here. Contrary to the bill’s title, current law already prohibits the use of taxpayer dollars for funding of abortion except in the cases of rape, incest, or to save the life of the mother. This bill would instead restrict the way women could use private dollars to obtain private insurance. Millions of women who work for small businesses receiving federal tax credits would lose their access to health insurance that covered abortion, despite the fact that 87 percent of employer-provided health insurance plans cover abortion procedures. The bill would also target middle-class and working women who purchase health coverage on the individual market through health exchanges, and would undermine the District of Columbia’s ability to use their own funds to help women access comprehensive health services. Previous versions of this legislation contained shocking provisions that attempted to change the definition of rape, and would subject rape survivors to an IRS audit in some cases if they had used abortion services. Anti-choice legislation has drawn some extreme comments from Republican backers in the 113th Congress. Attempting to deflect criticism that the GOP has no plan to create jobs, Judiciary Chairman Rep. Bob Goodlatte (R-VA), claimed this bill attacking women’s health “promotes job creation.” This comes on the heels of Rep. Trent Franks’ (R-AZ) comments that “the incidence of rape resulting in pregnancy are very low.” While Republicans in Congress and state governments have launched an unprecedented attack on women’s health, the country has moved in the opposite direction, becoming more pro-choice. Seventy percent of Americans agree that Roe v. Wade should not be overturned. For the first time in history, a majority of Americans – 54 percent – say that abortion “should be legal either always or most of the time.” Sixty-four percent of Americans agree that “Decisions on abortion should be made by a woman and her doctor.” Only 24 percent say “Government has a right and obligation to pass restrictions on abortion.” Members of the Pro-Choice Caucus and pro-choice advocates will lead a protest tomorrow in the Capitol.
01.28.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-01), Co-Chair the Congressional Bi-Partisan Privacy Caucus, issued the following statement in recognition of the 7th Annual Data Privacy Day. “As technological innovations are increasingly connecting people, computers, and everyday devices, we must be mindful of the impact on individual privacy,” said DeGette. “It is vital that consumers are informed and have control over how their personal information is gathered and used. Innovation and privacy are not fundamentally opposed, but too often privacy takes a backseat. I will continue to work with my colleagues in Congress, the federal government, privacy advocates, and responsible businesses toward improved privacy protections.” ###
01.28.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi (D-CA), U.S. Reps. Louise Slaughter (D-NY), and Diana DeGette (D-CO), along with Democratic Whip Steny Hoyer (D-MD), Ranking House Judiciary Member John Conyers, Jr. (D-MI), Ranking House Education and the Workforce Member George Miller (D-CA), Ranking House Energy and Commerce Member Henry A. Waxman (D-CA), Ranking House Ways and Means Member Sander Levin (D-MI), and Ranking House Subcommittee on the Constitution and Civil Justice Member Jerrold Nadler (D-NY) are filing an amicus brief in the United States Supreme Court in Sebelius v. Hobby Lobby Stores and Conestoga Wood Specialties Corp. v Sebelius. Those challenging the contraceptive coverage requirement under the Affordable Care Act (ACA) claim that it imposes a substantial burden on the exercise of religion. A total of 91 House members have signed onto the brief. These members chose to participate as amici in these cases because they want the Supreme Court to hear the full story from Congress. They strongly believe the contraceptive coverage requirement does not violate the free exercise of religion and will ensure all Americans receive vital preventive health care services. The preventive care provisions, including the contraceptive coverage requirement, are the least restrictive means of accomplishing Congress’ goal of ensuring the necessary healthcare coverage for women. In the amicus, the members explain how the legislative history of the ACA supports the conclusion that the contraceptive coverage requirement of the ACA satisfies the test applicable to a free exercise of religion challenge under the Religious Freedom Restoration Act (RFRA). As the Congressional amici point out to the court: “The contraceptive coverage requirement does not substantially burden any exercise of religion in which the Corporations might be found to engage because it does not compel the Corporations to administer or use the contraceptive methods to which they object, nor does it require them to adhere to, affirm, or abandon a particular belief. It merely requires the Corporation, like other for-profit employers to provide comprehensive insurance coverage under which their employees may make their own personal decisions whether to use whatever form of contraception, if any, best suits their individualized health and wellness needs.” Full text of amicus brief Lead signatories: Nancy Pelosi Louise Slaughter Diana DeGette Steny H. Hoyer John Conyers, Jr. George Miller Henry Waxman Sander Levin Jerrold Nadler Full list of signatories ###
01.28.2014	WASHINGTON, DC— Today Energy and Commerce Committee Ranking Member Henry A. Waxman and Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee Ranking Member Diana DeGette sent a letter to Chairmen Fred Upton and Tim Murphy to request a hearing on recent reports of an onslaught of telephone scams, particularly targeting employees at work and older Americans. As fraudulent telephone schemes are on the rise, the members seek to explore their impact on delivery of public services and to better understand how consumers can protect themselves. The full text of the letter is available below and online here. January 28, 2014 The Honorable Fred Upton Chairman Committee on Energy and Commerce 2125 Rayburn House Office Building Washington, DC 20515 The Honorable Tim Murphy Chairman Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations Committee on Energy and Commerce 2125 Rayburn House Office Building Washington, DC 20515 Dear Chairman Upton and Chairman Murphy: Last week, the New York Times reported that “new technology has led to an onslaught of Internet-inspired fraud tactics that try to use telephone calls to dupe millions of people or to overwhelm switchboards for essential public services.” We are writing to request that the Committee hold a hearing on these and other telephone scams, their impact on the delivery of essential public services, and how consumers can protect themselves. Fraudulent telephone schemes have increased in recent years, as technology has enabled swindlers to initiate millions of phone calls at once, often tricking people into turning over sensitive information or shutting down important phone systems. These schemes are widespread because they are lucrative, easy to initiate, and inexpensive to carry out. In addition to targeting older Americans, these new threats are targeting employees at work who may pay up “out of uncertainty about whether they owe…money or to avoid embarrassment at their workplaces.” Due to the anonymous nature of the internet, it is difficult to track down and investigate the perpetrators. The Department of Homeland Security has warned federal agencies and local governments of attacks that flood phone systems, “making them unusable by legitimate callers.” Over the past two years in Texas, “the phone lines of several emergency dispatch centers were disabled…because of a surge of automated calls” and “an intensive care unit’s phone lines were disabled for six hours.” According to the New York Times, in both cases employees at the facilities were then contacted by callers posing as debt collectors seeking repayment of supposed loans. The callers threatened the employees, telling them that if they didn’t pay, “the lines at the employees’ workplaces would be brought down.” There have been “over 200 such attacks” waged against public sector groups providing vital information and services. While the public has been trained to be skeptical of fraudulent email requests where the perpetrator poses as a trustworthy entity, or “phishing,” there is less awareness about the danger of the telephone version of phishing, known as “vishing” (a combination of voice and phishing). Some of the telephone schemes target public service phone systems through automated dialing software, but others target unsuspecting individuals, posing as financial institutions and asking for credit card numbers and pin numbers. According to the Federal Trade Commission, in 2012 telephone calls accounted for 34% of fraud complaints, up from 20% in 2010. Because of the evidence that these new fraudulent telephone schemes are on the rise and their targeting of essential public services, the Committee should hold a hearing to fully explore these issues. The hearing should examine: 1. The prevalence and impact of these telephone schemes and their implications for consumer privacy and protection. 2. The impact of fraudulent telephone schemes on the delivery of essential public services. 3. The targeting of older Americans and other vulnerable populations. 4. Statutory changes, best practices, or educational campaigns, if any, needed to help federal agencies, other public sector groups, and individuals protect themselves against these schemes. We urge you to hold this hearing as soon as possible. Sincerely, Henry A. Waxman Ranking Member Diana DeGette Ranking Member Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations
01.27.2014	DENVER, CO – With the Denver Broncos set to face the Seattle Seahawks in Super Bowl XLVIII, U.S. Rep Diana DeGette (C0-01) and the Colorado House Delegation extended a friendly wager with the Washington House Delegation, led by Rep. Jim McDermott (WA-07). With a Broncos’ victory, the Washington House delegation will provide some delectable food and wine to their colleagues from Colorado. In the unlikely event the Seahawks are victorious, the Colorado House delegation will share some of Colorado’s best-known delicacies. “My Colorado colleagues and I are proud to offer up some of our state’s fantastic beverages and food for our friends from Washington,” said DeGette. “With the Denver Broncos on the verge of capturing their 3rd Lombardi Trophy, we are looking forward to enjoying the best that Washington state has to offer.” “It’s often said that championships are won with defense, and we couldn’t agree more. The last time the Seahawks played a Manning at MetLife stadium, our number one ranked defense led by the ‘Legion of Boom’ forced 5 interceptions and gave up exactly zero points,” said the Washington delegation. “With that in mind, we’d like to thank the Colorado delegation’s very generous contribution to the victory party that we’ll be holding on February 3rd. Go Hawks!” The products wagered by the Colorado House delegation include: Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-01): Stranahan’s Whiskey & Tamales Rep. Jared Polis (CO-02): Celestial Seasonings Tea Rep. Scott Tipton (CO-03): Enstrom Toffee Rep. Cory Gardner (CO-04): Rocky Mountain Oysters Rep. Doug Lamborn (CO-05): 2 locally-sourced, hormone and antibiotic-free Callicrate Beef sirloin steaks from Ranch Foods Direct Rep. Mike Coffman (CO-06): 6 pack of Dry Dock Brewing Company’s Amber Ale Rep. Ed Perlmutter (CO-07): Caution Brewery Bomber Bat, barrel aged version of their smoked robust porter. The Colorado House Delegation looks forward to enjoying the items wagered by their colleagues from Washington: Rep. Suzan DelBene (01-Wash.): Woodinville Wine and Smoked Salmon Rep. Rick Larsen (02-Wash.): Gin from Everett's Bluewater Distilling Rep. Jaime Herrera Beutler (03-Wash.): Candy from Chehalis Mints Rep. Doc Hastings (04-Wash.): A bottle of Central Washington Wine Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (05-Wash.): Cougar Gold Cheese from Pullman Rep. Derek Kilmer (06-Wash.): Caramel Apples from Amy’s Decadent Chocolates and Almond Rocha Rep. Jim McDermott (07-Wash.): Theo’s Chocolate Rep. Dave Reichert (08-Wash.): Boehm's Chocolates, Blueberry Hill Farm's blueberry pies, and Washington apples Rep. Adam Smith (09-Wash.): Vietnamese BBQ from Rainier Restaurant and BBQ Rep. Denny Heck (10-Wash.): Fisher Fair Scone Mix. Delegation: Skittles ###
01.24.2014	Washington, DC – The Colorado Congressional delegation today urged the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) to allocate additional resources from the Community Development Block Grant-Disaster Recovery (CDBG-DR) program to help fill a shortfall in flood recovery resources. The funding would be used to repair and rebuild housing, farms, businesses, and public infrastructure for which there is insufficient funding available through other federal agencies. The delegation was successful in securing $62.8 million from HUD’s CDBG-DR program last year to finance ongoing flood recovery work in Colorado. In a letter to HUD Secretary Shaun Donovan, the delegation wrote, “The state’s initial assessment of housing damage, farm and business damage, and public infrastructure damage all far exceed, by hundreds of millions of dollars, the total amount federal agencies have identified as eligible for reimbursement under existing federal funding streams. Months after the flood waters receded, state and local recovery officials continue to grapple with a long list of incomplete projects to repair ditches, dams and stream gages, or rechannel waterways across the Colorado Front Range. In many cases, no federal funding is currently available to support these projects. Cumulatively, Colorado still faces an enormous shortfall in total flood recovery resources. This shortage underscores the need for additional CDBG-DR funding.” The entire Congressional delegation has worked closely with Governor Hickenlooper and state agencies since the flooding began to ensure that Coloradans have every resource needed to rebuild. In October, a delegation-wide effort helped successfully lift the cap on the amount of emergency transportation resources Colorado could access to rebuild damaged infrastructure. They also urged the President to quickly declare an emergency when flooding began to ensure that emergency funding was available for response and recovery efforts. The lawmakers will continue to work together with federal agencies to advocate for critical federal resources to support the recovery across Colorado. Full Text of the Letter: January 24, 2014 Dear Secretary Donovan: We write to request the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) make a second allocation of Community Development Block Grant Disaster Recovery (CDBG-DR) funds in 2014 for Colorado to help finance urgently needed flood recovery projects in our state. First, we want to express our appreciation for your work and the work of HUD staff in support of communities working to recover from the floods that struck our state this past fall. As you know, HUD recently allocated $62.8 million in CDBG-DR funds to finance ongoing flood recovery work in Colorado. State officials are working to implement a plan to use these dollars to help Colorado families, businesses and municipalities rebuild flooded homes and damaged infrastructure. We also want to highlight the substantial unmet need our state continues to face in the wake of the historic September, 2013 floods. Coloradans continue to face significant challenges in the rebuilding and recovery effort. As you saw during your recent visit, the scale of the damage is overwhelming. The Federal Emergency Management Agency, the Small Business Administration, the Federal Highway Administration, the U.S. Department of Agriculture and other federal agencies are all providing substantial assistance to help Colorado homeowners, businesses, and local governments repair the damage. These resources, however, cannot completely meet the needs our residents face. The state’s initial assessment of housing damage, farm and business damage, and public infrastructure damage all far exceed, by hundreds of millions of dollars, the total amount federal agencies have identified as eligible for reimbursement under existing federal funding streams. Months after the flood waters receded, state and local recovery officials continue to grapple with a long list of incomplete projects to repair ditches, dams and stream gages, or rechannel waterways across the Colorado Front Range. In many cases, no federal funding is currently available to support these projects. Cumulatively, Colorado still faces an enormous shortfall in total flood recovery resources. This shortage underscores the need for additional CDBG-DR funding. We understand HUD currently has over $3 billion in unallocated CDBG-DR funds. Given Colorado’s ongoing challenges, we request that HUD allocate additional CDBG-DR funds to the state this year. Thank you again for your support and your consideration. # # #
01.15.2014	WASHINGTON – Today, U.S. Rep Diana DeGette (CO-01) issued the following statement regarding her support of the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2014 (Omnibus), which passed the House 359-67. “While I do not like everything in this bill, it was a compromise that will benefit Colorado and the nation. The Omnibus makes targeted investments in key areas like medical research and disaster relief. For a change, the bill does not include many of the harmful riders contained in previous legislation. I hope that passage of this bill will pave the way toward more bipartisan cooperation to keep our nation on the road to economy recovery.” ###
01.15.2014	WASHINGTON – Fed up with the House GOP’s focus on restricting women’s health rights instead of considering a real economic agenda for women and families, pro-choice members of Congress led by Rep. Diana DeGette (D-CO) and Rep. Louise Slaughter (D-NY) – Co-Chairs of the Pro-Choice Caucus – protested a House Judiciary Committee Markup of another anti-choice bill. There are no women on the Republican side of the Judiciary Committee. “The New Year has barely begun and already the Republicans are returning to their same old playbook,” said Rep. DeGette. “While women and their families strongly oppose political interference in their health care decisions, Republicans are recklessly pursing an agenda to undermine women’s reproductive rights.” “It’s increasingly evident that the only women’s agenda that the Republicans have put forward is to take away your health care rights and then tell you to get lost,” Rep. Slaughter said. “Women are sick and tired of these constant attacks on our constitutionally-protected right to choose, while priorities like equal pay, fair wages, and paid family leave go unaddressed. If Republicans in Washington have any hope of repairing their relationship with American women, they need to turn away from these anti-choice bills and start helping American women with the kitchen table issues important to them.” Watch Rep. DeGette discuss the Republican anti-choice agenda on MSNBC today. H.R. 7, misleadingly titled the “No Taxpayer Funding for Abortion Act,” would enact far-reaching restrictions on women’s health that would also impact private insurance coverage of abortion procedures. The bill would restrict coverage for women’s health in private insurance plans and through the Affordable Care Act, deny critical tax credits to small businesses that choose private health plans that cover women’s health, and would prevent federal employees, women in military hospital overseas, and low-income women, specifically in Washington D.C., from accessing critical women’s health services. A previous version of this legislation made headlines in 2011 for trying to change the definition of rape. Women’s health rights are not just under attack in Congress – they are being targeted at the Supreme Court and at the state level as well. This morning the Supreme Court heard arguments in a case regarding buffer zones around reproductive health clinics, established to ensure that women can receive health care without fear of violence or intimidation. In addition, the Supreme Court has accepted challenges to the Affordable Care Act’s contraception mandate. Last week, Justice Sonia Sotomayor issued a temporary stay on the mandate due to a challenge from a religious group. This is despite the fact that this group would not be required to provide access to contraception under the mandate, leading some news outlets to speculate that the challenge is being propped up by anti-choice forces as a public relations move. Later this year, the court will entertain a full-blown challenge to the mandate by a for-profit corporation. Tellingly, this company used to offer its employees an insurance plan that covered the exact same birth control methods it now claims is a violation of religious freedom. Earlier this year, national news outlets reported on a Guttmacher Institute analysis revealing an unprecedented level of anti-choice legislation enacted at the state level since the Republican wave election of 2010. Between 2011 and 2013, 205 anti-choice measures have been enacted by state legislatures. By comparison, that three-year tally outpaced the total number of anti-choice measures passed in the prior ten years: 189. Instead of focusing on attacking women’s health care, Republicans should be working with Democrats on a real women’s agenda , one that gives women and their families better economic security by increasing the minimum wage, establishing equal pay and pay check fairness, and promoting affordable child care and paid sick leave.
01.15.2014	Earlier today, House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-VA) defended the committee’s attack on women’s health care rights, saying it “promotes job creation.” Here’s the full quote: Chairman Goodlatte: It's very much the case that those of us in the Majority support this legislation because it is the morally right thing to do, but it is also very, very true that having a growing population and new children brought into the world is not harmful to job creation. It very much promotes job creation for all of the care and services and so on, that needs to be provided by a lot of people to raise children. View the video here (courtesy of ThinkProgress). Rep. Slaughter and Rep. DeGette, co-chairs of the Pro-Choice Caucus, responded: “After years of stalling, Congressional Republicans have finally released their jobs plan: attacking women’s health,” Reps. Slaughter and DeGette said. “To paraphrase our old friend, Rep. Barney Frank, Republicans in Washington believe that life begins at conception but ends at birth – they want to eliminate contraception and abortion, but won’t support early childhood education like Head Start or universal Pre-K, pay equity for single mothers, affordable child care, or SNAP benefits. It’s time to stop attacking women’s health and start paying attention to the economic issues that Americans really care about.” ###
01.10.2014	WASHINGTON – Today, U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-01) issued the following statement in opposition to H.R. 3830, the Bipartisan Congressional Trade Priorities Act of 2014, which would give President Obama the authority to fast track U.S. trade agreements. “I am opposed to H.R. 3830 because granting the President authority to fast track trade bills would interfere with Congress’ constitutional duty by forcing a quick up or down vote without the ability to offer amendments. Congress has a responsibility to ensure trade deals are consistent with our values and fair to American workers. I take this seriously and carefully evaluate all trade agreements on their merits. This legislation would impede my ability to represent my constituents on these crucial issues.” ###
01.08.2014	House Judiciary Subcommittee Hearing Thursday on Anti-Choice Legislation Rep. Ryan To Fight For Refusal Clause in Omnibus Bill WASHINGTON – This past week, national news outlets reported on a Guttmacher Institute analysis revealing an unprecedented level of anti-choice legislation enacted at the state level since the Republican wave election of 2010. Between 2011 and 2013, 205 anti-choice measures have been enacted by state legislatures. By comparison, that three-year tally outpaced the total number of anti-choice measures passed in the prior ten years: 189. Now, anti-choice political forces are preparing for a banner year in Washington, where a radical GOP Congress and a conservative majority on the Supreme Court are issuing severe threats to women’s health. “Here we go again. Republicans appear intent on continuing their extreme anti-choice agenda,” said Rep. DeGette. “Instead of constantly trying to interfere with a woman’s personal medical decisions, Republicans should be focusing their efforts – and our precious time – on issues that will get Americans back to work and strengthen our economy.” “After waging an all-out assault on women’s health in state capitols across the country, Washington Republicans are again planning to force their anti-choice views on American women at the federal level,” Rep. Slaughter said. “Americans want to see Congress create jobs and fix our crumbling infrastructure, not launch more anti-woman crusades.” Legislatively, Republicans in the House will act on Speaker Boehner’s previous announcement that restricting women’s health is “one of our most fundamental goals.” This week, the House Judiciary Committee’s Subcommittee on Civil and Constitutional Rights – a committee made up of 13 men chaired by Rep. Trent Franks (R-AZ) who caused an uproar in 2013 when he said that “the incidence of rape resulting in pregnancy are very low” – will hold a hearing on a bill called the “No Taxpayer Funding for Abortion Act.” A previous version of this legislation made headlines in 2011 for trying to change the definition of rape. Next week, the House will consider an omnibus funding bill, and Rep. Paul Ryan, Chairman of the Budget committee, said that he would fight to add a refusal clause, also known as a conscience clause, to the bill, which could allow employers and insurers to opt out of preventative care for women based solely on the personal beliefs of the employer. Meanwhile, the Supreme Court has accepted challenges to the Affordable Care Act’s contraception mandate. Last week, Justice Sonia Sotomayor issued a temporary stay on the mandate due to a challenge from a religious group. This is despite the fact that this group would not be required to provide access to contraception under the mandate, leading some news outlets to speculate that the challenge is being propped up by anti-choice forces as a public relations move. Later this year, the court is expected to entertain a full-blown challenge to the mandate by a for-profit corporation. Tellingly, this company used to offer its employees an insurance plan that covered the exact same birth control methods it now claims is a violation of religious freedom. Perhaps most frightening is the amount of money being poured into the conservative push to achieve their political agenda. This week, the Washington Post pulled back the curtain on a $400 million network of political spending organized by conservative activists Charles and David Koch. Last November, RH Reality Check exposed a similar ring of anti-choice political spending headed by the Koch brothers, totaling over $115 million since 2011. ###
12.16.2013	WASHINGTON –U.S. Reps. Diana DeGette (D-CO1) and Blake Farenthold (R-TX27) introduced H.R. 3736, the Protecting Advance Communications for Emergency Services Act (PACES) Act. The PACES Act is a targeted and limited fix that addresses the growing trend of harmful patent litigation by so-called “Patent Trolls.” Patent Trolls target cell phone carriers that provide 9-1-1 emergency services to homeland security, public safety, and law enforcement personnel. Under this legislation, lawsuits alleging infringement that are brought against wireless carriers or voice-over-IP providers over their 9-1-1 services would be required to be heard in the U.S. Court of Federal Claims. This bill would provide these carriers – who are required to provide these services – with protection from forced settlements or costly litigation battles. “Countless industries and companies throughout the country face abusive and frivolous patent litigation that ends up impacting many services, including public safety,” said DeGette. “This bi-partisan effort is a targeted approach to dealing with the serious problem patent trolls present by protecting carriers who provide vital public safety services. At no cost for the American taxpayer, this legislation will also help cell phone carriers to put in place emerging technologies for emergency services without fearing additional legal threats.” “Patent trolls have become increasingly aggressive and harmful, even targeting cell phone carriers that provide 9-1-1 emergency services to our law enforcement and first responders,” said Congressman Farenthold. “Our bill gives protection to those carriers so they can carry out the emergency services they are required to provide, and not have to worry about frivolous legal battles. I’m delighted to work with Representative DeGette in a bipartisan manner on this important legislation.” The full text of the legislation can be found here. ###
12.13.2013	DENVER – Today, U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-01) issued the following statement in response to the tragic school shooting at Arapahoe High School in Centennial, Colorado: “Our Colorado community has once again been shaken by yet another needless and horrific act of violence. My family and I send our thoughts and prayers to the victims, the Arapahoe High School community, and our brave first responders. In the coming days and weeks, the Arapahoe High School community will have all of our full support. This has got to stop.” ###
12.12.2013	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-1) today issued the following statement regarding her vote on the compromise budget deal. DeGette voted for the bill, which passed the House 332 – 94. Rep. DeGette’s statement is as follows: “Tonight I voted to pass the bipartisan budget compromise deal that will fund the government for the next two years, and avert yet another eleventh hour showdown. This deal is far from perfect, but it does mitigate the across-the-board sequester cuts that have been harming our economy and hurting job creation. Perhaps most importantly, it provides businesses across the nation with the level of certainty they have needed for several years. That certainty will help our economy continue to grow as our nation’s businesses can now more confidently hire workers, secure loans to expand, and develop the longer-term business plans they need to succeed. “I remain deeply concerned that this budget deal fails to extend federal unemployment insurance, leaving millions looking for work left out in the cold. It is shameful that because of Congress’ inaction, 1.3 million Americans will be cut off in the middle of the holidays, with another 1.9 million cut off during the first half of next year. Yesterday, I joined with 173 of my House Democratic colleagues in calling on Speaker Boehner to address this looming expiration before we adjourn for the year. The clock is ticking and I will continue to push for an extension even into the New Year.” ###
12.05.2013	WASHINGTON – Today, U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-01), ranking member of the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations (O&I), issued the following statement regarding her vote in favor of H.R. 3309 Innovation Act: “Abusive and frivolous patent litigation has become a serious problem for countless businesses throughout the country. O&I’s recent hearing revealed some of the more outrageous practices of the so-called patent trolls responsible for this litigation. Our hearing made it abundantly clear that Congressional action is needed to protect businesses held hostage through flagrant abuse of the patent system. “Innovation remains the cornerstone of the American economy and the legislation passed in the House today will help protect this source of economic strength. Congress must be careful to allow patent owners to protect their intellectual property and enforce their legitimate claims. That is why I also supported the alternative amendment offered by House Democrats today. The amendment would have removed overly broad provisions related to fee shifting and heightened pleading requirements, claim construction, and limitations that could make enforcement difficult. These provisions would also deny judges the discretion they need to effectively manage patent cases. “Although I was disappointed the alternative amendment failed, I still voted in favor of the underlying bill to advance the legislation to the Senate, and now will work with my colleagues in the other Chamber to remove the problematic provisions of the House-passed bill. Today’s strong vote in the House will send a signal to the Senate to quickly advance their patent reform bill and address abusive litigation that jeopardizes innovation. “I look forward to the Innovation Act continuing to improve as it moves through the legislative process and will carefully consider any conference report produced through House and Senate negotiations.” ###
11.26.2013	WASHINGTON – Representatives Diana DeGette (D-CO) and Louise M. Slaughter (D-NY), Co-Chairs of the House Pro-Choice Caucus, released the following statement on the Supreme Court’s announcement to review the ACA requirement that for-profit corporations include birth control coverage in insurance available to their employees: “An overwhelming majority of Americans agree that insurance companies should be required to cover contraceptives regardless of an employer’s political or religious beliefs. Birth control is a vital part of women’s healthcare, and American women shouldn’t have to ask their boss, their insurance company, or politicians in Washington for permission to obtain contraceptives.” ###
11.22.2013	(WASHINGTON, DC) – Today, U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (C0-01) was proud to announce that the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) has approved the Silverton-based San Juan County Historical Society’s proposed 11 kilowatt small hydro project. The project qualifies for exclusion from federal permitting requirements under the recently-enacted Hydropower Regulatory Efficiency Act (HREA), authored by Rep. DeGette. The law facilitates the development of small hydropower and conduit projects and directs the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) to study the feasibility of a streamlined two-year permitting process. The Silverton project is the first Colorado project approved under this new reform, and one of the first in the nation. Earlier this year, Reps. DeGette and Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA) authored and passed the bi-partisan legislation in the House of Representatives. In August, President Obama signed HREA into law. “I am so proud that one of the first small hydro projects in the nation to benefit from my legislation is happening right here in Colorado, helping to create jobs in our state, and demonstrating the impact of smarter, more efficient hydropower project permitting,” said DeGette. “For Colorado and the nation, this law is already delivering tangible results by expanding renewable and affordable hydropower and creating good jobs for American families. This bipartisan effort will continue our nation on the path to clean energy leadership and help get Americans back to work.” ###
11.21.2013	Washington, D.C.—Today, U.S. Reps. Diana DeGette (D-CO) and David B. McKinley, P.E. (R-WV) introduced bipartisan legislation which would establish a commission to develop a comprehensive energy policy for the United States. “In the 21st century, our nation faces a critical need to produce a comprehensive energy plan,” said Rep. Diana DeGette. “Energy development plays a fundamental role in our economic strength, driving job creation and innovation, and will help ensure our continued global leadership. This Commission represents a great opportunity for stakeholders and experts from across the political spectrum to come together and develop a plan that charts our nation’s energy course for the next several decades.” This Commission will assemble a diverse group of leaders in fossil fuels and renewable energies, utilities, energy researchers, environmentalists, labor organizations, and economists to come up with the nation’s first, comprehensive energy policy. “You would never start construction without blue prints,” said Rep. McKinley. “In the same way, America should have a blueprint when it comes to our energy policy. This country has gone too long without a comprehensive energy plan. Access to reliable, affordable energy is important for our economy and creating jobs.” “Even in the midst of so much gridlock in Washington, this bill demonstrates that we can come together across the aisle to find common ground to meet our nation’s energy goals,” continued DeGette. “I’m so proud to have crafted this legislation with my good friend and colleague, Rep. McKinley, and I look forward to seeing our other colleagues, from both sides of the aisle, join together with us in this important endeavor.” “It’s important we work across party lines to create energy policies that will benefit future generations,” added McKinley. “Despite our political differences, Rep. DeGette and I have found common ground in helping America achieve energy independence. That is even more critical because energy independence is also a national security issue.” This Commission will examine all current laws, regulations and policies of the Federal government pertaining to all sources of energy. The Commission will also look into maximizing the efficiency of energy, fully utilizing American resources while cutting back on the dependence of foreign sources, and achieving energy independence in the future. ###
11.19.2013	WASHINGTON – Today, U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-1) presided as Ranking Member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce Oversight and Investigation Subcommittee’s hearing on the security of Healthcare.gov. Video of Rep. DeGette’s opening statement can be found here. Rep. DeGette’s opening statement, as delivered, is below: Thank you very much Chairman Murphy. I want to add your thanks to Mr. Chao for being here today, as well as our three contractor witnesses, MITRE, CCSI, and Foreground. We must make sure that data on Healthcare.gov is secure. Everybody can agree on that. The American people must know their data is protected when they go on the site to find a quality, affordable insurance plan for themselves or their families. This is critical. However, my fear is that today’s hearing is actually less about the facts of the security of Healthcare.gov and more about political points and undermining the ACA. Without a doubt, no would disagree there are troubling problems with the rollout of the ACA’s exchanges. Three weeks ago, our full Committee held the first hearing on the inexcusable fact that Healthcare.gov seems to have been broken since it was very first launched. And three weeks later while improving it is clearly still not up to speed. As I’ve said before – the exchanges need to be fixed, and they need to be fixed fast – so the American people can easily access quality, affordable insurance plans open to them. I hope we’ll have another hearing after the November 30th deadline to see how they are working. My fear about this hearing today though is that it won’t enlighten the American public, but instead raise unjustified fears about security piling on all of the other issues. Obviously as I said, we need to make sure that data on Healthcare.gov is secure, but we should not create smoke if there is no fire. So before we begin, I want to give the American people some peace of mind, based on the facts that we know about security on healthcare.gov: First, and critically, no American has to provide any personal health information to Healthcare.gov or to insurers in order to qualify for health coverage and subsidies. To make sure about this, I went on the exchange for myself the other day. That's because the ACA bans discrimination based on preexisting health conditions. Before the ACA became law, Americans buying coverage on the individual insurance market had to fill out page after page of personal health information to apply for insurance. But no longer – thanks to the Affordable Care Act – Americans do not have to turn over any private health information to get coverage. Second, while no website - in government or in the private sector - is 100% secure unfortunately, there is a complex and detailed set of rules that HHS must follow to ensure that data on Healthcare.gov is secure. I am looking forward to hearing from you Mr. Chao about these security issues today. The agency has had a long record of maintaining personal information - about Medicare, Medicaid, Social Security, and many areas - and has never had a significant leak of information. HHS must comply with the Federal Information Security Management Act, and National Institute of Standards and Technology Guidelines to protect information systems and the data collected or maintained by Healthcare.gov. Like all federal agencies, HHS is required to develop, document, and implement an agency-wide information security program. To date, our Committee's investigation has found that CMS has complied with every important security rule and guideline. They hired a small army of contractors to make sure that the website is secure and they are going to talk to us about it today. The memo, Mr. Chairman that you talked about at our last hearing identified some security concerns - primarily a lack of end-to-end testing for Healthcare.gov. But it also outlined a mitigation plan; one we learned the agency was following to mitigate security risks. So, I want to hear from the contractors and from you Mr. Chao if in fact these findings are being heeded. Unfortunately, Mr. Chairman I have to raise one more issue in my remaining minute. That is this Committee’s grand tradition of bipartisanship investigation. Apparently, the Committee last Thursday received a memo from CMS Red Team discussion document. The Majority on this Committee did not share this memo with the Minority on this Committee until yesterday. Coincidently, just after they leaked this memo to the Washington Post. Now, and if you saw the Washington Post front page Today, you saw a big story - and Mr. Chairman you were quoted in that story - talking about concerns of the readiness of the exchange based on this memo. I know that is not the topic of this hearing today, but I have to say it is not in the tradition of the Committee to conduct investigations that way. When the Majority received this memo, it should have immediately provided it to all of the Members so we could read it and find out. We are all just concerned about making these exchanges work. To that end, Mr. Waxman and I have written a letter expressing our displeasure and we would like to enter that into the record at this time Mr. Chairman. ###
11.18.2013	(WASHINGTON, DC) – Today, U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-1) hailed the passage of H.R. 3204 The Drug Quality and Security Act by the U.S. Senate. The House passed the legislation on September 28. The legislation was the result of intensive bipartisan, bicameral efforts to help ensure the safety of compounding drugs and help save patients’ lives. DeGette and her colleagues, Rep. Morgan Griffith (R-VA) and Rep. Gene Green (D-TX), led the House efforts after a series of hearings last fall in the Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations into the 2012 fungal meningitis outbreak. The outbreak, which killed 64 and sickened over 750, was linked to tainted steroid injections from the New England Compounding Center (NECC). The hearings demonstrated the critical need for better oversight of the compounding pharmacy system. DeGette’s statement is as follows: “I am so proud of the bipartisan, bicameral effort behind the passage of the Drug Quality and Security Act. The deadly fungal meningitis outbreak that sickened hundreds across the United States last year represented a tragic failure of the compounding drug manufacturing system and made clear we must have a stronger and more effective oversight of that system. This legislation will take important steps forward to develop a more robust regulatory framework that can save people’s lives. “I know my House colleagues Reps. Griffith and Green join me in looking forward to the President signing this bill into law and to continuing to work to ensure we take every step possible to secure the compounding drug manufacturing chain.” The bill passed both the Senate and House by voice vote. It now goes to the President to be signed into law. ###
11.15.2013	WASHINGTON – Today, U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-01) issued the following statement regarding her vote against Rep. Fred Upton’s (MI-06) bill, the so-called “Keep Your Health Plan Act.” The bill undermines the Affordable Care Act (ACA) by allowing insurers to sell substandard plans to millions of new enrollees through 2014. Rep. DeGette today supported legislation that would enable enrollees receiving cancellation notices to continue those policies for a year or select more robust plans through the ACA. “Let’s not make any mistake; the Upton bill the House just voted on is just the latest effort by House Republicans to gut the ACA and leave millions of Americans without access to quality health care. All along the GOP has sought ways to undermine the Act, and in fact, just yesterday Speaker Boehner stated he wanted to ‘scrap this law once and for all.’ “While we are all concerned with Americans confronting canceled insurance policies, it is critical to remember these plans are being canceled because they do not meet the minimum standards required by the ACA. “Many of the canceled policies have high deductibles and low caps, and when people with these plans actually need access to health care they often find themselves out in the cold, and potentially facing huge – even bankrupting – medical bills. Furthermore, these policies may discriminate against women and people with pre-existing conditions like diabetes or cancer. “Today I voted for a plan that would have enabled only those whose insurance has been canceled to retain their policies for a year, or, as they become better informed, move to better options for themselves and their families. That proposal is consistent with the President’s plan announced yesterday. While this is not a perfect plan, it does address the immediate issue of a small group of Americans facing canceled insurance policies, while also enabling them to move to the ACA exchanges where they can, once and for all, get access to the better quality health care everyone deserves.” ###
11.04.2013	WASHINGTON, DC— Today, Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee Ranking Member Diana DeGette, Ranking Member Henry A. Waxman, and Health Subcommittee Ranking Member Frank Pallone, Jr., sent a letter to Food and Drug Administration Commissioner Margaret A. Hamburg warning that electronic cigarette companies are targeting young smokers with the same advertising and marketing practices that major cigarette companies used for decades to hook teen smokers. The members also released an online presentation that shows how the television advertisements, magazine advertisements, sport and event sponsorships, and cartoon characters once used by the cigarette companies to attract young smokers are now being used by the e-cigarette companies. The online presentation is available here. Earlier this year, the members called on FDA to regulate e-cigarettes, highlighting findings from a Centers for Disease Control and Prevention report that the percentage of adolescents using e-cigarettes is growing rapidly. The CDC report suggested that e-cigarettes could serve as a gateway product to nicotine addiction. The full text of today’s letter is available below and online here. The September 16, 2013, letter to Commissioner Hamburg is available online here. ###
10.24.2013	WASHINGTON – Today, U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-1) offered the following opening statement at the Committee on Energy and Commerce’s hearing on improving Healthcare.gov. Rep. DeGette’s opening statement, as delivered, is below: “Thank you very much Mr. Pallone. “As we’ve heard, we are here today to find out what the problem is with the healthcare.gov website and how we can fix these multiple technical problems. “Last month, as the Chairman noted, we heard from CGI, QSSI, Serco, and Equifax – the same four contractors who are here today. “They told us that the website would work. “We even asked them point blank. Mr. Pallone asked them and I asked them. They told us that HHS was doing an excellent job testing the product. They said there was nothing wrong and they expressed nothing but optimism. “And so, three weeks later here we are, we are still hearing reports of significant problems. “I appreciate the contractors coming today, and I give them the benefit of the doubt when they say things are improving. “But, I want to stress, for the Affordable Care Act to work these problems need to be fixed and these problems need be fixed fast. “We need to hear today exactly what they are doing to fix these issues, and we need to see clear examples of improvement and be provided with a timeline for how it will be fully operational. “Mr. Chairman, this is not our first experience with introductions of new health care programs as Mr. Pallone said. “I was on this Committee in 2006 when Medicare Part D was implemented during the Bush Administration. “Let’s not forget what a mess it was, and the significant problems seniors had with registering for the new benefit. “But I also want to remind my colleagues – on both sides of the aisle – that the difficulties passed and were soon forgotten amid the success of Part D. “So, I really take the gestures on the other side of the aisle seriously and I hope that we can say we’ve worked together to ensure the success of Healthcare.gov. “There is something else that I remember from the introduction of the Part D benefit Mr. Chairman: every single one of us – regardless of whether we voted yea or nay for the law – worked together for its success. “I found the newsletter I sent out to my constituents after Medicare Part D in which I said: ‘I oppose the law that created this program, but people need to be armed with the information requested.’ “And I would urge everybody on both sides of the aisle to do that. “So my hope, Mr. Chairman, is that today marks the beginning of an effort on the majority’s part to make sure the health care law works and is successful, and Americans can enjoy the benefits. “I really think that it’s important to make that happen and I am so happy, so happy and touched really today to hear the majority express these concerns about making the ACA work better. “I really hope they are legitimate because this is what’s going to give insurance to millions of Americans who have gone without healthcare for many, many years because they couldn’t afford the programs. “With that, I yield to the Chairman Emeritus of the full committee, Mr. Dingell.” ###
10.23.2013	WASHINGTON – U.S. Reps. Diana DeGette, Marsha Blackburn (R-TN07), Gene Green (D-TX29), Dr. Phil Gingrey (R-GA11), Greg Walden (R-OR02), and G. K. Butterfield (D-NC01) introduced the Sensible Oversight for Technology which Advances Regulatory Efficiency (SOFTWARE) Act to provide regulatory clarity regarding mobile medical applications, clinical decision support, electronic health records, and other health care related software. By building on the guidance recently released by the FDA and codifying their risk based regulatory approach this important legislation provides the regulatory certainty that technology companies need in order to continue to drive innovation and ensure patient safety. Estimates indicate that the number of consumers using medical apps on their smart phones will grow to 500 million by 2015. But today the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) lacks the necessary tools to appropriately oversee these innovative products without overstepping their authority and stifling innovation. Under current law, the FDA could use its definition of a medical device to assert broad regulatory authority over a wide array of software. The SOFTWARE Act tailors their authority to the realities of the 21st century by focusing their authority onto the products that pose a potential risk to human health. Rep. Diana DeGette: “As technological advances change the face of medicine in the 21st century, the FDA is hamstrung with outdated tools that limit oversight and could ultimately stifle innovation. This bill will help create a regulatory framework that ensures emerging technologies are effective and secure, while protecting patient safety. The SOFTWARE Act is also a great example of bipartisan cooperation paving the way for a stronger, healthier future for our country.” Rep. Marsha Blackburn: “Our legislation takes the necessary steps to protect technological innovation that is filtering into growth sectors like health care. This bill would provide the FDA with the tools it needs to effectively protect consumers who use high risk technologies, while allowing the innovation of low risk technologies to continue without being caught up in the expensive and time consuming FDA approval process all while protecting patient safety. Technology and connectivity is sweeping into nearly every industry, revolutionizing the products and services we rely on and it is imperative that we work to encourage the continued development of new technologies to improve healthcare and create new jobs.” Rep. Gene Green: “As new technologies emerge, it’s important that federal regulatory agencies like the FDA are properly equipped to provide a common sense level of oversight of medical software. This bill builds on the steps forward made by the FDA in their recently released guidance and focuses federal resources on the medical software that pose a risk to patients and should be trusted to be safe and effective by patients and providers alike. This bill aims to encourage innovation in medical related software while providing the regulatory framework to keep us safe.” Dr. Phil Gingrey: “Health care delivery will continue to be impacted by the advent of new technology, specifically with health care software. This bill provides innovators clear regulatory guidelines that allows for breakthrough medical advancements and innovation. As a physician, I’ve seen firsthand the benefits of life-changing medical software and applications that better support doctors, manage disease, and ultimately, save patients’ lives.” Rep. Greg Walden: “Every day, innovative pioneers in the mobile health sector are working on solutions that help patients while reducing health care costs. The app economy is characterized by low barriers to entry, quick time to market, and the ability to adapt to quickly changing user needs. Medical devices, on the other hand, face a long and costly pre-market approval process at the FDA. We all want to ensure patient safety, but why would we treat mobile applications the same as a dialysis machine? Our common-sense legislation gives regulatory clarity to this innovative industry while focusing efforts on potential risks to human health.” Rep. G. K. Butterfield: “In rural areas like many I represent, access to care can be a challenge. Smartphone apps can help individuals better monitor their health and improve health outcomes when used in conjunction with the tools available to healthcare providers. With more than 40 million people gaining access to affordable health care thanks to the Affordable Care Act, the use of mobile healthcare applications will only continue to rise. That’s why it’s important that the FDA be given clear direction from Congress moving forward.” According to a recent report, there are currently 97,000 mobile health apps in the Apple app store that generate 3 million free and 300,000 paid downloads. 15 percent of these apps are designed specifically for health care providers and over 60 percent of doctors are using tablets – compared to half of that just over a year ago. Click here to read the full bill text of the SOFTWARE Act. ###
10.16.2013	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-1) tonight issued the following statement regarding her vote to reopen the federal government and avoid defaulting on our nation’s debt. The bill passed the House tonight by a vote of 285 – 144, and it now goes to President Obama for his signature. “The bill I voted for tonight is far from perfect, but it fulfills our most basic obligations to keep the federal government running and pay our nation’s bills. While it was the eleventh hour, I am pleased the House Republican Majority decided to end the partisan games and avoid devastating our economy. Unfortunately, in the past 16 days, collateral damage has already been done. Since the government shut down, our economy has lost billions of dollars, while 800,000 hard-working Americans were furloughed, fearful they would not be able to pay their bills and uncertain of how to support their families. The looming threat of defaulting on our debts caused uncertainty in the markets and a loss of confidence around the globe. “Nonetheless, tonight I am glad we avoided even greater financial disaster, as the Republican Leadership fulfilled their most basic obligation, finally allowing a vote on this legislation. “With passage we now have the time to work together on a bipartisan, bicameral budget that is fiscally responsible and pays for the needs of our country. As we negotiate common-sense, reasonable budget solutions, I particularly look forward to eliminating the blunt instrument of the sequester that has been a drag on our nation’s economy for months. “Now is our opportunity for the grand bargain we have been talking about for far too long; one which solidifies our recovery while ensuring our long-term economic strength, and one which gives our business community the certainty they require to help our nation thrive and grow. I look forward to working with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle in the coming weeks to avoid another crisis and to secure America’s strength for the 21st century.” ###
10.03.2013	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep Diana DeGette (CO-1) announced she is cosponsoring H.R.15, The Border Security, Economic Opportunity, and Immigration Modernization Act, a comprehensive reform bill that closely mirrors the commonsense, compromise bill passed by the U.S. Senate in June by a vote of 68 to 32. The only difference between the two bills is this Act replaces the Corker-Hoeven border security provisions in the Senate-passed bill with the bipartisan McCaul-Thompson border security bill unanimous approved by the U.S. House Homeland Security Committee. “Our immigration system is broken, and the onus is on us to put forth reasonable reform that makes the system whole again,” said DeGette. “Today, too many families are torn apart under an unfair and unjust system. Employers that want to play by the rules are struggling to find employees, and parents who dream of a better life for their children are forced to live in fear. Comprehensive reform is a critical step to keep families together and give everyone the opportunity to live the American Dream. “The bill I cosponsored is not perfect, but it represents compromise and a bipartisan approach to solving the challenge of immigration reform for our nation. The Senate acted this summer in a strong bipartisan manner to pass comprehensive immigration reform legislation and I urge the Republican Majority to allow the House to do the same. If Congress acts on this bill, we can improve the safety and security of all Americans, expand economic opportunity, and support global competiveness.” According to the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office, enactment of the bipartisan Senate-passed comprehensive immigration reform bill – the bill closely mirrored by this Act – would reduce the deficit by $850 billion. ###
10.01.2013	WASHINGTON – Today, U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-1) issued the following statement regarding the shutdown of the federal government: “Tonight’s shut down of our federal government is nothing short of reprehensible. The United States Congress failed the American people when the House Republican majority proactively chose to place extreme ideology over the good of our nation and the stability of our economy. Later this morning, over 800,000 Americans will not have jobs to go to or paychecks to support their families, while the resources, support and infrastructure our nation relies upon will be suddenly cut off. The GOP’s unwavering stubbornness over gutting the Affordable Care Act has now shut down our government and damaged our nation. Rather than continue to be held hostage by the extreme ideology of a few Tea Partiers, the House Republican caucus must fulfill their duty to the American people and finally act responsibly and in good faith to resolve this immediate budget crisis before they cause any more harm to our economy.” ###
10.01.2013	WASHINGTON – Today, U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-1) issued the following statement regarding her votes against the piecemeal spending bills the House Republican Leadership brought up for a vote this evening: “As House Republicans presented three mini spending bills for our vote tonight, I have a simple message for them: Get real. “We are nearly 24 hours into a shutdown that is hurting our economy and the American people, while they play games with piecemeal spending bills. This is no way to govern and our nation deserves better. The Republican leadership knows that the bipartisan votes are there to end this shutdown immediately, if they would simply allow a clean spending bill to be brought up for a vote.” ###
09.29.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – Tonight, U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-1) issued the following statement regarding her vote against the latest House Republican version of a Continuing Resolution to fund the federal government after September 30, 2013. “Once again, the Republican majority has placed its own extreme ideology over the good of the American people. House Leadership forced yet another vote on legislation rife with poison pills, and in so doing, has brought us to the brink of a government shutdown. This is not a politically responsible way to act, nor is it in keeping with our duty to citizens of this country. “We now stand on the brink of a shutdown that will cause instability in the markets, and a looming debt ceiling battle that could devastate our economy. It is time for the House Leadership to stop being held hostage by the ideological stubbornness of a small number of its Members, and instead break the logjam by doing what our Congress has done for centuries: working cooperatively across the aisle on behalf of the American people.” ###
09.28.2013	(WASHINGTON, DC) – Today, U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-1) lauded passage of H.R. 3204 The Drug Quality and Security Act by the U.S. House of Representatives. The bill was the result of intensive bipartisan, bicameral efforts to help ensure the safety of compounding drugs and help save patients’ lives. DeGette and her colleagues, Rep. Morgan Griffith (R-VA) and Rep. Gene Green (D-TX), led those efforts in the House after a series of hearings last Fall in the Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations into the 2012 fungal meningitis outbreak that killed 64 and sickened over 750. The outbreak was linked to tainted steroid injections from the New England Compounding Center (NECC), and the hearings demonstrated the critical need for better oversight of the compounding pharmacy system. “The deadly fungal meningitis outbreak that sickened hundreds across the United States last year represented a tragic failure of the compounding drug manufacturing system and made clear we must have a stronger and more effective regulatory framework to oversee that system,” said DeGette. “That is why today I am so proud of the passage of the Drug Quality and Security Act. Earlier this month my friends and colleagues Congressmen Griffith and Green introduced legislation that ultimately served as a foundation for the bill that passed today. This bipartisan, bicameral bill will take important steps forward to develop a more robust regulatory framework that can save people’s lives. “The bill that passed today also demonstrates that we can indeed come together on a bipartisan basis to tackle serious issues and help the American people, and I urge all my colleagues in the House and the U.S. Senate to apply this same cooperation to our nation’s serious challenges. “I know Reps. Griffith and Green join me in looking forward to this bill becoming law and to continuing to work to ensure we take every step possible to secure the compounding drug manufacturing chain, and protect the lives of American patients.” The bill passed the House overwhelmingly by voice vote this afternoon. It now goes to the Senate where passage is expected as well. ###
09.28.2013	WASHINGTON – Representatives Diana DeGette (D-CO) and Louise M. Slaughter (D-NY), Co-Chairs of the House Pro-Choice Caucus, released the following statement after language to limit women’s access to contraception was added to an amendment seeking to delay the Affordable Care Act until 2015 to the continuing resolution (H.J. Res. 59): “While the American people need Congress to focus on passing a continuing budget resolution funding all services and resources for the American people, House Republicans are more intent on focusing their efforts – and now our precious time – on limiting a woman’s access to contraception. This egregious attack on women’s health could result in potentially taking away heath services for millions of women and families. House Republicans’ pursuit of an extreme crusade against women’s health is bringing the federal government to the brink of a shutdown.” ###
09.18.2013	WASHINGTON, DC— Today, U.S. Reps Diana DeGette, Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations, and Henry A. Waxman, Ranking Member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce, released preliminary findings of an investigation of Affordable Care Act Navigators, the community and civic organizations that will be helping community members sign up for Affordable Care Act benefits next month. On August 29, 2013, Chairman Fred Upton and 14 Republican members of the Committee sent a detailed request for documents and briefings to 51 of the Navigators. “Our findings make clear that there is no evidence these organizations have done anything illegal, and, on the contrary, are taking all steps to effectively and efficiently educate the American people about this new law,” said Rep. DeGette. “I believe it dishonors the tradition of our Committee to use our oversight authority to play partisan games that in the end only stand in the way of people utilizing the important programs under the ACA.” “The Navigators are well qualified to do their job and will be helping millions of people sign up for Affordable Care Act health coverage,” said Rep. Waxman. “We should not be interfering and diverting resources from these community and civic groups that are working so hard to implement the Affordable Care Act. The Committee should end this witch hunt.” The Committee staff’s review of grant applications and other information from 42 Navigators shows that: Navigators will help millions obtain health insurance coverage, directly enrolling over one million uninsured people for ACA benefits and reaching an additional 7.3 million people through public education efforts. Navigators have extensive experience assisting individuals with federal and state benefit programs, helping individuals in targeted communities with Medicaid or other health insurance coverage, food security programs, legal services, and other counseling or assistance programs. Most Navigators are nonprofit, community service providers, and all Navigators are nonpartisan organizations. Navigator grant recipients have effective privacy protections in place, abiding by statutory provisions providing for the privacy and security of personal information and taking additional steps to protect individuals’ privacy. The memo is available online here.
09.13.2013	Would Make Assistance Available for Response and Recovery Efforts Washington, DC – The Colorado Congressional delegation sent a letter today to President Obama asking him to approve a request for an emergency declaration due to severe flooding across Colorado. If approved, the declaration would make crucial assistance available from the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) for response and search and rescue efforts. “Unlike typical flash floods in the West, which are characterized by quick, isolated deluges over a specific area, Colorado’s floods resulted from a massive amount of rain over a widespread area,” the delegation wrote in the letter. “In central Boulder alone, 8 inches of rain fell in 24 hours. Governor Hickenlooper estimated that Colorado received the equivalent of 100 inches of snow in 24 hours. It is a staggering amount of precipitation, and an additional 4 to 6 inches of rain is predicted to fall by this evening. “Governor Hickenlooper has determined that these floods are of sufficient severity and magnitude that additional supplementary federal assistance is necessary in order to support state and local officials in their search and rescue operations, and in their immediate response to this crisis,” the letter added. An emergency declaration would trigger federal disaster assistance to supplement state and local response efforts due to the emergency conditions resulting from the flooding. The President’s approval would authorize FEMA to coordinate disaster relief efforts and to provide appropriate assistance to save lives and to protect property, public health, and safety. September 12, 2013The Honorable Barack Obama The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Ave. NW Washington, D.C. 20510Dear Mr. President:We write to support Colorado Governor Hickenlooper’s request for an expedited emergency declaration in response to the enormously destructive flooding in Boulder, Larimer, and El Paso counties and other communities along Colorado’s Front Range. Unlike typical flash floods in the West, which are characterized by quick, isolated deluges over a specific area, Colorado’s floods resulted from a massive amount of rain over a widespread area. In central Boulder alone, 8 inches of rain fell in 24 hours. Governor Hickenlooper estimated that Colorado received the equivalent of 100 inches of snow in 24 hours. It is a staggering amount of precipitation, and an additional 4 to 6 inches of rain is predicted to fall tonight.At this time, three people are confirmed dead and at least one is missing. Thousands of families are being evacuated, roads are closed and collapsing, dams have overflowed, and many Coloradans remain stranded. Waters continue to rise in Commerce City, Aurora, Longmont, Boulder and parts of Denver. Flooding is also underway in Colorado Springs, Fort Collins and Greeley. Search and rescue efforts have been hampered by washed-out roads and bridges, rockslides and mudslides, and deep pools of unstable water dammed by debris. Residents in Lyons and Jamestown are under a mandatory evacuation order, but are stranded because of washed out roads. Many are sheltering in elementary schools, but are unreachable by first responders. The town of Estes Park is badly flooded, and in the Fourmile Canyon area, homes and buildings have collapsed or washed away. In some parts of Boulder, water reached as high as first-floor windows; dive teams were dispatched after cars were seen floating. Governor Hickenlooper has determined that these floods are of sufficient severity and magnitude that additional supplementary federal assistance is necessary in order to support state and local officials in their search and rescue operations, and in their immediate response to this crisis. We respectfully request your prompt consideration of the Governor’s September 12 request, and urge you to issue an expedited emergency declaration to assist our state in combating and recovering from the floods. We thank you in advance for your timely consideration of this important request. Sincerely, ###
09.10.2013	WASHINGTON – Today, U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-1) issued the following statement on the latest developments regarding Syria: “As developments regarding a course of action against Syria continue to evolve, I am looking forward to hearing the President’s address to the American people this evening. I continue to weigh evidence I have received in two briefings and will monitor ongoing developments as I determine what role the United States should pursue. “I am pleased the focus seems to have shifted towards the possibility of a diplomatic solution. The new proposal for independent review and possible handover of chemical weapons to an international body seems to be advancing, and with Syria’s agreement today, I hope the proposal is indeed a legitimate one. If there is a serious effort at diplomacy, it is incumbent upon us to pursue that path.” ###
08.31.2013	DENVER – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-1) released the following statement today after President Obama announced he will seek a congressional vote to authorize the use of military action against Syria: “I welcome the President’s decision to ask for congressional authority for the use of military force against the Syrian government. Although it is the President’s duty to protect our national security, Congress has the constitutional responsibility and power to approve the use of military force, even if the United States or our interests have not been attacked. “While there is no question that reported use of chemical weapons against innocent civilians by the Syrian government is abhorrent, the decision to use military force demands a vigorous debate in Congress and with the American people. Before any vote to authorize military action takes place, the President must present compelling evidence that the Syrian government used chemical weapons on its own people, as well as clearly define the rationale and goals of an intervention to Congress.” ###
08.30.2013	DENVER – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-1) released the following statement today urging President Obama seek a Congressional vote before any use of military force against Syria: “As intelligence reports continue to be released and responses are weighed by the Administration, I strongly urge the President to seek a Congressional vote before any military force against Syria is executed and so Congress can exercise its Constitutional Authority. “While there is no question that the intelligence indicating the Syrian government’s use of chemical weapons on its own people, including innocent women and children, is abhorrent and inexcusable; the decision to enact military force is one which requires a thorough discussion and debate in Congress.” ###
08.29.2013	WASHINGTON – Today, U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-01) joined over 50 colleagues in the U.S. House of Representatives in a letter calling on President Obama to fully inform Congress on actions against Syria following reported use of chemical weapons and to allow Congress to exercise its constitutional authority to approve military force. The letter reads, in part: “While we understand that as Commander in Chief you have a constitutional obligation to protect our national interests from direct attack, Congress has the constitutional obligation and power to approve military force, even if the United States or its direct interests (such as its embassies) have not been attacked or threatened with an attack. As such, we strongly urge you to seek an affirmative decision of Congress prior to committing any U.S. military engagement to this complex crisis.” The full list of signers and a PDF of the letter can be found here: The full text of the letter is below:“Dear Mr. President, “We join you and the international community in expressing unequivocal condemnation over the news that chemical weapons were reportedly used by the government of Syria. “While we understand that as Commander in Chief you have a constitutional obligation to protect our national interests from direct attack, Congress has the constitutional obligation and power to approve military force, even if the United States or its direct interests (such as its embassies) have not been attacked or threatened with an attack. As such, we strongly urge you to seek an affirmative decision of Congress prior to committing any U.S. military engagement to this complex crisis. “While the ongoing human rights violations and continued loss of life are horrific, they should not draw us into an unwise war—especially without adhering to our own constitutional requirements. We strongly support the work within the United Nations Security Council to build international consensus condemning the alleged use of chemical weapons and preparing an appropriate response; we should also allow the U.N. inspectors the space and time necessary to do their jobs, which are so crucial to ensuring accountability. “As elected officials, we have a duty to represent the will and priorities of our constituents, consistent with the Constitution we all swore to uphold and defend. Before weighing the use of military force, Congress must fully debate and consider the facts and every alternative, as well as determine how best to end the violence and protect civilians. We stand ready to work with you.” ###
08.28.2013	WASHINGTON – Today, U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-01) released the following statement commemorating the 50th anniversary of the March on Washington: On the hallowed steps of the Lincoln Memorial, fifty years ago today, Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. delivered an historic call to action for a peaceful movement toward equal rights in the face of fierce and violent opposition. This message resonates today as it did five decades ago. We must take this moment to reflect on the strides we have made as a nation and the many hurdles that still exist. This occasion is an opportunity to renew our commitment to realize Dr. King’s dream and stand united in the struggle for full equality and justice for all Americans. ###
08.26.2013	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-01) commented on the Bureau of Land Management’s (BLM) revised proposed rule for hydraulic fracturing, better known as “fracking”, in a letter to U.S. Secretary of the Interior Sally Jewell. Rep. DeGette’s comment encourages BLM to require baseline testing of nearby water sources prior to and after the drilling process. In addition, Rep. DeGette proposes to require drillers to disclose chemicals used in fracking fluids prior to fracking, to strengthen the trade secret claims process, and to improve public reporting. “As we continue towards a path of energy independence and clean energy technologies, natural gas development provides significant economic benefits to Colorado and across the nation; however, we must ensure these benefits do not come at the expense of the health and safety of our communities,” said DeGette. “Disclosure of fracking fluids and baseline water testing – already required in Colorado and recommended by the American Petroleum Institute – should not be discretionary and will provide key protections for our communities and the oil and gas industry.” The full text of Rep. DeGette’s letter and comment to Secretary Jewell is included below:The Honorable Sally Jewell Secretary U.S. Department of the Interior 1849 C Street NW Washington, DC 20240 Dear Secretary Jewell: I write today to comment on the revised proposed rule for hydraulic fracturing on public lands. Since 2010, the Bureau of Land Management (BLM) has worked to modernize its management of hydraulic fracturing. The revised proposed rule will enhance the Federal government’s ability to protect our surface and subsurface natural resources. However, I encourage BLM to require baseline water testing and subsequent water monitoring, and improve the construction of the chemical disclosure requirement. The BLM should require baseline water testing and subsequent water monitoring of nearby water sources prior to hydraulic fracturing, rather than reserving the discretion to require it under NEPA and the “downhole review.” The definition of usable water in the revised proposed rule currently covers the universe of waters to be tested and monitored. Baseline water testing is now required in my home state of Colorado and is recommended by the American Petroleum Institute. It is an emerging best practice that protects both landowners and operators. Water is our most precious resource, and protecting it for future generations should not be discretionary. I am also concerned that the chemical disclosure regime described in the revised proposed rule does not encourage compliance. As I suggested in my comments on the initial proposed rule in June 2012, the BLM should require operators to disclose the chemicals they expect to use in hydraulic fracturing before well completion begins. The list of expected chemicals used can be included in the Application for Permit to Drill or Notice of Intent Sundry and should also be posted publicly online. Although the actual chemicals used will vary, disclosure prior to hydraulic fracturing informs baseline water testing, encourages operators to disclose carefully, and promotes the use of less toxic chemicals. Furthermore, the utility of chemical disclosure is compromised by changes to the trade secret claim process in the revised proposed rule. An effective trade secret claims process requires substantiation of need from the claimant, verification of need by the governing party, and the right to public challenge of a claim. Otherwise, it is too simple for claimants to compromise disclosure by seeking trade secret protection for chemicals that do not qualify. For a model, I suggest BLM review the claims of trade secrecy process under the Emergency Planning and Community Right-to-Know Act. Specifically, the affidavit for disclosure exemption should require operators to justify, not just affirm, their claim. Then, the BLM should audit these requests to ensure their accuracy and integrity. If the general public has concerns about trade secret claims in a certain area or by an operator or operators, they should be able to have the claim reviewed by an impartial third party. The paperwork requirements for operators and BLM are a reasonable expense for trade secret protection. I also disagree with BLM’s legal interpretation of the Federal Trade Secrets Act vis-a-vis disclosure of chemicals in a medical emergency. The Federal Trade Secrets Act certainly allows disclosure of chemical identities in the case of a medical emergency. The Federal Trade Secrets Act protects the recipe of proprietary fracturing fluid blends, but simply the disclosure of a chemical identity in an emergency does not provide enough information for competitors to reverse engineer the blend to gain competitive advantage. I strongly urge the BLM to include emergency disclosure provisions in the final rule. Finally, the BLM should develop its own public disclosure platform. FracFocus was the first available platform to perform this important service, and the new version of the database released this year has numerous improvements. However, relying on a private third party to enable operators to comply with Federal and state law is not good policy. With its own disclosure platform, BLM can directly oversee trade secret claims and the timeliness of disclosure. Under the revised proposed rule, an alternate platform is already necessary, as operators have the option to submit their disclosures directly to BLM. I encourage BLM to take advantage of this rulemaking opportunity to develop a new public disclosure platform tailored to agency needs. Thank you for your efforts to modernize the management of our public lands under this important rulemaking. Sincerely, Diana DeGette Member of Congress ###
08.09.2013	Colorado lawmaker replaces Senator Markey WASHINGTON: Rep. Joe Barton (R-TX), co-founder of the Congressional Bi-Partisan Privacy Caucus, proudly announced Rep. Diane DeGette (D-CO) as the group’s new co-chair. She replaces Sen. Edward Markey (D-MA), who recently won a special election to fill Massachusetts’ open Senate seat. Reps. Barton and DeGette have served together on the House Energy and Commerce Committee for several years and while they don’t agree on every issue, they both share a passion for protecting American’s right to privacy. "I am excited to have my friend and colleague Representative Diana DeGette join me in my efforts to protect the privacy of all Americans,” said Rep. Barton. “I have admired her work over the years, and I believe that she is a great addition. The Caucus is privileged to have her leadership, and I know that we will make a good team." Rep. DeGette added, “I am pleased to join the privacy caucus and continue my advocacy efforts on behalf of American people. Representative Joe Barton’s longstanding leadership on these issues is admirable, and I am so eager to work with him to shape policies that help protect citizen’s privacy in these complex times.” The Congressional Bi-Partisan Privacy Caucus is a leader in Congress on providing privacy protections for personal consumer information. Members of the caucus have investigated the data privacy and security practices of Google, Apple, Facebook, Amazon, College Board, Groupon, the four major wireless carriers, and the Social Security Administration, among other entities. ###
08.09.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Rep. Diana DeGette (D-CO) hailed President Obama’s signing of H.R. 267, the Hydropower Regulatory Efficiency Act into law. The law, co-authored with Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), facilitates the development of small hydropower and conduit projects and directs the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) to study the feasibility of a streamlined two-year permitting process. The bill passed both Chambers of Congress unanimously before becoming law. “As President Obama signs this bipartisan hydropower bill into law, we launch a new path toward smarter, more efficient hydropower project permitting,” said DeGette. “For a state like Colorado, and indeed the entire nation, this law expands renewable and affordable hydropower – far and away our nation’s largest source of clean energy – and create good jobs for American families. This initiative was a bipartisan effort from start to finish, and together we’ve now created a law that will help get Americans back to work and will move us forward in our nation’s clean energy leadership.” ###
08.02.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Diana DeGette (D-CO) and Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), authors of H.R. 267, the Hydropower Regulatory Efficiency Act, hailed the unanimous approval of their bill in the U.S. Senate last night. Their legislation will facilitate the development of small hydropower and conduit projects and direct the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission to study the feasibility of a streamlined two-year permitting process. “With the Senate passage of our bill, today we launch a new path toward smarter, more efficient hydropower project permitting, and it’s a victory for us all that we are doing so on a bipartisan basis,” said Rep. DeGette. “For a state like Colorado, and indeed the entire nation, this legislation will expand renewable and affordable hydropower – far and away our nation’s largest source of clean energy – and create good jobs for American families. We now look forward to the President signing this bill into law as a bipartisan initiative that helps get Americans back to work and takes a step forward in our nation’s clean energy leadership.” “In Eastern Washington, hydropower plays a pivotal role – whether it’s conventional, small, or conduit hydro – it provides 75 percent of electricity to the Pacific Northwest and represents a unique opportunity for job creation and energy production. It’s clean, reliable, renewable and affordable. Unleashing American ingenuity to increase hydropower production will lower energy costs and help create thousands of jobs. The future of American energy independence depends on the development of an ‘all of the above’ energy approach – in which hydro must play a crucial role. Our bill is timely and targeted and it will create jobs and bolster America’s competitiveness in the energy sector," said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. The Hydropower Regulatory Efficiency Act passed with unanimous support in the House on February 13th, 2013. ###
08.01.2013	WASHINGTON – Today, U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-1) offered the following opening statement at the Committee on Energy and Commerce’s hearing on implementation of the Affordable Care Act (ACA). In her opening statement, Rep. DeGette highlighted the benefits the ACA is already providing in Colorado’s 1st Congressional District and across the nation. DeGette also encouraged her colleagues on both sides of the aisle to ensure they are helping educate their constituents on implementation of this important law. Today’s hearing, focused on the role of the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Service’s (CMS) and received testimony from CMS Administrator Marilyn Tavenner. Rep. DeGette’s opening statement, as delivered, is below:“The Affordable Care Act is now the law of the land and it is already bringing benefits to millions of Americans. Today, we stand before one of the most important moments of the ACA and that is implementation. We are just two months away from the open enrollment period of the insurance exchanges. “That is why I would encourage my colleagues – from both sides of the aisle – to work on educating constituents on how to make this new law work, for individuals, families, and businesses. “I remember when we passed the Medicare Part D Bill and the Democrats, frankly, didn’t like it. We didn’t like the fact that the Administrator could not negotiate prescription drug prices. “But despite that, we all went out to our districts and we worked with our constituents to let them know how they could enroll. “Why? Because this would help our constituents. In fact, now Medicare Part D has become very, very popular. “I met a lady last week in Denver, who is paying on the individual market, she is 58 years old, and she is paying $600 a month on the individual market for insurance because she has a pre-existing condition. “I told her, as of October, you’ll be able to enroll in the exchange in Colorado and you could probably save yourself a bundle of money. “She had no idea that this option even existed. “And I think it’s our job, as elected representatives of our constituents, to go out there and tell people like this woman that they can have these benefits and get the insurance they need and save money. “An important step in doing this is to make sure that we go home and talk to our constituents in this August recess about that. “So Administrator Tavenner, I am really looking forward to hearing what the Administration is planning to do to make sure people know about this. “Madam Chair, earlier this month, the Energy and Commerce Democratic Staff released fact sheets on the benefits of the Affordable Care Act in every district in the country. “I would ask unanimous consent to put those fact sheets into the record of this hearing today. “I’d like to share some of the information on the benefits in my district, Denver, Colorado. “Already, in my district the ACA is providing 8,000 young adults with health coverage through their parents’ plan. More than 6,900 seniors in my district have received drug discounts worth $9.3 million. “Almost 200,000 of my constituents now have health insurance that covers preventive services without co-pays. “Hundreds of thousands of my constituents with private insurance are saving money due to ACA provisions that limit insurers’ administrative overhead costs. “And when the law finally goes fully into effect, over 120,000 of my constituents who currently do not have health insurance will be able to get that insurance without fear of discrimination or higher rates because of a preexisting condition. “So even if you disagree with the law, it’s important that you know how the ACA’s benefits are already helping our constituents. “Madam Chairman, we’ve had many hearings on this law, many in our Oversight and Investigations Committee, and one common concerns that we have already heard today are premiums will be too high. We now have some answers. “An HHS analysis released earlier this month found that in the states for which data are available, the lowest cost silver plan in the individual market in 2014 will cost, on average, 18% less than the rate predicted by the Congressional Budget Office. “On the small group market, the average premium that small employers will pay is again 18% lower than the same plan would cost absent the Affordable Care Act. “In Colorado, similarly, the lowest cost silver plans are, on average, 18% less expensive than the status quo. “It seems like every day we get more information about a new state where the rate review process and competition are causing insurers to lower their premiums even more than expected. “And of course, the actual cost of these plans will be even lower for many citizens once the Affordable Care Act’s tax credits go into effect. “Administrator Tavenner, I know you must be pleased with this. But as you know, your job is not yet done. “In two months, the data systems for the insurance exchanges will go live. I don’t expect everything to go completely smoothly, it certainly didn’t with Medicare Part D, but I want to hear what the Administration is doing to deal with all these foreseeable problems, and developing systems to deal with the unexpected problems. “I think we all have legitimate questions and we are happy to have you here today. “I look forward to hearing your answers to all of them.” ###
07.31.2013	WASHINGTON – U.S. Reps. Diana DeGette (D-CO) and Louise M. Slaughter (D-NY), Co-Chairs of the House Pro-Choice Caucus, released the following statement commemorating tomorrow’s one-year anniversary of the Affordable Care Act’s (ACA) preventive health services provision for women. The provision requires most health insurers to cover certain women’s preventive health care services, including birth control and well-woman visits, with no cost-sharing to the individual: “The Affordable Care Act is the single greatest advancement in women’s health in a generation. For the first time, women across the country can access birth control and other essential preventive services without co-pays. Since this key component of the ACA was implemented, approximately 47 million women gained guaranteed coverage of these additional preventive benefits without cost-sharing, saving them up to $600 a year. Many women can now choose from a full-range of FDA-approved contraceptives, allowing them to consistently use the method that works best for them. “Yet once again, these gains for women are under attack this week, as House Republicans plan to vote for the 40th time to repeal, obstruct, and undermine the protections and benefits millions of women receive under ACA. Instead of working on the issues that Americans are focused on like jobs, Republicans are busy finding new battlefields for their war on women, including the workplace, the doctor’s office, the drugstore, and their pocketbooks. It’s time for the House Majority to stop trying to take benefits away from women and instead start working on the American people’s number one priority: creating jobs and strengthening our economy.” ###
07.19.2013	WASHINGTON – Today, U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-1) submitted the following statement to the Congressional Record to mark the one-year anniversary of the shootings at an Aurora theater that claimed the lives of 12 individuals, and injured 70 more.“It has now been a year since our Colorado community was shaken by an inexplicable and horrific act of violence that left 12 innocent men, women and children dead, and 70 injured… “365 days where the families, friends and loved ones of those lost have been robbed of their laughter, their triumphs, their struggles, and the million little things that made those 12 people unique. “I know I join with all my colleagues in the delegation in saying, on behalf of the citizens of Colorado, we continue to express our deepest thanks for the outpouring of support our community has received from across the nation, since the horrible events at that Aurora theater. “All of us in the Denver-area still remember where we were when we heard the news, and the immediate fearful and heartbreaking connections we made. “Who did we know in the theater? Whose child or wife or husband or brother is not coming home because of the senseless acts of one disturbed and heavily armed young man? “My 18 year old daughter had a friend in the theater just next door; and a friend of our family lost her nephew in the tragedy. Three of the deceased gunned down – including little six-year-old Veronica Moser – lived in my district and were part of the community I have the privilege of representing. “Today we remember the victims of the Aurora theater massacre – the lives they would have and could have led, had they not been gunned down while innocently watching a movie on a Thursday night. “We pay tribute to their lives and remind their families and loved ones that they are still in our hearts, our thoughts and prayers; and they will not be forgotten. “But we also owe it to them to stand up and make sure they did not die in vain. “Since I’ve been in Congress, we’ve had over 25 moments of silence on the Floor of the House for victims of gun violence. Let me say that again – over 25 moments of silence. “Including one on July 24, 2012 for the Aurora victims, and of course, the moment last December for all the little children killed in Newtown. “Surely we can come together in the name of the victims of Aurora; and Newtown; and Columbine; and Virginia Tech; and Fort Hood… and all the others… and say once and for all, enough is enough.” ###
07.10.2013	WASHINGTON – Today, U.S. Reps. Diana DeGette (D-CO) and Louise M. Slaughter (D-NY), co-chairs of the House Pro-Choice Caucus, released the following statement in response to the Texas legislature’s passage of an unconstitutional, anti-choice piece of legislation: “It’s simply astonishing that Republicans have decided to waste more time cooking up attacks for their War on Women, including passing the most restrictive abortion bill in the country today in the Texas legislature – one that would institute an unconstitutional ban on 20-week abortions and force most clinics in the state to close. Just in the last month, we’ve seen House Republicans in Washington pass an unconstitutional 20-week abortion ban, an all-male bill signing ceremony for a restrictive abortion bill in Ohio, and a forced ultrasound bill signed by Wisconsin governor Scott Walker. Politicians should stop trying to get between a woman and her doctor, and start focusing on the real issues of this country – reviving our economy, creating jobs, and getting Americans back to work.” Last week, Pro-Choice Caucus members sent a letter to Texas State Senator Wendy Davis thanking her for her successful filibuster of the bill in the Senate. Please find it below:Dear Senator Davis: Thank you for your courageous and powerful stand on the floor of the Texas State Senate last night. The passion and commitment you showed repeats a message that American women delivered at the polls in the 2012 election – that women matter and will be heard. As we fight for women’s health on the floor of the House of Representatives, we are heartened that you and others are fighting the same battles in statehouses across this country. The battle will continue, and we look forward to standing with you to protect women's health! Sincerely, Diana DeGette, Co-Chair of Pro-Choice Caucus Louise M. Slaughter, Co-Chair of Pro-Choice Caucus Ami Bera Gwen Moore Gerald E. Connolly Charles B. Rangel Chellie Pingree Janice Hahn Mark Takano Nita Lowey Timothy Bishop Jerrold Nadler Brian Higgins Steve Cohen Mike Quigley Lloyd Doggett Doris Matsui Kathy Castor Zoe Lofgren Allyson Schwartz John Yarmuth Marc Veasey Lois Capps Brad Schneider Grace F. Napolitano Rosa DeLauro Adam Schiff Mike Thompson Dina Titus Michelle Lujan Grisham Chris Van Hollen Suzan DelBene Ron Kind Lois Frankel Henry Waxman Barbara Lee Niki Tsongas Ann McLane Kuster David Cicilline Hank Johnson Bruce Braley Carolyn Maloney Jackie Speier Gary Peters James P. McGovern Jan Schakowsky Eliot L. Engel Eddie Bernice Johnson Peter Welch Suzanne Bonamici Frederica Wilson Alan Lowenthal Steve Israel Xavier Becerra ###
06.28.2013	WASHINGTON – Today, U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-1) sent a letter to House Speaker John Boehner calling on him to bring a comprehensive immigration reform bill to the floor for a vote. Whether it is the Senate version, which passed that chamber on a broad bipartisan basis, or the House bipartisan version that has been in negotiations, DeGette believes Congress must fulfill its duty to address this critical issue for the nation. “Our immigration system is broken, and the onus is on us to put forth reasonable reform that makes the system whole again,” said DeGette in the letter. “If Congress acts, we can improve the safety and security of all Americans, expand economic opportunity, and support global competiveness.” The full text of DeGette’s letter to Speaker Boehner is below:June 28, 2013 The Honorable John A. Boehner Speaker United States House of Representatives H-232 United States Capitol Washington, DC 20515 Dear Speaker Boehner, Now that the Senate has passed immigration reform legislation, I write to you to urge you to bring a comprehensive immigration bill to the House floor. Our immigration system is broken, and the onus is on us to put forth reasonable reform that makes the system whole again. If Congress acts, we can improve the safety and security of all Americans, expand economic opportunity, and support global competiveness. I strongly support the bipartisan team in the House that has worked for years to produce consensus legislation. This team has faced numerous challenges on the path to reform. At times, the difficulty of crafting complex policy has been compounded by politicization of the issues that has made the path forward seem nearly impossible. Yet the House “gang” has managed to find consensus again and again. Their efforts should not be ignored. That same consensus was evident in the Senate’s bill which passed yesterday on a strong bipartisan basis with a vote tally of 68-32. Moving forward, whether it is the Senate’s version of comprehensive immigration reform or the House bill, it is incumbent upon us to openly consider legislation on the House floor, so this body can clearly present to the American people its path to reform. I urge you to seize this moment. Sincerely, Diana DeGette MEMBER OF CONGRESS ###
06.28.2013	WASHINGTON – Today, U.S. Reps. Diana DeGette (D-CO) and Louise M. Slaughter (D-NY), co-chairs of the House Pro-Choice Caucus, released the following statement in response to the Administration’s announcement of the final rules on contraception coverage and religious organizations: “We welcome the Administration’s announcement today on the final rules for contraception coverage and religious organizations. These rules reflect a science-based policy that guarantees millions of American women – of all faiths and incomes – with access to free preventative services. Contraception coverage is essential to women’s health care and today’s developments mark an important victory for American women, all while respecting the beliefs of religious organizations.” ###
06.27.2013	Burn Pit Toxic Exposure Illnesses Will Be Studied, Treated at Defense Centers of Excellence Under New Bill WASHINGTON – Today, U.S. Reps. Diana DeGette (D-CO) and Tim Bishop (D-NY) were joined by representatives from veteran advocacy groups, physicians, and family members of veterans to announce new bipartisan legislation to address the health crisis among Iraq and Afghanistan veterans who were exposed to open-air burn pits and other airborne hazards during their service overseas. Original cosponsors of the legislation also include Congressmen Walter Jones (R-NC) and Jim Cooper (D-TN). The "Helping Veterans Exposed to Toxic Chemicals Act" will establish three Centers of Excellence in the prevention, diagnosis, mitigation, treatment, and rehabilitation of health conditions related to open burn pit and other environmental exposures. Thousands of veterans have returned home after serving overseas with a myriad of illnesses ranging from asthma and other respiratory afflictions to serious gastro-intestinal disorders. While the precise number of veterans affected is not currently known, it is estimated that tens of thousands might be suffering due to their exposure overseas. The Centers of Excellence will have access to and make use of the data collected by DoD and the VA for the burn pits registry that was created by law in 2012. “Far too many of our brave men and women in uniform are returning home only to find themselves facing debilitating or life-threatening lung conditions after being exposed to airborne hazards and toxins overseas,” said DeGette. “This legislation will go a long way towards helping America’s service members suffering from respiratory afflictions ultimately gain access to the medical treatments they need, from some of our nation’s top medical research institutions. I’m proud that National Jewish in Denver has one of the first programs in the nation to address deployment-related lung disease and that our community’s returning service men and women have such a great hospital nearby to help them.” "America's painful experience with Agent Orange and Gulf War Syndromes requires a proactive, comprehensive response to this clear health crisis among veterans exposed to burn pits during their service in Iraq and Afghanistan," said Bishop. "Establishing Centers of Excellence to develop innovative treatments of the illnesses caused by toxic exposure and prevent them from occurring in the future is a vital effort on behalf of our brave service members and their families. I appreciate the support for this legislation on both sides of the aisle and among the dedicated groups who stand up on behalf of our veterans." “It is absolutely necessary to enact legislation that will ensure we are well-prepared to care for our returning veterans who have been exposed to open burn pits,” said Jones. “After all that they have sacrificed for us, we owe it to them to provide access to the highest-quality resources so that they can fully heal from their injuries.” "Veterans of previous generations struggled for years to have conditions such as Agent Orange and Gulf War Syndrome recognized as service-connected. We cannot repeat this same pattern with Iraq and Afghanistan veterans,” said IAVA Chief Policy Officer Tom Tarantino. “Establishing Centers of Excellence to treat the health conditions due to burn pit exposure is the first step to getting our veterans proper care. IAVA thanks Representatives Bishop for his leadership on this important issue, and urges Congress to move swiftly to pass this legislation." The Centers of Excellence for the study of exposure-related illnesses will be jointly administered by VA and Department of Defense in a framework similar to the Defense Centers of Excellence for Psychological Health (Post Traumatic Stress Disorder) and Traumatic Brain Injury. The locations of the three Centers of Excellence will be selected through a competitive application process to ensure the highest quality of study and care. Qualified institutions must have a proven track record of post-deployment health exposures among veterans from Iraq and Afghanistan and meet other requirements in order to be considered. The legislation authorizes an appropriation of $30 million in each fiscal year from 2014 through 2019 to establish and operate the three Centers. The "Helping Veterans Exposed to Toxic Chemicals Act" has been endorsed by IAVA (Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans of America), The Sergeant Sullivan Center, and BurnPits360. ###
06.26.2013	WASHINGTON – Today, U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-01), Vice Chair of the Congressional LGBT Caucus, released the following statement after the introduction of the Respect for Marriage Act, which would ensure the full repeal of the discriminatory Defense of Marriage Act (DOMA). Rep. DeGette is an original co-sponsor of the bill. “As we celebrate today’s landmark Supreme Court decisions and an historic victory for the LGBT community, we also acknowledge that more work remains in the march towards equal rights for all. I am proud to co-sponsor the Respect for Marriage Act introduced today with so many of my colleagues. Congress should act quickly to pass this legislation and repeal DOMA in its entirety. Our bill will abolish Section 2 of DOMA, which was not a component in today’s decision, and prevent states from deciding whether to recognize a marriage performed in another state. The Respect for Marriage Act will ensure all marriages are recognized no matter where the couple resides, allowing them and their children to enjoy the same rights and benefits as every family in our nation. While we hail the court’s ruling against DOMA, we are reminded that progress is unavoidable and justice will eventually prevail. We must now finish the job and grant full equality to all Americans.” ###
06.26.2013	WASHINGTON – Today, U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-1) released the following statement in response to the United States Supreme Court’s rulings today to overturn the Defense of Marriage Act (DOMA), and to dismiss the appeal of California’s Proposition 8, which will now allow marriage to resume in our nation’s largest state. Earlier this year, Rep. DeGette, who is Vice Chair of the Congressional LGBT Caucus, signed an amicus brief on DOMA, urging the Court to overturn this discriminatory law. “This is a momentous day for America and for the vision of ‘equality for all’ to which we aspire. With the Supreme Court’s decisions on DOMA and Proposition 8, millions of Americans in loving marriages, and their children, can now fully participate in the American family, finally enjoying the same rights and benefits as every family in this country. For too long, ideology and politics have stood in the way of equality for the LGBT community in our nation. But today we are reminded that progress is indeed unavoidable and justice will eventually triumph. “There is still a long road ahead to achieve full equality for all Americans, but these historic decisions mark a milestone for all our LGBT brothers and sisters, and today we stand with them and their families in celebration and joy.” ###
06.25.2013	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep Diana DeGette (D-CO) released the following statement in response to the United States Supreme Court’s decision to strike down Section 4 of the Voting Rights Act of 1965: “Today is a sad day. I am deeply disappointed in the Supreme Court’s decision overturning Section 4 of the Voting Rights Act. The Act has played a critical role in assuring voter equity for almost 50 years, and today’s action by the Court undermines that progress. The right to vote is the most fundamental right of our democracy, and I am saddened and angry that the Supreme Court today took steps to undermine that right for millions of Americans.” ###
06.24.2013	DENVER – Today, U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-1) announced the introduction of the Colorado Wilderness Act of 2013, which proposes a balanced approach to protect 31 wilderness areas and two potential wilderness areas, totaling approximately 750,000 acres, across the state. “As a fourth-generation Coloradoan, I know firsthand that Colorado’s beautiful lands are one of our state’s greatest resources,” said DeGette. “These special lands not only provide clean air, clean water and critical wildlife habitat, they help drive tourism as our state’s number one economic engine. It is critically important we protect these remaining wild areas so that future generations have access to the same benefits we enjoy today. That is why I am so pleased that after traveling across the state for many years to engage the public and relevant stakeholders, this proposal has received great support as a way to secure the lands that are so important to so many Coloradoans.” Over the past several years, population growth and corresponding demands have placed increasing pressure on our public lands and resources. For example, 13.6% of Bureau of Land Management (BLM) land in Colorado is leased for oil and gas activities, while 2.6% is protected wilderness. The Colorado Wilderness Act seeks to balance these demands while keeping an eye on our natural heritage and preserving some of the most ecologically rich areas in our state. The bill recognizes the need for balanced use of our public lands, and as such, maintains existing grazing, oil and gas, and mineral rights. The areas proposed for wilderness designation are primarily BLM mid-elevation lands and lower-lying canyons. Many of these low-lying areas are underrepresented in our National Wilderness Preservation System, making their inclusion in the Act that much more critical. “The 2013 Conservation in the West Poll by Colorado College found very strong support for premier public lands as being an essential part of the state’s economy and necessary to attract high quality jobs and employers; three-fourths or more of Republicans, Independents and Democrats alike surveyed register such support showing land protection is not a partisan issue,” said Prof. Walter Hecox, the Colorado College State of the Rockies Project faculty director who joined the Congresswoman in a press conference today to expand on these findings. "Colorado is world renowned for its beauty and wilderness. In poll after poll Coloradans have expressed support for protecting our public lands and understand the link between protected lands and our economic prosperity," said Conservation Colorado Executive Director Pete Maysmith. "There are thousands of acres of unique public lands which have awaited congressional action for too long. We applaud Congresswoman DeGette for championing these areas deserving permanent protection and appreciate her leadership and vision for conserving our remaining wilderness quality lands." Stacie Gilmore, Executive Director of Environmental Learning for Kids, said of the proposal, “Congresswoman DeGette’s protection of wilderness areas and open space is invaluable to the communities of color like those that Environmental Learning for Kids serves. We need more protection of these areas to make sure that people who have traditionally not had access to the beautiful Colorado outdoors will have places to go to watch wildlife, to fish, to camp and to just enjoy the solitude of nature. They are an invaluable resource and we appreciate the Congresswoman’s initiative to make sure that all people of Colorado are able to become stewards of our natural resources.” “I have been integrating public comments on this legislation for 14 years and I will continue to do so until we pass it. Coloradoans understand the importance of protecting these special places and preserving our natural heritage,” concluded DeGette. “The local outdoor industry, tourism, our wildlife and our very quality of life depend on protecting these remaining wild lands.” Since 1999, Rep. DeGette has introduced wilderness legislation and championed efforts to protect Colorado’s public lands. More details of the Colorado Wilderness Act of 2013, a map of areas included in the bill, and a form for public comment can be found here. ###
06.20.2013	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-1) today issued the following statement regarding her vote against the Farm Bill, H.R. 1947. The bill failed 195 to 234. The bill would have gutted $20.5 Billion in funding for the critical Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP), better known as the food stamp program. SNAP provides vital food support for over 45 million Americans, nearly half of whom are children. “I’ve spent my career in public service fighting for the most vulnerable families among us, and therefore I could not in good conscience vote for the farm bill that came to the House Floor today. While the amendment process brought some important improvements, the underlying bill remained deeply flawed and the bill would have devastated access to food for millions of low-income American families. Our nation cannot build a framework for long-term strength while knowingly driving our citizens – many of whom are children – into hunger. “Within the debate I was, however, proud to work with Rep. Goodlatte (R-VA) on a dairy amendment to help prevent significant increases in milk prices, that would impact federal nutrition programs like school lunches for our children. That effort was a great example of the fact that we in Congress can come together on a bipartisan basis to bring our nation a balanced farm bill that helps America’s farmers and the food industry, without doing so on the backs of low-income families. Today’s bill was absolutely not that bill so I am pleased so many of my colleagues, on both sides of the aisle, joined me in voting it down.” ###
06.19.2013	WASHINGTON – Today, U.S. Reps. Diana DeGette (D-CO) and Charlie Dent (R-PA) introduced the bipartisan Stem Cell Research Advancement Act, to ensure a lasting framework for ethical embryonic stem cell research at the National Institutes for Health (NIH), and to bring certainty to the scientific community pursuing research that could produce life-saving cures and treatments. “The United States has long served as the world leader in scientific and medical innovation, and it is critically important that we work together to make certain the breakthroughs of ethical embryonic stem cell research, and the jobs they create, happen right here at home,” said Rep. DeGette. “The Stem Cell Research Advancement Act puts in place the necessary framework needed to ensure this vital research is free from future political interference.” “We have the opportunity to treat, if not outright cure, some of the most horrendous diseases that people suffer from because of this research,” said Rep. Dent. “We must make sure that this ground-breaking research is conducted within strong ethical guidelines. The Stem Cell Research Advancement Act will do that by cementing an enduring ethical framework for this critical research.” The Stem Cell Research Advancement Act would support embryonic stem cell research, and codify the NIH’s guidelines for carrying out all human stem cell research, embryonic and adult. It also requires NIH to review its guidelines at least every three years and make periodic updates as scientifically warranted. The ethical requirements defined by the bill mandate that stem cells be derived from human embryos donated from in vitro fertilization clinics that were created for reproductive purposes, but are in excess of clinical needs. The donated embryos would never be implanted in a woman, and would otherwise be discarded. The individuals who had sought reproductive treatment to begin with, must donate the embryos with written informed consent and without any financial or other inducements. The legislation also specifically prohibits the use of federal funding for human cloning under the NIH guidelines. The bipartisan bill is widely supported by the stem cell advocacy community as well as leading health organizations who recognize the great potential stem cell research has for diseases and conditions faced by millions of Americans. “Enacting the bipartisan Stem Cell Research Advancement Act would protect important and potentially lifesaving biomedical research. Human embryonic stem cells are now being used to understand the root causes of disease serve as a tool for drug discovery and in novel clinical trials to regenerate damaged tissues. The stakes are high,” said Bernard Siegel, Spokesman for the Stem Cell Action Coalition. “It’s imperative that researchers and doctors have all the tools in the toolkit in order to discover effective treatments to alleviate the suffering of adults and children burdened by chronic disease. This bill would finally establish a stable political landscape, providing certainty to researchers, patients and industry so that meritorious stem cell research can continue and flourish, under rigorous ethical oversight. Congress needs to act now.” “The American Diabetes Association believes this legislation is vitally important in continuing and advancing human embryonic stem cell research,” said John E. Anderson, MD, President, Medicine & Science, American Diabetes Association. “The Stem Cell Research Advancement Act fosters promise for improved care for people with diabetes and ultimately a cure for this disease. We are grateful for the leadership of Representative DeGette and Representative Dent in sponsoring this legislation and promoting medical research, including stem cell studies.” Several years have passed since the original Stem Cell Research Enhancement Act, drafted by Rep. DeGette and former Rep. Mike Castle (R-DE), was passed and twice vetoed by President George W. Bush. During that time, the field of human stem cell research has progressed steadily. The Stem Cell Research Advancement Act introduced has been updated to keep current with the ever-expanding field of stem cell research and responds to calls on Congress to provide lasting support to this field of research. ###
06.18.2013	WASHINGTON – Today, U.S. Reps. Diana DeGette (D-CO) and Louise M. Slaughter (D-NY), co-chairs of the House Pro-Choice Caucus, joined several other Members in speaking out against the extreme legislation advancing today in the House that would ban all abortions after 20 weeks, with no exception to protect a woman’s health. “Here we go again. At a time when Americans want their elected officials to focus on creating jobs and building our economy, some of my more extreme colleagues on the other side of the aisle once again appear intent on focusing their efforts – and our time – on limiting a woman’s access to a safe and legal medical procedure,” said DeGette. “This bill is dangerous to women’s health, interferes with the doctor-patient relationship, and is clearly unconstitutional. While women across this country remain forcefully opposed to political interference in their health care decisions, the House GOP continues to advance extreme policies that undermine women’s reproductive rights.” “Forty years ago, the Supreme Court affirmed that women in America have the constitutional right to make their own health care decisions without the government getting involved,” said Rep. Slaughter. “Today, instead of focusing on creating jobs and improving our economy, the House Majority is once again playing doctor and trying to tell American women what they can and can’t do, despite what the Constitution tells them they can do. House Republicans need to abandon their war on women and start working on the issues Americans care about.” The bill, H.R. 1797, as originally introduced, would have banned all abortions after 20 weeks with no exceptions for victims of rape and incest. After public pressure, late last week the bill’s sponsors quietly maneuvered to add an exception for rape and incest victims, requiring a woman to prove she had reported the rape to authorities in order to have access to a legal medical procedure. ###
05.16.2013	WASHINGTON – Today, U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-1) released the following statement regarding the U.S. Department of Interior Bureau of Land Management’s (BLM) updated draft rule for hydraulic fracturing (“fracking”) on public lands. The revised draft rule emphasizes the need for an up-to-date, uniform oversight and disclosure framework that would provide relief from the current patchwork of state regulations, allowing for clarifications for industry and more effective safeguards for public lands. Rep. DeGette’s statement is as follows: “The BLM’s updated draft rule is a step in the right direction, and after numerous delays, I’m pleased the process is moving forward. As fracking operations on our public lands continue to expand, policymakers on both sides of the aisle increasingly acknowledge the need for common-sense oversight regulations that will ensure the economic benefits of natural gas do not come at the expense of the health and safety of our communities. “While still far from ideal, the updated proposed rule importantly recognizes that our nation must have a uniform oversight framework for fracking, rather than the current patchwork of regulations across multiple states. This patchwork leaves companies without clarification as they execute fracking operations and is insufficient to adequately address legitimate concerns over risks to our land and water resources. As the Democratic sponsor of the bipartisan FRAC Act, which is based upon the same principle, I commend the BLM for recognizing this critical need. “I do have significant concerns with the BLM rule’s acceptance of disclosure reporting through FracFocus.org. A recent in-depth Harvard Law study concluded that due to systemic problems with FracFocus and their policies, the website is not effective and ‘does not serve the interests of the public.’ Further, under the proposed rule, oil and gas companies would only be required to disclose after drilling has already taken place when, in essence, the horse would already be out of the barn. Providing effective and accessible disclosure both before and after fracking operations ensure better accountability, and therefore safer operations. “This proposed rule moves in the right direction but I hope these issues can be addressed. I encourage the public to come forward with their comments and concerns in the coming weeks. I look forward to the conclusion of this process and to hopefully a consistent national framework of common-sense regulations that protect our precious public lands without standing in the way of economic and energy benefits of fracking.” The public disclosure of the chemicals in hydraulic fracturing fluids is also a fundamental provision of the Fracturing Responsibility and Awareness of Chemicals Act (FRAC Act), sponsored on a bipartisan basis by Rep. DeGette and Rep. Chris Gibson (R-NY). The FRAC Act would require disclosure and would remove the oil and gas industry’s exemption from the Safe Drinking Water Act. The proposed rule’s updates reflect over four months of public comment on the initial rule released on May 11, 2012. The updated draft will be open for public comment for 30-days. ###
05.09.2013	WASHINGTON – Today, U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (D-CO) joined with her colleague Rep. Chris Gibson (R-NY) to introduce the Fracturing Responsibility and Awareness of Chemicals Act (FRAC Act), a bipartisan bill that establishes common sense safeguards to protect groundwater from risks associated with the oil and gas drilling technique “hydraulic fracturing,” better known as “fracking.” The FRAC Act would require disclosure of the chemicals used in fracking fluids and would remove the oil and gas industry’s exemption from the Safe Drinking Water Act. Rep. DeGette has introduced the FRAC Act in each Congress since 2008, but today marks the first time it has been introduced on a bipartisan basis. “As we recognize the need for energy independence and clean tech innovations to power our nation, natural gas is an important economic driver; but we must ensure the process for extracting natural gas is done safely and responsibly,” said Rep. DeGette. “I’m proud to introduce the FRAC Act today for the first time as a bipartisan bill. As fracking operations expand, colleagues on both sides of the aisle increasingly recognize we need common-sense legislation to ensure the economic benefits of natural gas do not come at the expense of the health and safety of families and communities.” Over the past decade, the use of fracking has expanded exponentially due to advances in drilling technology, the need for U.S. energy independence, and a move towards utilizing natural gas while the country incorporates renewable energy sources like wind, solar, and hydropower. While the nation begins to reap the rewards of natural gas, anecdotal evidence has begun to emerge of residents, homeowners, and workers becoming ill after oil and gas operations began in their communities. In promoting the benefits of this cleaner domestic fuel, it is critical to account for the real issues that exist, and any policy developed to support fracking must ensure the health and safety of our citizens. To address these concerns in a reasonable way, the FRAC Act would: Require disclosure of the chemical constituents used in the fracturing process. Disclosure would be to the state, or to EPA, but only if EPA has primary enforcement responsibility in the state. The disclosures would then be made available to the public online. Proprietary chemical formulas are protected under our bill – much like the way Coca-Cola must reveal the ingredients of Coke, but not their secret formula; oil and gas companies would have to reveal the chemicals but not the specific formula. This bill does include an emergency provision that requires these proprietary chemical formulas to be disclosed to a treating physician, the State, or EPA in emergency situations where the information is needed to provide medical treatment. Repeal a provision added to the Energy Policy Act of 2005 exempting the industry from complying with the Safe Drinking Water Act (SDWA), one of our landmark environmental and public health protection statutes. Most states have primacy over these types of wells, and the intent of this Act is to allow states to ensure that our drinking water is safe. EPA would set the standard, but a state would be able to incorporate hydraulic fracturing into the existing permitting process for each well, and so this would not require any new permitting process. “The FRAC Act would remove the patchwork of different state regulations that the industry currently has to try and comply with, and would set up a consistent and effective system to safeguard fracking operations. As a member of the Congressional Natural Gas Caucus I believe this legislation would enhance our efforts to promote the responsible development of natural gas,” continued DeGette. “Natural gas is an important economic driver for our nation and for Colorado in particular. As we witness America’s natural gas boom, a reasonable, common-sense framework of regulations at the federal level can help us protect our health and our environment, without standing in the way of the economic and energy benefits fracking can provide us all.” ###
05.08.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Rep. DeGette (D-CO) applauded the U.S. Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee’s unanimous passage of S. 545, a companion bill to H.R. 267, the Hydropower Regulatory Efficiency Act (HREA). This bipartisan legislation, authored by U.S. Reps. DeGette and Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), will facilitate the development of small hydropower projects and will direct the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) to study the feasibility of a streamlined two-year permitting process. In February, the U.S. House of Representatives unanimously passed HREA and with today’s Senate action, the bill now moves closer to action by the full Senate. This bill provides a unique opportunity to put Americans to work by expanding the nation’s access to clean, affordable energy. In fact, a study conducted by the National Hydropower Association estimates that by utilizing currently untapped resources, the U.S. could add approximately 60,000 megawatts of new hydropower by 2025, creating up to 700,000 jobs.“The hydropower bill passed today by the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee is a critical step towards utilizing our nation’s largest source of clean energy and paving the way for a smarter, more efficient national energy policy,” said DeGette. “The economic impact of hydropower is enormous, with the potential to create good jobs in Colorado and across the nation. The Senate has a unique opportunity to pass a bipartisan bill that provides clean energy, adds no cost to taxpayers, and helps put Americans back to work. I strongly urge the Senate to act immediately to build upon our nation’s clean energy leadership and send this bipartisan energy bill to the President’s desk.” ###
05.02.2013	DENVER – Today, Congresswoman Diana DeGette (CO-01) announced that Brianna Litzman, senior at Chatfield Senior High School, has won Colorado’s First Congressional District Art Competition with her photograph entitled, The Abandoned. The judges of the annual competition consisted of volunteers from the local art community. The Congressional Arts Competition, An Artistic Discovery, is a congressional program that is held throughout the country by members of Congress to raise awareness of the importance of art education and to recognize outstanding art students from their districts. The winning piece will be displayed with others from across the nation in the U.S. Capitol building in Washington, D.C.“I want to congratulate Brianna on a job well done, as well as all of the students who participated in the competition,” said DeGette. “As a member of the Congressional Arts Caucus, I am committed to advancing and strengthening art programs in schools and to ensure that the arts continue to play an essential role in the education of our nation’s children.”Fernando Villanueva from Emily Griffith High School won 1st Runner up with his block print, Influenced by Color. Heather Zigler, who attends Columbine High School, won 2nd Runner up with a pastel, Song in my Soul. Litzman will be invited to attend a ribbon cutting ceremony in June in Washington D.C. with Congresswoman DeGette. ###
04.25.2013	Washington, DC – Today the Congressional LGBT Equality Caucus (Equality Caucus) praised the re-introduction of the bipartisan Employment Non-Discrimination Act (ENDA) in the U.S. House of Representatives and the U.S. Senate. The bill is sponsored by Representative Jared Polis (D-CO), a Co-Chair of the Equality Caucus in the House, who is joined by Representative Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL) as the lead Republican sponsor. The Employment Non-Discrimination Act would establish basic protections in the workplace to prevent discrimination based on sexual orientation and gender identity. There are still no explicit laws protecting employees from discrimination based on sexual orientation in 29 states and gender identity in 34 states. ENDA would provide a federal level of protection against workplace discrimination in a manner modeled closely on Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and would apply to private employers as well as local, state, and federal government employers. Joining Representative Polis in introducing ENDA as original co-sponsors were the five other Equality Caucus Co-Chairs and more than 150 original co-sponsors. “Across our country, LGBT Americans face the daily fear of losing their jobs and livelihood simply because of who they are or who they love. Dedicated individuals should be judged based on their work, nothing more and nothing less,” said Rep. Jared Polis. “I am proud to reintroduce the Employment Non-Discrimination Act (ENDA) with Representative Ros-Lehtinen and so many of our colleagues in the House of Representatives. We will work together to see the federal workplace protections in the Employment Non-Discrimination Act passed into law.” “No qualified worker should be fired from their job because they are lesbian, gay, bisexual, or transgender, and the Employment Non-Discrimination Act will prevent that from happening,” said Rep. David Cicilline. “This is something that an overwhelming majority of Americans think is already the law, and it’s time for Congress to finally take action on this important issue.” “The bipartisan Employment Non-Discrimination Act is a simple concept - Americans should be evaluated based on their job performance, not who they love or who they are,” said Rep. Sean Patrick Maloney. “There is no room for discrimination – for any reason – in our laws, in our schools, and certainly not in our places of work,” said Rep. Mark Pocan. “Non-discrimination policies based on sexual orientation and gender identity are already in effect at a majority of our nation’s largest companies, and the time has come to ensure they are also passed into law. ENDA represents bipartisan, commonsense policy that guarantees all of our workers, no matter who they are or who they love, have the opportunity to thrive and succeed in the workforce.” “Basic protections for those who work hard, pay taxes and contribute to our economy should be simple American guarantees,” said Rep. Kyrsten Sinema. “The successful passage of ENDA makes certain those guarantees, and it fortifies our nation's long term economic security.” “As an openly gay member of Congress who hails from a state that once attempted to ban members of the LGBT community from my profession of teaching, I understand the importance of protecting workers from discrimination,” said Rep. Mark Takano. “That’s why I’m proud to see both parties come together to introduce the Employment Non-Discrimination Act (ENDA), a law that is supported by an overwhelming majority of Americans, as it would address the longstanding problems with discrimination against LGBT workers. By establishing basic protections in the workplace, ENDA aims to prevent discrimination based on sexual orientation and gender identity and ensure that members of the LGBT community are treated equally under the law.” “I am proud to join my colleagues in the House and Senate to re-introduce the Employment Non-Discrimination Act,” said Rep. Ileana Ros-Lehtinen. “It is inherently unfair that many skilled, qualified and motivated LGBT members of our communities too often experience rejections at job interviews, are denied promotions, or other forms of harassment in the workplace, simply because of their sexual orientation or gender identity. This is unacceptable. Federal law is currently failing these LGBT individuals and consequently, a majority of states still allow employers to discriminate based on sexual orientation and gender identity. The bill that we are proposing will end this unacceptable practice by prohibiting employment discrimination based on sexual orientation and gender identity. No American should have to fear harassment at work, or risk losing their livelihood because of who they are. That is why Congress needs to work to get this bill passed and set a national standard of equality for all in the workplace.” "The Employment Non-Discrimination Act would bring a much-needed measure of equality and fairness to the law," said Rep. Jerrold Nadler. "Americans believe that every individual should be able to work and contribute to our society without fear that they will be discriminated against for their sexual orientation, gender identity, or gender expression. Indeed, most of America’s largest companies already recognize this fundamental value. However, there are still too many workplaces where it is entirely legal to discriminate against lesbian, gay, bisexual, or transgender employees. Congress must act to ensure that no employee can be fired or threatened in the workplace just because of who they are or who they love. Such deplorable acts of discrimination must not be sanctioned by our laws, which is why I have been a lead supporter of proposals like ENDA every time they were introduced since I became a member of the New York State Assembly back in 1977. Today I am proud to stand with my colleagues as we introduce ENDA and work toward its swift passage." “The re-introduction of an inclusive ENDA is a critical step towards ensuring all Americans are treated equally in the workplace,” said Rep. Diana DeGette. “I am proud to continue to stand with the LGBT community in the pursuit of full equality, and today I strongly urge the House to pass this significant legislation.” “I’m so proud to be an original sponsor of the Employment Non-Discrimination Act. This is a meaningful, powerful step towards equality and inclusion. Ensuring that our laws protect every member of our society, not just some, is essential to the strength of our country,” said Rep. Barbara Lee. “Our nation must always strive to live up to its fundamental principles of freedom, justice, and equality for all,” said Rep. Joaquin Castro. “That is why I am eager to join my colleagues in supporting ENDA, legislation that protects these fundamental American principles for all.”
04.16.2013	WASHINGTON – Today, U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-1) presided as Ranking Member of the Oversight and Investigation Subcommittee’s hearing investigating last October’s fungal meningitis outbreak and the lack of sufficient regulation over the compounding pharmacy industry. The outbreak was caused by contaminated steroid injections manufactured at the New England Compounding Company (NECC). In her opening statement, Rep. DeGette noted that the Colorado State Board of Pharmacy discovered the NECC’s deficiencies, back in 2011, and issued a cease-and-desist order to stop the company’s practices. Today’s hearing focused on the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and the regulatory framework that oversees the compounding pharmacies, as well as the history surrounding this issue. Rep. DeGette’s opening statement, as delivered, is below:• Mr. Chairman, thank you for holding today’s hearing. • I know I join you and the rest of the Members of this Subcommittee in expressing our deepest condolences to those who have been affected by the tragic events in Boston yesterday, and I know we are all thinking about the victims. • M. Chairman, obviously this fungal meningitis outbreak is a serious situation and our committee needs to understand the facts about how and why the meningitis outbreak occurred, and what we can do to prevent it in the future. • I think this investigation has the potential to become part of the great bipartisan oversight history of this Committee. • I know that good investigations don’t always result in legislative change. But in this case, we can use this investigation to help us identify the legislative changes –if any – that we need to help us avoid tragedies like this in the future. • As hospitals, clinics and other medical providers outsource more of their compounding, a number of compounding pharmacies have sprung up and frankly they have been operating below the regulatory radar screen. • A spotty pattern of state regulations and enforcement, combined with conflicting federal law, have made that even worse. • Mr. Chairman, I want to talk about some of the facts we have uncovered as we have spent the last five months investigating the New England Compounding Center, the FDA, and the deadly fungal meningitis outbreak caused by contaminated compounded drugs. • First, as we all can stipulate, the owners and operators of NECC, the compounding pharmacy, ran a shoddy, fly-by-night operation and jeopardized the lives of thousands of people. • Second, for several years prior to the outbreak, the FDA received warnings about the company from its own inspectors, from State Boards of Pharmacy, and from whistleblowers. • The FDA received warnings about – and seriously considered investigating – Ameridose, NECC’s sister company, just a few months before NECC began to ship the deadly steroid products. • One of the states that discovered these deficiencies was my home state of Colorado, and in fact, the State Board of Pharmacy issued a cease-and-desist order to stop the company’s practices. • I am confident that we can all agree on those two facts on both sides of the aisle. • But I also hope we can agree on a third fact that will help explain why FDA was unable to effectively regulate this company. Then I hope we can act together to fix the problem. • Mr. Chairman, in October 2012, this Committee requested thousands of pages of documents from the FDA about their interactions with NECC and their approach to regulating compounded drugs. • The Democratic staff has reviewed these documents and yesterday released a supplemental memo with key findings. I’d like to ask that this memo be made part of the hearing record. • The pattern of documents from 2002 through last year demonstrates that, under two Administrations and over 10 years, the FDA has not been aggressive enough in attempting to regulate compounding pharmacies. • The question is “Why”? • It is a serious and legitimate question to ask what the agency should have been doing, and could have been doing over those many years. • And I know from your opening statement that you intend to do just that. • I also look forward to hearing what specific solutions Commissioner Hamburg and the FDA believe would help them protect the American people from another outbreak. • Because these documents show us that the FDA has been grappling with a law that is broken and we need to help fix that law and keep the American public safe. • But we also need to look at how court decisions impacted the FDA’s ability to regulate. • Mr. Chairman you say the FDA is hiding behind judicial robes, but in fact, Court decisions are the law of the land, and what we have here in the wake of the serious meningitis outbreak last year, is a patchwork of laws. • We have two judicial circuits that are coming up with different decisions about the authority of the FDA which is causing some of these compounding pharmacies – not all of them, but some – to resist any regulatory efforts by the FDA. • As the FDA has been attempting to better regulate this situation since these issues came out, there have been instances of compounding pharmacies refusing to provide FDA access to records or facilities. • As we learned during our food safety investigation and some of our other investigations in this Committee, if you have an allegation of little black particles in some of the vials of the pharmaceuticals, the FDA and its cooperating agencies need the ability to work fast. • But if you have a company that says you can’t come in here and makes the FDA go to court, that’s not a speedy or desirable resolution. • So Mr. Chairman I’m looking forward to hearing from Commissioner Hamburg about, number one, what the agency has done to improve this situation and to improve enforcement; • And number two, what the agency thinks that we need to do legislatively to fix this law so this will never happen again.
03.21.2013	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-1) issued the following statement after voting against Senate Amendment to H.R. 933, a Continuing Resolution that funds the federal government through September 30th of this year. “I could not vote in favor of a Continuing Resolution that fails to reverse the across-the-board spending cuts put in place by the sequester. These cuts, already being felt by Americans in communities across the nation, are bringing dire consequences for our economy and nation’s citizens. While Congress has the responsibility to keep our government operating, an opportunity was missed by not addressing the devastating cuts causing furloughs and infrastructure closures across the nation right now. We need to reverse the sequester, and instead take a balanced approach to our budget that makes targeted cuts, while focusing our investments on programs that help our families and communities, and in proven areas of economic growth like medical research, clean energy opportunities, and workforce training programs.” ###
03.19.2013	WASHINGTON – Today, U.S. Representatives Diana DeGette (D-CO) and Ed Whitfield (R-KY), Co-chairs of the Congressional Diabetes Caucus, introduced the Access to Quality Diabetes Education Act, and the Preventing Diabetes in Medicare Act. Both bills provide critical support to Medicare beneficiaries who are diabetic or prediabetic. “Providing coverage to beneficiaries seeking care for diabetes can have a lasting impact on the health of our seniors, while significantly reducing long term costs,” said DeGette. “Seniors with diabetes should have greater access to diabetes self-management training (DSMT) provided by certified diabetes educators (CDE), and Medicare beneficiaries who are prediabetic should have access to the nutritional counseling of registered dietitians. Together, these key pieces of legislation help to fill the void that exists for so many Medicare beneficiaries confronting the challenges of diabetes or prediabetes.” “The Access to Quality Diabetes Education Act and the Preventing Diabetes in Medicare Act are common sense bills that will improve the lives of our seniors while reducing health care costs,” stated Whitfield. “A recent study by the American Diabetes Association put the total costs of diagnosed diabetes at $245 billion in 2012. This number is proof that we must do more to provide Medicare beneficiaries with the resources they need to manage and prevent diabetes.“ “The American Association of Diabetes Educators is pleased that the Diabetes Caucus has introduced the Access to Quality Diabetes Education Act which will significantly help reduce the devastating economic and social costs of unmanaged diabetes and which will save the Medicare program approximately $2 billion over the next decade,” said Tami Ross, President, American Association of Diabetes Educators. “We strongly support the Preventing Diabetes in Medicare Act, which would allow Medicare to reimburse registered dietitians or other qualified nutrition professionals to provide medical nutrition therapy to patients at risk of diabetes or with pre-diabetes, in addition to patients with diabetes and renal disease,” said Ethan A. Bergman, President of the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics. Congress authorized DSMT as a Medicare benefit in 1997, with the goals of providing a more comprehensive level of support to educate beneficiaries about diabetes and self management techniques, reducing the known risks and complications of diabetes, and improving the overall health outcomes. Under the Access to Quality Diabetes Education Act, a CDE would be a covered provider of Medicare DSMT services and work to increase education and outreach to primary care physicians about the importance of DSMT for their patients with diabetes. The Preventing Diabetes in Medicare Act is designed to help beneficiaries diagnosed with pre-diabetes avoid becoming diabetic by providing access to the best possible nutritional advice about how to handle their condition. Under current law, Medicare pays for medical nutrition therapy (MNT) provided by a registered dietitian for beneficiaries with diabetes and renal diseases. Medicare also currently pays for the screening of diabetes in the Welcome to Medicare Physical. However, Medicare does not currently cover MNT for beneficiaries diagnosed as having pre-diabetes, and this legislation would fill that hole in beneficiaries’ care.
03.08.2013	WASHINGTON – This week, U.S. Reps. Diana DeGette (CO-D) and Mike Coffman (CO-R) re-introduced the “Respect States’ and Citizens’ Rights Act” which would ensure that state laws regarding marijuana will not be pre-empted by the federal government. In November’s elections, voters in Colorado and Washington State passed state laws legalizing marijuana by wide margins. Several lawmakers expressed concern soon after about the federal government’s ability to override these voter-approved initiatives and the states’ rights to exercise the will of their citizens. The “Respect States’ and Citizens’ Rights Act” addresses that concern, clarifies Congressional intent, and provides guidance for the courts. “I am proud to join with my colleague Rep. Coffman to reintroduce the ‘Respect States’ and Citizens’ Rights Act’ to protect states’ rights and resolve any conflict with the federal government,” said Rep. DeGette. “In Colorado we’ve witnessed the aggressive policies of the federal government in their treatment of legal medicinal marijuana providers. My constituents have spoken and I don’t want the federal government denying money to Colorado or taking other punitive steps that would undermine the will of our citizens.” “I strongly oppose marijuana legalization, and I did not support Amendment 64, but I also have an obligation to respect the will of Colorado voters. They passed this initiative, and I will support their voice and this legislation,” said Rep. Mike Coffman (CO-6). ###
03.04.2013	WASHINGTON – Today, U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (CO01) released the following statement on the Food and Drug Administration’s (FDA) study conducted by the Institute of Food Technologists (IFT) on pilot projects for improving product tracing along the food supply system. DeGette was a leading advocate for passage of the Food Safety Modernization Act (FSMA), and in particular, the inclusion of traceability as a fundamental component to improve our nation’s food safety system. “Today’s report demonstrates why traceability is so critical to ensuring the safety of our nation’s food supply. In 2011, the deadly listeria outbreak in cantaloupes carried significant economic costs for Colorado and national cantaloupe growers who were unfairly swept up in a recall that didn’t involve their fruit. This report demonstrates that if we had 100% improvement in tracing time, the economic benefit would have been $767,000. “I have worked tirelessly during my time in Congress to provide for stronger food safety protections and standards. As we developed and ultimately passed the Food Safety Modernization Act, I fought to ensure the inclusion of the traceability pilot projects and the provision giving the FDA authority to issue a mandatory recall on tainted foods. I will continue to lead efforts to ensure these vital programs have the necessary resources and support to maintain public safety. ”A copy of the FDA’s report can be found here. ###
03.01.2013	WASHINGTON – Today, U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette released the following statement after joining other members of Congress in filing an amicus brief in the United States Supreme Court in U.S. v. Edith Schlain Windsor, a landmark challenge to Section 3 of the 1996 Defense of Marriage Act (DOMA): “Our nation has made significant progress through the years in extending equal rights to those in the LGBT community; however, there is still a long road ahead toward achieving full equality for all Americans. It time for Section 3 of DOMA, which specifies marriage between only a man and woman, to be struck down and grant the equal rights and benefits same-sex couples rightfully deserve.” The Members’ brief is available here. ###
02.28.2013	WASHINGTON – Today, U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-01) released the following statement applauding passage of the Violence Against Women Reauthorization Act of 2013 (VAWA), which extends key protections to all victims of violence: “Today’s passage of a fully inclusive VAWA is a major victory for women across the nation as it contains key protections for LGBT, American Indian, and immigrant victims, makes college campuses safer, helps solve rape crimes, and better addresses victims of human trafficking. “To victims of violence in America this is more than a bill, it is security. It is security for our mothers, daughters, and sisters who face abuse in their lifetime.” ###
02.26.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – United States Representatives Louise M. Slaughter (NY-25) and Diana DeGette (CO-1), Co-Chairs of the Congressional Pro-Choice Caucus, today issued a joint statement in response to the Congressional Republicans letter to the Government Accountability Office (GAO) calling for an investigation on how Planned Parenthood and other health centers use their federal funding: “Congressional Republicans have signaled that they intend to waste valuable time and taxpayer money investigating and scrutinizing groups like Planned Parenthood, who provide primary care to patients including pap tests, breast exams, and testing for sexually transmitted infections to millions of Americans. HHS Inspector General and state Medicaid programs regularly audit Planned Parenthood and publicly report their findings, and since 1995, six GAO reports have been released focusing on International Planned Parenthood Federation and Planned Parenthood Federation of America’s federal expenditures. Not one has uncovered any pattern of misuse of taxpayer funds, illegal activity, or abuse that would justify further investigation. This has nothing to do with accountability and everything to do with an ideological crusade against women’s health, reminding the American people that while Republicans may not be interested in averting the sequester’s disastrous cuts, they are interested in getting between women and their doctors and limiting women’s health choices.” ###
02.13.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed H.R. 267, the Hydropower Regulatory Efficiency Act (HREA), by unanimous vote of 422-0. This bipartisan bill – authored by U.S. Reps. Diana DeGette (D-CO) and Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA) – will facilitate the development of small hydropower and conduit projects and direct the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) to study the feasibility of a streamlined two-year permitting process. Their legislation now moves to the U.S. Senate, where leaders in the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee are drafting a companion bill to HREA.“Today’s unanimous vote marks a significant step forward towards smarter, more efficient hydropower project permitting, and the ensuing ability to better leverage our nation’s largest source of clean energy. For a state like Colorado, and indeed the entire nation, this legislation will expand renewable and affordable hydropower and create good jobs for American families. “Last night President Obama challenged our nation to strengthen our clean energy leadership, at the same time he called on Congress to work together for the good of the country. The passage of this hydropower bill, created in a bipartisan fashion with Rep. McMorris Rodgers and then passed by the entire House, demonstrates that the President’s challenge is indeed achievable. The House came together across the aisle today to help get Americans back to work and to build our nation’s clean energy leadership. I now urge my colleagues in the Senate to do the same, so we can send this important, bipartisan energy bill to the President’s desk as soon as possible.” ###
02.12.2013	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-01) tonight issued the following statement in response to President Barack Obama’s State of the Union address. Rep. DeGette is a Chief Deputy Whip and Ranking Member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations. “President Obama tonight delivered the speech of a seasoned leader with a strong vision of a better America for all our families. The President laid out a clear path to continue our economic recovery in the short-term and to build lasting economic strength for our nation. He drew on proven solutions like encouraging and rewarding the kind of innovation that creates jobs, while also advocating for the fiscal discipline that makes for a smarter government. “In Colorado, we know first-hand the economic value of smart investments in research and science to create jobs and even build entirely new industries. That is why I know my fellow Coloradoans applaud President Obama’s ideas to encourage clean energy technology development that increases our global competitiveness, while securing our environment for our children’s future. “While the most immediate challenges we face are economic in nature, the President tonight also spoke to the societal challenges that touch families all across this great nation. As a country, one of our greatest shared values is that everyone who works hard should have a chance to get ahead. That is why the President’s call for common-sense immigration reform that provides a path to citizenship and keeps families together was met with bipartisan support throughout the Chamber. “But perhaps the most moving and indeed memorable movement of President Obama’s address was when he called on Congress to vote on the common-sense gun violence prevention measures introduced since the massacre at Sandy Hook. The President’s passion and commitment to keeping killing machines out of the hands of disturbed individuals paid tribute to the lives of the victims of gun violence there in the Chamber with us tonight. I was proud to have joined with Rep. Ed Perlmutter to bring the loved ones of A.J. Boik, killed in the Aurora shootings last summer, to tonight’s address so they could hear their President’s commitment to ensure their tragic loss would not be in vain.“Whether getting our nation’s fiscal house in order or keeping our children safe from gun violence, our nation craves bipartisan solutions from their government. We deserve better than the intransigence and brinksmanship that have marked the last few years in Washington. I share President Obama’s repeated call tonight to set aside partisan politics and work for the good of all Americans; and I believe it can be done.” ###
02.07.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C.– Today, U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-1) joined with her colleagues on the Gun Violence Prevention Task Force in announcing the consensus policy principles they have developed over the past two months to prevent gun violence in our nation. The Task Force was formed in the wake of the massacre in Newtown, Connecticut that claimed the lives of 20 children, and the ensuing national call to address the devastation caused by gun violence in our country. “Today, I am proud to join with my colleagues as we announce a set of common-sense proposals to keep our children and our families safe and prevent gun violence across the country,” said DeGette. “It is a testament to those who gave their lives in Sandy Hook that we as a nation are finally engaging in a larger conversation regarding our views on guns, violence, and how we respond to mentally ill citizens in our communities. The principles we announce today reflect that conversation and provide a framework for action. I am hopeful we can come together as a Congress and as a nation around these reasonable solutions that will help keep killing machines out of the hands of disturbed individuals, while respecting the Second Amendment rights of responsible gun owners.” The Gun Violence Prevention Task Force, led by Congressman Mike Thompson (CA-5), introduced the following consensus policy principles and urged their Congressional colleagues to take action: • Reinstate and strengthen a federal ban on the sale of additional assault weapons into the market. • Reinstate a federal ban on assault magazines. • Pass legislation requiring a background check for every gun sale, while respecting reasonable exceptions for cases such as gifts between family members and temporary transfers for sporting purposes. • Strengthen the National Instant Criminal Background Check System (NICS) database. • Prosecute those prohibited buyers who attempt to purchase firearms and others who violate federal firearm laws. • Pass legislation aimed specifically at cracking down on illegal gun trafficking and straw-purchasing. • Make funding available for public safety and law enforcement initiatives aimed at reducing gun violence. • Support initiatives that prevent problems before they start, like helping local communities apply evidence-based prevention and early intervention strategies. • Close the holes in our mental-health system and make sure care is available for those who need it. • Help our communities get unwanted and illegal guns out of the hands of those who don’t want them or shouldn’t have them. • Support responsible gun ownership. • Take steps to enhance school safety. • Address our culture’s glorification of violence seen and heard though our movie screens, television shows, music and video games. “This comprehensive set of proposals reflects the fact that there is no one solution to the problem of gun violence in America,” continued DeGette. “As a first step, I’m proud to have introduced a bill to ban high-capacity assault magazines on the first day of this Congress. I am pleased my Task Force colleagues support that initiative as a fundamental proposal to better protect our children from gun violence. I am also proud that in the next few weeks, the Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee, of which I am the Ranking Member, will begin to examine how best to reform our mental health system so care is available to those whose illness may otherwise lead them to harm themselves or others.” ###
02.02.2013	DENVER – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-1) today joined with her colleagues Rep. Luis Gutierrez (IL-04) and Rep. Jared Polis (CO-02) to hold a forum with hundreds of members of the community to discuss the critical need for immigration reform. The forum was an opportunity for the public to hear from the Members of Congress about their efforts on immigration, as well as a chance for members of the public to tell their own story in order to offer input to the Members to take back to D.C. as legislation is drafted in Congress. The U.S. deports 1,000 people per day and in 2012 a record 400,000-plus deportations took place. Families still wait years or decades for loved ones to receive a visa and businesses who would like to hire people legally find our system too clogged and cumbersome to use. “Change is desperately needed. I frequently hear stories from individuals whose family has been torn apart, or from individuals who are trying to do the right thing but are having so much difficulty with our current system that they want to give up,” said DeGette. “We need comprehensive reform that will bring people out of the shadows, that incorporates the DREAMers, that will end the exploitation of U.S. and immigrant workers, and reform that attracts the best and the brightest investors, innovators, and skilled professionals.” “I am enthusiastic about the progress we are making in a bipartisan way on immigration reform in Washington and so glad to have a chance to stand with allies in Colorado like Diana DeGette and Jared Polis to build support.? I have been in Washington long enough to know that if the people outside the Capitol are not demanding action from the people inside the Capitol — every day, loud, in every conceivable way — it just won’t happen.? That is the only way we break through the gridlock on immigration that has lasted decades,” said Gutierrez. "I am excited to join Congresswoman DeGette and Congressman Gutierrez in calling on Coloradans to rally around the need to pass comprehensive immigration reform now. While the announcement of Deferred Action for young people who are in the United States through no fault of their own was an important step, it is now time to fix our broken immigration system once and for all. I am optimistic about our chances of passing comprehensive immigration reform, but we have to make our voices heard in Colorado and throughout the country to ensure swift action is taken in Washington," said Polis. “It was wonderful to see such a strong turn-out today, demonstrating how many people care deeply about this issue,” concluded DeGette. “The stories we’ve heard today are a critical message that Representatives Gutierrez and Polis and I can carry back to D.C. as part of the discussion." ###
01.27.2013	DENVER – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-1) today joined with Colorado State Representative Rhonda Fields and local citizens to call on Congress to act on the epidemic of gun violence that our country faces. DeGette discussed her federal legislation to ban high-capacity assault magazines as well as the package of proposals made by President Obama last week. Rep. Fields described her state legislation as well her personal motivation to act, the loss of her son to gun violence. “I was proud to be at the White House to hear President Obama outline his plan for common-sense solutions to keep our children and our families safe and prevent gun violence throughout the nation,” said DeGette. “The President immediately implemented 23 executive actions and called on Congress to take swift action on larger proposals to prevent gun violence like universal background checks and renewing an assault weapons ban, including a ban on high-capacity magazines. “I agree with the President that there is no one solution. But while we will never be able to stop every disturbed individual from going into a school or a movie theater or a shopping mall and shooting people, we can slow them down and give the people in their sights a fighting chance. That is why I call on Congress to pass my legislation to ban high-capacity assault magazines.” “This is a very personal matter for me. Not only because of my son's tragedy, but because we are dealing with gun violence in our neighborhoods on a daily basis. The horrific massacres make us stand up and say enough, but 33 people continue to be killed by guns in our country each and every day. There have been more than 1,200 gun deaths in just over a month since Newtown. These senseless acts are destroying our communities and we must act now on a comprehensive plan to curb gun violence,” said Fields. Joining the legislators were long-time advocate Tom Mauser who lost his son, Daniel, at the tragedy at Columbine, and local gun owner, Jesse Ogas. “Americans clearly want a conversation about this plague of gun violence, so I’m pleased that my representative, Columbine’s representative, is taking action to have that conversation in Congress,” said Mauser. “We can’t settle for the deadly status quo.” “Coming from a long line of hunters and gun owners, and being a gun owner myself, it is my passion to continue to uphold the 2nd amendment,” said Jesse Ogas. “However it is also my responsibility and my duty, as an American, as a father, and as a community member to ensure that we all come together to figure out how to keep our children safe.” After the Newtown shooting, public calls for a comprehensive proposal to address gun violence have spread across the country. Current polls demonstrate support for measures like an assault weapon ban, high-capacity assault magazine ban and universal background checks. According to the Washington Post, the majority of Americans, 52%, support more comprehensive laws that will keep Americans safe from gun violence, including 59% who support a ban on assault weapons. The Pew Research Center found that 85% of Americans favor stronger background check, while a CBS News poll said 92% favor universal background checks. “Over the past couple of weeks, a series of polls have demonstrated the public’s support for these types of common-sense solutions,” concluded DeGette. “These overwhelming majorities are encouraging – but in order to ensure these reasonable ideas can be enacted, the support reflected in these polls must translate into a demand for action. It’s going to take phone calls, and emails, and an unrelenting flood of voices of Americans to be heard by the leaders in Washington.” ###
01.23.2013	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-1) today issued the following statement regarding her vote against H.R. 325, a partisan bill that would raise the debt ceiling for only three months, with the caveat that the Senate must pass a budget or Members would cease to receive a paycheck. Her statement is as follows: “Passing bills that are nothing more than political gimmicks that fail to address the serious economic issues we face is not the answer to our nation’s fiscal challenges. The one thing I consistently hear from businesses in Colorado is that they need certainty from Washington. Kicking the can down the road once again does not give them the certainty they need to grow and thrive and create new jobs for hard-working Americans. “Raising the debt ceiling simply enables our nation to pay for spending we have already incurred, and defaulting on these debts would damage the credit of the United States and throw the markets into turmoil, ultimately causing great economic damage. That is why I have been consistent in my belief that the full faith and credit of the U.S. should not be held hostage by political games and brinkmanship. “The fiscally responsible thing to do is for us to come together on both sides of the aisle and raise the debt ceiling for a full year. Doing so would give the markets and the business community the certainty they need, while enabling us to stop the partisan gamesmanship and tackle our larger fiscal challenges.” ###
01.22.2013	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-1) took to the Floor of the U.S. House of Representatives today to mark the 40th Anniversary of the Supreme Court’s Roe v. Wade decision. The following is a video of her remarks. Full text as prepared for delivery is below. “M. Speaker, yesterday in his Inaugural address, our President reminded us of the founding principle of our nation, that we are all created equal. “For the women of this great nation there can be no greater means of equality, than the right to reproductive choice. “On the 40th anniversary of Roe v. Wade I come to the floor today to reflect on the tremendous accomplishments that have been made for women’s reproductive rights. “On January 22, 1973, the highest court in this country laid the groundwork that a woman’s right to a medical procedure should be constitutionally protected. “For 40 years, American women have been allowed the freedom to make these decisions on their own, in consultation with their family and their physicians. “I cannot tell you the story of every woman who has had to make such a difficult decision. But I can assure you this: each story is unique. A woman’s story is her own, her struggles are her own, and are no matter for this Congress or any politician to decide. “As a politician, I would not tell a woman how or when to get a check-up. I would not lecture her to go get a mammogram. And no politician, now or ever, should tell a woman how to handle her pregnancy. “Just this morning a new national poll from the Wall Street Journal found that 7 in 10 Americans believe Roe v. Wade should stand. “Let me say that again – 7 in 10 Americans believe it should stand. “Let all those who would continue to threaten this fundamental right bear that in mind. “Thank you to those who fight every day to advocate for the rights of women. Today is a day to be grateful and to celebrate the 40th anniversary of Roe. Today is a day to celebrate women’s freedom.” ###
01.07.2013	WASHINGTON – Today, U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-1), Congress’s leading advocate for ethical embryonic stem cell (ESC) research issued the following statement in response to the U.S. Supreme Court decision to reject a challenge to government funding of ESC.“Today is a great day for millions of Americans looking to the promise of ethical embryonic stem cell research to treat or even cure their disease. I am extremely pleased that with this decision, scores of researchers across the country finally have the stability and continuity to conduct their critical research, without the lingering threat of this Court case. However, the uncertainty generated by this lawsuit for patients and scientists has demonstrated again and again over the past few years how political gamesmanship and ideology can interrupt the path of stem cell discovery. “The potential and promise of ethical embryonic stem cell research is too important for too many patients across our nation to leave it vulnerable to the whims of Washington and extreme agendas. Therefore, as we begin the 113th Congress, I will work tirelessly to pass legislation codifying these federal guidelines, and once and for all remove uncertainty for researchers and the patients who await their life-saving discoveries.” ###
01.01.2013	WASHINGTON – Tonight, U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-1) voted in favor of the deal to avert the so-called fiscal cliff. The bill had already passed the U.S. Senate, and tonight it passed the U.S. House of Representatives 257 to 167. Rep. DeGette’s statement is as follows: “For the sake of hardworking middle class families and our nation’s economic recovery, I am pleased we were able to come to a bipartisan agreement that averted the so-called fiscal cliff. It was far from the deal many of us hoped for, and certainly not the comprehensive solution we saw in this opportunity. However, with the economic recovery still fragile, we cannot let the perfect be the enemy of the good. We have a responsibility to the American people to do the right thing – and the right thing was to prevent everyone’s taxes from going up tomorrow or sending the financial markets into a tailspin. “In the coming weeks, we must address the serious challenges of sequestration with a comprehensive and balanced approach that strengthens our short and long-term economic future. Once again we also must raise the debt ceiling, and I strongly urge my colleagues across the aisle to not initiate a repeat of the irresponsible debt ceiling debate of 2011. The full faith and credit of the United States is not a political pawn, and, quite simply, just like any American family, we have an obligation to pay the bills that we have already incurred. The last debate resulted in a downgrade of our nation’s credit rating, and this time the consequences would be far worse. “As we address these next fiscal challenges, I hope my colleagues can work together towards bipartisan and bicameral solutions. The American people deserve better than a Congress that acts like a student running into their professor’s office to turn in a term paper by midnight on its due date.” ###
12.21.2012	WASHINGTON – Today, U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-1) issued the following statement in response to the National Rifle Association’s (NRA) press conference regarding the gun massacre in Newtown, Connecticut.“Since last Friday’s tragedy in Newtown, voices from across our nation’s political spectrum have called for productive conversation and comprehensive solutions to finally address the horror of gun massacres. “As the nation’s largest gun advocacy group, the NRA had an opportunity to come forward with a vision of reasonable solutions and a spirit of cooperation. Instead, they continued their decades-long position of obstructionism, assigning a laundry list of blame, and offering ideas that simply serve to absolve their organization and excuse the rampant availability of guns and ammunition designed only to kill as many people, in as short a span of time, as possible. “Much of the country is in agreement that we must now have a thorough examination of our views on violence, our views on guns, and our views on how we respond to mentally ill individuals in our communities. I frequently hear from responsible gun owners who believe there are many common-sense ideas to keep our children safe from gun violence. That is why I continue to believe that politicians and the citizens of this country can find consensus around reasonable solutions that keep killing machines out of the hands of disturbed individuals. The NRA today demonstrated they do not want to help find that consensus; and the only answer they have, is the only answer they’ve ever had: more guns.“At this critical moment in time, when we as a nation seem to finally be able to come together around sensible gun violence protection, the NRA missed an important opportunity. The children murdered last week in Newtown deserved better.” ###
12.19.2012	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (CO), Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi (CA), Rep. Carolyn McCarthy (NY), and 32 House Democrats today came together to call for immediate passage of DeGette and McCarthy’s bill to ban high-capacity assault magazines. The bill would ban the production and sale of high-capacity ammunition clips, like those used in the Sandy Hook shootings and in many other gun massacres, including this summer’s tragedy in Aurora. They introduced the bill earlier in this Congress, but in the wake of the massacre in Newtown, believe its passage is a first reasonable step to protect our nation’s children. “We may never be able to completely stop a disturbed individual from taking a gun and going into a school or a theater or a shopping mall and trying to shoot people, but we can give those victims a fighting chance,” said DeGette. “We hope Speaker Boehner will bring this bill to the floor. It would send a message to the moms, to the dads, and to all the people of this country that this Congress is serious about gun violence prevention. Every single American who cares about this issue needs to pick up the phone, call their member of Congress, and ask them, ‘where do you stand? we need to see what you’re going to do and who you stand with to stop this terrible gun violence that’s killing children in America.’” To view Rep. DeGette’s full remarks, click here. In last week’s massacre in Newtown, Connecticut, the gunman shot most of his victims with an AR-15 semiautomatic weapon, using multiple 30-round magazines. He was able to kill 26 individuals, including 20 children, in less than ten minutes. Beginning when she first arrived in Congress 16 years ago, Rep. DeGette has led the charge on introducing bills, on multiple occasions that would ban these high-capacity clips, beginning with the bill’s first introduction in 1998. In this Congress, DeGette and McCarthy once again introduced a similar bill, H.R.308, the Large Capacity Ammunition Feeding Device Act, to ban high-capacity magazines. The bill now has 140 co-sponsors, several of which signed on this week after the tragedy in Connecticut. ###
12.12.2012	DENVER - Today U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-01) met with middle class Coloradoans from the Denver-area to discuss the impact of the fiscal cliff on their lives. If Congress fails to act and does not extend the middle class tax cut, families could see their taxes increase by an average of $2,200. Here in Colorado that could mean a tax increase for 1.9 million families. "While Congress works on a balanced agreement to reduce the deficit, build a strong, lasting economy and avert the so-called fiscal cliff, we must extend the middle class tax cuts to ensure taxes aren't raised on families making less than $250,000 a year," said DeGette. "This week I was proud to join my Democratic colleagues in signing the discharge petition to force a vote on a bill to preserve tax cuts for everyone except the top 2% of wealthiest households. The bill has already passed the Senate and now is awaiting action from the Republican-controlled House. With only days left before our nation reaches the fiscal cliff, the GOP stalemate on extending the middle class tax cuts threatens the security of millions of families, while fighting for the wealthiest among us." "As a small business owner, the health of our business is dependent on our customer's ability to come in and buy our products," said Denver small business owner Glen Baker. "If that is diminished, it limits our ability to stay in business and provide jobs." "Raising taxes on my family could mean the difference between coming home to a warm home because I could pay my electric bill, and not have a home to come home to because I could not afford my electric bill or my rent," said Melissa Rapier, a health care worker. "I'm the primary breadwinner in my family and if the tax cuts are not extended, I'll be hit hard," said Dawn Marquantte, a single mom who works for a property management company. "My kids will feel the impacts the most, as they will no longer be able to participate in extracurricular activities, including the tutor helping them succeed in school." ###
11.16.2012	WASHINGTON – Today, U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-1) joined with Democratic and Republican colleagues to announce the introduction of the “Respect States’ and Citizens’ Rights Act” which would ensure that state laws regarding marijuana will not be pre-empted by the federal government. In last week’s elections, voters In Colorado and Washington State passed state laws legalizing marijuana by six and ten point margins, respectively. Immediately, several lawmakers expressed concern about the federal government’s ability to override these voter-approved initiatives and the states’ rights to exercise the will of their citizens. The “Respect States’ and Citizens’ Rights Act” addresses that concern, clarifies Congressional intent, and provides guidance for the courts. “Today I am proud to join with colleagues from both sides of the aisle on the ‘Respect States’ and Citizens’ Rights Act’ to protect states’ rights and immediately resolve any conflict with the federal government,” said Rep. DeGette. “In Colorado we’ve witnessed the aggressive policies of the federal government in their treatment of legal medicinal marijuana providers. My constituents have spoken and I don’t want the federal government denying money to Colorado or taking other punitive steps that would undermine the will of our citizens.” “I voted against Amendment 64 and I strongly oppose the legalization of marijuana, but I also have an obligation to respect the will of the voters given the passage of this initiative, and so I feel obligated to support this legislation,” said Rep. Mike Coffman (CO-6). “The people of Colorado and Washington voted in overwhelming numbers to regulate the sale of marijuana. Colorado officials and law enforcement are already working to implement the will of Colorado voters, and I look forward to continuing to work with my colleagues in Congress and officials in the administration to deliver clear guidance that ensures the will of the people is protected,” said Rep. Jared Polis (CO-2) “Residents of Colorado and Washington have made it clear that the public is ahead of the federal government in terms of marijuana legalization,” said Rep. Earl Blumenauer (OR-3). “It’s time for Congress to pass legislation – such as the ‘Respect States’ and Citizens’ Rights Act’ – that allows states to implement their own laws in this area without fear of federal interference.” “All across the country, states are choosing to reform their marijuana laws. As Justice Brandeis observed, states are the ‘laboratories of democracy’ and they should be given the opportunity to go forward with this social experiment,” said Rep. Steve Cohen (TN-9). “I’m proud to cosponsor this important bill, which will ensure that the federal government respects the people’s judgment.” “The federal government’s failure to develop a reasonable approach towards the varying state marijuana use laws has made this legislation necessary,” said Rep. Sam Farr (CA-17). “From increased raids on legal dispensaries to denying defendants in court the right to present evidence of their legal marijuana use, the federal government has chosen to trample on state rights rather than work with them as a partner to address this issue.” The full text of the “Respect States’ and Citizens’ Rights Act” can be found here. ###
11.14.2012	WASHINGTON – Today, U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-1) presided as Ranking Member of the Oversight and Investigation Subcommittee’s hearing on the fungal meningitis outbreak that has killed 32 people to date and caused 438 cases of meningitis, spanning 19 states. The outbreak was caused by contaminated steroid injections manufactured at the New England Compounding Company. In her opening statement, Rep. DeGette noted that in 2011, the Colorado State Board of Pharmacy determined that NECC was distributing unlicensed and unregistered drugs in the state, and issued a cease-and-desist order. Unfortunately their warnings went unheeded. Rep. DeGette’s full statement is below:Thank you, Mr. Chairman, for holding this important hearing on the very day we return. This is an important public health crisis and I’m pleased we’re addressing it on a bipartisan basis. The contaminated steroid injections sold by the New England Compounding Company have caused 438 cases of fungal meningitis spanning 19 states; 32 people have died, and I’m afraid that number could climb. We have four witnesses today to help us examine how this could have happened. I’m very eager to hear from the FDA and the Massachusetts Board of Registration in Pharmacy, the agencies with primary regulatory authority over NECC, just how we got here. I want to hear from Mr. Barry Cadden about how our earth his company could have been so irresponsible. And, I’m looking forward to hearing from Ms. Joyce Lovelace, the wife of one of the first victims of this tragedy. I want to join the Chairman, Ms. Lovelace, in expressing my deepest condolences for your loss. I thank you for coming today, and for your courage in sharing your story with us. Mr. Chairman, the facts we have uncovered so far in this investigation reveal frightening failures on multiple levels. There’s clearly lots of blame to go around to a lot of people. Mr. Cadden repeatedly failed to ensure that NECC and its sister companies were following appropriate safety rules and guidelines. Again and again, reports of problems with the facility were brought to the attention of the Massachusetts Board of Registration in Pharmacy, who failed to act. The Board was informed of problems – via complaints or from its own inspections in 1999, 2002, 2003, 2004, and even just this past summer. But somehow, NECC was able to keep its license, avoid significant penalties, and continue its operations until tragedy struck all across the nation. We also need to hear an explanation from FDA. Just like the Massachusetts Board, FDA inspectors and officials were repeatedly informed of problems at NECC. But the strongest action taken by the FDA was a warning letter sent to the company in 2006 – a letter that appeared to have very little effect. The FDA tells us that they were hobbled by questions about whether they had the legal authority to address the problems at NECC. If this is true, Mr. Chairmen, it is a problem that demands this full Committee’s immediate attention. Over 30 people have died from this meningitis outbreak because too many signals about the risk from NECC products were missed. One of those missed signals came from my home state of Colorado. In 2011, the Colorado State Board of Pharmacy determined that NECC was distributing unlicensed and unregistered drugs in the State and issued a cease-and-desist order. But this was all that Colorado officials could do – and it was not enough to stop NECC’s actions. Colorado officials notified Massachusetts Board of Registration in Pharmacy officials…and the Massachusetts officials did nothing. The Colorado State Board of Pharmacy did the right thing. But the system failed. NECC did not improve its operation. The FDA did not act. And Massachusetts did not act. Mr. Chairman, for a long time we’ve all had a Norman Rockwell vision of the pharmacists who manufacture the drugs our families rely upon – The kindly, old gentleman in the white coat, mixing prescriptions for the little child with an illness. Unfortunately this tragedy makes clear that large corporate compounding pharmacies are operating unchecked by appropriate safeguards, even as American families trust their lives. Mr. Chairman, let’s work together now to make sure that this crisis is not repeated. ###
11.13.2012	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-1) today praised the National Western Stock Show’s commitment to stay in Denver. She issued the following statement: “For over 100 years, the Stock Show has been an iconic institution in the Denver community. As a fourth-generation Coloradoan, I remember attending as a little girl and what a source of pride it was for my family. That is why I am so pleased with today’s announcement that, after a long process, the Stock Show would be staying in Denver. I commend National Western, Mayor Hancock and all the other stakeholders who came together to ensure our community can benefit from this important economic driver well into the future, and to secure the ability of many more generations to continue to enjoy its unique experience.” ###
09.14.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep Diana DeGette (CO-1) spoke in opposition to the “No More Solyndras Act” as flawed legislation born of biased and partisan oversight. While noting the importance of strong oversight and investigation of situations like Solyndra, DeGette criticized the bill for doing nothing to advance our nation’s energy security or save the taxpayers money, particularly when the US must ensure our global competiveness in the 21st century clean energy economy. The following is the text of Rep. DeGette’s floor statement on the “No More Solyndras Act” as prepared for delivery: “Mr. Speaker, during my time in Congress one important lesson I have learned is that good oversight results in good legislation. And biased and partisan oversight results in biased and partisan legislation. The “No More Solyndras Act” is a good example of that rule. It is bad legislation born of biased and partisan oversight. The Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee investigated the Solyndra loan in excruciating detail. But after 18 months, 300,000 pages of documents, 14 interviews with key officials, 5 hearings, and three subpoenas, my Republican colleagues have failed to prove any of the inflammatory accusations they have leveled at the Administration. Instead, they simply repeated one unproven allegation after another, trying to score political points, ignoring key exculpatory evidence and making false and misleading accusations about the Solyndra loan based on cherry picked evidence. Mr. Speaker, let me be clear. My job is not to defend the Administration. If something improper occurred on this loan, I would want to know about it and I would want to expose it. But the facts simply do not support the over-the-top allegations made by Republicans and their oil-funded Super PACs. The career officials and Bush and Obama Administration appointees who worked on this loan told our investigators that political considerations played no role in decisions on Solyndra. They told us that there was no improper pressure to rush key decisions on the loan, to approve the loan, or to change the terms of the loan. Each and every one of these officials confirmed that there were no corners cut in the process and that decisions were made purely on the merits. As David Frantz, a career civil servant who has served as director of the loan guarantee program since 2007 under the Bush Administration, stated: “through the whole history of the program from its inception to today, it has not been driven by any political considerations whatsoever.” But Republicans ignored the evidence before the Committee and repeatedly made false and misleading insinuations. For example, Subcommittee Chairman Stearns claimed that the Committee’s investigation “reveal[s] a startlingly cozy relationship between wealthy donors and the President’s confidants, especially in matters related to Solyndra.” But this is exactly the opposite of what the Committee found. Chairman Stearns was referring to unproven allegations of White House political favoritism on behalf of Solyndra investor George Kaiser, a supporter of President Obama. But the Committee interviewed two key White House decision makers, Adi Kumar and Heather Zichal about their interaction with Mr. Kaiser. The Committee learned that at the time the Solyndra loan was being reviewed, neither of these officials had any knowledge of Mr. Kaiser’s support for the President, nor did they have any role in the substantive decisions on the loan. These are the key officials Republican claimed were at the center of the White House’s improper activities, and yet they had no knowledge of Mr. Kaiser’s political support and no involvement in the decisions on the loan. These facts directly contradict the allegations Republicans have made for months. And they contradict the findings in the bill we are debating today. But the facts do not appear to matter to House Republicans. Throughout the investigation, Democrats urged the Chairman to take a different path. We asked for responsible oversight that could actually shed light on why this company failed and what legislation might be needed to advance our energy security and our domestic clean energy sector. Despite our requests, Republicans refused to hold hearings on the competitive challenges U.S. manufacturers face in the global clean energy market. They refused to seek testimony from the largest private equity investors in Solyndra, to understand why the company attracted so much private capital. And they refused to invite DOE witnesses to take a serious look at the legal and financial rationale behind the subordination of the Solyndra loan. This was not a fair, complete, or effective investigation. The result? The legislation before us today is also not fair, complete, or effective. The bill does nothing to advance our nation’s energy security or save taxpayers money. It ignores the benefits of the DOE loan programs: 300 million gallons of gasoline saved, the world’s largest solar power plants, the nation’s first electric vehicle manufacturing facilities, and tens of billions in private investment off the sidelines and into the American economy. The legislation allows DOE to award $34 billion in future loan guarantees, but prohibits DOE from considering any new applications. Refusing to allow DOE to even consider promising, cutting-edge applications is not the way to advance innovative energy technologies in this country. And the legislation also ties DOE’s hands in the event a loan recipient needs additional capital - removing an important and legal refinancing tool that DOE and independent observers agree can help save taxpayer funds. It’s clear that this legislation is a political exercise. It is nothing but an attempt to keep the word Solyndra in the news and to give Republicans a platform to repeat their false and misleading accusations. It is disappointing legislation and I urge members to vote no.” ###
09.12.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep Diana DeGette (CO-1) issued the following statement in response to the attacks that claimed the lives of four American personnel in Libya, including Ambassador Christopher Stevens:“I am profoundly saddened by the unwarranted violence that killed four Americans in Libya. My thoughts and prayers are with Ambassador Stevens’ family, as well as the loved ones of the three other Americans killed in this horrific attack against the U.S. Consulate in Benghazi. “As we mourn the loss of these courageous individuals, we also honor their sacrifice. They were deeply committed to furthering democracy and stability and Libya, and had tirelessly exhibited and supported the values that our country holds most dear. “The assault of our diplomatic post in Libya, along with the recent protest at the U.S. Embassy in Cairo reminds us to pay tribute to the many Foreign Service officers and diplomats who risk their lives to serve America across the world.”
08.07.2012	Seven members of Colorado’s congressional delegation urged the leaders of the U.S. House of Representatives and U.S. Senate to actively work on passing a comprehensive, balanced deficit reduction package to avoid the blunt automatic spending cuts – known as sequestration – established by the Budget Control Act of 2011. The bipartisan letter’s signatories are Senators Mark Udall and Michael Bennet and Reps. Diana DeGette, Ed Perlmutter, Mike Coffman, Jared Polis and Scott Tipton. “Members of both parties intentionally designed the sequestration to be a painful last resort in order to spur a bipartisan congressional agreement on a balanced deficit-reduction plan,” the letter states. “Congress should act expeditiously to institute a comprehensive deficit-reduction plan that cuts spending, responsibly reforms and strengthens entitlement programs and overhauls the tax code. We need a clear, bipartisan and well-considered plan for addressing the deficit that allows us to stave off sequestration and stabilize the federal budget. There should be no higher priority for this Congress than crafting a bipartisan deficit-reduction plan so we can bring it to an up-or-down vote before the end of the year and avoid the blunt automatic spending cuts as part of the BCA sequester. … We urge you to instruct the relevant congressional committees to begin working on such a comprehensive and bipartisan effort and allow time for the plan to be considered on the House and Senate floor.” The bipartisan Budget Control Act, approved last year to avert a default on U.S. debt obligations, requires that Congress pass significant deficit reductions by January 1, 2013 or face steep, across-the-board budget cuts. The full text of the letter by clicking HERE or by reading below: The Honorable Harry Reid Senate Majority Leader United States Senate Washington, DC 20510 The Honorable Mitch McConnell Senate Minority Leader United States Senate Washington, DC 20510 The Honorable John Boehner Speaker of the House United States House of Representatives Washington, DC 20515 The Honorable Nancy Pelosi Minority Leader United States House of Representatives Washington, DC 20515 Dear Mr. Reid, Mr. McConnell, Mr. Boehner, and Ms. Pelosi: We write to urge the leadership of both parties to work together to allow consideration of a bipartisan deficit reduction plan on the House and Senate floors before the end of the year. Such a plan should improve our nation’s long-term fiscal condition while averting the automatic, across-the-board spending cuts, known as sequestration, which are of particular concern to communities throughout Colorado. During last year’s debate regarding the national debt limit, congressional dysfunction threatened to force the federal government to default on its bills, creating a political emergency that roiled the markets. The Budget Control Act (BCA) was subsequently enacted to resolve the impasse. The BCA cut federal spending by more than $900 billion over 10 years, and also created the automatic spending cuts in both defense and non-defense spending that we now face at the end of the year. Members of both parties intentionally designed the sequestration to be a painful last resort in order to spur a bipartisan congressional agreement on a balanced deficit-reduction plan. Congress should act expeditiously to institute a comprehensive deficit-reduction plan that cuts spending, responsibly reforms and strengthens entitlement programs and overhauls the tax code. We need a clear, bipartisan and well-considered plan for addressing the deficit that allows us to stave off sequestration and stabilize the federal budget. There should be no higher priority for this Congress than crafting a bipartisan deficit-reduction plan so we can bring it to an up-or-down vote before the end of the year and avoid the blunt automatic spending cuts as part of the BCA sequester. We urge you to instruct the relevant congressional committees to begin working on such a comprehensive and bipartisan effort and allow time for the plan to be considered on the House and Senate floor. We are at a pivotal moment in our nation’s history. Our Colorado constituents are demanding that their elected officials live up to the responsibilities of their office. If we join together across party lines and enact a comprehensive plan to put our nation back on sound fiscal footing, we can restore economic confidence and position the country for another generation of global economic leadership. Failure to do so could have equally negative consequences for our nation. We urge you to make the time available for an up or down vote before the end of the year on a balanced deficit-reduction solution and look forward to working with you to resolve our current budgetary impasse to help ensure the future economic health of the United States of America. ###
08.03.2012	WASHINGTON, DC– Last night, Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-1) and Rep. Carolyn McCarthy (NY-4) introduced new legislation to make the sale of ammunition safer for law-abiding Americans who are sick and tired of the ease with which criminals can now anonymously stockpile for mass murder. The bill, called the Stop Online Ammunition Sales Act, will keep Americans safe by limiting the ability of people planning for mass murder to anonymously purchase unlimited quantities of ammunition through the Internet or other mail-order means. It would also require that ammunition dealers report bulk sales of ammunition to law enforcement. The shooter who killed 12 and injured 58 in an Aurora, Colorado movie theater this month had purchased over 6,000 rounds of ammunition anonymously on the Internet shortly before going on his killing spree, according to law enforcement officials. “The senseless violence of the theater shooting in Aurora served once again as a reminder that our nation must do more to protect innocent Americans from the carnage of gun violence,” said Rep. DeGette. “It is quite frankly inexplicable that one individual was able to purchase 6,000 rounds of ammunition on the internet, while we had no system in place to raise a red flag. It is basic common-sense to ask ammunition dealers to be licensed and to require record-keeping that provides critical information to law enforcement, while protecting privacy. This bill is a reasonable step to help us do what we can to prevent terrible shootings from becoming mass casualties.” “The Stop Online Ammunition Sales Act pulls ammunition sales out of the shadows and into the light, where criminals can’t hide and responsible dealers can act as a line of defense against the planning and stockpiling of a potential mass killer,” Rep. McCarthy said. “Law-abiding gun owners and shooters should support this legislation because it hinders criminals from abusing the Second Amendment right that our nation promises and could save innocent lives in the process.” The Stop Online Ammunition Sales Act works through four components: It requires anyone selling ammunition to be a licensed dealer. It requires ammunition buyers who are not licensed dealers to present photo identification at the time of purchase, effectively banning the online or mail order purchase of ammo by regular civilians. It requires licensed ammunition dealers to maintain records of the sale of ammunition. It requires licensed ammunition dealers to report the sale of more than 1,000 rounds of ammunition to an unlicensed person within any five consecutive business days. There are indications that there is already an appetite for such a measure among the American public. Even before the Colorado shooting, earlier this summer Internet giant Google changed its policies so that ammunition and firearms are no longer sold through its shopping channels. A recent Mayors Against Illegal Guns poll of 945 gun owners across America found that 87 percent of NRA members agree that support for Second Amendment rights goes hand-in-hand with keeping guns out of the hands of criminals. And conservative thought-leaders such as Supreme Court Justice Antonin Scalia, Fox News host Bill O’Reilly and News Corp. Chairman Rupert Murdoch have all publicly expressed acceptance or support for some form of gun regulation since the Colorado shooting. The Stop Online Ammunition Sales Act undoes the dangerous effects of a law advanced by the NRA in the 1980s, as explained by the Violence Policy Center’s Kristen Rand: “Online ammunition sales are the direct result of the NRA’s flagship bill of the 1980s, the McClure-Volkmer ‘Firearms Owners’ Protection Act.’ Prior to McClure-Volkmer, interstate ammunition sales by common carrier to private individuals were banned, records were maintained of ammunition sales, and ammunition sellers had to be licensed. In today’s Internet age the effect of this change can now be measured in untold rounds of ammunition sold to the wrong buyers and all too many lives ended. We applaud the leadership of Senator Lautenberg and Representative McCarthy in working to reinstate this life-saving component of federal law.” ###
07.24.2012	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-1) today joined with Rep. Carolyn McCarthy (NY-4) and Senators Frank Lautenberg (NJ) and Robert Menendez (NJ) to call on Congress to pass a ban on high-capacity ammunition clips. In last week’s horrific theater massacre in Aurora, Colorado, the gunman entered the theater with multiple weapons, including an AR-15 semiautomatic weapon, with a 100-round magazine. Reports indicate that the gunman was able to shoot 71 people in only a couple of minutes. Beginning when she first arrived in Congress 16 years ago, Rep. DeGette has led the charge on introducing bills on multiple occasions that would ban these high-capacity clips, beginning with the bill’s first introduction in 1998. In this Congress, DeGette and McCarthy have once again introduced a similar bill, H.R.308, the Large Capacity Ammunition Feeding Device Act, to ban high-capacity magazines. Sens. Lautenberg and Menendez have introduced similar legislation in the U.S. Senate. Today’s press conference focused on calling for action on this bill, particularly in light of the mass casualty in Aurora. Rep. DeGette’s remarks are as follows: “First of all, on behalf of the citizens of Colorado, I’d like to express our deepest thanks for the outpouring of support our community has received from across the nation, since the horrible events of early last Friday morning. “In addition to Senator Lautenberg and Senator Menendez, I’m particularly pleased to be here today with Representative Carolyn McCarthy. She and I came together to Congress in 1996, and we immediately began working together to introduce our first bill to ban the use of high capacity magazines. Yet here we are, 16 years later, and in the wake of another violent tragedy, it’s impossible to understand why an ordinary citizen can get a hold of a high-capacity magazine that can fire 100 rounds in 90 seconds. “The senseless violence of last week’s theater shooting in Aurora has affected people from all over the Denver-area community, and, as days pass, we keep finding out just how close it came to so many of us. My 18 year old daughter has a friend that was in the theater just next door; and a friend of our family lost her nephew in the tragedy. Three of the deceased gunned down last week – including little six-year-old Veronica Moser – lived in my district and were part of the community I have the privilege of representing. And the heartbreaking stories go on and on. So today, I join with hundreds of thousands of families in simply saying, enough is enough. “Our same community went through the horrific experience of Columbine back in 1999. Since then our nation has suffered through Virginia Tech, Fort Hood, and of course the shooting of our friend and colleague Gabby Giffords last year, just to name a few. In every case, in the days following the violence, while everyone grieves and mourns the great losses, we hear the same tired, stale arguments from pundits on both sides of the aisle: ‘Gun control is off the table…’ ‘It’s a nonstarter’… ‘there’s no political will to do it.’ Well I think all of us standing here today refuse to accept that. “Yes, the second amendment grants Americans the right to own a gun. But the second amendment does NOT grant people the right to walk into a theater with a high-capacity ammunition clip and kill or maim scores of their fellow Americans. “So today I call on Congress and our nation to finally have that conversation. The conversation that finally recognizes that it’s not about banning all guns; it’s not about taking people’s guns away; it’s about taking reasonable steps that will stop people from having guns only designed to kill many, many, people in a short period of time. “Some of those on the other side of the aisle have been proclaiming that you are never going to be able to completely stop someone from taking a weapon into a theater or a school or a mall, or any other public place, and start shooting innocent citizens. That may very well be true – but I’ll tell you something – we might not be able to stop that person from bringing in a weapon, but we sure as heck can stop that person from being able to shoot 71 people out of 200 in just a couple of minutes. “Many others are also saying – just like they always do – that if someone in the theater had a gun, they could have shot the gunman. To the people who say that, I would say that, first of all, Colorado has a concealed carry statute – so it’s possible someone did have a gun in that theater. But when you have a situation with a darkened, crowded, theater; a gunman who unleashes tear gas into the crowd; who is covered in virtually head-to-toe bulletproof protection; and shooting a semiautomatic weapon with a 100-round clip… the notion that someone is going to pull out a gun and be able to shoot this man is completely ridiculous. “Since Rep. McCarthy and I have been in Congress, we’ve had 23 moments of silence on the Floor of the House for victims of gun violence. Let me say that again – 23 moments of silence. And we’ll have another one later today for the Aurora theater massacre. How many more moments of silence do we have to have? How many more prayer vigils do we have to go to? How many more memorial services and funerals must we attend? The time has come to end the same old conversations and instead, come together to stop terrible shootings from becoming mass casualties. “I understand the Second Amendment. I believe in the Second Amendment. But we have a duty – every single Member of Congress has a duty – to protect every American man, woman and child from the horrific massacres we experienced in Aurora last week.” ###
07.20.2012	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-1) issued the following statement in response to the tragic theater shooting in Aurora early this morning: “This morning, our Colorado community has been shaken by an inexplicable and horrific act of violence against so many innocent men, women, and children. We are all profoundly saddened by this senseless attack. My family and I join with all Coloradoans and those across the country today in praying for the victims and their families and loved ones. While we do not yet know the identities of the victims, in the coming days and weeks I know that all of us in the Denver-area will offer our support and assistance to those impacted by this shocking tragedy.” ###
07.10.2012	Washington, D.C. – Today, U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-1) issued the following statement in response to the breaking news that this evening President Obama directed federal officials to give wildland firefighters access to health insurance. Earlier today, Rep. DeGette introduced the Wildland Firefighter Health Protection Act, H.R. 6092, a bill to extend health insurance coverage benefits to the thousands of firefighters fighting the unprecedented wildfires in Colorado and across the West. “I’m elated the President has stepped in to bring access to health insurance for wildland firefighters, and I look forward to working with him and the White House to implement this new policy. I thank the Administration for joining with us and with the thousands of brave men and women battling devastating wild fires across the West, in recognizing the critical importance of protecting the health of those who protect our communities. “In recent weeks, this fight has clearly reminded all of us of what we owe to the people whose sacrifice and personal risk protect our homes, our families, and our communities. I was proud to introduce my bill today and now I am so pleased that the President’s action will bring firefighters the health insurance they deserve, during this exceptionally difficult fire season. I hope I can continue to work together with the White House and the wildland firefighter community to ensure that firefighters are given every possible tool they need to save our communities and safeguard the Mountain West, while they and their families are protected as well.” ###
07.10.2012	Washington, D.C. – Today, U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-1) introduced the Wildland Firefighter Health Protection Act, H.R. 6092, a bill that extends health insurance coverage benefits to seasonal firefighters and their families. Colorado and other Western states have been devastated by some of the worst wildfires in history, and thousands of firefighters have been brought in from around the country to fight these unprecedented fires. Yet despite the massive personal risk of their jobs, neither the firefighters nor their families are covered for health insurance. “It’s unconscionable that thousands of brave firefighters working countless hours to save our homes and communities do not have health insurance for themselves or their families,” said DeGette. “Anyone brave enough to lay their life on the line to protect our homes and our beloved state, should have the peace of mind that their health and the health of their families is secured. That is why today I am so proud to introduce this bill on their behalf. When my Congressional colleagues see these brave men and women saving our communities, and then hear about the discrepancy in their health insurance versus that of the local firefighters they stand alongside, I am certain they will recognize the urgent need to act.” Firefighters fighting wildfires in Colorado and across the United States are classified as “temporary workers” since their work is seasonal, and therefore are not eligible to receive health benefits like full-time workers. Yet many of these firefighters must work overtime each season – sometimes as much as 850 hours – to ensure they contain these devastating fires. These hours are not counted towards their eligibility for benefits, leaving them and their families without the same benefits as their colleagues with whom they fight alongside, such as the National Guard or local fire companies. Between 1999 and 2009, 222 firefighters died on the line. Wildland firefighters work up to 18-hour days in unimaginably dangerous conditions, while enduring the risks of smoke inhalation and other ailments. The smoky and dusty environment they work in has been linked with chronic pulmonary diseases, including chronic bronchitis and abnormal lung function. However, current policy ignores the health risks these brave men and women take and leaves their families and children’s health needs unaddressed as well. Specifically the Wildland Firefighters Health Protection Act would: • Extend health insurance coverage to all wildland firefighters. • Develop a pilot project to test reforms for how Federal wildland firefighters are compensated. o Currently, the Forest Service spends large sums on non-Federal fire suppression while not offering fair pay for Federal firefighters working overtime. o The pilot project would lay the groundwork to recruit and retain a better workforce and spend less on outsourcing by implementing “portal-to-portal” reforms (paying Federal firefighters for time away from their official duty station, which is how state and local firefighters are paid). o This pilot program is paid for by incremental reductions in non-Federal fire suppression spending. • Develop a new occupational series (similar to the GS scale for Federal government compensation) specifically tailored to wildland firefighting. In doing so, firefighters would be recognized by the Federal government for the life-saving work they perform daily. • Extend life insurance coverage to all wildland firefighters, and makes it simpler for these brave men and women to save for their retirement. “It is our honor and our duty to risk our lives for other people’s families and communities, but we don’t want to have to stay up nights worrying about what we’ll do if our child gets an ear infection, or if we develop breathing problems because of our job,” said John Lauer, a member of a Colorado-based “Hotshot” crew fighting fires in the West, and a leading advocate for health care for firefighters. “We’re not looking for a handout, we just want to have access to the health care our colleagues do. We’re so proud to do what we do to protect people’s homes and their lives; we just want to be protected ourselves.” ###
07.09.2012	WASHINGTON, D.C. – The House of Representatives passed H.R. 5892, the Hydropower Regulatory Efficiency Act, by a vote of 372-0 today. This bipartisan bill – authored by U.S. Reps. Diana DeGette (D-CO) and Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA) – will facilitate the development of small hydropower and conduit projects and direct the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) to study the feasibility of a streamlined two-year permitting process. Their legislation now moves to the Senate. “Today we launch a new path toward smarter, more efficient hydropower project permitting, and it’s a victory for us all that we are doing so on a bipartisan basis,” said DeGette. “For a state like Colorado, and indeed the entire nation, this legislation will expand renewable and affordable hydropower – far and away our nation’s largest source of clean energy – and create good jobs for American families. Together, the House has continued the bipartisan spirit in which the Act was created, to help get Americans back to work and take a step forward in our nation’s clean energy leadership.” “I’m so proud to join my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to celebrate the passage of this bill,” said McMorris Rodgers. “In Eastern Washington, hydropower plays a pivotal role – whether it’s conventional, small, or conduit hydro – it provides 75 percent of electricity to the Pacific Northwest and represents a unique opportunity for job creation and energy production. It’s clean, reliable, renewable and affordable. Unleashing American ingenuity to increase hydropower production will lower energy costs and help create thousands of jobs. The future of American energy independence depends on the development of an ‘all of the above’ energy approach – and I’m proud that hydro is finally on its way to being part of it.” “NHA appreciates the work of Reps. McMorris Rodgers and DeGette on this important legislation,” said Linda Church Ciocci, Executive Director of the National Hydropower Association. “The Hydropower Regulatory Efficiency Act will continue the growth of the hydropower industry by encouraging development to bring additional affordable clean power to more Americans. We urge the Senate to continue this momentum and deliver the bill to the President’s desk” To read the text of the bill, click here. ###
07.03.2012	DENVER – Today, U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-1) announced that immediately upon the House returning to session next Monday, she will be introducing a bill she has written to ensure firefighters bravely fighting these wildfires receive health insurance. Right now Colorado is being devastated by some of the worst wildfires in the state’s history, and thousands of firefighters have been brought in from around the country to fight these unprecedented fires. Yet despite the massive personal risk of their jobs, neither the firefighters nor their families are covered for health insurance. “As wildfires devastate our great state, and others around the West, it’s unconscionable that the thousands of brave men and women working night and day to save our homes and communities do not have health insurance for themselves or their families,” said DeGette. “That is why when I return to Washington next week, one of the first things I will do is introduce a bill to provide health care coverage to these firefighters and their families. Anyone brave enough to lay their life on the line to protect our homes and communities should have the peace of mind that their health and the health of their families is secured. I call on the rest of the Colorado delegation to join me in ensuring that these courageous firefighters and their families are protected.” The firefighters currently fighting the Waldo Canyon fires, the High Park fire, and countless fires across the Western United States, work 18-hour days in unimaginably dangerous conditions, while enduring the risks of smoke inhalation and other ailments. They often work a full year’s worth of hours during the six-month fire season, yet do not receive health benefits. In contrast, the other forces deployed to assist in the firefighting efforts, like the National Guard, enjoy the security of full health care for themselves and their families. “It is our honor and our duty to risk our lives for other people’s families and communities, but we don’t want to have to stay up nights worrying about what we’ll do if our child gets an ear infection, or if we develop breathing problems because of our job,” said John Lauer, a member of a Colorado-based “Hotshot” crew fighting fires in the West, and a leading advocate for health care for the firefighters. “We’re not looking for a handout, we just want to have access to the health care our colleagues do. We’re so proud to do what we do to protect people’s homes and their lives; we just want to be protected ourselves.” ###
07.02.2012	DENVER – Today U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-1) celebrated the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office’s (USPTO) selection of Denver to serve as home for one of three new satellite patent offices. The new office is estimated to generate $440 million in economic development activity in the First District and across the state over the next five years. Rep. DeGette’s statement is as follows: “Our most important task is to get Coloradoans back to work, so the decision to bring one of only three new satellite patent offices to Denver is a victory for our economy and for creating meaningful new jobs right here in our state. Many of us have long known that Colorado is leading the nation with innovations in telecommunications, biomedical discovery, and clean energy technology – the types of innovations that will spark economic development and extensive job creation. Today’s announcement is a welcome acknowledgement that Colorado’s entrepreneurial leadership is quickly becoming recognized by nation. “From the beginning, this delegation fought hard for the inclusion of regional satellite patent offices in the America Invents Act of 2011. We knew that extending the capabilities of the USPTO would enable our nation to rapidly and more efficiently bring innovative breakthroughs to the marketplace, creating jobs and in some cases, perhaps generating entire new segments of economic growth. Since the Act became law, the Colorado delegation has worked tirelessly to ensure that, as the USPTO made their decision, they knew the extraordinary capabilities and potential of the Denver-area and the entire state. Today those efforts came to fruition and our state now stands on the cusp of generating $440 million in new economic development activity. “In recent months, I’ve had the honor of meeting with businesses and entrepreneurs across the First District who are engaged in breakthrough innovations, and who will likely be some of the first to benefit from the USPTO’s new office. On behalf of those businesses and individuals, and for all the innovative minds who call the Denver-area home, I am proud today to welcome the USPTO to the great state of Colorado.” ###
06.20.2012	Washington, D.C. – The House Energy and Commerce Committee passed HR, 5892, the Hydropower Regulatory Efficiency Act of 2012 today. This bipartisan bill – authored by Rep. Diana DeGette (D-CO) and Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA) - would facilitate the development of small hydropower and conduit projects and direct the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) to study the feasibility of a streamlined two-year permitting process. Their legislation now moves to the House floor. “Today we take a major step down a new path towards smarter, more efficient hydropower project permitting,” said Rep. DeGette. “For a state like Colorado, and indeed the entire nation, this bipartisan legislation will expand renewable and affordable hydropower – far and away our Nation’s largest source of clean energy – and create good jobs for American families. I now look forward to bringing this bill to the Floor where we can continue the bipartisan spirit in which it was created to help get Americans back to work and take a step forward in our nation’s clean energy leadership.” “In my district, hydro plays a crucial role – whether it’s conventional, small, or conduit hydro,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. “In fact, hydropower provides 75 percent of electricity to Eastern Washington and to the Pacific Northwest region. While there are a vast array of renewable energies – including solar, wind, and nuclear power – in my opinion, the facts are clear: the future of American energy independence depends on the development of an ‘all of the above’ energy approach – including hydro. That’s why Congresswoman DeGette and I have been working to expand hydropower production. Our bill is timely and targeted and it will create jobs and bolster America’s competitiveness in the energy sector.” “NHA applauds the House Energy and Commerce Committee for their swift action on theHydropower Regulatory Efficiency Act of 2012,” said Linda Church Ciocci, Executive Director of the National Hydropower Association (NHA). “With policies like this, we can more quickly bring additional hydropower online. Tapping clean, domestic hydropower not only brings us closer to achieving national energy goals, but can help create and support thousands of jobs across the country. Reps. Cathy McMorris Rodgers and Diana DeGette have put together a strong bill, as evidenced by the speed at which it is moving. With such regionally-diverse bipartisan support, we urge House leadership to bring the bill to floor consideration as soon as possible. NHA stands ready to work with Congress to bring a final bill to the president’s desk.”
06.19.2012	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-1) today issued the following opening statement at the so-called “Federal Green Jobs Agenda” hearing of the House Energy and Commerce’s Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations. As Ranking Member of the Subcommittee, Rep. DeGette questioned the Republican leadership’s premise of the hearing as yet another attempt to play partisan, political games, while failing to ever introduce their own jobs programs or use their oversight abilities to improve existing programs. Last week, Rep. DeGette conducted a tour of some Denver-area small clean energy businesses, and saw first-hand how critical the cleantech industry is to the U.S. – to create jobs in the short-term and secure our nation’s economic future. Rep. DeGette’s statement as delivered is as follows: From your opening statement, I’m assuming, Mr. Chairman, that you are holding this hearing today because of your concern that we are not creating enough green jobs and that the Republican majority wants to figure out how to make the Obama green jobs programs better. In fact, if this hearing represented a fair assessment of the Obama Administration’s greens jobs agenda and an honest discussion of how to improve these programs, I would be in full support. However, I’m sorry to say, instead of that we will only hear complaints and opposition to President Obama’s programs. You would never know that many of these programs were passed with bipartisan support, or that they began under President Bush or earlier Administrations – again with bipartisan support. Somehow it seems to me, having sat on this Committee for a number of years, that Republicans only woke up to their vehement opposition to a government role in green energy when President Obama was elected. My colleagues on the other side of the aisle attack and besmirch every Administration program and decision. At the same time, they have not passed bipartisan legislation to create their own jobs programs or used their oversight abilities build better programs. This partisanship above policy attitude is a detriment to our nation. Mr. Chairman, the witness list for this hearing provides all the evidence we need to determine whether it is truly designed as an impartial, fact-finding exercise. You’ve invited four different witnesses to describe how the government’s estimates of green jobs and green job creation are wrong, useless, or inaccurate…. But we don’t have a single government witness to respond to these criticisms. Nobody from DOE, nobody from Treasury, nobody from EPA, and nobody from the Bureau of Labor Statistics. This does not seem to me – as someone who’s been on this Committee for 16 years – like an appropriate way to conduct oversight of important government programs. The programs we are here to talk about today – like the Section 1603 tax grant, the Department of Energy weatherization program and the DOE loan programs –have improved the lives of citizens all over this country, creating jobs, heating homes and providing resources to this nation’s energy innovators. The district or state of every member of this Committee has benefitted from the federal government’s investment in clean energy. Republican and Democratic Members, including Chairman Upton, have written to DOE in support of companies seeking funds for renewable energy projects. Because I’m concerned about clean energy jobs creation, last week, I toured clean tech companies in Denver. One stop was at Coolerado, a manufacturer of efficient and quiet air conditioners using indirect evaporative cooling technology. Coolerado’s units use up to 90% less energy than conventional AC units, and their technology won the R&D 100 awards for the successful operation of its first units. They have 40 employees today, up from 11 employees five years ago, and revenue has grown over 500% in that time. Coolerado has been steadily growing and attracting investors since their founding in 2004, but it is precisely this type of hearing that delegitimizes their genuine success story. I also visited Raven Brick on my clean tech tour. RavenBrick produces a “smart-window” technology – sort of like Polaroid glasses for windows – for residential, commercial and industrial applications. The company has begun construction of an automated plant in Denver, due for completion mid-2012, and intends to increase employment to 200 by 2015. This committee attacks on clean energy and clean tech threaten the livelihoods of my consitutents. Mr. Chairman, if looking in our districts doesn’t prove the case, then perhaps we should look abroad at our competitors. The Chinese government is making major strategic investments in renewable energy. And because of these investments, China’s market share has grown dramatically: from 6% of the solar market in 1995 to 54% in 2010. This Congress should not be complicit in ceding the future green energy market to our foreign competitors. If we intend to be long-term competitors on the global energy market, we need well-trained workers, we need funding for energy innovators, and we need programs to promote energy efficiency. And, we need to be less dependent on oil in the years that come. There are real world implications to this continued dependence on oil. Not only does it put us at an economic disadvantage and harm our environment, it also provides strategic advantages to unfriendly nations – which can create significant national security concerns. That is why I am pleased to have Mike Breen of the Truman National Security Project here today. Mr. Breen has testified before this Committee before, and has provided important context on the national security implications of our nation’s oil dependence. Put simply: when we lack alternatives to oil, it enriches our enemies, endangers our troops, and costs taxpayers billions of dollars annually. This is a recipe that must change. I look forward to hearing from Mr. Breen, and I appreciate him testifying today. There are clear environmental, economic, public health and national security reasons to invest in a clean energy economy. The federal government should be doing all it can to make sure the clean energy economy is viable so this nation can compete in a global energy market. Mr. Chairman, the economy is still struggling, and we should be supporting government efforts to create new economic development opportunities for businesses and individuals. We should support more programs that inspire inventors and businesses to invest in new, modern technologies. Renewable energy is this world’s future. We can’t be left behind. We must invest in clean energy for the good of this nation and its citizens. ###
06.07.2012	Washington, D.C. – Rep. Diana DeGette (D-CO) and Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), authors of HR 5892, the Hydropower Regulatory Efficiency Act of 2012, applauded the House Energy & Power Subcommittee’s approval of their bill today. Their legislation would facilitate the development of small hydropower and conduit projects and direct the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) to study the feasibility of a streamlined two-year permitting process. The bill will now be considered by the full Energy & Commerce Committee. “The Hydropower Regulatory Efficiency Act makes sense for America,” said Rep. Diana DeGette. “It charts a new path towards smarter, more efficient hydropower project permitting. This bipartisan legislation will expand renewable and affordable hydropower across the country, especially in my home state of Colorado, while creating good-paying manufacturing jobs for hardworking Americans. Today’s markup is an important step in getting the Hydropower Regulatory Efficiency Act signed into law.” “In my district, hydro plays a crucial role – whether it’s conventional, small, or conduit hydro,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. “In fact, hydropower provides 75 percent of electricity to Eastern Washington and to the Pacific Northwest region. While there are a vast array of renewable energies – including solar, wind, and nuclear power – in my opinion, the facts are clear: the future of American energy independence depends on the development of an ‘all of the above’ energy approach – including hydro. That’s why Congresswoman DeGette and I have been working to expand hydropower production. Our bill is timely and targeted and it will create jobs and bolster America’s competitiveness in the energy sector.” ###
05.31.2012	Today, a memo was circulated to Democratic Members of the Energy and Commerce Committee that summarizes the role of the Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America (PhRMA) in the passage of the Affordable Care Act. The full memo is available online here. Also circulated was a joint statement from Full Committee Ranking Member Henry A. Waxman and Oversight Subcommittee Ranking Member Diana DeGette, commenting on the Republican memorandum regarding the Affordable Care Act. The full text of that statement follows: “President Obama’s efforts to enlist the support of private industry are exactly what presidents have always done to enact major legislation. His efforts are what Americans expect of their leaders. They are no different than those of President Lyndon B. Johnson in enacting Medicare in 1965 or President George W. Bush in expanding Medicare to add a prescription drug benefit in 2003. “Unfortunately, the memorandum that the Republicans released today about the Affordable Care Act is one-sided, misleading, and full of significant errors, raising serious questions about the fact-finding abilities of Committee Republicans. “For example, the Republican memo concludes that ‘the White House settled for approximately $80 billion in payment reductions’ from PhRMA. In fact, the provisions described in the Republican memo were changed significantly in the final legislation. Interviews the Committee staff conducted with PhRMA lobbyists reveal that the final legislation will cost the drug companies $110 to $125 billion. This is substantially more than the amount the Republican memorandum says the White House was able to obtain. “Perhaps most important, the Republican memo does not mention the significant benefits that the drug provisions in the health reform law are already providing seniors and taxpayers. The drug provisions have lowered pharmaceutical costs by over $3 billion for millions of seniors and have saved taxpayers billions of dollars.”
05.30.2012	WASHINGTON – Today, bipartisan legislation to combat drug shortages sponsored by U.S. Reps. Diana DeGette (CO-1) and Tom Rooney (FL-16) passed the House of Representatives, as part of the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) Reform Act. The drug shortage provision language will improve patient safety by creating a communication framework to reduce shortages of life-saving drugs and give patients and physicians early warning of impending shortages so that they may adjust treatments accordingly. The FDA Reform Act, including the drug shortage legislation, overwhelmingly passed the House by a 387 to 5 vote. “Throughout this crisis I’ve talked to patients battling devastating diseases like cancer, who show up for treatment one day, only to find out their life-saving drugs are not available. Just last week I met with Denver EMS and ER doctors who told me that the medicines they need to treat us in life-threatening emergencies are now also in shortage,” said DeGette. “That is why I am so proud we passed a bipartisan bill to create an early warning system so the FDA, drug companies and doctors can better respond to shortages, quickly and efficiently. Today, the U.S. House came together across party lines to take a significant step towards getting drug shortages under control and protecting the health of America’s families.” “I started working on drug shortage legislation more than a year ago after meeting with doctors and hospital administrators at Charlotte County Regional Medical Center, who told me they were facing shortages of critical, life-saving drugs, and we needed to act. I’m very proud today to tell them that with the support of patients, doctors and pharmacists across the country, the House has passed this important, bipartisan bill,” said Rooney. “By giving doctors, suppliers and FDA get an early notice about a potential shortage, we can help them respond and even prevent disruptions from occurring.” Rep. Fred Upton (MI-06), Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, said, “Representatives DeGette and Rooney have been real leaders in the effort to call attention to and address the issue of drug shortages. They've worked tirelessly to find bipartisan solutions to a crisis that is threatening patients across the country, and I'm pleased we were able to include those ideas in the FDA Reform Act passed overwhelmingly by the House.” Recent data from the University of Utah Drug Information Service showed that 2011 had 56 more incidents of drug shortages than 2010, with a total of 211 life-saving medications suddenly unavailable. Many of these shortages impact cancer patients – and particularly pediatric cancer patients – leaving them, literally, without lifesaving treatment. In emergency medicine, EMS workers and ER doctors are coping with shortages of medications that treat everything from cardiac arrests, to seizures, to life-threatening allergic reactions, to severe pain, among others. These shortages often force medical providers to delay or alter patient care plans. In many instances, no safe alternatives to these drugs exist, leaving patients with an increased risk of side effects and adverse drug interactions. Early reporting to the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has recently proven to go a long way towards addressing these shortages and protecting patients. In fact, since last November, because of mostly voluntary reporting from manufacturers, the FDA has prevented 128 shortages. This February, because of early notification, the FDA stepped in to allow for temporary, emergency importation of the cancer drug Doxil when it went into shortage. At the same time, they prioritized the review of a new manufacturer of methotrexate when this critical cancer drug went into shortage. The DeGette-Rooney language creates an early warning system between the FDA, drug companies, and providers so that the community can respond to a drug shortage quickly and efficiently. Specifically it would: Require manufacturers of prescription drugs, including biologics, to notify the FDA of any discontinuance or interruption in the production of a drug at least six months in advance or as soon as practicable; Instruct the Secretary to distribute this information to appropriate health care providers and patient organizations; and Authorize the GAO to conduct a study to examine the causes of drug shortages and issue recommendations on how to prevent or alleviate a drug shortage. The American Hospital Association, the American Medical Association, American Society of Clinical Oncology, American Society of Health-System Pharmacists, and the American Cancer Society, Ovarian Cancer National Alliance, the Leukemia and Lymphoma Society, the National Association of Children’s Hospitals, and many other medical associations and health care groups have endorsed the DeGette-Rooney bill, as has the generic drug manufacturer Hospira, Inc. ###
05.10.2012	WASHINGTON – Today, bipartisan legislation to combat drug shortages sponsored by U.S. Reps. Diana DeGette (CO-1) and Tom Rooney (FL-16) passed the House Energy and Commerce Committee, as part of the Prescription Drug User Fee Act (PDUFA). The drug shortage provision language should improve patient safety by creating a communication framework to reduce shortages of life-saving drugs and give patients and physicians early warning of impending shortages so that they may adjust treatments accordingly. PDUFA, including the drug shortage legislation, passed the Committee unanimously. “Today we take a significant step in protecting the health of American families, and particularly those patients who have faced the frightening situation of being unable to access the medication they desperately need,” said DeGette. “Our bipartisan legislation will create an early warning system so the FDA, drug companies, and doctors can better respond to any shortage, quickly and efficiently, and make sure patients’ health is protected. The bipartisan support for this bill is a reminder of the seriousness of this crisis, and a sign that when the health of the American people is on the line, it is still possible for Congress to come together to do the right thing.” “Across the country, patients and their doctors are facing shortages of critical, life-saving drugs,” said Rooney. “When doctors, suppliers and FDA get an early notice about a potential shortage, they’re better able to respond and even prevent disruptions from occurring. By including our legislation in the bill approved today, the Energy and Commerce Committee has taken an important step toward reducing drug shortages and saving lives.” Recent data from the University of Utah Drug Information Service showed that 2011 had 56 more incidents of drug shortages than 2010, with a total of 211 life-saving medications suddenly unavailable. These shortages often force doctors to delay or alter patient care plans. In many instances, no safe alternatives to these drugs exist, leaving patients with an increased risk of side effects and adverse drug interactions. But early reporting to the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has recently proven to go a long way towards addressing these shortages and protecting patients. In fact, since last November, because of mostly voluntary reporting from manufacturers, the FDA has prevented 128 shortages. This February, because of early notification, the FDA stepped in to allow for temporary, emergency importation of the cancer drug Doxil when it went into shortage. At the same time, they prioritized the review of a new manufacturer of methotrexate when this critical cancer drug went into shortage. The DeGette-Rooney language creates an early warning system between the FDA, drug companies, and providers so that the community can respond to a drug shortage quickly and efficiently. Specifically it would: Requiring manufacturers of prescription drugs, including biologics, to notify the FDA of any discontinuance or interruption in the production of a drug at least six months in advance or as soon as practicable; Instructing the Secretary to distribute this information to appropriate health care providers and patient organizations; and Authorizing the GAO to conduct a study to examine the causes of drug shortages and issue recommendations on how to prevent or alleviate a drug shortage. The American Hospital Association, the American Medical Assiciation, American Society of Clinical Oncology, American Society of Health-System Pharmacists, and the American Cancer Society, Ovarian Cancer National Alliance, the Leukemia and Lymphoma Society, the National Association of Children’s Hospitals, and many other medical associations and health care groups have endorsed the DeGette-Rooney bill, as has the generic drug manufacturer Hospira, Inc. The drug shortage language, as passed in PDUFA, is expected to come to the House Floor for a full vote in the coming weeks. ###
05.04.2012	DENVER – Today, U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-1) issued the following statement in response to the Department of Interior’s release of a draft rule regarding hydraulic fracturing – or “fracking” – on public lands. Rep. DeGette is the author and lead sponsor of the Fracturing Responsibility and Awareness of Chemicals Act (FRAC Act) and a leading advocate for safe and responsible natural gas development. “The draft rule proposed today regarding fracking on public lands is a good first step in establishing national standards. As fracking operations continue to grow across the country, a patchwork system of state and local rules and regulations does not grant communities or industry the certainty they need, as we as a nation begin to tap into our vast natural gas resources. “Unfortunately, unlike the initial draft circulated in February, this proposed rule has left me deeply concerned about its ability to adequately protect our communities and our citizens. “While the guidelines for well integrity and water management are strong, the requirements for disclosure are seriously inadequate. Though largely regarded as one of the most fundamental aspects of safe and responsible natural gas development, disclosure, under this proposed rule, is not even required until after the fracking process is completed. “We’re all seeking common-sense solutions to ensure the safety of natural gas production, but with all due respect, requiring disclosure after fracking has already occurred seems less common-sense and more ‘closing the door after the horse has left the barn.’ “Colorado has historically benefitted greatly from a strong energy economy. Our state’s vast natural gas reserves offer the promise of new jobs, new energy, and a stronger economy for the long-term. But it would truly be a devil’s bargain if the price we pay for oil and gas jobs is the health of our families and the integrity of our precious public lands.” ###
05.03.2012	DENVER – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-1) today issued the following statement regarding the release of the Final Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) of the Colorado Roadless Rule by the Administration. The Colorado specific rule would replace the 2001 National Roadless Rule in managing millions of acres of forest land in Colorado. “Colorado has some of the most spectacular forests in the nation, if not the world. They are a precious resource that we need to protect not just for ourselves, but for our kids and our grandkids. The final EIS released yesterday is an improvement from the draft released previously but it still leaves our state with lesser protection than others around the nation despite assurance that the rule would be as protective if not more so. “While I am pleased to see that additional acres have been added to the upper tier category, many more acres qualified and should have been added as well. One significant improvement, which I requested in my July 2011 comment letter on the CO Rule, is that construction zones are prohibited for future leases and utility lines in the upper tier lands. “As I have said from the beginning, Colorado’s national forests deserve the same protections as the forests throughout the rest of the country. Unfortunately, the Colorado specific rule does not offer protections equal to those offered to roadless areas under the national rule. I continue to encourage the U.S. Forest Service to extend the same defense to Colorado’s forests.” ###
05.03.2012	DENVER – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-1) today joined local Colorado students and the Colorado Public Interest Research Group (CoPIRG) to call for Congressional Leadership to take urgent action to prevent the doubling of student loan interest rates on July 1st. If Congress doesn’t act, when interest rates double to 6.8 percent on July 1st more than 7 million students – including 167,000 in Colorado – will pay more in repayment costs for the 2012–2013 academic school year. Speaking at Community College of Denver (CCD), DeGette and others highlighted the effects the impending rise in interest rates would have on students and families who must borrow to attend college, and on our long-term economy. “To compete in the global economy of the 21st century, the United States must do everything possible to help our students achieve an education that prepares them for success,” said DeGette. “But unless Congress acts, in only 2 months, interest rates on need-based student loans will double from 3.4 percent to 6.8 percent. That means that nearly 167,000 right here in Colorado will have to pay an additional $1,000 over the life of their loan. Why, when we know the value of a college education to both students and to our economy, would we put up more hurdles for students to obtain that education?” “The cost of the rates doubling means $160 million more in debt for Colorado’s students,” said Danny Katz of CoPIRG. “Student loans are already a ball and chain that students drag for years – affecting where graduates live, the kinds of careers they pursue, whether they try to start a new business, when they start a family or purchase a home, and when they can start to save for retirement. Inaction before July 1stwill add nearly $1,000 to that ball and chain. President Obama travelled to Boulder last week to call for action and even Governor Romney signaled his support soon after. This should demonstrate to Congressional Leadership that this is a common sense, non-partisan proposal.” -more- Through the College Cost Reduction and Access Act of 2007, Congress made historic investments in student aid. The law halved interest rates on need-based federal student loans to 3.4 percent– making these loans more affordable for low- and middle-income students. If Congress doesn't act before July, the rate will jump back up making it much more difficult for many American students and their families to afford a college education. With the recent economic stressors, more and more students and families are turning to federal student loans to finance a degree or even to go back to school to improve their skills in a changing workforce. That means that in Colorado, 55% of the state’s graduates carry student loan debt, with an average of $22,017 per borrower. And while right now, Colorado’s unemployment rate is below the national average, our state still experiences a skills gap – that may only get worse if college is not affordable for more students. It is estimated that by 2020, 70 percent of the jobs in the state will require a certificate or college degree, with only 41 percent of the population having one. ###
04.26.2012	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-1) today issued the following statement regarding the defeat of the ASSET bill in Colorado’s House. The bill would enable undocumented children to obtain a more affordable tuition rate to go to a public university; higher than that for resident undergraduates but lower than non-resident tuition. Unfortunately the bill was killed in the Colorado House Finance Committee, marking the sixth time such a measure has died in the Colorado legislature. “I am disappointed to see that once again Colorado’s ASSET bill will not become a reality for thousands of our students. I have long supported the ASSET bill in Colorado and the national DREAM Act as critical measures to ensure we are helping every child be prepared to enter our national workforce with the skills they need. “The DREAM Act would allow our nation to provide the opportunities children deserve while also realizing the investment we have already made in their K-12 education. Many states already offer in-state tuition to undocumented students, and these states are seeing the economic benefit of doing so without many of the doomsday predictions that accompanied their legislation’s enactment. “These students love this country – and often know no other – and it would be a tragic mistake to hinder their ability to succeed and contribute to our nation in the 21st century. For their sake and the sake of our nation’s future, I will continue to fight for the DREAM Act in Washington, and I encourage my colleagues in Colorado to persevere on ASSET.” ###
04.19.2012	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-1) issued the following statement today after voting against H.R. 9, the Small Business Tax Cut Act. According to the Joint Committee on Taxation, the measure would have little effect on job creation, but would nonetheless increase the deficit by almost $46 billion. “With far too many people still feeling the pain of the Great Recession, my first priority in Congress is getting America back to work. Despite this bill’s deceptive title, it fails to support the small businesses that need our help the most, while blowing a $46 billion hole in our national deficit. It gives 125,000 millionaires an average tax cut of $58,800, but offers nothing to the struggling Mom-and-Pop stores that generated no taxable income in 2012. Experts from across the political spectrum agree: this irresponsible bill does not create jobs or support small business, but does open yet another loophole to lavish tax breaks on the wealthiest among us. “As I travel throughout the district, small business owners tell me their number one barrier to growth is stagnant demand. Rather than offering broad tax advantages to companies and corporations that will not use them to create jobs, our focus should be on strengthening and empowering middle-class Americans.” ###
04.18.2012	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-1) responded today to the Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) announcement of the first federal air standards for hydraulic fracturing, or “fracking.” DeGette is the author and lead sponsor of H.R. 1084, the Fracturing Responsibility and Awareness of Chemicals Act (FRAC Act) which would require the disclosure of chemicals used in the fracking process and remove fracking activities’ exemption from the Safe Drinking Water Act. “Natural gas has an important role to play in reducing our nation’s dependence on foreign oil, and in Colorado in particular it is a critical component of our state’s energy economy. But with a number of difficult questions arising about its production, we must ensure that the economic benefits of natural gas do not come at the expense of our families’ health and safety. That is why I have consistently advocated for sensible protections to give consumers and communities confidence fracking is being done safely and responsibly. “I am pleased with today’s announcement from the EPA, which addresses the dangerous chemicals like benzene, hexane, and methane that are often released as wells are prepared for production. The EPA’s new standards to reduce air pollution utilize existing technology and are a responsible step towards enforcing the Clean Air Act and protecting the air we breathe. I applaud the EPA for developing these sensible reforms; and I look forward to working with the Administration, my Congressional colleagues and other stakeholders on other initiatives – like my FRAC Act – to improve the safety and efficacy of natural gas extraction and development.” ###
04.17.2012	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-1) today issued the following statement regarding President Obama’s announcement of new tools to strengthen oversight of energy markets and crack down on excessive and illegal speculation. According to some estimates, excessive speculation adds up to 50 cents to the cost of a gallon of gasoline. “As families across the country continue to feel pain at the pump, it is critical to ensure the price of gas is not the result of excessive or illegal Wall Street speculation. I applaud the President for laying out a responsible path forward to protect consumers from the illegal market manipulations that contribute to high gas prices. Now it is indeed the time for Congress to crack down on Wall Street profiteers, and offer middle class Americans confidence that high oil prices are driven by market forces, not illegal manipulation, fraud, and market rigging. “So far in the 112th Congress, Republicans have consistently voted to weaken the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) and roll back protections on excessive and illegal oil speculation. As a senior Member of the Energy and Commerce Committee, I urge my Republican colleagues to join President Obama and Congressional Democrats in getting to the bottom of illegal market manipulation, arming the CFTC, and taking sensible steps to relieve consumers’ pain at the pump.” ###
04.13.2012	DENVER – Today, U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-1) issued the following statement in response to President Obama’s Executive Order creating an interagency working group to support responsible development of domestic natural gas resources. Rep. DeGette is the author and lead sponsor of the Fracturing Responsibility and Awareness of Chemicals Act (FRAC Act) and a leading advocate for safe and responsible natural gas development. “The hydraulic fracturing process has raised many difficult questions regarding the safety of our water, land, air, and ultimately our communities. The President’s creation of an interagency working group will help ensure that as multiple agencies work on common-sense approaches to address those concerns, they are effectively and efficiently coordinated. The group will help prevent redundancies, allow for greater sharing of information, and ensure all issues regarding the fracking process are considered collaboratively. “The interagency working group will also likely improve our ability to gain an objective, science-based understanding of the potential environmental health and safety risks of shale gas development without delay . I have consistently advocated for this research to be fully funded and to be conducted with the highest levels of scientific standards and impartiality. I feel confident that the President’s new working group will help ensure that is the case. “I am pleased with today’s announcement as it continues to advance the greater cause of ensuring that the economic benefits of natural gas do not come at the expense of the health and safety of our families and our communities.” ###
04.03.2012	Washington, DC— Today Energy and Commerce Committee Ranking Member Henry A. Waxman and Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee Ranking Member Diana DeGette sent a letter to EPA Administrator Lisa Jackson requesting that the EPA consider a new study by the Colorado School of Public Health that reveals potential increased health threats from exposure to toxic chemicals near natural gas wells. The EPA is currently finalizing new standards for natural gas operations to reduce emissions that can cause cancer and other serious health effects. The full text of the letter is available online here.
03.14.2012	WASHINGTON – Tonight, Congresswoman Diana DeGette (D-CO) hailed the House passage of the Food Safety Enhancement Act, of which she is an original cosponsor. To address procedural concerns, the bill was included as part of the Continuing Appropriations for Fiscal Year 2011 Act, and now returns to the Senate for final passage, before it goes to the President’s desk for his signature.The following is the text of Congresswoman DeGette’s Floor Statement on the food safety bill, as prepared for delivery:“Today we take the last few steps in the decades-long fight to finally update our nation’s food safety infrastructure. “When you consider that the current food safety system has remained largely unchanged since it was first adopted in the 1930’s, it is no wonder that each year thousands of Americans fall ill and even die, as a resulted of tainted food. “In fact, the Centers for Disease Control estimates that food contaminations cause 76 million illnesses in the U.S. each year, including over 300,000 hospitalizations, and 5,000 deaths. “And the economic cost is equally astounding. “A recent report estimates that in Colorado alone over $2.3 billion is spent on the health-related costs of foodborne illness. “And of course, the cost to our nation’s food industry – from the farmer to the producer to the community supermarket – is often even greater. “From Salmonella in eggs to E-coli in cheese, the last few months alone have proven that every day we have waited to pass food safety legislation was one day too many.“As we evaluate this final bill today, I still stand by the stronger traceability provisions I fought for in the bill this Chamber passed last year. “While this bill marks an improvement to our current regime, I still believe over the next few years Congress will have to maximize the traceabilty pilot projects called for in this legislation in order to develop the tools we need to pull tainted products from the shelves or prevent unsafe food products from even getting into our stores and homes.“Nonetheless, the mandatory recall authority in this bill means we no longer have to rely on corporations to act in good faith.“And greater inspection of imported goods means we can ensure that they are just as safe as what is cultivated and produced domestically. “But the benefit of these changes won’t come overnight. So I look forward to working with the FDA as they put this new law to work.“This bill could overcome years of intransigence and partisanship that have needlessly exposed people throughout my state of Colorado and across the U.S. to foodborne illness.“Food safety is both a public health issue and an economic issue.“This bill represents the best of what the American people sent us here to do – work together on a bipartisan basis to keep their families safe and healthy, while securing the key industries that help drive our economy.“I urge my colleagues to support this important legislation, and I look forward to the Senate finding a way to send this to the President and I yield back my time. ###
03.01.2012	WASHINGTON -- U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-1) joined 74 colleagues in sending a letter to House Speaker John Boehner asking him to repudiate the offensive and obscene remarks made by Republican talk-show host Rush Limbaugh. Limbaugh's remarks, in which he levels personal attacks against a young woman who had the courage to offer her perspective on women's health, can be found here. The full text of the letter is available below. March 1, 2012 The Honorable John A. Boehner Speaker United States House of Representatives H-232 United States Capitol Washington, DC 20515 Dear Speaker Boehner: We write today to request that Republican House leadership repudiate the comments made by Rush Limbaugh, host of The Rush Limbaugh show, regarding Georgetown Law student Sandra Fluke. Ms. Fluke was denied the opportunity to testify before the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee, and later spoke out before a meeting of the Democratic Steering and Policy Committee. On his February 29, 2012 show, Mr. Limbaugh repeatedly used sexually charged, patently offensive, and obscene language to malign the character of this courageous young woman who has chosen to be the voice for many of her peers. This kind of direct attack on a private citizen is unacceptable. Mr. Limbaugh is as free as any American to speak his mind about the political and social issues of our time, but using his radio show as a means for blatantly insulting a hard-working American with obscene and indecent language because he disagrees with her personal choices is an abuse of the public airwaves. As leaders of the House that initially denied Ms. Fluke the right to speak, the republicans have a special obligation to condemn the atrocious and hurtful words spoken by Mr. Limbaugh. Sincerely, For a full list of the letter’s signers, please click here.
02.29.2012	Washington, D.C. – Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi, Congresswoman Louise Slaughter, Congresswoman Rosa DeLauro, Congresswoman Eleanor Holmes-Norton, Congresswoman Carolyn Maloney, Congressman Elijah Cummings and Congresswoman Diana DeGette released the following statement on the vicious and inappropriate attacks leveled on Ms. Sandra Fluke today. Last week, Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi and the House Democratic Steering and Policy Committee held a hearing on the issue of women’s health, hearing testimony from Ms. Fluke, a third-year law student at Georgetown University. “When Sandra Fluke testified before the House Democratic Steering and Policy Committee after Republicans attempted to silence her, she courageously spoke truth to power. As a result, today, she has been subject to attacks that are outside the circle of civilized discussion and that unmask the strong disrespect for women held by some in this country. We call upon the Republican leaders in the House to condemn these vicious attacks on Ms. Fluke, which are in response to her testimony to the Congress. Democrats will always stand up for women’s health and women’s voices.”
02.26.2012	DENVER – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-1) today issued the following statement regarding U.S. Senator Mark Udall’s announcement of a process to create wilderness designations in Colorado. "As a fourth-generation Coloradoan, I know firsthand that Colorado’s beautiful lands are one of our state’s greatest resources. These special lands not only provide clean air, clean water and critical wildlife habitat, they help drive tourism as our state’s number one economic engine. Today is yet another exciting day for the protection of Colorado’s wild areas, as Senator Mark Udall announces his process to generate public discussion on the safeguarding of our state’s wilderness. It is critically important we preserve these remaining wild areas so that future generations have access to the same benefits we enjoy, and I am so pleased that the Senator has identified so many of the precious lands I've had the privilege of working to protect for many years. “Over the past 12 years, as I’ve worked on wilderness protection efforts across the state, I’ve heard many different opinions from people across Colorado, but those opinions are most often rooted in a set of shared values. Coloradoans want to preserve their quality of life and their opportunities. With efforts in the U.S. House and now the U.S. Senate, our state’s precious lands are that much closer to being protected. I look forward to working with Senator Udall to set forth a balanced approach to protecting some of the last remaining wild places in Colorado.”
02.21.2012	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (D-CO) today issued the following statement in response to the Food and Drug Administration’s (FDA) announcement of steps to increase the supply of critically needed cancer drugs, and build on President Obama’s Executive Order to help prevent future drug shortages. DeGette is the author, along with U.S. Rep. Tom Rooney (R-FL), of the “Preserving Access to Life-Saving Medications Act,” a bill to improve patient safety by reducing shortages of life-saving drugs. “Today’s announcements from the FDA mean patients will receive the medical care they critically need, and demonstrate why it is so important the agency be armed with the necessary tools to protect America’s patients. “The FDA’s actions to bring life-saving methotrexate to children and families battling leukemia, shows that when they are given appropriate tools, it’s clear they can effectively coordinate a communications network and get drugs that are in short supply into the hands of hospitals, doctors, and patients. “Since the President’s Executive Order in October, encouraging voluntary notification, FDA has prevented 114 drug shortages. So we know that advanced notification works. But to truly be most effective, Congress must grant FDA the authority it needs to require notification for all life-saving drugs; and manufacturers that do not comply should be penalized for putting patients at risk. “Today’s announcements are good news for patients, but we must ensure we take every possible step to protect the health of America’s families. That is why I was so pleased to hear so many calls today to pass the Preserving Access to Life-Saving Medications Act. It is critical that we make sure the FDA has the necessary authority, resources, and ability to act as soon as possible to prevent sudden shortages of life-saving medications.” ###
02.17.2012	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-1) issued the following statement after voting for the Conference Report to H.R. 3630, the Temporary Payroll Tax Cut Continuation Act of 2011. The bill passed the House of Representatives 293 to 132. “With almost 13 million Americans still unemployed, it is critical that we continue offering unemployment insurance to those in need. While I am disappointed some of my colleagues felt the need to offset these benefits with cuts to middle-class federal workers, I cannot in good conscience vote to deny millions of Americans the unemployment insurance keeping them afloat.”
02.17.2012	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-1) issued the following statement today after the 10th Circuit Court of Appeals denied a request for a rehearing that sought to overturn the Clinton Era Roadless Rule. The appellants – the State of Wyoming and the Colorado Mining Association – now have 90 days to file a petition for certiorari to the U.S. Supreme Court. “Today’s ruling once again affirms the legality of the 2001 Roadless Rule and finally paves the way for the rule’s implementation after more than a decade of legal uncertainty. As a fourth generation Coloradoan I am acutely aware of the critical importance our natural environment has for both our identity and our economy. With the 2001 Rule the law of the land, we can help ensure future generations will have the same access to our country’s pristine outdoors that we enjoy today. I applaud the 10th circuit for once again upholding the legality of this rule, and look forward to its full implementation.”
02.17.2012	WASHINGTON, DC — Today Reps. Henry A. Waxman, Diana DeGette, Frank Pallone, Jr., Rosa L. DeLauro, and Carolyn B. Maloney sent a letter to FDA Commissioner Margaret Hamburg urging the agency to take action on recommendations by the FDA’s General and Plastic Surgery Devices Panel. Over two years ago, the panel recommended many safeguards that FDA could implement to protect consumers from the serious and deadly cancer risks posed by tanning beds. In the letter, the members cite their recently released undercover staff investigation, which found that tanning salons target teenage girls with advertising and promotions, deny known risks of indoor tanning, provide false information on the benefits of tanning, and fail to follow recommendations by the FDA on tanning frequency. In the letter, the members state, “Indoor tanning beds present a serious risk of skin cancer, yet as our investigation demonstrates, they are not being properly regulated. …Your own expert panel reached a similar conclusion nearly two years ago. Nonetheless, these dangerous devices are still widely available to young people, and salons do not provide accurate warnings or guidance. We believe further delay is not in the interest of the health of teenage girls.” The full text of the letter is available online here. The complete report on the tanning industry’s false and mislead practices in available online here.
02.10.2012	DENVER – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-1) issued the following statement today after the White House announcement on preventive care services for women.“I am pleased that today the White House reaffirmed that universal coverage of contraception for women is a central tenet of essential women’s health care. This announcement helps ensure that millions of people and their dependents will have access to critical health care. “Scientists and physicians agree that contraception is central to women’s overall health, but when the average cost for birth control is $600 per year, half of the women in America struggle to afford it, leaving them vulnerable. “The President’s announcement reflects a science-based policy and ensures that women of all faiths and all incomes will be able to obtain the critical contraception they may need. As the rule is implemented I will work closely with the Administration to ensure that no barriers arise to compromise that availability.”
02.07.2012	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-1), Vice-Chair of the Congressional LGBT Caucus, issued the following statement after the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit ruled that California’s Proposition 8 banning same sex marriage was unconstitutional. “Today’s decision rightfully upholds the rights of LGBT families and is a victory for both the LGBT community and the basic equality on which our nation was founded. The Court’s ruling reaffirms the dignity of gays and lesbians and strikes down the discriminatory notion that their relationships are in any way inferior. As with each of the major civil rights battles that have marked our nation’s history, today’s decision is a step towards achieving full equality for every American. “As this battle moves through the appeals process, we still must recognize that there remains much to be done. A first and important step must be repealing the so-called Defense of Marriage Act that stands in the path of progress. I will continue to work with my colleagues from both sides of the aisle to repeal this discriminatory law.”
02.03.2012	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-1) today issued the following statement regarding the Susan G. Komen Foundation’s reversal of their policy stopping funding grants for Planned Parenthood. “It is a victory for the women of America that the Komen Foundation announced today they reversed their policy and will continue to provide funding for Planned Parenthood. I commend the millions of women and men who stood up to express their outrage, forced Komen to rectify their action, and proved the strength of our citizens’ ability to achieve justice. But I still remain stunned that Komen made such a decision in the first place. Komen and Planned Parenthood’s relationship is a natural partnership that promotes the health of millions of women, and Komen’s original decision to sever that relationship based on political pressures was deeply troubling. “But more troubling still is Komen’s clear failure to employ a science-based grant process. In the case of Planned Parenthood, political concerns seem to be placed above the need for medically-necessary screenings. Beyond the Planned Parenthood grants, I have grave concerns that last fall, seemingly during the same time they decided to change that policy, Komen also enacted a new policy of refusing to fund the pursuit of lifesaving ethical embryonic stem cell research (ESC), despite a history of recognizing its great potential. Given the massive resources of their organization and the great potential of ESC for breast cancer treatment and even cures, it is deeply disturbing Komen has turned its back on this research because of the same political pressures that led them to the original Planned Parenthood decision. A politically-motivated grant process has no place in the pursuit of life-saving screenings, treatments, and research. “It is my great hope that this entire episode proves to Komen that as they set the criteria for grant awards, their cause and mission would be best served by enacting a science-based grant process, free from political pressure or motivation. Promoting appropriate, science-based research and treatment is the only way we can achieve good research and treatments, and ensure we are saving lives.”
02.02.2012	Washington, DC - Congresswoman Diana DeGette (D-CO), Congressman Maurice Hinchey (D-NY), and Congressman Jared Polis (D-CO) today asked President Obama to back stronger environmental and public health standards to protect against the risks of hydraulic fracturing. In a letter, the House members requested the President's support for the Fracturing Responsibility and Awareness of Chemicals (FRAC) Act, which would require the disclosure of chemicals used in the hydraulic fracturing natural gas extraction process. The legislation would also eliminate a special Safe Drinking Water Act exemption for hydraulic fracturing that was established in 2005. DeGette, Hinchey, and Polis also requested an expansion of the ongoing Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) study of hydraulic fracturing, which Hinchey jumpstarted through legislation that was signed into law in 2010. The current plan does not include a study of air pollution and other health risks that have been closely associated with fracking. The members also pointed to new estimates from the U.S. Energy Information Administration, which call into question statistics on recoverable resources of U.S. shale gas cited by the President in his 2012 State of the Union address. “With hydraulic fracturing expanding across the country, it is more important than ever we ensure the economic benefits of natural gas do not come at the expense of the health and safety of our families,” said Diana DeGette. “Therefore, today we urge President Obama to support our FRAC Act, as well as urge him to ensure the EPA has the resources necessary to complete a comprehensive study of the impact of fracking on our country.” "The President has endorsed disclosure of fracking chemicals when they are used on public lands, but has not taken a position on if that same standard should be applied for all drilling that occurs throughout the country," said Hinchey. "Given the strong emphasis he placed on natural gas development in his State of the Union address, I am hopeful that the President will recognize a need to study this issue fully and enact protections of drinking water that would safeguard public health if fracking is to occur. We need him to take a firm position on the FRAC Act and direct the EPA to expand the current study." “In Colorado, our public lands are central to our recreation economy, and I couldn’t be more supportive of President Obama and Secretary Salazar’s move to require drilling chemical disclosure on public lands. However, with drilling in Colorado increasingly happening next to suburban homes and schools, it’s essential to disclose fracking chemicals anywhere they’re used in order to protect the public’s health in populated areas where those chemicals are most likely to affect our air, water and health.” DeGette, Hinchey, and Polis are co-authors of the FRAC Act. The full text of their letter follows: February 2, 2012 The Honorable Barack Obama President of the United States of America The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Ave, NW Washington, DC 20500 Dear Mr. President: We support your efforts to reduce our nation's reliance on foreign sources of energy and your commitment to making the United States the world leader in clean energy. You noted in your State of the Union address that accessing traditional domestic energy resources is also an important part of our energy portfolio, but it must be done in a way that protects the health and safety of our citizens. We couldn't agree more. As members of Congress who have spent the last few years working together to improve the safety of natural gas drilling, we applaud your announcement that all companies that drill for gas on public lands will be required to disclose the chemicals they use. This an important step forward, but we believe more is required to protect the public from the risks posed by hydraulic fracturing. H.R. 1084, the Fracturing Responsibility and Awareness of Chemicals Act (FRAC Act) of 2011, would expand the chemical disclosure requirement you endorsed for public lands to include all well sites across the country. This legislation would also ensure that hydraulic fracturing is no longer exempt from the protections of the Safe Drinking Water Act. As you continue working on our nation's energy policy, we strongly encourage you to endorse the protections of the FRAC Act to help safeguard our drinking water resources. In addition to having strong rules that protect the environment and public health, it is critical that you and your administration have the best information possible when making decisions about natural gas drilling. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency is currently embarking on the first, independent and comprehensive study of the risks that hydraulic fracturing poses to drinking water. Unfortunately, media reports indicate that some in the oil and gas industry are seeking to narrow and even undermine this important study. This must not be allowed to happen. We urge you to maintain a strong commitment to the research that is under way by providing the necessary resources and support. We also urge you to consider expanding this research to cover hydraulic fracturing's impact on air quality and human health. We also believe it's critical to have an accurate understanding of exactly how much shale gas lies beneath the surface. Much has been said about our country's potential supply of shale gas. Some in the industry have claimed we have an ocean of natural gas buried beneath our surface. Despite these claims, independent estimates about shale gas reserves reveal great uncertainty. In fact, just this week, the Energy Information Administration slashed its estimate of technically recoverable resources of U.S. shale gas by half. Furthermore, the United States Geological Survey’s estimates released last year are even lower. This is an enormous swing and it should be a caution to those who claim these new shale gas fields are the silver bullet to our country's energy challenge. We must take care to ensure that any “bridge fuel,” doesn’t instead prove to be a bridge to nowhere. As our nation faces the challenges of lessening our dependence on foreign sources of oil while transitioning to a cleaner energy future, we must be vigilant in ensuring that natural gas development is done in accordance with safe and environmentally sound standards. Should we fail to do this, we will pay a heavy price. Thank you for considering our views on this matter. We look forward to working with you on an energy policy that fully safeguards the health and safety of all citizens. Sincerely, Rep. Maurice D. Hinchey Rep. Diana DeGette Rep. Jared Polis
01.20.2012	WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Louise Slaughter (NY-28), Ranking Member of the House Rules Committee, and Congresswoman Diana DeGette (CO-1), co-chairs of the Congressional Pro-Choice Caucus, applauded today’s ruling by the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) ensuring access to affordable birth control. In their final rule on preventative services available under the Affordable Care Act, HHS maintained the exemption for churches, but gave other religiously affiliated organizations one year to comply with the rule. These preventative services for women include the full range of the Institute of Medicine’s recommendations, such as all FDA-approved birth control medication. “HHS made a carefully considered decision on this subject after receiving over 200,000 comments regarding the religious exemption,” said Slaughter. “I am pleased that the Secretary has chosen to stand for the rights of women to decide how best to plan their families.Anchor “The United States has one of the highest unintended pregnancy rates among industrialized countries, due in part to the fact that 1 in 3 American women currently struggle to afford birth control,” continued Slaughter. “As the Institute of Medicine said in its recommendation, providing women with birth control at no cost is a significant step in preventing unintended pregnancies. All women in this country should have access to the services they need to plan their families according to their own consciences.” The rule provides an exemption for solely religious organizations, such as churches, who feel that providing birth control is a violation of their conscience. However, religious organizations that employ people with a wide variety of beliefs will have to comply with the rule within one year. “I am pleased with President Obama’s decision and his affirmation that access to contraception is a key component of health care,” said DeGette. “Women’s decisions on family planning should be their own, in consultation with their family and their doctor. One of the signature achievements of the Affordable Care Act was to increase access to health care for women.” Today’s decision falls in line with a November 2011 letter led by Slaughter and DeGette urging President Obama to secure free preventative services for women under the Affordable Care Act.
01.17.2012	DENVER – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-1) issued the following statement in response to the U.S. Department of Transportation’s announcement that University of Denver (DU) will receive a federal grant for transportation research and education as a University Transportation Center. The program, administered by the DOT’s Research and Innovative Technology Administration (RITA), will provide a total of $77 Million in grants to institutions across the country to drive innovative solutions to local transportation challenges, and in turn, strengthen the efficiency of our nation’s system. DU was awarded the grant as part of a consortium with Mississippi State University and two others which will receive $3.5 million. DeGette previously wrote a letter of support to assist DU in securing the grant. “I’m so pleased that the University of Denver has been awarded this grant to study the transportation needs of our region. We all know that transportation is key to our economic strength, to the quality of life for our communities and, in the 21st century, to the health of our environment. Transportation infrastructure provides opportunity for citizens and for businesses large and small. That is why we must meet our transportation challenges head on, with innovative solutions and a vision for the future. The transportation research and education DU will be conducting is critical not only to overcome our current challenges, but to ensure success in our future as well.” ###
01.12.2012	Washington, DC— Today Rep. Henry A. Waxman, Ranking Member of the Energy and Commerce Committee, Rep. Diana DeGette, Ranking Member of the Oversight and InvestigationsSubcommittee, and Rep. G. K. Butterfield Ranking Member of the Commerce, Manufacturing, and Trade Subcommittee called for a Committee hearing on the concerns about consumer privacy raised by the recent Carrier IQ software controversy. In December 2011, a researcher reported that that Carrier IQ diagnostic cell phone software records all keystrokes entered into a mobile device using Google’s Android operating system, including the content of text messages and other sensitive data. In their letter to Chairman Fred Upton and Subcommittee Chairmen Stearns and Bono Mack, the Democratic members wrote that “[d]ata collection and transmission by Carrier IQ and similar software is widespread, and consumers appear to have little knowledge and even less control over the practice,” and that “there continue to be many unanswered questions about the handling of this data and the extent to which its collection, analysis, and transmission pose legitimate privacy concerns for the American public.” The full text of the letter is available online here.
12.15.2011	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-1) today hailed the results of the Government Accountability Office’s (GAO) study, entitled, “Drug Shortages: FDA’s ability to Respond Should be Strengthened.” The study found that most shortages were generally caused by manufacturing problems, and that the FDA (Food and Drug Administration) is “constrained by its lack of authority to require manufacturers to provide the agency and the public with information about shortages, or require that manufacturers take certain actions to prevent, alleviate, or resolve shortages.” DeGette is the author and lead co-sponsor of the “Preserving Access to Life-saving Medications Act” which would give the FDA the full authority it needs. “The GAO findings released today underscore the critical importance of enacting legislation that provides the FDA with the tools it needs to deal with drugs headed towards shortage. I particularly applaud their recommendation today that Congress establish a requirement for manufacturers to report to FDA any changes that could affect the supply of their drugs. “My drug shortage legislation would do just that, legally requiring any manufacturer of any prescription drug to notify the FDA of any discontinuance or interruption in the production of their drug. In fact, since the President’s Executive Order on October 31, the FDA has seen a six-fold increase in notifications from manufacturers. As the number of potentially life-threatening drug shortages continue to grow, the GAO study and the FDA’s results make clear that it is time for Congress to come together and pass bipartisan legislation requiring notification.” Also today, the FDA released a regulation – an interim final rule – that would clarify that companies should report on interruptions that could lead to disruptions. ###
12.13.2011	DENVER, CO – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-1) released the following statement regarding the Colorado Oil and Gas Conservation Commission’s (COGCC) vote today to require public disclosure of chemicals used in hydraulic fracking. DeGette is the author and lead sponsor of the Fracturing Responsibility and Awareness of Chemicals Act (FRAC Act), which would remove the oil and gas industry’s exemption from the Safe Drinking Water Act, and require disclosure of the chemicals used in fracking fluids. “This morning's decision by the COGCC marks a big step forward in public disclosure of fracking fluids. I'm pleased to see that industry and Colorado state regulators agree with what I and others in the community have long maintained: that the public deserves to know what chemicals are injected into the ground in their communities. While the trade secret provision of the new rule is not perfect, I'm hopeful it will be implemented in such a way that Coloradoans are able to access information that they need. With the widespread use of fracking affecting so many communities it is critical there be transparency in the process. “Natural gas is an important economic driver for Colorado and has a pivotal role to play in our region’s, and the nation’s, clean energy economy in the 21st century. But we must ensure the economic and energy benefits of natural gas do not come at the expense of air we breathe and the water we drink. Just last week the EPA found that fracking likely contributed to the contamination of water in the aquifer for Pavillion, Wyoming. The fact that we have a proven case of a connection between hydraulic fracturing and the contamination of an aquifer underscores just how important it is that we take cautionary steps to protect our communities’ water supply. That is why I continue to encourage members of Congress to pass my FRAC Act, so communities across the country will have transparency in the drilling process as well.” ###
12.10.2011	DENVER - Today U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-01) led civil rights advocates from Colorado in joining a nationwide effort to highlight unprecedented voter suppression efforts occurring in a majority of states. Dozens of civil, labor, and human rights organizations across the country held events similar to the Denver event today under the banner of “Stand for Freedom,” in observance of Human Rights Day. Already over 30 states have introduced legislation that would require identification, cut early voting opportunities, or end same-day voter registration and voting. These attacks target low income, minority, young and older voters with unnecessary burdens at the ballot box do nothing more that limit access. In Colorado, Secretary of State Scott Gessler’s efforts to strip away voting rights have made the state ground zero for these countrywide efforts. While Gessler's attempt to limit certain municipalities from mailing ballots to inactive voters was overruled by the courts, the Secretary has indicated he will continue to pursue his misguided efforts. Today's event featured remarks from Rep. DeGette; Jenny Flanagan, Director of Voting and Elections, Common Cause; Marcus Farmer, President Denver chapter of NAACP; Miriam Peña, Colorado Progressive Coalition; Chris Getson, New Era Colorado; Denise Maes, Public Policy Director, ACLU; and Rev. Dawn Riley Duval, MOP Metro Organizations for People. "Voting in our nation is a right extended to all citizens without discrimination and it lies at the heart of all that makes our country great," said Rep. DeGette. "But today we are forced to come together because that basic right is now facing an assault the likes of which we haven’t seen in over a 100 years. Across the country 34 different states have introduced voter suppression legislation, including proposed laws that would end same day voter registration and cut early voting opportunities in half. Reports have shown these types of restrictions disproportionately impact African Americans, blue-collar working citizens, seniors and parents. We face profound and complex problems right now and addressing them will require a broad range of voices from across the political, racial, and socio-economic spectrums. The last thing we need in America is fewer people participating in our democratic process." "In our democracy, few things are as sacred as the right to vote," said Jenny Flanagan. "Even though there is no evidence that voter fraud is a problem in our elections, legislators in more than 30 states introduced bills this year that would limit our right to vote. This is not an accident; this is a well funded coordinate attack on our rights that could result in millions of people, especially senior citizens, college students and people of color, losing their right to vote. What’s most trouble about this trend is that big moneyed-interests, like the Koch Brothers, are fueling voter suppression efforts from coast to coast." "The heart of democracy is the right to vote," said Marcus Farmer. "For more than 103 years the NAACP has stood for equality, justice, and equal treatment for all Americans, and equal access to the voting booth stands at the heart of this message. The latest round of legislation reflected in many states across our country, new voter ID bills, and restrictions on voter registration and early voting will affect all Americans, but particularly African Americans, Latinos, Asian Americans, students, working women, seniors and immigrants of all colors. The Denver Branch NAACP and our units nationwide oppose any and all legislation that serves to effectively disenfranchise lawful voters. A democracy with limited voting rights is NOT a true democracy." "The right to vote is at the core of this country’s democracy and remains one of our most important instruments against injustice," said Denise Maes. "Voter suppression efforts are a silent threat to our basic democracy, this country’s core value." ###
12.07.2011	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-1) today issued the following statement in response to the Department of Health and Human Services’ (HHS) decision that the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) must deny Plan B One-Step emergency contraception from being made accessible to all women. “I am disappointed in HHS’ decision today denying women full access to the emergency contraception, Plan B One-Step. I have always been committed to ensuring all our health policy decisions are grounded in sound science. FDA’s review process was clearly extensive and thorough, and the data shared with HHS made clear that Plan B is safe and effective for its intended use. Access to reliable and safe contraception is a fundamental component of health care and bringing Plan B from behind the pharmacy counter onto the shelves with other contraceptive methods would have been a victory for women’s health.” ###
12.01.2011	WASHINGTON – U.S. Representatives Diana DeGette (D-CO) and Ed Whitfield (R-KY), Co-chairs of the Congressional Diabetes Caucus, commended the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) today for their release of draft artificial pancreas guidance. Today’s release marks a first important step towards outpatient clinical trials of an artificial pancreas to improve the lives of those living with Type 1 diabetes. Earlier this year, DeGette and Whitfield led a bipartisan group of 245 Members of the House of Representatives in sending a letter to the FDA urging them to move forward on development of this guidance. “The artificial pancreas has the potential to dramatically improve the health and quality of life of the millions of Americans suffering from Type 1 diabetes, and to be a crucial tool in containing both the public health and economic costs of this terrible disease,” said DeGette. “I am pleased the FDA has released this draft guidance and, in particular, encouraged that it seems to include an accelerated timetable to bring us to outpatient clinical trials in a timely manner. After a thorough review of this guidance, I look forward to working with the FDA to drive towards responsible and effective outpatient trials that could demonstrate whether the artificial pancreas can safely deliver on its enormous promise.” “I’m pleased that the FDA has issued draft guidance for the artificial pancreas on time and appears to have taken into account the recommendations of clinical experts in the field of diabetes,” said Whitfield. “It’s also encouraging that the FDA has laid out an expeditious plan to move from inpatient to outpatient trials, a critical stage in moving this potentially life saving device one step closer to helping those suffering from type 1 diabetes. While this is encouraging news, there is still much work ahead of us and I look forward to working with the FDA to advance this initiative.” The artificial pancreas – which continually monitors a patient’s insulin levels and automatically delivers insulin in controlled amounts when a deficiency is detected – has demonstrated enormous potential during inpatient clinical trials. Studies have demonstrated that better blood glucose control can postpone the onset of costly and devastating diabetes-related complications. In the near term, an artificial pancreas will be a combination of two external devices -- an insulin pump and a continuous glucose monitor (CGM) – which will work together to regulate blood glucose levels. The FDA has approved clinical trials in a hospital setting of this technology and the results are quite promising. Now, testing of the artificial pancreas needs to take place in more real world conditions. These outpatient studies are an essential next step to ensuring the artificial pancreas is safe and effective and becomes available to individuals with diabetes. The draft guidelines, which the FDA developed with input from Congress, stakeholders, and the medical device industry, prioritize the review of research protocol studies and provide flexible recommendations to guide Sponsors in designing and testing the artificial pancreas. It also recommends a three-phase clinical study progression so that the process can more quickly move into the outpatient setting. Once published in the Federal Register, the guidelines will remain open for public comment for a period of 90 days. ###
11.21.2011	DENVER – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-1) issued the following statement following the announcement that the Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction has been unable to reach an agreement by their deadline of November 23rd. “While I join Americans in expressing disappointment that the 12-member Super Committee was unable to fulfill its task of developing a deficit reduction plan, all is not lost. The time has now come for Congress as a whole to fulfill its responsibility to the American people and come together to develop and pass a balanced approach to reducing our national deficit and growing our economy. “A broad range of economists and the American people understand that reducing the deficit will require a combination of responsible spending cuts, that do not place undue burdens on those who can afford it the least, and adjustments to our tax code, that ensure low-income and middle-class Americans have the same opportunities as the wealthiest among us. It is time for their leaders to understand that as well. “Congress must end the political gamesmanship that has overwhelmed this session and prevented us from accomplishing important work for the American people. I’m certain my colleagues from both sides of the aisle agree, and will finally focus on a balanced approach that includes the cuts, investments, and revenue enhancements that are essential to America’s ability to reduce our deficit, and ultimately compete in the 21st century global marketplace.” ###
11.21.2011	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-1), co-Chair of the House Pro-Choice Caucus led 65 Members of the House in urging President Barack Obama to secure free preventive care for women in the Affordable Care Act, including contraceptive methods and counseling. DeGette and the Members sent the President a letter opposing any efforts to exempt employers from following the law, given increased pressure by Catholic bishops and others to exempt faith-based universities, hospitals, and institutions. Doing so would deny critical coverage to 800,000 people working at Catholic hospitals; 300,000 employed at religious schools; and 1.7 million students attending 900 religiously affiliated colleges. The letter is available online here.
11.18.2011	DENVER – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-1) issued the following statement following Mayor Michael Hancock’s announcement that the City and County of Denver would withdraw from the Regional Tourism Act application that had been submitted to the State earlier this year. “I am extremely pleased with Mayor Hancock’s decision to withdraw from the application to move the National Western Stock Show once the financial burden it would impose on Denver taxpayers became clear. I maintain my commitment to keeping the Stock Show in Denver, and will continue to work with Mayor Hancock and other stakeholders to find a workable solution for this important economic driver that does not unduly burden Denver taxpayers.” ###
11.18.2011	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-1) issued the following statement following today’s vote on a Balanced Budget Amendment. DeGette voted against the Amendment, which independent economists say could double our national unemployment. “Throughout my time in Congress, I have steadfastly supported balancing our nation’s budget. Every American family must balance their own household budget, and they deserve nothing less from their government. “However, while the notion of a Balanced Budget Amendment sounds like a good idea, it leaves our nation unequipped to deal with the inevitable crises we must confront – like war and severe economic downturns. This Amendment is a particularly dangerous step that independent economists believe would cost our nation upwards of 15 million jobs and throw our struggling economy into another recession. “Rather than head down this fiscally treacherous path, I believe we would be far better off with a return to the Pay-As-You-Go rules that led to record surpluses under President Clinton, before two wars and bonus tax breaks for the wealthiest Americans drove our nation into a deficit. “Every fiscally responsible family must keep their own household finances in check, while providing themselves the means to deal with emergencies and unplanned expenses. The federal government should do the same, and I continue to ask my colleagues across the aisle to work cooperatively with us to balance our nation’s budget while pursuing solutions that get Americans back to work.” ###
11.10.2011	“The four wilderness study areas from the Colorado Wilderness Act identified by the BLM today for Congressionally-designated protection are: McKenna Peak Castle Peak Browns Canyon Bull Gulch Representing a remarkable ecological transition from the alpine source of the Colorado River to desert canyon country, Bull Gulch contains a labyrinth of twisting corridors and sculpted bowls carved through the maroon sandstone. DeGette’s Colorado Wilderness Act of 2011 sets forth a balanced approach to protecting some of the last remaining wild places in Colorado. The bill contains 28 proposed wilderness areas, as well as three smaller additions to existing wilderness areas, and in total would permanently protect nearly 700,000 acres of precious land. “Over the past 12 years, as I’ve worked on the Colorado Wilderness Act with citizens across the state, I’ve heard many different opinions, but those opinions are most often rooted in a set of shared statewide values. Coloradoans want to preserve their history, their quality of life and their opportunities. “I am thrilled that today we mark an important milestone for some of these precious lands, and I remain committed to working with the Administration and my colleagues in Colorado until all the acres of precious land in The Act are protected for future generations.” ###
11.09.2011	Washington, DC— Today Energy and Commerce Committee Ranking Member Henry A. Waxman and Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee Ranking Member Diana DeGette sent a letter to Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Fred Upton and Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee Chairman Cliff Stearns expressing extreme concern over their selected release of emails related to the Solyndra investigation. The emails released present a misleading and inaccurate account to the public and are directly contradicted by documents and communications in the Committee’s possession. The full text of the letter is available online here.
11.08.2011	DENVER – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-1) issued the following statement regarding the Bureau of Land Management’s Record of Decision granting approval of the Over The River temporary art installation. The project, a design of the artist Christo and the late Jeanne-Claude, well-known for The Gates of Central Park, will include suspending eight fabric panel segments totaling 5.9 miles within a 42 mile stretch of the Arkansas River in Colorado. “Today is an exciting day for the people of Colorado as the Over The River project passes a significant milestone towards bringing cultural and economic benefit to our state. As environmental and safety concerns were evaluated, I was proud to work together with stakeholders from the state and the federal government to ensure that the six miles of fabric panels along the Arkansas River would be sensitive to wildlife and the environment. Mr. Christo’s commitment to conservation is clearly reflected in BLM’s Record of Decision granting final approval of this extraordinary project. Today we are one step closer to seeing this one-of-a-kind project come to life for 14 days, generating more than $111 million in total economic input throughout Colorado.” ###
11.03.2011	WASHINGTON – The following is Rep. DeGette’s Opening Statement as prepared for delivery at today’s Business Meeting of the Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations of the House Committee on Oversight and Investigations: Mr. Chairman, this is a sad day in the annals of this august Subcommittee. In my 15 years on this Subcommittee, we have forged a strong bipartisan tradition of thorough and meaningful investigations. That could have been the case with the Solyndra investigation. We have here a $525 million loan guarantee made with taxpayer funds that went bad. We need to learn the circumstances of the original deal as the restructuring. We need all the facts, all the witnesses, all the documents. Sadly, after seeing the Majority’s conduct of this investigation, I do not believe they share this goal. For example, in the last hearing that we had in this Subcommittee, where there were emails from Treasury employees suggesting the loan restructuring be sent to DOJ, the Majority only brought the Treasury Department in, never giving anyone the opportunity to find out why the DOE didn’t get an opinion from justice and in fact resisting that effort, giving the impression there was some ulterior motive. Let me be clear, I believe White House documents should be produced. To date, the Administration has provided the Committee with over 80,000 pages of documents. The Departments of Energy and the Treasury and the Office of Management and Budget have all produced documents on this matter and sent witnesses to testify before this Subcommittee. The White House also has also already produced documents regarding communications with Solyndra and investors in Solyndra. I believe the majority’s action in moving forward with a subpoena resolution today is an act of irresponsible partisanship. The Committee has every right to seek and obtain relevant information from the White House to advance its legitimate oversight needs. But a subpoena to the White House is a serious step in a congressional investigation. And it is a step that should be taken only after alternative avenues have been exhausted. We clearly do not face those circumstances today. In contrast to subpoenas to executive branch agencies, a subpoena to the White House has the potential to reach communications all the way to the President’s desk. That is why it is the longstanding practice of Congress and the White House to engage in meaningful discussions to attempt mutual accommodation when congressional oversight needs for White House information confront executive branch equities. In fact, I am unaware of any subpoena to the White House from the Committee on Energy and Commerce under previous chairs – both Republicans and Democrats, and both when they did and did not share party affiliation with the Administration. With respect to the subject of today’s resolution to subpoena the White House, the starting point was the Committee’s October 5, 2011, request for all White House documents relating to the Solyndra loan guarantee. In response to this request, the White House proposed the Committee narrow its request to the following areas: (1) the influence of campaign contributions on the decision whether or not to grant or restructure the Solyndra loan guarantee; (2) involvement by the White House in the decision whether or not to make a conditional commitment to Solyndra for its loan guarantee (3) involvement by the White House in the decision whether or not to close the Solyndra loan guarantee (4) involvement by the White House in the decision to subordinate the government’s interest as part of the restructuring of the Solyndra loan guarantee This proposal identifies the core issues on which the Committee has focused in its Solyndra investigation and is a good faith effort on the part of the White House to reach an accommodation. We should exhibit good faith in return and not vote to authorize subpoenas. The American people want us to stop the partisanship and start focusing on their priorities: rebuilding our economy and creating jobs. This meeting is a partisan diversion from the work we should be doing And in fact, the inflammatory but brazenly inaccurate rhetoric of the Chairman’s press release last night only further serves to prove that this morning’s unprecedented step is a political sideshow. I therefore will oppose the resolution before us today. ###
11.02.2011	Washington, DC— Today Energy and Commerce Committee Ranking Member Henry A. Waxman and Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee Ranking Member Diana DeGette sent a letter to Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Fred Upton and Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee Chairman Cliff Stearns calling on them to cancel tomorrow’s business meeting given the progress in discussions today between the Committee and the White House regarding information relevant to the Solyndra loan. Normal 0 false false false EN-US X-NONE X-NONE MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-priority:99; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:11.0pt; font-family:"Calibri","sans-serif"; mso-ascii-font-family:Calibri; mso-ascii-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-fareast-theme-font:minor-fareast; mso-hansi-font-family:Calibri; mso-hansi-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-bidi-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-bidi-theme-font:minor-bidi;}The full text of the letter is available online here
10.27.2011	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-1) issued the following statement today in response to the filing of a federal lawsuit challenging the Defense of Marriage Act. The lawsuit was filed on behalf of current and former gay and lesbian service members who had been denied equal military family benefits, and Rep. DeGette signed an amicus brief in support of this and other lawsuits challenging the discriminatory law. “While the repeal of Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell was a monumental achievement for those of us who have fought for equality in our armed forces, we cannot forget that gay and lesbian service members are still discriminated against by the unconstitutional Defense of Marriage Act (DOMA). Americans, especially those who are bravely serving our country abroad, deserve equal treatment under the law regardless of their sexual orientation, and I will be proud to submit an amicus brief in support of this lawsuit.” ###
10.21.2011	DENVER – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-1) issued the following statement today after the 10th Circuit Court of Appeals announced their ruling upholding the Clinton-era Roadless Rule. Thanks to this ruling most logging and roadbuilding is now prohibited on nearly 50 million acres of national forest land. “As a fourth-generation Coloradoan, I am pleased with today’s ruling from the 10th Circuit Court of Appeals. Along with the 9th Circuit’s 2009 ruling, it removes the cloud of uncertainty that has lingered over the Roadless Rule for almost a decade, and will help ensure future generations have the same access to our country’s pristine outdoors that we enjoy today. In Colorado our natural environment remains one of our greatest treasures and today’s ruling is a victory for those of us who have long-fought to protect it from excessive logging and development. I applaud the 10th Circuit for their ruling and look forward to continuing my efforts on behalf of responsible conservation and preservation.” ###
10.21.2011	DENVER – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-1) issued the following statement today following President Barack Obama’s announcement that the U.S. will withdraw completely from Iraq by the end of the year. “Having opposed the original Iraq war authorization in 2002, I am pleased with today’s announcement that U.S. troops will withdraw fully from Iraq by the end of the year. Our engagement in Iraq has been a testament to the unflappable courage of our men and women in uniform, but it has also proven costly -- claiming far too many lives and misdirecting critical military and financial resources from where they were most needed. “While America’s military role in Iraq will soon come to and end, our commitment to the Iraqi people endures. Cultivating a moderate ally from the remains of the Saddam Hussein dictatorship will require durable diplomatic assistance from the United States, and I look forward to working with President Obama to lend America’s support.” ###
10.21.2011	Washington, DC— Leaders of the House Energy and Commerce Committee today sent a bipartisan letter to Jensen Farms to request a staff briefing on the recent outbreak of Listeria that originated in cantaloupe at the farm in Granada, Colorado. Ranking Member Henry A. Waxman, Chairman Fred Upton, Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee Ranking Member Diana DeGette, Subcommittee Chairman Cliff Stearns, Rep. John D. Dingell, and Chairman Emeritus Joe Barton wrote, “The committee has a long bipartisan history of conducting food safety oversight and is very concerned about these recent developments. We intend to learn more from the FDA, CDC, Jensen Farms, and others who may provide insight into the causes of this outbreak and the prevention of future outbreaks.” The Members also requested that Jensen Farms preserve all documents and communications relevant to the investigation to assist in understanding the causes of the outbreak and the distribution practices for the contaminated products. ###
10.20.2011	DENVER – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette issued the following statement today following the death of former Libyan leader Moammar Gadhafi. Gadhafi was killed while attempting to flee the city of Sirte. “Today’s news marks an end to the era of violence and oppression that had dominated Libya since Mohammar Gadhafi first came to power in 1969. His defeat is a testament to both the Libyan people and the support NATO has provided throughout their pursuit of freedom. “While this development comes as welcome news for the millions Gadhafi had oppressed during his rule, there is still work to be done to ensure Libya emerges from this tumultuous period as a free society. I will continue to work with my colleagues to monitor the situation as the Libyan people pursue a free and Democratic country governed by just enforcement of the rule of law.” ###
10.19.2011	DENVER – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-1) issued the following statement in response to the Food and Drug Administration’s (FDA) findings on the recent outbreak of Listeria monoctyogenes in cantaloupe. “As a long-time food safety advocate and a representative of Colorado, the findings released today by the FDA regarding the listeria outbreak are particularly disturbing. They seem to reveal that Jensen Farms’ agricultural and management practices may have been inadequate, potentially resulting in the introduction, spread, and growth of the toxic listeria contamination in the Farms’ cantaloupe. The systemic problems uncovered by the FDA – from facility design to equipment usage to transportation protocols – underscore the critical need for our committee to conduct a thorough investigation of this outbreak, and how such contaminations can be avoided in the future. “Over the past few months, the continuing health and economic costs of this outbreak have been felt acutely by the families who’ve lost loved ones, and by the Colorado and national cantaloupe growers unfairly swept up in a frightening recall that didn’t involve their fruit. On behalf of those most affected, and given what we learned today about the situation at Jensen Farms, I am certain my colleagues on the Committee will join me now in making this investigation a priority.” Normal 0 false false false EN-US X-NONE X-NONE MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-priority:99; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:11.0pt; font-family:"Calibri","sans-serif"; mso-ascii-font-family:Calibri; mso-ascii-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-fareast-theme-font:minor-fareast; mso-hansi-font-family:Calibri; mso-hansi-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-bidi-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-bidi-theme-font:minor-bidi;}The FDA’s findings, released today, can be found at: https://www.fda.gov/Food/FoodSafety/CORENetwork/ucm272372.htm
10.12.2011	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-1) tonight issued the following statement following her votes on three key trade agreements. DeGette voted in favor of legislation implementing trade agreements reached between the United States and the governments of South Korea and Panama; and opposed legislation strengthening trade ties with Columbia. The United States-Colombia Trade Promotion Agreement passed the House of Representatives by 262 to 167; United States-Korea Free Trade Agreement passed the House by 278 to 151; and the United States-Panama Trade Promotion Agreement passed by 300 to 129. “The United States has a deep history with both South Korea and Panama, and I believe that these two trade agreements will leverage those productive relationships to the benefit of the American, and even the Colorado, economy. Korea is already our nation’s seventh largest trading partner, and this agreement holds great promise for agriculture and technology exports from Colorado. Regarding Panama, we actually send more of our goods to their country than we import, and in fact, the majority of our nation’s exported goods overall must flow through the Panama Canal, making our trade partnership with that nation a critical relationship. While legitimate concerns have been raised over these agreements, the Obama Administration has addressed those concerns, particularly with respect to U.S. access to Korea’s automobile market and Panama’s tax compliance issues. Ultimately, the agreements with these two countries strengthen America’s economic and political ties in important regions of the world. “Eliminating tariffs that disadvantage U.S. businesses is an important goal but the inability of Colombia in general to maintain the rule of law remains a significant concern. This agreement also hinges on labor and human rights protections that have yet to materialize in Colombia. These are conditions that I simply cannot overlook, and therefore I could not lend my support to the Columbia agreement.” ###
10.12.2011	Washington, DC— Today Energy and Commerce Committee Ranking Member Henry A. Waxman and Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee Ranking Member Diana DeGette sent a letter to Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee Chairman Cliff Stearns urging that he invite a representative from the Department of Energy (DOE) to testify at Friday’s hearing. Given that a major purpose of the hearing appears to be an examination of whether DOE should have consulted with the Department of Justice when restructuring the government loan to Solyndra, the ranking members believe DOE should be represented at the hearing. The full text of the letter is available online here.
10.03.2011	WASHINGTON, DC — Today Energy and Commerce Committee Ranking Member Henry A. Waxman and Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee Ranking Member Diana DeGette sent a letter to Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Fred Upton and Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee Chairman Cliff Stearns requesting an investigation and hearing on the recent outbreak of Listeria monoctyogenes in cantaloupe. The members are making the requestoutbreak in over a decade actions can be taken by industry and FDA to avoid such outbreaks in the future. “This outbreak has been particularly disturbing both for its deadly result and for the continuing health and economic costs it is placing upon American families and businesses,” said DeGette. “Colorado health authorities did a good job of working with the federal government and quickly determining the farm that is the source of the tainted cantaloupe. However, the inability to track which retailers across the country may be selling these specific melons has not only frightened consumers across the country and jeopardized their health, but has had devastating economic costs for other Colorado and national cantaloupe growers swept up in a recall that did not involve their fruit. “One of the primary functions of government is to protect its citizens. As the death toll sadly continues to climb, a Congressional hearing into this matter would help us identify better ways for government and industry to work together to respond to foodborne illnesses, and hopefully determine effective means to prevent these types of outbreaks in the future. I have long been committed to better securing our food safety system and I am certain my colleagues on the Committee will join me now in making these hearings a priority. ” The full text of the letter is available online here. ###
09.28.2011	DENVER – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-1) issued the following statement regarding today’s EPA public hearing on New Source Performance Standards (NSPS) and National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants. There are over 15 revisions and actions in EPA's Proposed Rule, most of which relate to limiting VOCs and SO2 emissions and expanding Oil and Natural Gas source categories to include all operations in the sector. "Given Colorado’s leadership in energy development, I am particularly pleased EPA chose Denver for a public meeting to discuss new oil and gas sector New Source Performance Standards and National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants. As advances in technology and practices lead to greatly expanded oil and gas development in Colorado, it is critical we ensure our standards and regulations reflect the rapidly evolving status of the oil and gas industry, while safeguarding our land, air, and water. “I am especially interested in the proposed NSPS for completions of fracked wells. The EPA’s proposal would create two subcategories, non-exploratory/non-delineation wells and exploratory and delineation wells, and would require operational standards of reduced emission completion for the former, and pit flaring for the latter. These steps would only apply to the wellhead, well bore, casing and tubing, and any conveyance through which gas is vented. They would not apply to existing storage vessels, process vessels, separators or dehydrators. These are concrete, easily-accomplished precautions that will protect local communities while ensuring Colorado can safely reap the benefits of responsible energy development. “As the oil and gas sector develops and implements new technology, standards have to be revised and clarified to reflect these changes. These are common-sense proposals and I am happy that public comment in Denver will inform this important process." ###
09.27.2011	WASHINGTON, DC — Today Energy and Commerce Committee Ranking Member Henry A. Waxman and Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee Ranking Member Diana DeGette sent a letter to Chairman Cliff Stearns questioning the basis for his far-reaching investigation of the Planned Parenthood Federation of America. The full text of the letter is available here.
09.21.2011	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-1) issued the following statement following the defeat of the Continuing Resolution in the House of Representatives. The Resolution would have set the dangerous precedent of requiring offsets for emergency disaster relief funding. “With families across the country enduring the brutal aftermath of hurricanes, tornados, floods, and wildfires, we must ensure the thousands of Americans relying on their government receive the desperate help they need. This is not the time for political gamesmanship, but instead to once again remember that in the face of natural disasters, we are all Americans. That is why funding should be delivered immediately and without offsets, as it has for decades under both Republican and Democratic control of the House. “Also troubling was the decision by the Republican leadership to include a provision that could put more Americans out of work in order to offset the cost of disaster relief. Americans deserve a government that focuses on their number one priority: jobs; I encourage the Republican leadership to bring forward the Senate’s bipartisan disaster relief legislation separate from the Continuing Resolution so that we can stop playing politics with emergency relief and avoid a crippling government shutdown.” ###
09.20.2011	DENVER – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-1) issued the following statement today following the Department of Defense’s final implementation of the repeal of “Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell.” As Vice-Chair of the Congressional LGBT Caucus, Rep. DeGette played a critical role in the passage of repeal legislation. “This morning at 12:01 am, the military’s discriminatory “Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell” policy officially became a thing of the past. For too long we have forced brave men and women to hide who they are in order to serve their country. But today I am proud to have helped lift the veil of discrimination that has long shrouded our armed forces. Not only is our military stronger as a result of today’s actions, but so too is our country, for we have reaffirmed our basic commitment to equal protection under the law. “While today represents a monumental achievement in the pursuit of full equality for LGBT Americans, we cannot forget the work that is still left to be done. Today’s accomplishment proves that progress is unavoidable, and I look forward to working with my colleagues from both sides of the aisle to repeal further discriminatory legislation such as the Defense of Marriage Act and ensure that all Americans are treated equally regardless of who they love.”
09.19.2011	DENVER – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette issued the following statement today after President Barack Obama announced his plan to responsibly reduce the deficit. The President’s plan achieves net savings of $3 trillion over the next decade, which is above and beyond the $1.3 trillion targeted by the debt Supercommittee, and more than enough to offset the cost of the American Jobs Act. “This morning the President outlined a common-sense approach to fairly and responsibly reducing the deficit. His plan calls for shared sacrifice, reforming our tax code to ensure that middle-class families no longer pay a greater share of their income than the wealthiest Americans, while proposing sensible cuts from a broad spectrum of discretionary and mandatory programs. By closing special-interest loopholes and cutting spending through the tax code we can bring down rates, shrink the deficit, and provide certainty for small businesses looking to grow and expand in the 21st century global marketplace. For too long we have forced middle-class and low-income Americans to shoulder a disproportionate share of the deficit reduction burden, and I am pleased to see a proposal that would share the sacrifice to include even the wealthiest among us. “Our first priority must remain reducing our nation’s unemployment, and I urge my colleagues to take swift action on the American Jobs Act to get America back to work and then pass this proposal to get our fiscal house in order for the long-term.” ###
09.19.2011	WASHINGTON, DC - Today Energy and Commerce Committee Ranking Member Henry A. Waxman and Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee Ranking Member Diana DeGette sent a letter to Chairman Cliff Stearns urging him to invite representatives from Argonaut Private Equity and Madrone Capital Partners to testify on their investment in Solyndra. Click here to read the letter.
09.15.2011	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-1) issued the following statement today following House passage of H.R. 2587, which would strip the National Labor Relations Board (NLRB) of its ability to restore jobs to workers who are illegally punished for exercising their right to organize. “Throughout my career in Congress I have staunchly defended American workers against efforts to roll back the protections on which they rely to work in safe conditions and to earn a decent wage for their families. Thankfully, in this country it is illegal for a company to retaliate against workers who attempt to negotiate fair wages and safe working conditions. The NLRB has been an invaluable resource for hard-working Americans unfairly punished for exercising their rights. But this legislation would leave the NLRB with no authority to restore jobs that are illegally eliminated as punishment for union activity. It would leave a stacked deck in the hands of corporations who attempt to openly flaunt the law and threaten their workers with the loss of their job should they exercise their legal rights. It is an open invitation to ship jobs overseas, and would provide companies with such insurmountable leverage in future negotiations that workers’ rights and safety could fall by the wayside. “While I strongly support the rights of companies like Boeing to open new facilities wherever they see fit, they must ensure they follow the law when doing so, and it is not in our nation’s best interest to enact legislation that strips the NRLB’s ability to enforce that law.” ###
09.08.2011	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-1) released the following statement after listening to President Barack Obama outline his bipartisan plan to get America back to work. “While we were home for the district work period, every Member of Congress heard the same refrain again and again– Jobs, Jobs, Jobs. The American people are frustrated with a stagnant economy and with a government that is not addressing their most urgent needs. "Tonight the President presented Congress with a plan of reasonable, balanced ideas that will get our nation back to work, and a plan that, because of long-held bipartisan support for most of these ideas, should be able to break through the stalemate of the past several months. “I am particularly pleased the ideas the President proposed will provide relief for everyone, helping American families across the spectrum hurting so much from this economic crisis. Teachers, firefighters, policemen, construction workers, and the small businesses that are the backbone of our nation will all benefit from these proposals, and get the economy moving again. I am also pleased that not only will the President’s plan address our most urgent short-term need to create jobs, because it is already paid for, it will not undermine our efforts to get our fiscal house in order for the long-term. “For too long the political gamesmanship and gridlock has stood in the way of Congress providing real solutions to create jobs for Americans. Unfortunately tonight that intransigence was once again on display, as my Republican colleagues visibly refused to support the idea that everyone in our country – including the wealthiest among us – should contribute their fair share to our recovery. “In the coming weeks, I look forward to reviewing the specifics of the President’s proposal, and I hope my colleagues will put aside the ideology we saw tonight and work with us to pass a bipartisan jobs package; finally putting country ahead of politics, getting Americans back to work, and our nation’s economy moving again.” ###
08.22.2011	Today, U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-1) is joining governors, business owners, and local leaders in support of Great Outdoors Week, August 20-28. This national celebration recognizes the recreational, environmental and economic value of America’s public lands and highlights the importance of protecting Colorado’s national parks and natural resources from industrial development. The event comes in advance of Congress’ vote on legislation that would open up more than 60 million acres of public lands to new development, including new road-building, coal mining, and oil and gas development. “Here in Colorado, while my constituents and I are working with the Forest Service to keep the best of our backcountry forests protected, some in Congress are pushing on behalf of special interests to take those protections away entirely,” said DeGette. “Coloradans depend on these areas for our drinking water, our outdoor economy and our cherished way of life, and they must be persevered.” Colorado is known for its scenic beauty and accessible forestland which drawn millions of visitors to the state each year. The outdoor industry alone contributes over $10 billion annually to the Colorado economy and supports hundreds of thousands of jobs. For this reason, DeGette has joined Colorado’s conservation organizations, sportsmen’s groups, and the outdoor industry in support of Colorado’s Great Outdoor Week in order to recognize the priceless value of our public lands and natural resources at a time when Congress debates the release of protected roadless areas to allow industrial development. By recognizing the enduring value of our America’s public lands, Representative DeGette hopes to inspire Coloradans to participate in recreational activities such as hiking, biking, and fishing during the weeklong event and, in doing so, send a message to Congress: protect our great outdoors.
08.11.2011	WASHINGTON – As the author of the FRAC Act (Fracturing Responsibility and Awareness of Chemicals Act) and the leading House voice on responsible hydraulic fracturing, U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-1) today issued the following statement in response to the Department of Energy’s Natural Gas Subcommittee report on improving the safety of fracking. “I am extremely encouraged that the Subcommittee’s findings strongly support the reasonable and common-sense regulations I have set forth in the FRAC Act. I am particularly pleased with their call for mandatory disclosure regulations to enable the public to discover the specific chemicals injected into the ground in their communities. I have long believed that public disclosure of the chemicals in fracking fluid is a fundamental step we can take to safeguard the drinking water of families living near fracking wells. As the report notes, there is ‘no economic or technical reason’ not to do so. “Over the past several months, my Committee has revealed extensive evidence of the use of diesel fuel in fracking projects across the nation. This report’s recommendation to cease use of diesel at all is a welcome development as we strive to make the fracking process safer. To that end, I look forward to working with the department on our most recent request, to develop a definition of ‘diesel fuel’ that better protects the health of our families. “Lastly, I support their call to develop best practices for casing and cementing jobs in fracking operations. Last year’s BP spill in the Gulf has been largely attributed to faulty casing and cementing, and, as I have repeatedly warned, the consequences of a similar tragedy in an onshore well could be even more catastrophic. “The FRAC Act I have introduced is consistent with many of this report’s recommendations, including providing for common-sense safeguards like required disclosure of the chemicals used in the fracking process. As always, I strongly believe natural gas is an important economic driver – particularly for my state of Colorado – and a critical bridge fuel, but we must ensure the process for extracting it is done safely and responsibly. Moving forward I hope the Department works more closely, not only with EPA and Interior, but also with those of us in Congress working towards our shared goals.” ###
08.01.2011	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-1) tonight issued the following statement regarding her vote against the debt ceiling deal agreed to by Congressional leaders. The bill passed the House of Representatives by 269 – 161, and now goes to the Senate where it is expected to pass, and eventually be signed into law by the President. “After reviewing the details of this so-called compromise, I could not in good conscience vote for this bill. Since the beginning, I have stated that all of our economic issues should never have been conflated in this debate. We have serious economic challenges and they are far are too important to be held hostage to preserving the full faith and credit of the United States. “Yet here we are at the 11th hour, with a gun to our head, being asked to accept an extreme, unbalanced proposal that places too great a burden on the middle class while failing to ask for any shared sacrifice from corporations and the nation’s wealthiest. Frankly, after months of what of could have been productive negotiations to develop a balanced economic path for our country, I resent being forced into this choice. “The proposal we voted on tonight is a ’smoke-and-mirrors’ piece of legislation that I, along with many economic analysts, fear may have a potentially devastating impact on our fragile economy. The bill calls for extraordinary cuts in spending, but as opposed to previous versions of a deal, we have no idea where those cuts will come from. All we know is they will likely be determined by the same appropriators who have already this year slashed critical programs that protect American families. “Our nation is still in crisis, and the American people deserve a balanced solution, with reasonable cuts to spending – like agricultural and ethanol subsidies, combined with common-sense revenue enhancements – like closing tax loopholes for corporations and the ultra-rich. Such a solution would have enabled us to begin to get our nation’s fiscal house in order, while investing in programs that create jobs and train our workforce to compete in the global economy. “It is long past time for this Congress to truly focus on getting Americans back to work, yet tonight, after holding our nation’s credit rating hostage we instead passed a bill that may actually jeopardize those efforts. “I must also say it was truly wonderful and emotionally overwhelming for us all to welcome back my brave colleague Rep. Gabrielle Giffords on the Floor tonight. She is truly an inspiration to us all.” ###
07.30.2011	WASHINGTON -- US Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-1) issued the following statement in response to Speaker Boehner's politically-motivated, and completely symbolic, vote on the Reid plan to address the debt ceiling. DeGette voted for the bill as a more balanced approach to address the looming default crisis than any of the unworkable solutions proposed by the House Republicans. "I am deeply disappointed that with so little time left before our nation defaults on its obligations, the Republican leaders have chosen to waste precious time with this political stunt. Once again they are showing the American people they will continue to place their 'my way or the highway' intransigence above the good of the country. Our nation cannot continue to bear this irresponsibility. "It is time to pay our bills, avoid a default, and turn our attention to getting our fiscal house in order and getting Americans back to work. Senator Reid's plan - while far from perfect - is certainly a more balanced approach to deficit reduction and does not mandate cuts to Medicare, Social Security, and education. Now, in the eleventh hour, for the sake of the American people, I urge my colleagues on the other side of the aisle to stop the gamesmanship and finally embrace a fundamental tenet of our democracy: compromise." ###
07.29.2011	U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-1) issued the following statement in response to passage of the House Republican’s plan to address the looming default crisis. On Thursday, DeGette, who joined with the entire Democratic caucus in voting against Speaker Boehner’s proposal, cosponsored H.R. 2663, the “America Pays its Bills Act,” which would simply raise the debt ceiling to avoid the first default crisis in our nation’s history. “As we stand four days away from the first default in our nation’s history, the Republican bill passed today may raise the debt ceiling for the near future, but it is an imbalanced approach to deficit reduction that disproportionately punishes the most vulnerable Americans, and, with its untenable balanced budget amendment timeline, sets the stage for likely default in six months. That timetable systematically continues the blanket of uncertainty this debate has placed over our economy, virtually ensuring a downgrade to the US credit rating and an economic crisis for our nation. “With the markets already reacting to the gridlock in Washington, it is time to pay our bills, avoid a default crisis that would send interest rates skyrocketing, and then focus on getting our fiscal house in order. We must reduce our deficit, pay down our debt, and ensure the long-term solvency of Social Security and Medicare. These issues deserve balanced and thoughtful solutions; not to be held hostage to preserving the full faith and credit of the US.” ###
07.27.2011	WASHINGTON – Today, U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-1), Congress’s leading voice on ethical embryonic stem cell (ESC) research issued the following statement in response to U.S. District Judge Royce Lamberth’s decision to dismiss the Sherley v. Sebelius lawsuit challenging federal funding of ESC research. “Today is a good day for millions of Americans looking to the promise of ethical embryonic stem cell research to treat or even cure their disease. As the Appeals Court ruled in April, a decade’s worth of work and literature has established the acceptability of federal funding for embryonic stem cell research. I applaud Judge Lamberth’s decision to dismiss the case, relying upon the Appeals Court ruling that recognized the life-saving potential of this research. “I am extremely pleased that with this decision, scores of researchers across the country have the stability and continuity to conduct their critical research. However, the lawsuit’s impact over the past year demonstrated once again how political gamesmanship can suddenly interrupt the path of stem cell discovery. The potential and promise of ethical embryonic stem cell research is too important for too many patients across our nation to leave it vulnerable to the whims of Washington and extreme agendas. Therefore, I promise to continue to work tirelessly to pass legislation codifying these federal guidelines, and once and for all remove uncertainty for researchers and the patients who await their life-saving discoveries.” ###
07.26.2011	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-1) today sent the following letter to President Barack Obama, Speaker John Boehner, and Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid calling on them to break the partisan gridlock gripping Washington by initiating a simplified process that would resolve the pending default crisis, ensure deficit reduction, and preserve the long-term solvency of Social Security and Medicare. The signed letter can be found here, and the text is as follows: July 26, 2011 The Honorable Barack Obama The Honorable John Boehner President of the United States Speaker 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW U.S. House of Representatives Washington, D.C. 20500 H-232 U.S. CapitolWashington, D.C. 20510 The Honorable Harry Reid Majority Leader U.S. Senate 522 Hart Senate Office Building Washington, D.C. 20510 Dear Mr. President, Speaker Boehner, and Leader Reid: I am writing to express the outrage of the residents of Colorado’s First Congressional District at the partisan gridlock that continues to grip Washington, and now steers our nation towards irrevocable economic crisis. We need to act together to resolve our disagreements and show the world that our democracy can still work. With one week left before our nation is driven into a default on our debt caused by your inability to come to a “grand bargain,” I reiterate my call from last week to immediately begin a three-step process that will resolve the pending default crisis, ensure deficit reduction, and preserve the long-term solvency of Social Security and Medicare. These three issues should never have been conflated in the first place, but because they were, we now stand on the precipice of an unprecedented crisis of our own making. For the good of our nation, we must take the following immediate steps: Raise the debt limit by $2.5 trillion. Period. Disagreeable as it may be for some, this necessary step should not be held hostage by budget negotiations around spending and budget balancing. The United States cannot stop paying its bills for debts already incurred. Given the extraordinary stalemate amongst the negotiators, rating agencies have unfortunately already warned of downgrades if all we do is raise the debt ceiling. That is why a vote to simply raise the debt ceiling should also include a binding agreement to immediately get to work on a true and lasting solution to our underlying fiscal problems. After the full faith and credit of the United States have been secured by raising the debt ceiling, all parties should come together to hammer out a budget and deficit reduction plan on a bipartisan basis. We need to realize that some of the choices will be difficult and some unpopular, but they must be made. We should not use these talks to put forth an ideological agenda that does not save money for our national budget. Instead, we should open every program to scrutiny, including defense, agriculture subsidies, and domestic programs. And we should keep an eye on equity and shared sacrifice, meaning revenue must also be on the table. We should not use Social Security and Medicare as bargaining chips for deficit reduction. We must recognize they are separate trust funds which, while solvent for the next few years and decades, must be reviewed for long-term viability. I urge creation of a bi-partisan commission, similar to Ronald Reagan’s National Commission on Social Security Reform, to review the details of those programs as they affect future generations, while realizing that current beneficiaries have made their retirement plans around current frameworks and cannot reasonably accept changes. This Commission should make its recommendations to Congress and the White House by the end of this year. As a senior Member of Congress, I share my constituents’ outrage and frustration over the process that has led us down this path. Over the past few weeks I have had numerous conversations with many of my colleagues across the aisle. Unfortunately, while individual Republicans remain privately open to compromise, the Republican caucus as a whole continues to be fully committed to a “my way or the highway” approach to raising the debt ceiling – an irresponsible strategy to representing the American people. It is time for Congress and the Administration to do the responsible thing and raise the debt ceiling, rather than hold it hostage to solving the longer-term fiscal challenges facing our nation. Sincerely, Diana DeGette
07.22.2011	WASHINGTON – Today, U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-1) introduced the Research Participants Protection Act, a bill designed to modernize and improve our nation’s system for safeguarding the volunteers who participate in research trials to find cures and treatments for diseases. Patients in these trials have lost their lives, or become injured or severely ill, due to inadequate protections to keep them safe, discouraging some people from participating in research studies. “It is the volunteers facing difficult diseases and conditions who, by their agreement to participate in research trials, make scientific research and the discovery of cures possible for millions of Americans,” said DeGette. “Sadly, families have lost loved ones because for too long volunteers participating in research haven’t been adequately protected. Institutional review boards are overloaded, and current federal standards have simply not kept pace with the advances and complexity of research today. It is long past time to modernize the U.S. system for protecting human research participants so it is focused on approving investigations that are done more safely and ethically. “The Research Participants Protection Act I introduced today will take significant steps to protect those individuals, by ensuring they are better informed of the risks of the trial they are considering, and by improving federal standards and review procedures for every phase of the research process. As the U.S. economy increases its dependence upon valuable data and the participation of research volunteers to help find cures for our most serious health issues, we must ensure we are doing everything we can to improve safety and efficacy.” The Research Participants Protection Act instructs the Secretary of Health and Human Services to review and harmonize federal policy on protecting research participants, including: Employing the most effective processes for informing participants of the risks of research and ensuring that they are able to make voluntary decisions about participating. Improving standards to guard against financial conflicts of interest by investigators. Ensuring efficient, ethical review and oversight of multisite research, which accounts for an increasingly large portion of biomedical research. Improving procedures for reporting and addressing unanticipated problems in research that could pose a danger to participants (such as serious negative reactions to a drug by clinical trial volunteers). · Identifying types of research that should be eligible for expedited review procedures. ###
07.22.2011	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-1) issued the following statement in response to tonight’s breakdown in negotiations over a deal to raise the debt ceiling: “I am deeply concerned that with so little time left before the U.S. begins to default on its obligations, Speaker Boehner has once again walked away from the negotiating table. I'm certain at this point my colleagues agree that conflating the debt ceiling deadline with our other critical economic challenges is just too perilous. Therefore I call on the Republican Leadership to join with Democrats in passing a bill to cleanly raise the debt ceiling as early as possible next week. The markets are too volatile and our economy too fragile to continue the sort of gamesmanship that has gotten us to the point where we stand on the verge of irrevocable economic crisis. It is time for Congress to do the responsible thing and raise the debt ceiling; after which we can work together to take bold action to fix the nation’s underlying economic problems.” ###
07.19.2011	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-1) issued the following statement following House passage of H.R. 2560. The bill, which would require passage of a constitutional amendment out of both the House and Senate prior to raising the debt ceiling, includes cuts even steeper than the devastating Ryan budget and caps federal outlays at levels not seen since 1966. “Today House Republicans voted to erase a half-century of progress by imposing draconian cuts to end the trusted programs that have secured America’s seniors for decades. The vote was not only a distraction from finding realistic and reasonable solutions to the pressing issues at hand, but it actually brings us closer to a devastating default crisis. With less than two weeks until the US defaults on its bills, I call on the remaining moderates in the Republican caucus to join with moderate Democrats to raise the debt ceiling, so we can get back to work on creating jobs, responsibly reducing the deficit, and ensuring the long-term solvency of Medicare and Social Security.” ###
07.19.2011	WASHINGTON – Today, U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-1) issued the following statement in response to the Institute of Medicine (IOM) report on additional preventive health services that should be covered and provided to women at no cost, under insurance plans created by the Affordable Care Act. “I applaud the IOM report for taking significant steps towards shifting our health care system from sick care to preventive care, ultimately enabling women to live longer and stay out of hospitals, while saving money for our entire system,” said DeGette. “The report’s recommendation to fully cover FDA-approved contraceptive methods will make great strides for family planning in this country. By recommending the removal of patient co-pays for contraception and other preventive services, like annual well-care visits and screening for gestational diabetes, the IOM has set the stage to fundamentally transform health care for American women.” Under the health care law passed last year, all new health insurance plans are required to cover certain preventive health care services and provide them at no cost. Through a provision known as the Women’s Health Amendment (WHA), the law includes some women’s health services as part of preventive care. As such, the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) asked the IOM to provide unbiased advice to decision-makers on the additional preventive health services that should be included for American women. Today’s report reflects fulfillment of that request. “I urge Secretary Sebelius and her colleagues to review the IOM’s report and move forward with this proposal to improve women’s health care, as soon as possible.” ###
07.15.2011	WASHINGTON, DC - U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-1) submitted the following comments yesterday to the U.S. Forest Service in response to their proposed Colorado Roadless Rule. The Forest Service is considering a state-specific rule to manage inventoried roadless areas on national forest lands in Colorado, rather than complying with the national rule. Despite having slightly stronger protections than an earlier state-specific version, the proposed rule falls short of the standard existing under the national rule and lacks critical safeguards for Colorado’s national forests. July 14, 2011 Colorado Roadless Area Review Team U.S. Department of Agriculture, Forest Service P.O. Box 1919 Sacramento, CA 95812 Re: Submission of Comments on Proposed Colorado Roadless Rule and Revised Draft Dear Colorado Roadless Area Review Team: As a Member of the Colorado Congressional delegation with a particular interest in natural resources, I write to submit my comments on the proposed Colorado Roadless Rule. The Rule would impact 4.2 million acres of roadless national forest land in Colorado. These are our last remaining undeveloped forest lands which we depend on for critical wildlife habitat, clean air and recreational opportunities. Wildlife viewing and hunting and fishing are vital for Colorado’s tourism, one of our strongest economic engines. As has consistently been my position, I do not believe Colorado needs a separate state-specific roadless rule since the 2001 Roadless Rule received unprecedented public comment and great support, here in Colorado and across the country. Since these are federal lands, they should be managed as other federal lands, with a consistency that gives certainty to all who use and enjoy them. Our Colorado forest lands also deserve the same level of protection as those across the country. Additionally, since there are local protections and flexibility built into the 2001 Roadless Rule, the Colorado plan is unnecessary. The proposed alternative of the Colorado Roadless Rule falls short in several ways. It provides ‘upper tier’ protection to only 13% of Inventoried Roadless Areas even though over 65% of these areas are identified in the various alternatives for the ‘upper tier’ category. Also, the 13% of roadless lands in Alternative 2 are those that generally already enjoy the same protection under their current forest plan. It seems disingenuous to declare them ‘upper tier’ which does not add additional protection but only changes the administrative mechanism by which those protections can be changed. The ‘upper tier’ protections should be afforded to all the 2.8 million acres identified in the various alternatives. In addition, it would allow oil and gas surface occupancy and linear construction zones even in the ‘upper tier’ lands. I urge you to prohibit both surface occupancy and linear construction zones in these critical areas. The majority of the Inventoried Roadless Areas (87%) face these threats as well as many other exceptions for special interests, such as oil and gas leasing and coal mining. These lands are vulnerable to development, road building and extraction. Lastly, I am concerned about some of the proposed regulations that permit road building far from the nearest community for fuel reduction. We have limited dollars to deal with the threats of forest fire around these areas. Those limited dollars should be targeted to the areas closest to those communities rather than far into the backcountry. I strongly urge you to provide Colorado roadless areas with the highest level of protection possible. Without strong rules to protect our fragile forest ecosystem it will be more vulnerable to threats such as climate change and insect and disease outbreaks. In 2010, U.S. Dept. of Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack pledged that the Colorado rule would be as protective or more protective than the 2001 Roadless Rule, the current proposal does not offer that level of protection. Sincerely, Diana DeGette Member of Congress Cc: USDA Sec. Tom Vilsack USFS Chief Tom Tidwell
07.07.2011	Washington – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-1) introduced the Colorado Wilderness Act of 2011, setting forth a balanced approach to protecting some of the last remaining wild places in Colorado. The bill contains 28 proposed wilderness areas, as well as three smaller additions to existing wilderness areas, and in total would permanently protect nearly 700,000 acres of precious land. “As a fourth-generation Coloradoan, I know firsthand that Colorado’s beautiful lands are one of our state’s greatest resources,” said DeGette. “These special lands not only provide clean air, clean water and critical wildlife habitat, they help drive tourism as our state’s number one economic engine. It is critically important we protect these remaining wild areas so that future generations have access to the same benefits we enjoy today.” Over the past several years, population growth and corresponding demands have placed increasing pressure on our public lands and resources. For example, 56% of Bureau of Land Management (BLM) land in Colorado is leased for oil and gas activities, while 2.5% is protected wilderness. The Colorado Wilderness Act seeks to balance these demands while keeping an eye on our natural heritage and preserving some of the most ecologically rich areas in our state. “Over the past 12 years, as I’ve worked on this bill with Coloradoans across the state, I’ve heard many different opinions, but those opinions are most often rooted in a set of shared statewide values. Coloradoans want to preserve their history, their quality of life and their opportunities. I believe this legislation does just that and I look forward to working with the Administration and my colleagues in Congress on a process that results in significant wilderness designations in our state.” The bill recognizes the need for balanced use of our public lands, and as such, maintains existing grazing, oil and gas, and mineral rights. The areas proposed for wilderness designation are primarily BLM mid-elevation lands and lower-lying canyons. Many of these low-lying areas are underrepresented in our National Wilderness Preservation System, making their inclusion in the Act that much more critical. ###
06.29.2011	ENGLEWOOD – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-1) today marked the introduction of the Stem Cell Research Advancement Act of 2011 with a visit to the world-renowned Craig Hospital, where she toured the Top Ten rehabilitation facility and met with hospital leadership, staff, and their patients. DeGette spoke of the tremendous potential of ethical embryonic stem cell research to the health of patients like those at Craig, as well as to the economic strength of our nation. “Science is indeed back in America, and with this legislation, the power of American innovation and the great promise of stem cell research may one day offer the patients of Craig an entirely new outlook on the future,” DeGette said. “My legislation would put into statute a framework for ethical embryonic stem cell research that would ensure this critical life-saving research could be conducted unimpeded by political interference, enabling the promise of treatments and even cures to become a reality. And as America works to get back on its feet economically, the potential of stem cell research can also move beyond the miraculous health discoveries that await us, to one day drive an entire new segment of biomedical industry.” DeGette was joined by Craig Hospital President and CEO, Mike Fordyce, and Chris Chappell, a graduate and employee of Craig, who is a quadriplegic as a result of a mountain bike accident 11 years ago. “Craig Hospital is pleased to host this press conference today to announce this proposed legislation,” says Mike Fordyce, President and CEO of Craig. “For more than fifty years Craig has been a premier national leader in the rehabilitation and research of patients with catastrophic neuro-traumatic injuries, including more than a decade of collaborative stem cell research with the Karolinska Institute in Sweden. We are hopeful that this legislation will further advance scientific research in restorative treatments, for patients who are affected by catastrophic injuries.” Chris Chappell said, "I am in favor of legislation supporting scientific research that benefits the greater good of humanity. I believe that a balanced, in-depth and judicious study of the potential applicable benefits of stem-cell research is needed and will help to achieve tremendous medical breakthroughs for a myriad of health related challenges, spinal-cord injuries notwithstanding, currently effecting millions of Americans.” DeGette’s Stem Cell Research Advancement Act, introduced on a bipartisan basis with Rep. Charlie Dent (R-PA), would support embryonic stem cell research, and codify the NIH’s guidelines for carrying out all human stem cell research, embryonic and adult. It also requires NIH to review its guidelines at least every three years and make periodic updates as scientifically warranted. The ethical requirements defined by the bill mandates that stem cells be derived from human embryos donated from in vitro fertilization clinics that were created for reproductive purposes, but are in excess of clinical needs. The donated embryos would never be implanted in a woman, and would otherwise be discarded. The individuals who had sought reproductive treatment to begin with, must donate the embryos with written informed consent and without any financial or other inducements. The legislation also specifically prohibits the use of federal funding for human cloning under the NIH guidelines. Craig Hospital is a non-profit, national rehabilitation hospital and research center that specializes exclusively in treatment and research of patients with spinal cord injury (SCI) and traumatic brain injury (TBI). Craig treats patients from all fifty states and several foreign countries and in 2010 was ranked in the Top Ten Rehab Hospitals by US News and World Report for the 21st consecutive year. ###
06.27.2011	WASHINGTON – U.S. Reps. Diana DeGette (D-CO) and Charlie Dent (R-PA) introduced the bipartisan Stem Cell Research Advancement Act, to ensure a lasting framework overseeing ethical stem cell research at the National Institutes of Health (NIH), and finally bring certainty to the scientific community pursuing life-saving cures and treatments. “With two human trials already underway, for the treatment of spinal cord injuries and degenerative eye diseases, it is clear ethical embryonic stem cell research is beginning to bear fruit for the millions of Americans facing debilitating diseases and conditions,” said DeGette. “This legislation would place into statute a framework to ensure such critical research can be conducted unimpeded by political interference.” “The United States is the world leader in medical research and innovation, compelling our nation to set the global standard for the ethical use of stem cells,” said Rep. Dent. “Research involving stem cells will lead to important breakthroughs in treatment and cures that will save the lives of countless Americans and other around the world. This important bipartisan legislation will undoubtedly advance medical research, helping to address today’s most devastating ailments and developing treatments for those that currently seem incurable.” The Stem Cell Research Advancement Act would support embryonic stem cell research, and codify the NIH’s guidelines for carrying out all human stem cell research, embryonic and adult. It also requires NIH to review its guidelines at least every three years and make periodic updates as scientifically warranted. The ethical requirements defined by the bill mandate that stem cells be derived from human embryos donated from in vitro fertilization clinics that were created for reproductive purposes, but are in excess of clinical needs. The donated embryos would never be implanted in a woman, and would otherwise be discarded. The individuals who had sought reproductive treatment to begin with, must donate the embryos with written informed consent and without any financial or other inducements. The legislation also specifically prohibits the use of federal funding for human cloning under the NIH guidelines. Several years have passed since the original Stem Cell Research Enhancement Act, drafted by Rep. DeGette and former Rep. Mike Castle (R-DE), was passed and twice vetoed by President George W. Bush. During that time, the field of human stem cell research has progressed steadily. The Stem Cell Research Advancement Act introduced last week has been updated to keep current with the ever-expanding field of stem cell research and responds to calls on Congress to provide lasting support to this field of research. ###
06.22.2011	“I commend President Obama for honoring his commitment to begin troop withdrawals from Afghanistan, but I urge him to provide his long-term strategy for total withdrawal as soon as possible. U.S. forces’ elimination of Osama bin Laden and other top al-Qaeda leadership – and the subsequent weakening of their organization in Afghanistan – underscore how our mission in that country has shifted and how the time has come to bring our troops home.”
06.21.2011	WASHINGTON – U.S. Reps. Diana DeGette (CO-01) and Tom Rooney (FL-16) today will introduce the “Preserving Access to Life-Saving Medications Act,” a bipartisan bill to improve patient safety by reducing shortages of life-saving drugs. “This bill represents an important first step towards addressing prescription drug shortages, which are far more rampant across the country than many realize,” said DeGette. “Every year there are approximately 200 critical shortages of life-saving drugs in America, ranging from anesthesia to cancer-fighting medicines for children, and in many cases, there are no safe alternatives. Sadly, this problem is only worsening, but the early warning system this bill creates represents an immediate safeguard to help prevent sudden shortages of these life-saving medications.” “Across the country, hospitals and physicians are facing critical shortages of common, life-saving drugs, like anesthetics, pain medications and cancer therapies,” Rooney said. “No patient should suffer because of a drug shortage that could have been prevented. “The earlier doctors, suppliers and the FDA are able to communicate a potential drug shortage, the better equipped they are to respond and possibly prevent a disruption from occurring. Because our goal is to increase access to needed drugs, we have worked carefully to ensure that the bill’s reporting requirements will not put undue burdens – which might increase costs for hospitals and patients – on manufacturers.” According to the Food and Drug Administration (FDA), drug shortages have nearly tripled since 2005 and hit a record high of 178 last year, forcing doctors to delay or alter patient care plans. In many instances, no safe alternatives to these drugs exist, leaving patients with an increased risk of side effects and adverse drug interactions. Currently, only sole-source manufacturers of medically necessary drugs are required to report discontinuances to the FDA, so the agency can help mitigate the disruption and notify doctors. In fact, the FDA says 38 shortages were prevented in 2010 from companies who provided early notification of a possible disruption. The DeGette-Rooney bill would expand that law to combat drug shortages by: Requiring manufacturers of all prescription drugs, including biologics, to notify the FDA of any discontinuance or interruption in the production of a drug at least six months in advance; In the event of an unplanned discontinuance or interruption, requiring manufacturers to notify the FDA as soon as possible; Instructing the Secretary to publish these notifications and any actual drug shortage on its website, and work to distribute this information to appropriate health care providers and patient organizations; and, Directing a GAO study to examine the possible causes of drug shortages, including manufacturing problems, breakdown in supply chains and delivery systems, and restrictive regulatory requirements. The American Hospital Association, American Society of Clinical Oncology, American Society of Health-System Pharmacists, and Institute for Safe Medication Practices have endorsed the bill, as has the generic drug manufacturer Hospira, Inc. ###
06.16.2011	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Representative Diana DeGette today joined with other key House Democrats to request that McKinsey & Company release methodology and other important information on their recent study on the Affordable Care Act and employer sponsored health care. Serious concerns have been raised about the accuracy of the study that conflicts with other nonpartisan studies on the issue. McKinsey has refused to make public basic information regarding the design of the survey or the questions asked. DeGette was joined on the letter by Reps. Henry A. Waxman, Frank Pallone, Jr., John D. Dingell, Sander M. Levin, George Miller, Pete Stark, Rob Andrews, and John Lewis.“Refusing to release the underlying questions and methodology undermines the credibility of the findings,” House Democrats wrote. “We are concerned that, if the survey based its conclusions on a questionable instrument and potentially biased methodology, McKinsey may have provided the American public with invalid information about the impact of the Affordable Care Act.”Real world experience in Massachusetts and studies by other independent groups suggests that the Affordable Care Act will not have a significant impact on employer health coverage. “The results of this survey were markedly different from the conclusions of the non-partisan Congressional Budget Office, and other credible studies or surveys conducted by respected entities including the Rand Corporation and The Urban Institute, all of which projected little change to the number of employers offering health coverage under health reform.” Read the full letter here. ###
06.03.2011	WASHINGTON - Today, U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette voted against two House measures pertaining to U.S. involvement in Libya. She issued the following statement regarding her opposition: "Last week I voted to block spending taxpayer money for any American troops or contractors on the ground in Libya, and the House passed that amendment with a bipartisan vote of 416 to 5. “President Obama, in accordance with the War Powers Act, should have come to Congress initially before committing U.S. forces in Libya. The Constitution clearly designates Congress’ role in authorizing spending related to military efforts, and last week’s vote was an appropriate reflection of that authority. However, the resolutions considered on the Floor today went far beyond the scope of Congressional authority, instead attempting to specifically direct our President’s actions in his Constitutional role as our nation’s Commander-in-Chief.” ###
06.01.2011	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-1) issued the following statement today after stocks fell sharply on the backs of weak employment and manufacturing reports. “Today's losses in the financial markets are a disturbing reminder of the fragility of our economic recovery. Sent into a downward spiral by lackluster employment and manufacturing reports, the market reaffirmed what Democrats in Congress have always maintained: the most important issue we face is creating jobs for American families. Today should serve as a reminder to us all of what's at stake, and should make clear it is time for House Republicans to stop playing political and partisan games with something as important as our economic well-being. We must work together to get our nation's fiscal house in order, and start helping get Americans back to work. It's time the House Leadership acknowledges that the responsible first step to doing that is to raise the debt ceiling so we can pay our bills.” ###
05.31.2011	WASHINGTON – Tonight, Congresswoman Diana DeGette (CO-1) voted “Yes” on H.R. 1954 “Debt Limit Extension,” raising our nation’s debt ceiling in order to enable our government to pay its obligations. DeGette issued the following statement in response to the House vote in which this critical measure failed, 318 to 97. “I am deeply disappointed a majority of my colleagues today continued to play political games with something as serious as our nation’s debt obligations. Two off-budget wars and budget-busting tax breaks for the wealthiest Americans have put us in an already precarious fiscal situation, but failing to raise our debt ceiling will cause our nation to default on its bills, halting our nascent economic recovery and ultimately costing this country jobs. I am committed to responsibly reducing our deficit, balancing our budget, and growing our economy, but an ideological effort to rewrite history by failing to pay our bills is irresponsible and will do nothing to help improve our economic outlook.” ###
05.26.2011	WASHINGTON, DC — Today U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-1) joined her colleagues, Reps. Henry A. Waxman and Edward J. Markey in requesting an Energy and Commerce Committee hearing on the use of hydraulic fracturing, or “fracking,” in natural gas production. In the letter, the committee democratic leaders note that “investigative reports we have released, peer-reviewed studies of shale gas production, news reports of spills and contamination, and regulatory action in three different agencies have raised numerous concerns about the practice of hydraulic fracturing.” They called for a hearing that would give committee members a better understanding of the latest developments on the promise and potential threats posed by fracking. “We know natural gas is an important economic driver and a significant bridge fuel – particularly for Colorado – but we must ensure the process for extracting it is done safely and responsibly,” said DeGette, lead sponsor of the FRAC Act, which would provide common-sense safeguards like required disclosure of the chemicals used in the process, and subjecting fracking activities to regulations under the Safe Drinking Water Act. “Recently, a critical mass of new and concerning information has come to light regarding the fracking process, raising important questions about how best to protect our communities, while enabling them to enjoy the economic benefits of natural gas. This Committee should live up to its obligations and allow us to adequately examine these recent revelations so we can begin to move forward with an appropriate and reasonable federal response.” In April, Reps. DeGette, Waxman, and Markey, and released a report containing the first comprehensive national inventory of chemicals used by hydraulic fracturing companies during the drilling process. The report summarized the types, volumes, and chemical contents of the hydraulic fracturing products used by the 14 leading oil and gas service companies between 2005 and 2009. That report came on the heels of an earlier Committee report issued in February revealing that over 32 million gallons of diesel fuel or fracking fluids containing diesel fuel had been injected into wells in 19 states between 2005 and 2009. The full text of the letter is below and also available online here. May 26, 2011 The Honorable Fred Upton Chairman House Energy and Commerce Committee 2125 Rayburn House Office Building Washington, DC 20515 The Honorable Cliff Stearns Chairman Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations House Energy and Commerce Committee 2125 Rayburn House Office Building Washington, DC 20515 Dear Chairman Upton and Chairman Stearns: We are writing to request that the Energy and Commerce Committee hold hearings into the use of hydraulic fracturing in natural gas production. While hydraulic fracturing and the increased use of natural gas hold great promise, it is essential that the technique be adequately regulated to prevent risks to health and the environment. A Committee hearing would give members a better understanding of these issues and an opportunity to assess the need for appropriate legislation. There are many recent developments involving hydraulic fracturing that the Committee should consider. This year alone, investigative reports we have released, peer-reviewed studies of shale gas production, news reports of spills and contamination, and regulatory action in three different agencies have raised numerous concerns about the practice of hydraulic fracturing. In January, as Ranking Members of the Energy and Commerce Committee, the Natural Resources Committee, and the Energy and Commerce Committee Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations, respectively, we sent a letter to EPA Administrator Lisa Jackson raising concerns about the contents of fluids used in hydraulic fracturing. We informed the Administrator that our investigation uncovered documents showing that contrary to federal law, oil and gas service companies had injected more than 30 million gallons of diesel fuel or fluids containing diesel fuel during hydraulic fracturing of natural gas wells from 2005 to 2009. In April, we released a second analysis showing that these companies used millions of gallons of hydraulic fracturing products containing 29 chemicals that are known or possible human carcinogens, regulated under the Safe Drinking Water Act for their risks to human health, or listed as hazardous air pollutants under the Clean Air Act. The same analysis found that the companies used 94 million gallons of hydraulic fracturing fluids containing “proprietary” or “trade secret” compounds, often without full knowledge of their risks or hazard profiles. In recent months two peer-reviewed scientific studies have raised serious questions about the environmental and human health impacts of shale gas production. In March, researchers from Cornell University published a study in the scientific journal Climatic Change concluding that methane emissions over the lifecycle of shale gas production are higher than previously estimated. According to these researchers, a more accurate accounting would show that the greenhouse gas footprint of shale gas is greater than the greenhouse gas footprint of coal. Researchers from Duke University added to the debate, publishing a paper in the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences that found a correlation between shale drilling activity and the seepage of contaminants, particularly methane, into drinking water well. The natural gas industry has been sharply critical of both studies, but has to date provided little substantive information to rebut the scientific claims. Recent reports of spills and insufficient disposal of hydraulic fracturing wastewater have also increased public attention to issues surrounding shale gas production. On April 19, an accident during hydraulic fracturing of a Pennsylvania shale gas well operated by Chesapeake Energy resulted in a spill of thousands of gallons of fracturing fluids and evacuation of at least 100 nearby residents. An investigative report in the New York Times also cast doubt on the safety of wastewater disposal practices of oil and gas producers. According to that report, much of the wastewater generated by hydraulic fracturing in Pennsylvania ended up at water treatment plants that were “not equipped to remove many of the toxic materials in drilling waste." At the federal level, the Obama Administration is taking several steps to address concerns about shale gas production that the Committee should examine. In 2010, Congress directed EPA to undertake a study of the practice of hydraulic fracturing and its impact on drinking water and groundwater. That study is underway, and the agency expects to release initial findings next year and to issue a complete report in 2014. In addition, in response to the results of our investigation, EPA is developing guidance for the use of products containing diesel fuel during hydraulic fracturing. As part of his national energy strategy, President Obama directed Energy Secretary Steven Chu to convene a panel of experts to provide recommendations to improve the safety of hydraulic fracturing and to provide consensus advice to state and federal regulatory agencies to ensure protection of public health and the environment. Separately, the Interior Department is considering whether to issue regulations concerning hydraulic fracturing on public lands. You have criticized the Administration’s efforts to address hydraulic fracturing, calling the Energy Department’s efforts a “waste [of] government resources” and asserting that “there are too many cooks in the kitchen,” but you have not provided the Administration an opportunity to respond to these concerns. At the state level, in response to concerns over industry’s refusal to identify the contents of hydraulic fracturing fluids, several states have passed legislation requiring some level of disclosure by oil and gas service providers, and at least six more are considering such legislation. Reports of drillers dumping hydraulic fracturing wastewater into ill-equipped wastewater treatment plants led Pennsylvania regulators to seek voluntary changes in the way these companies dispose of fracturing by-products. The natural gas industry has also taken action in response to concerns, creating a public database of fluid components. There are, however, several questions about the information in this database, as reporting is strictly voluntary, disclosure will not include the chemical identity of products labeled as proprietary, and there is no way to determine if companies are accurately reporting information for all of the wells in which hydraulic fracturing is used. Several congressional committees have held hearings this Congress to examine the growing body of data about the promise of shale gas production and its potential threats to the environment and public health. On May 11, 2011, the House Science, Space, and Technology Committee held a hearing titled “Hydraulic Fracturing Technology and Practices." On May 6, 2011, the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee convened a field hearing on the subject. The Oversight Committee held an additional hearing on May 24 about domestic oil and gas production, and hydraulic fracturing was one of the key topics covered. On April 12, the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee held a hearing on hydraulic fracturing titled “Natural Gas Drilling: Public Health and Environmental Impacts." And on May 10, 2011, the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee held a hearing on “new developments in upstream oil and gas technologies,” that specifically addressed hydraulic fracturing. Despite the wealth of new information about hydraulic fracturing, and the hearings held by other Committees in the House and Senate, the Energy and Commerce Committee has not held a single hearing to address the questions raised about shale gas development over the course of this year. We think this is a mistake given the Committee’s extensive jurisdiction over national energy policy. There are serious questions about hydraulic fracturing and the appropriate federal response that should receive our scrutiny. For these reasons, we respectfully ask that you schedule a hearing on hydraulic fracturing as soon as reasonably possible. Sincerely, Henry A. Waxman Ranking Member Committee on Energy and Commerce Edward J. Markey Ranking Member Committee on Natural Resources Diana DeGette Ranking Member Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations
05.25.2011	Washington, DC – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (D-CO), Congressman Maurice Hinchey (D-NY), Rep. Gerald E. Connolly (D-VA), and Rep. Martin Heinrich (D-NM) were yesterday joined by 40 other members of the House of Representatives in a letter to President Obama requesting that he enforce the Federal Land Policy and Management Act (FLPMA) and preserve our nation's pristine wild and public lands. The recently passed long term continuing resolution, H.R. 1473, included a policy rider which defunded enforcement Secretarial Order 3310, the administration's wild lands policy, for the remainder of the fiscal year. "Without the wild lands policy, many of our nation's pristine wild and public lands remain at risk. The policy is popular with the millions of Americans who are committed to the preservation of our wilderness heritage and we strongly support it," urged the 44 House members. "Despite the passage of H.R. 1473, the Bureau of Land Management is still legally obligated under FLPMA to manage the wilderness resource as one of several multiple uses." While H.R. 1473 defunded the Secretarial Order 3310, the underlying FLPMA statute still requires the administration to put forth rules to protect wilderness resources. Late last year, the Obama Administration Issued Secretarial Order 3310, overturning the legally flawed decision by former Interior Secretary Gail Norton that barred the BLM from identifying and protecting BLM lands possessing wilderness characteristics as “wilderness study areas.” The so-called "Norton Policy" was an abdication of the Department's legal obligations under the Federal Land Policy and Management Act (FLPMA), as well as other statutes, to inventory and manage public lands with wilderness characteristics. In addition, it was an unprecedented departure from a long history of agency management of wild lands which preserved Congress’ ability to designate lands as wilderness. The full text of the letter and a list of signatories are below. May 24, 2011 The Honorable Barack Obama President of the United States of America The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Ave, NW Washington, DC DC 20500 Dear Mr. President: We are extremely disappointed that H.R. 1473, the long-term continuing resolution for fiscal year 2011, prohibits the Bureau of Land Management (BLM) from implementing Secretarial Order 3310, also known as the “wild lands policy,” for the remainder of the fiscal year. Without the wild lands policy, many of our nation's pristine wild and public lands remain at risk. The policy is popular with the millions of Americans who are committed to the preservation of our wilderness heritage and we strongly support it. We applauded the Department of Interior for overturning the legally flawed decision by former Secretary Gail Norton that barred the BLM from identifying and protecting BLM lands possessing wilderness characteristics as “wilderness study areas.” The so-called "Norton Policy" was an abdication of the Department's legal obligations under the Federal Land Policy and Management Act (FLPMA), as well as other statutes, to inventory and manage public lands with wilderness characteristics. In addition, it was an unprecedented departure from a long history of agency management of wild lands which preserved Congress’ ability to designate lands as wilderness. The Interior Department’s 2010 wild lands policy is a reasonable, well-grounded approach that would remedy the many problems caused by the Norton Policy, and it is entirely consistent with governing federal law and long-standing administrative practice. It would facilitate public participation, the restoration of balance to our public lands management policies and protect cherished natural icons from development. However, despite the passage of H.R. 1473, the BLM is still legally obligated under FLPMA to manage the wilderness resource as one of several multiple uses. As such, we strongly urge you to ensure that the Department and the BLM follow these requirements. Additionally, we hope that your administration will firmly oppose any future appropriations riders or bills that would restrict the Interior Department's ability to identify and protect public lands with wilderness characteristics. Thank you for your attention to this matter. Sincerely, Rep. Maurice Hinchey Rep. Gerald Connolly Rep. Martin Heinrich Rep. Diana DeGette Rep. Janice Schakowsky Rep. Jesse Jackson, Jr. Rep. Jared Polis Rep. Raul Grijalva Rep. Ben Ray Lujan Rep. John Olver Rep. Earl Blumenauer Rep. Donna Christensen Rep. Hank Johnson Rep. Charles Rangel Rep. Steve Cohen Rep. Jerrold Nadler Rep. Lois Capps Rep. Rush Holt Rep. Laura Richardson Rep. Bettey McCollum Rep. Jackie Speier Rep. Anna Eshoo Rep. Eleanor Holmes Norton Rep. Mazie Hirono Rep. Henry Waxman Rep. Jose Serrano Rep. Michael Honda Rep. Zoe Lofgren Rep. Howard Berman Rep. Sam Farr Rep. Emanuel Cleaver Rep. Corrine Brown Rep. Chris Van Hollen Rep. Elijah Cummings Rep. Barbara Lee Rep. Mike Quigley Rep. Lloyd Doggett Rep. George Miller Rep. Ed Perlmutter Rep. Bill Pascrell Rep. Jay Inslee Rep. Paul Tonko Rep. Carolyn Maloney Rep. David Price ###
05.05.2011	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-1), co-chair of the Pro-Choice Caucus, today took to the floor of the House as the chamber debated H.R. 3, the so-called “No Taxpayer Funding for Abortion Act,” the most extreme assault on women’s health in a generation. The bill would expand restrictions on women’s access to full reproductive health care, and prevent individuals and small businesses from obtaining legal, comprehensive private health insurance, without being subjected to a tax increase. During her speech on the House floor, DeGette stated, “I don’t know how many times the Republican leadership is going to make this Congress vote to strip American women of their access to health care. But I for one would like to encourage them to spend their time getting our country back to work, rather than on an extreme agenda that the American people didn’t ask for and don’t want, and that is going nowhere in the Senate and even if it did, would be vetoed by the President of the United States.” The bill passed the Republican-controlled House, 251 to 175. ###
05.02.2011	DENVER – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-1) issued the following statement following the President’s announcement that United States forces have killed Osama Bin Laden. “Tonight’s news is a testament to the leadership of President Barack Obama, the ability and tireless perseverance of our men and women in uniform, and the dedication of our intelligence officers that work around-the-clock to support and direct their efforts. With today’s actions and tonight’s announcement, we have affirmed our commitment to hold accountable those who seek to do this country harm, and not rest until they are brought to justice.” ###
04.29.2011	DENVER – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-1), Congress’s leading voice on ethical embryonic stem cell (ESC) research issued the following statement in response to a U.S. Court of Appeals decision in Sherley v. Sebelius to vacate the preliminary injunction halting federal funding for ethical ESC research. In a 2-1 decision, the Court ruled that plaintiffs seeking to ban the use of federal funds were unlikely to succeed on the merits of their case. “With today’s ruling the Appeals Court has offered a measure of stability and continuity to the scores of researchers across America who have been whiplashed by this court case. Not only did the Court recognize the life-saving potential of this research, but in determining that the plaintiffs were unlikely to succeed on the merits of their argument they upheld over a decade’s worth of work and literature establishing the acceptability of federal funding for ethical embryonic stem cell research. “While I am extremely pleased with this decision, I will continue my efforts to pass legislation codifying federal funding for this vital research. Embryonic stem cells hold too much promise for too many Americans for us to leave their funding up to the political gamesmanship of Washington. We have already lost valuable time that we could have spent helping find treatments and cures of millions of Americans, and it is time to act swiftly to ensure uninterrupted federal support.” ###
04.17.2011	WASHINGTON, DC — Today U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-1) joined her colleagues, Reps. Henry A. Waxman and Edward J. Markey, in releasing a new report that provides the first comprehensive national inventory of chemicals used by hydraulic fracturing companies during the drilling process. The report revealed extraordinarily high levels of carcinogens being injected into the ground on fracking projects all across the country, with Colorado having some of the highest levels in the nation. “We recognize the need for alternative energy sources to power our nation, and natural gas plays a critical role in that effort, particularly in Colorado. However, it is deeply disturbing to discover the content and quantity of toxic chemicals, like benzene and lead, being injected into the ground without the knowledge of the communities whose health could be affected," said DeGette. “Of particular concern to me is that we learned that over the four-year period studied, fracking fluids used in Colorado contained some of the highest volumes of carcinogens in the country, and some of the most toxic.” The report was issued by the House Energy and Commerce Committee, on which DeGette serves in leadership as the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations, and it found that: · The 14 leading oil and gas service companies used more than 780 million gallons of hydraulic fracturing products, not including water added at the well site. Overall, the companies used more than 2,500 hydraulic fracturing products containing 750 different chemicals and other components. · The components used in the hydraulic fracturing products ranged from generally harmless and common substances, such as salt and citric acid, to extremely toxic substances, such as benzene and lead. Some companies even used instant coffee and walnut hulls in their fracturing fluids. · Between 2005 and 2009, the oil and gas service companies used hydraulic fracturing products containing 29 chemicals that are known or possible human carcinogens, regulated under the Safe Drinking Water Act (SDWA) for their risks to human health, or listed as hazardous air pollutants under the Clean Air Act. · In Colorado, between 2005 and 2009, oil and gas companies conducting fracking across the state used over 1.5 million gallons of fluids containing known carcinogens. That puts Colorado second only to Texas in the highest volume use of fluids containing carcinogens in the nation. · The BTEX compounds – benzene, toluene, xylene, and ethylbenzene – are SDWA contaminants and hazardous air pollutants. Benzene also is a known human carcinogen. The hydraulic fracturing companies injected 11.4 million gallons of products containing at least one BTEX chemical over the five-year period. · The study found that between 2005 and 2009, companies operating in Colorado injected into the ground over 375,000 gallons of fracking fluids that contained chemicals required to be regulated under the SDWA. And the vast majority of those chemicals were the BTEX compounds – known carcinogens that can damage the central nervous system, liver, and kidneys. · Methanol, which was used in 342 hydraulic fracturing products, was the most widely used chemical between 2005 and 2009. The substance is a hazardous air pollutant and is on the candidate list for potential regulation under SDWA. Isopropyl alcohol, 2-butoxyethanol, and ethylene glycol were the other most widely used chemicals. · Many of the hydraulic fracturing fluids contain chemical components that are listed as “proprietary” or “trade secret.” The companies used 94 million gallons of 279 products that contained at least one chemical or component that the manufacturers deemed proprietary or a trade secret. In many instances, the oil and gas service companies were unable to identify these “proprietary” chemicals, suggesting that the companies are injecting fluids containing chemicals that they themselves cannot identify. “This report makes clear that, unfortunately, voluntary industry disclosure is not enough to ensure the economic benefits of natural gas production do not come at the cost of our families' health. The FRAC Act I have introduced would provide common-sense safeguards like required disclosure of the chemicals used in the fracking process, and subjecting fracking activities to be regulated under the Safe Drinking Water Act. We know natural gas is an important economic driver and a critical bridge fuel, but we must ensure the process for extracting it is done safely and responsibly.” During the last Congress, the Committee launched an investigation into the practice of hydraulic fracturing in the United States, asking the leading oil and gas service companies to disclose information on the products used in this process between 2005 and 2009. This report reveals the results of those findings, and summarizes the types, volumes, and chemical contents of the hydraulic fracturing products used by the 14 leading oil and gas service companies. The complete committee report is available online here. ###
04.14.2011	“I could not vote for the budget legislation on the House floor today that so unfairly takes money out of critical programs for Americans who need them the most – programs like WIC, which provides poor women and children with health care and nutrition assistance – while leaving others unscathed, including the Defense Department. We cannot sacrifice the current generation in the name of protecting the next.“This bill unfortunately reflects priorities that mandate too harsh a sacrifice for the poor and the middle-class, while not requiring any shared sacrifice from the wealthiest citizens of our country.“I want to make clear my commitment to reducing the deficit and balancing the budget. But a federal budget should reflect our nation’s priorities, and, as such, it must not have the most vulnerable among us forced to make the most sacrifice.” ###
04.12.2011	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Rep. Diana DeGette, Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigation, Rep. Henry A. Waxman, Ranking Member of the Energy and Commerce Committee, and Rep. Frank Pallone, Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Health joined Rep. John D. Dingell to introduce The Drug Safety Enhancement Act, which would equip the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) with the authorities and resources it needs to adequately regulate the growing global marketplace for pharmaceuticals. The Drug Enhancement Act provides tough new directives to protect consumers from unsafe drugs. This legislation builds on H.R. 759, the Food and Drug Globalization Act, which was introduced by Dingell, Pallone and Stupak in 2009, and reflects the reasoned priorities and recommendations of the Food and Drug Administration (FDA). It is imperative that the FDA play a role in improving quality and safety standards of manufacturing facilities. The Drug Safety Enhancement Act seeks to create higher FDA standards and requirements and to construct new funding mechanisms for FDA so oversight and inspectional activities will not place a burden on U.S. taxpayers. The bill: • Creates an up-to-date registry of all drug facilities—both foreign and domestic—serving American consumers; • Generates funding for increased Good Manufacturing Practices (GMP) inspections for brand and generic drugs; • Requires parity between foreign and domestic inspections; • Prohibits entry of drugs coming from domestic and foreign facilities that limit, delay or deny FDA inspections; • Prohibits the entry of drugs into the U.S. lacking documentation of safety; • Requires manufacturers to know their supply chain, identify and mitigate risk throughout their supply chain, and to document measures taken to secure their supply chain; • Prohibits false or misleading reports to FDA; • Provides strong new enforcement tools, including mandatory recall authority, increased civil and criminal penalties, and new FDA authority to subpoena records related to possible violations; • Provides protection for whistleblowers that bring attention to important safety information; and • Requires unique identification numbers for drug establishments and importers to improve the ability of the FDA to more quickly identify parties involved in a crisis situation.“For too long, Americans have suffered from the challenges FDA and the industry face in ensuring the safety of the U.S. drug supply. We must address the deficiencies uncovered by recent recalls,” said Rep. John D. Dingell (MI-15). “The Drug Safety Enhancement Act is a strong and effective response to the troubles we face with an increasingly global and complex drug supply. I look forward to working with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle, consumer advocates, and the regulated industry to ensure we address the safety of the nation’s drug supply in a meaningful way.”“We need to ensure that the FDA has modern authorities and enforcement tools to help protect the safety of our increasingly global drug supply,” said Rep. Henry A. Waxman (CA-30). “This legislation will provide urgently needed tools and resources, and I urge my colleagues to move this critically important bill as soon as possible.”“FDA’s pharmaceutical inspection process is still behind the times in recognizing the fact that many of the drugs Americans rely on are manufactured beyond our borders,” said Rep. Frank Pallone (NJ-06). “The Drug Safety Enhancement Act increases enforcement so that FDA can keep pace with an increasingly international marketplace of products and so that Americans can have confidence the drugs they rely on will help them get better, not make them more sick.”“A few years ago, thousands of American lives were jeopardized by contaminated heparin stock imported from China,” said Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-1). “As pharmaceuticals and their ingredients are increasingly imported from the global marketplace, we must ensure our families can trust the medicines they rely upon, by empowering the FDA with the authority and resources to protect our nation’s drug supply. Congress recently came together on a bipartisan basis to pass a groundbreaking overhaul to our nation’s food safety system, and I look forward to working with my colleagues across the aisle to do the same for our families’ medications.”With pharmaceuticals and active pharmaceutical ingredients increasingly being produced in foreign countries, often in facilities that have lower standards than U.S. manufacturers, safety risks and an uneven playing field are exacerbated. High-profile risks associated with the globalized drug supply like the heparin crisis of 2007 have put American lives at risk. These alarming risks highlight why FDA needs additional authorities and greater resources to ensure the safety of an increasingly global drug supply. ###
04.09.2011	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-1) tonight issued the following statement regarding the budget agreement to fund the federal government for the remainder of the fiscal year, and avoid a government shutdown.“Hearing the numerous concerns from those in the First District of Colorado, I am grateful we have averted the crisis of a government shutdown. I look forward to reviewing the details of the final proposal. In the coming weeks, I hope my colleagues on the other side of the aisle will choose to turn their attention to the critical task of getting Americans back to work, rather than advancing an extreme social agenda.” ###
03.29.2011	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-1) tonight issued the following statement following President Barack Obama’s address to the American people about U.S. military action in Libya.“Tonight the President stated his rationale for the military action in Libya, but I still have significant questions about our involvement in that country. I remain eager to hear additional details regarding the causes for and the scope of our continued engagement in Libya on Wednesday, when Secretary of State Hillary Clinton and Defense Secretary Gates will provide a classified briefing to Congress.” ###
03.19.2011	DENVER - U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-1) tonight issued the following statement regarding President Barack Obama's decision to begin military action in Libya without securing Congressional authority. "I am concerned by President Obama's decision to commit U.S. forces in Libya without involving Congress. This action may require substantial U.S. resources. While there is no question that Gaddafi's regime is brutalizing the people of Libya, launching military action against another nation requires Congress be fully informed so we can exercise our Constitutional authority."I therefore call on Speaker Boehner to call an emergency session, returning Members to Washington, so the President may address a joint session of Congress and be given the opportunity to make the case for war. ###
03.17.2011	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-1) today voted against H.R. 1076 which would prohibit federal funding of National Public Radio (NPR), crippling NPR, public radio stations, and programming vital to more than 27 million Americans each week. Unfortunately the bill, advanced by Rep. Doug Lamborn (CO-5), passed the Republican-controlled House. DeGette submitted the following statement for the record:“M. Speaker I rise today to express the voices of the hundreds of people flooding my offices with calls and emails to plead for us to do the right thing and vote down this misguided legislation.“H.R. 1076 would cripple the public radio system in this country that currently provides vital news and information to over 27 million Americans each week.“I would first like to set the record straight – this bill will not save a single taxpayer dollar. Not one. And it will not reduce our federal deficit by one dime. Not one.“My colleague from Colorado and his leadership have tried to portray this bill as a savings to taxpayers – and with all due respect, that is simply untrue. “This bill is no more than a punitive measure reflecting an extreme agenda.“It would devastate 900 public radio stations across the country unfairly targeting smaller stations in rural and regional areas where there are fewer news outlets and where broadband is insufficient.“The bill threatens almost 9,000 jobs in the broadcasting community and, frankly is an unwarranted attack on the content of public radio.“And the ultimate agenda of my Republican colleagues is laid bare when one considers that the Leadership rushed this bill through, ignoring promises to take legislation through regular order, and in short, breaking all their own professed rules to get this legislation to the Floor.“M. Speaker, we’ve now been in session for 11 weeks, and the Republican leadership has not yet introduced a single bill to create jobs. “They’ve instead focused on advancing an extreme agenda that does nothing to get Americans back to work.“And today, rather than coming together to create jobs for the American people and address the fiscal situation squarely before us, we are spending our time debating and voting on a bill that is nothing more than social commentary in action to impugn one of our nation’s most vital news sources.“When we began our session, we all proudly read from the Constitution, and in that process were reminded of our core values as a nation and a government.“One of those values is reflected in the First Amendment which supports the ability of Americans to access news and information through a free press. “Sadly M. Speaker, this bill would ultimately limit vital news coverage millions of Americans so desperately need.“So I urge my colleagues to vote no on this damaging and unwarranted bill.” ###
03.15.2011	WASHINGTON – Today, U.S. Reps. Diana DeGette (CO-1), Maurice Hinchey (NY-22), and Jared Polis (CO-2) introduced the Fracturing Responsibility and Awareness of Chemicals Act (FRAC Act), a bill that establishes common sense safeguards to protect drinking water from risks associated with the natural gas drilling technique known as “hydraulic fracturing” or “fracking.” Fracking is a process used in almost all natural gas drilling, whereby fluids are injected at high pressure into underground rock formations to blast them open to increase efficiency of the wells. Fracking fluids contain highly toxic chemicals which can contaminate drinking water, yet are not identified to the public. The FRAC Act would remove the oil and gas industry’s exemption from the Safe Drinking Water Act, which was created by the 2005 Energy Policy Act, and require disclosure of the chemicals used in fracking fluids. “As we recognize the need for energy independence and alternative sources to power our nation, natural gas is an important economic driver and a critical bridge fuel,” said Rep. DeGette. “However, it is incumbent upon us to ensure the process for extracting natural gas from our land is done safely and responsibly. The FRAC Act takes necessary but reasonable steps to ensure our nation’s drinking water is protected, and that as fracking operations continue to expand, communities can be assured that the economic benefits of natural gas are not coming at the expense of the health of their families.” "While the natural gas industry would like to pretend that the current regulatory framework is sufficient to protect the environment, drinking water and public health, scores of citizens throughout the country are telling a different story," said Rep. Hinchey. "We need to know exactly what chemicals are being injected into the ground and we must ensure that the industry is not exempt from basic environmental safeguards like the Safe Drinking Water Act. The FRAC Act is an important first step toward protecting people from the risks of hydraulic fracturing." “There is a growing discrepancy between the natural gas industry’s claim that nothing ever goes wrong and the drumbeat of investigations and personal tragedies which demonstrate a very different reality,” said Rep. Polis. “The FRAC Act is a simple, common sense way to answer the serious concerns that accompany the rapid growth of drilling across the country. Our bill restores a basic, national safety-net that will ensure transparency within the industry and safeguard our communities. If there is truly nothing to worry about, then this bill will lay the public’s concern to rest through science and sunlight.” Over the past decade, the use of fracking has expanded exponentially due to advances in drilling technology. As natural gas continues to be regarded by many as a critical bridge fuel, environmental safeguards have failed to keep pace with expanded production. For example, even low concentrations of the chemicals used in fracking – like benzene and diesel fuel – may lead to severe health and environmental consequences. Yet, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) is prevented from applying the Safe Drinking Water Act's safeguards. As a result, a number of cases have been reported around the country whereby residents and workers have become ill or groundwater was found to be contaminated after operations began in their communities, including in Colorado, Pennsylvania, Arkansas, Wyoming, Alabama and Ohio. In recent months, disturbing evidence has been revealed to the public demonstrating that millions of gallons of diesel fuel have been pumped into the ground in fracking operations across the country, and that the inability to properly process wastewater from fracking, may be leaching radioactive materials into rivers, streams, and the drinking water supply. Specifically the FRAC Act would: Require disclosure of the chemical constituents used in the fracturing process, but not the proprietary chemical formula. The proprietary chemical formulas are protected under our bill – much like the way Coca-Cola must reveal the ingredients of Coke, but not their secret formula; oil and gas companies would have to reveal the chemicals but not the specific formula. Disclosure would be to the state, or to EPA, but only if EPA has primary enforcement responsibility in the state. The disclosures would then be made available to the public online This bill does include an emergency provision that requires these proprietary chemical formulas to be disclosed to a treating physician, the State, or EPA in emergency situations where the information is needed to provide medical treatment. Repeal a provision added to the Energy Policy Act of 2005 exempting the industry from complying with the Safe Drinking Water Act (SDWA), one of our landmark environmental and public health protection statutes. Most states have primacy over these types of wells, and the intent of this Act is to allow states to ensure that our drinking water is safe. EPA would set the standard, but a state would be able to incorporate hydraulic fracturing into the existing permitting process for each well, and so this would not require any new permitting process. Today’s House introduction of the FRAC Act coincides with the simultaneous introduction of the Senate version. ###
03.04.2011	Washington, DC — Today U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette, in her role as Ranking Member of the Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee, joined with her colleagues, Rep. Henry A. Waxman (CA), and Rep. Frank Pallone, Jr., (NJ) in calling for House Energy and Commerce Committee hearings to investigate evidence of waste and fraud in the Medicare Part D drug benefit program.The letter comes in response to findings of a new Health and Human Services Inspector General (IG) report that identifies wasteful spending, potentially fraudulent conduct, and anti-competitive contracting in this critical drug benefit program for seniors. The IG investigation revealed severe problems with the structure of the Part D program as well as with the behavior of the private insurers that administer the drug benefit and the drug companies that profit from it. “I am deeply disturbed by the findings of the Inspector General that private health insurers are deliberately underestimating their rebates to increase profits. As a result of this underreporting, the total excess rebate payments received by these plans is a staggering $1.9 Billion per year, leading to increased drug costs for seniors and billions of American taxpayer dollars wasted,” said DeGette.“Just this past Wednesday, we held a hearing focused on the critical importance of tackling Medicare and Medicaid fraud. Now, with the severe problems revealed in this report, our Committee has a responsibility to seniors and all taxpayers to ensure we take every necessary step to end these outrageous practices.” The full text of the letter is below and also available online here.March 4, 2011The Honorable Joseph R. Pitts Chairman Subcommittee on Health U.S. House of Representatives 2125 Rayburn House Office Building Washington, DC 20515The Honorable Cliff Stearns Chairman Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations U.S. House of Representatives 2125 Rayburn House Office Building Washington, DC 20515Dear Chairman Pitts and Chairman Stearns:We are writing to ask that you hold hearings on the findings of a new report by the Inspector General of the Department of Health and Human Services on the Medicare Part D drug benefit. According to the Inspector General, the private health insurers providing the drug benefit are commonly underreporting drug manufacturer rebates, resulting in billions of dollars of profits at the expense of taxpayers and Medicare beneficiaries. The Inspector General found that “some sponsors may deliberately underestimate their rebates to increase profits.”[1][1] He also found evidence that drug companies are engaged in a previously unknown form of anti-competitive behavior.The Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations held a hearing this week on reducing waste, fraud, and abuse in Medicare and Medicaid. The new Inspector General report identifies an enormous source of wasteful spending and potentially fraudulent conduct. We believe that the Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations or the Subcommittee on Health should promptly hold hearings to examine these abuses and how we can protect Medicare beneficiaries and taxpayers.The Inspector General’s report is entitled Concerns With Rebates in the Medicare Part D Program. It examined Part D plan sponsors’ bids, contracts, and other reports, and identified numerous problems. Failure to Accurately Estimate RebatesOn an annual basis, Part D plans estimate the costs of providing the drug benefit, reporting these estimates to the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) in their bids to provide drug coverage for the upcoming year. These bids are used to determine Part D premiums. The Medicare program pays 75% of this premium, and 25% is paid by the beneficiary. When plans are able to negotiate with drug manufacturers to obtain rebates on drug purchases, they are able to use these rebates to reduce bids and premiums.The Inspector General found that in 2008 bids, Part D plan sponsors commonly underestimated the value of the rebates that they ultimately received. This resulted in artificially inflated bids and premiums – increasing costs for Medicare beneficiaries and taxpayers that share the cost of these premiums. According to the Inspector General, “when sponsors underestimate rebates in their bids, beneficiary premiums are higher than they otherwise would be and both the Government and beneficiaries overpay for the benefit.”[2][2] Information in the Inspector General report allows an estimate of the cost of these underestimates. According to the report, plans serving 78% of Part D enrollees (almost 22.6 million enrollees) underestimated rebates by an average of $84 per year per beneficiary.[3][3] The total excess rebate payments received by these plans as a result of these underestimates would be approximately $1.9 billion annually.Although there is a reconciliation process to match up bid estimates with actual rebates received at the end of the year, this reconciliation process does not reimburse beneficiaries for any of the excess premiums paid, and the government gets back only a portion of excess payments. As a result, the Part D plans retain much of the excess premiums paid as profits.Ineffective Negotiation with Drug ManufacturersThe Inspector General’s report finds that on average, the rebates obtained by the Part D sponsors reduce overall Part D drug costs by approximately 10%.[4][4] In the case of drugs that are on the CMS list of “protected classes,” which are required to be on plan formularies, the Part D sponsors receive “either no or minimal rebates.”[5][5] These findings confirm that rebates obtained by the Part D plans are significantly lower – and Part D drug prices higher – than in other government drug programs. For example, manufacturer rebates in the Medicaid drug program reduce overall drug costs by 26%, almost three times as much.[6][6] If the Part D sponsors were able to obtain rebates that are as large as the Medicaid rebates, taxpayer and Part D enrollees would save billions of dollars annually.Failure to Share Savings with Medicare BeneficiariesAccording to the Inspector General, when Part D sponsors did obtain rebates, “most sponsors did not pass the full amount of rebates on to beneficiaries.”[7][7] In addition to underestimating rebates in plan bids, the plan sponsors “did not commonly pass rebates on to beneficiaries at the point of sale,” meaning that beneficiaries received no reduction in drug costs or copayments as a result of these rebates. In other cases, plan sponsors contracted with pharmacy benefit managers (PBMs) to negotiate with drug manufacturers, and the PBMs received additional payments from the manufacturers. In many cases, although these payments “were structured like rebates … the PBMs … did not pass them on to the sponsors … the sponsors did not report the fees to CMS and therefore they were not passed on to the program” or to beneficiaries.[8][8] The net result of the failure to report these payments is higher costs for taxpayers and higher drug and premium expenses for seniors.Anti-Competitive ContractsThe Inspector General found that “sponsors also often received rebates when they discouraged the use of competitors drugs,” quoting one sponsor interviewed for the report as saying “manufacturers pay more for less competition.”[9][9] The report described rebate arrangements where Part D sponsors were required to offer competitors products with higher copayments or exclude competitors products from their formulary altogether. These arrangements appear to offer perverse incentives for Part D plan sponsors, providing them increased rebates in exchange for increasing costs or reducing the choice of available drugs for Medicare Part D enrollees.Other ProblemsThe report identified a number of other problems with Part D rebates, including a lack of transparency in contractual arrangements between plan sponsors and PBMs and loopholes in the law that allow Part D sponsors to earn extra profits by allocating drug rebates differently among different plans.ConclusionThe Inspector General’s report released today reveals severe problems with the structure of the Part D program and the behavior of the private insurers that administer the drug benefit. These failures present a severe risk to program integrity, reduce beneficiaries access to important drugs, increase drug costs for seniors, and cause billions of dollars in wasted taxpayer funds.We believe the Committee on Energy and Commerce has a responsibility to address these problems. We ask that you hold hearings so that the Committee may hear from relevant witnesses about the extent to which the practices described in the report affect Part D enrollees and taxpayers. We would then like to work with you to enact any legislative reforms necessary to halt these abuses. Thank you for your consideration of our request.Sincerely, Henry A. Waxman Ranking Member Frank Pallone, Jr. Ranking Member Subcommittee on Health Diana DeGette Ranking Member Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations
02.15.2011	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-01) issued the following statement today regarding President Barack Obama’s proposed Fiscal Year 2012 budget. The President’s budget cuts and consolidates government programs in order to achieve over $1 trillion in deficit reduction by 2021.“The budget proposal President Obama unveiled today represents an unfortunate but realistic approach to getting our nation’s fiscal house in order. While I have concerns with some elements of the proposal, the President undoubtedly put forth a serious plan which will begin to put an end to the annual budget deficits that threaten our long-term fiscal security. Congress should follow the President’s lead and put into place a framework for long-term debt reduction. “The President’s plan stands in stark contrast to the draconian cuts proposed by the Republican leadership late last week, which would jeopardize our recovery with cuts to programs that would cost jobs and hinder workforce development. In the coming months, I look forward to working with my colleagues and the President to make the tough decisions needed to rein in our mounting debt, while taking the necessary steps to get Americans back to work. ” ###
02.01.2011	WASHINGTON – Today, Congresswoman DeGette joined with Congressmen Henry Waxman and Ed Markey in releasing the first findings from the House Energy and Commerce Committee’s year-long investigation into the energy exploration practice of hydraulic fracturing, or fracking. The congressional investigation found that oil and gas service companies have injected over 32 million gallons of diesel fuel or hydraulic fracturing fluids containing diesel fuel in wells in 19 states between 2005 and 2009. In addition, the investigation finds that no oil and gas service companies have sought – and no state and federal regulators have issued – permits for diesel fuel use in hydraulic fracturing, which appears to be a violation of the Safe Drinking Water Act.“Our investigation has shown that for the past several years, the fracking industry has ignored federal regulations and a mutually binding agreement, and injected over 30 million gallons of one of the most toxic chemicals into the ground, potentially contaminating drinking water aquifers in communities nationwide,” said Congresswoman Diana DeGette, Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations. “Today we call on the EPA to determine whether the public has been put at risk as a result of these irresponsible and possibly unlawful activities.”“This disturbing report lends urgency to passing the FRAC Act, which would have required regulation of all fracking activities under the Safe Drinking Water Act and mandated disclosure of the chemicals in fracking fluids to protect our families’ water supply,” continued DeGette. “For Colorado in particular, natural gas is an important economic driver. But we must ensure that this energy exploration is done safely and responsibly.”"The findings of this investigation represent a major step toward transparency and public safety," said Congressman Jared Polis, a co-sponsor of the FRAC Act. "We need to close the Halliburton loophole, and it is my hope that this will prompt further investigation and action by the EPA on violations of the Safe Drinking Water Act."Below is the full text of the letter. To see it on the Energy and Commerce Committee website, click here. January 31, 2011The Honorable Lisa Jackson Administrator U.S. Environmental Protection Agency Ariel Rios Building 1200 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, DC 20460Dear Administrator Jackson:We have been investigating the practice of hydraulic fracturing and its potential impact on water quality in the United States. Because EPA is also examining this issue, we are writing to share our findings regarding the use of diesel fuel in hydraulic fracturing fluids. In 2003, EPA signed a memorandum of agreement with the three largest providers of hydraulic fracturing to eliminate the use of diesel fuel in coalbed methane formations in underground sources of drinking water. Two years later, Congress exempted hydraulic fracturing from the Safe Drinking Water Act except when the fracturing fluids contain diesel. As a result, many assumed that the industry stopped using diesel fuel altogether in hydraulic fracturing. Our investigation has found that this is not the case. Between 2005 and 2009, oil and gas service companies injected 32.2 million gallons of diesel fuel or hydraulic fracturing fluids containing diesel fuel in wells in 19 states. Halliburton injected more than 7 million gallons of diesel fuel or fluids containing diesel; BJ Services injected even more, 11.5 million gallons. According to EPA, any company that performs hydraulic fracturing using diesel fuel must receive a permit under the Safe Drinking Water Act. We learned that no oil and gas service companies have sought—and no state and federal regulators have issued—permits for diesel fuel use in hydraulic fracturing. This appears to be a violation of the Safe Drinking Water Act. It also means that the companies injecting diesel fuel have not performed the environmental reviews required by the law. A key question is whether the unauthorized injection of hydraulic fracturing fluids containing diesel fuel is adversely affecting drinking water supplies. None of the oil and gas service companies could provide data on whether they performed hydraulic fracturing in or near underground sources of drinking water, telling us that the well operators, not the service companies, track that information. We also asked about diesel fuel use in coalbed methane formations, which tend to be shallower and closer to drinking water sources. The three largest companies—Halliburton, BJ Services, and Schlumberger—told us they have stopped using diesel fuel in coalbed methane formations located in underground sources of drinking water. Three smaller companies reported using a limited volume of products containing diesel in coalbed methane wells but did not provide information on the proximity of these wells to drinking water sources. BackgroundThe oil and gas industry uses hydraulic fracturing to force fluids and propping agents into oil and gas production wells at extremely high pressure, cracking the oil or gas seams and allowing trapped natural gas and oil to escape. In many instances, the fluids used in this process are water-based. There are some formations, however, that are not fractured effectively by water-based fluids because clay or other substances in the rock absorb water. In these formations, diesel fuel or other hydrocarbons may replace water as the primary carrier fluid to transport sand and other proppants into the fractures created by the hydraulic fracturing process. EPA has raised concerns about the potential public health risks posed by diesel fuel used in hydraulic fracturing fluids. In a 2004 report, EPA stated that the “use of diesel fuel in fracturing fluids poses the greatest threat” to underground sources of drinking water.[1] Diesel fuel contains toxic constituents, including benzene, toluene, ethylbenzene, and xylenes (collectively known as “BTEX” compounds). The Department of Health and Human Services, the International Agency for Research on Cancer, and EPA have determined that benzene is a human carcinogen.[2] Chronic exposure to toluene, ethylbenzene, or xylenes also can damage the central nervous system, liver, and kidneys.[3]In December 2003, EPA entered into a voluntary memorandum of agreement (MOA) with the three largest hydraulic fracturing companies, Halliburton, BJ Services, and Schlumberger, to “eliminate diesel fuel in hydraulic fracturing fluids injected into coalbed methane production wells in underground sources of drinking water.”[4] The MOA focused on coalbed methane wells because they tend to be shallower and closer to underground sources of drinking water than other oil and gas production wells. The MOA did not address hydraulic fracturing in other formations. In 2005, Congress passed the Energy Policy Act, which contained a provision addressing the application of Safe Drinking Water Act (SDWA) to hydraulic fracturing. Congress modified the definition of “underground injection” to exclude “the underground injection of fluids or propping agents (other than diesel fuels) pursuant to hydraulic fracturing operations related to oil, gas, or geothermal production activities.”[5] The effect of this law is to exempt hydraulic fracturing from the underground injection control (UIC) permit requirements unless the fluid being injected is diesel fuel. As EPA states on its website: While the SDWA specifically excludes hydraulic fracturing from UIC regulation under SDWA § 1421 (d)(1), the use of diesel fuel during hydraulic fracturing is still regulated by the UIC program. Any service company that performs hydraulic fracturing using diesel fuel must receive prior authorization from the UIC program.[6]Perhaps as a result of the actions of EPA and Congress, some have assumed that the oil and gas industry has stopped using diesel in hydraulic fracturing. EPA staff told the Committee that the agency assumed that the MOA had eliminated most diesel use.[7] In a 2004 letter to Senator Jim Jeffords, Benjamin Grumbles, the Acting Assistant Administrator for EPA at the time, wrote that the MOA “accomplished the intended goal of removing diesel from hydraulic fracturing fluids in a matter of months.”[8] At a hearing on hydraulic fracturing in the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform in 2007, Rep. Darrell Issa asserted, “this practice does not include the use of diesel fuel.”[9] In January 2010, Energy In Depth, a group representing most of America’s oil and gas producers, wrote that “diesel fuel is simply not used in fracturing operations.”[10]Our InvestigationOn February 18, 2010, the Committee commenced an investigation into the practice of hydraulic fracturing and its potential impact on water quality across the United States. This investigation was intended to build on work begun by Ranking Member Henry A. Waxman in 2007 as Chairman of the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform. The Committee initially sent letters to eight oil and gas service companies engaged in hydraulic fracturing in the United States regarding the type and volume of chemicals they used in hydraulic fracturing fluids between 2005 and 2009. In May, the Committee sent letters to six additional oil and gas service companies to assess a broader range of industry practices.[11]The 14 oil and gas service companies voluntarily provided the Committee with data on the volume of diesel fuel and other hydraulic fracturing fluids they used during the five year period.[12] For each hydraulic fracturing fluid, the companies provided the Committee a Material Safety Data Sheet (MSDS) detailing the fluid’s chemical components. If the MSDS for a particular product listed a chemical component as proprietary, the company that used that product was asked to provide the proprietary information. Using this information, our staff calculated how much diesel fuel and fracturing fluids containing diesel fuel these 14 companies used between 2005 and 2009.[13]Use of Diesel Fuel in Hydraulic FracturingBetween 2005 and 2009, 12 of the 14 companies used 32.2 million gallons of diesel fuel or fluids containing diesel fuel.[14] BJ Services used the most diesel fuel and fluids containing diesel, more than 11.5 million gallons, followed by Halliburton, which used 7.2 million gallons. Four other companies, RPC (4.3 million gallons), Sanjel (3.6 million gallons), Weatherford (2.1 million gallons), and Key Energy Services (1.6 million gallons), used more than one million gallons of diesel fuel and fluids containing diesel. These 12 companies injected these diesel-containing fluids in 19 states. Diesel-containing fluids were used most frequently in Texas, which accounted for half of the total volume injected, 16 million gallons. The companies injected at least one million gallons of diesel-containing fluids in Oklahoma (3.3 million gallons), North Dakota (3.1 million gallons), Louisiana (2.9 million gallons), Wyoming (2.9 million gallons), and Colorado (1.3 million gallons).Diesel fuel was a significant component of the diesel-containing fluids these companies injected. The companies used 10.2 million gallons of straight diesel fuel and 21.8 million gallons of products containing at least 30% diesel fuel. Lack of RegulationUnder the Safe Drinking Water Act, oil and gas service companies that inject diesel fuel or fluids containing diesel fuel as part of the hydraulic fracturing process must obtain a permit under the underground injection control program.[15] The purpose of this permitting requirement is to distinguish between underground injections that threaten drinking water supplies, which are denied permits, and those that do not, which are allowed to go forward. EPA’s regulations prohibit any underground injection that “allows the movement of fluid containing any contaminant into underground sources of drinking water, if the presence of that contaminant may cause a violation of any primary drinking water regulation … or may otherwise adversely affect the health of persons.”[16] The person seeking the injection permit has the burden of demonstrating that the injection will not endanger drinking water sources.[17] To assess whether the companies obtained the required permits before using diesel fuel or hydraulic fracturing fluids containing diesel, our staff contacted the state agencies and regional EPA offices responsible for overseeing underground injection wells in the 19 states where the companies reported using products containing diesel fuel.[18] The staff asked these agencies if they had ever issued a permit under the UIC program for diesel fuel or hydraulic fracturing fluids containing diesel or if an oil and gas service company had ever requested such a permit. Each state and regional EPA office contacted stated that no such permit had ever been sought or granted. In some instances, the officials we contacted expressed doubt that companies still used diesel as a hydraulic fracturing fluid or additive or were unaware of continued diesel fuel use. An engineer from the Colorado Oil and Gas Conservation Commission, for example, said that diesel is “rarely used” and said he knew of only one time diesel fuel was used in hydraulic fracturing in Colorado.[19] The Railroad Commission of Texas, which regulates oil and gas activity in the state, responded that it only recently learned that handful of companies may have used diesel fuel without prior approval. The Commission has contacted these operators for additional information.[20] Impact on Underground Sources of Drinking Water A key unanswered question is whether the unregulated injection of diesel fuel or fluids containing diesel is adversely affecting drinking water supplies. In an attempt to answer this question, we asked each of the oil and gas service companies to provide data on whether it has performed hydraulic fracturing in or near underground sources of drinking water. None of the hydraulic fracturing service companies could provide this data because they do not track the proximity of the wells they fracture to underground sources of drinking water. They reported that the operators of the oil and gas wells would be more likely to maintain the requested information. BJ Services, for example, responded that the company “does not track or maintain such data because it is the responsibility of the well operator to drill in compliance with the applicable statutes and regulations concerning subsurface aquifers.”[21] Calfrac Well Services stated that “the presence of ‘underground sources of drinking water’ is a matter which is addressed by the well operator and governmental authorities in the well permitting and drilling process.”[22] Frac Tech similarly stated that “the location of drinking water aquifers and the isolation of the well from any drinking water aquifers is handled by others in the well process.”[23] Key Energy Services asserted that “because Key is not the owner nor the operator of the wells on which it provides services, Key does not possess information about the location of drinking water, if any, around the wells.”[24]We then asked the oil and gas companies that operate the wells the same question. Several of these companies responded that they operated wells only in formations where natural gas deposits lie deep below the water table.[25] Other companies, however, reported operating wells in shallower formations that meet the SDWA definition of drinking water.[26]Although the oil and gas service companies did not keep records of whether they operated in or near underground sources of drinking water, they were able to report on whether their wells were drilled in coalbed methane formations. Diesel use in coalbed methane formations is of particular concern, since these formations tend to be shallower and closer to drinking water sources than conventional oil and gas production wells.[27] For this reason, we asked each company that reported using products containing diesel fuel whether they used these products in coalbed methane formations. The three largest companies—Halliburton, BJ Services, and Schlumberger—told the Committee that they stopped using diesel fuel in coalbed methane formations located in underground sources of drinking water. Three smaller companies reported using a limited volume of products containing diesel in coalbed methane wells but did not provide information on the proximity of these wells to drinking water sources.Halliburton reported that it used diesel-containing products in a small number of coalbed methane wells between 2005 and 2007, but the company explained that the fracturing occurred either below any drinking water source or in aquifers that do not meet the definition of an underground source of drinking water. The company says it has not used products containing diesel fuels in coalbed methane wells since 2007.[28] Schlumberger reported that the company has policies in place to ensure that company employees do not use fluids containing diesel in coalbed methane formations.[29]In 2008, BJ Services informed the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform that it had used 1,700 gallons of diesel-based polymer slurries in Arkansas and Oklahoma between 2005 and 2007 “in violation of the MOA.”[30] BJ Services now maintains that these injections did not violate the MOA, stating that the “inadvertent use” of diesel-based polymer slurries in Arkansas and Oklahoma occurred “hundreds or thousands of feet” beneath any freshwater-bearing zone.[31] BJ Services confirmed that it “has not used diesel fuel in coalbed methane formations in USDWs since the 2003 MOA was put in place.”[32]Three other companies reported using some products containing diesel fuel in coalbed methane formations in small amounts: RPC (28,600 gallons), Sanjel (4,600 gallons), and Weatherford (2,300 gallons). We did not receive any information from these companies on the proximity of the coalbed methane wells to underground sources of drinking water. ConclusionThe information we have reviewed shows that the oil and gas industry has injected millions of gallons of diesel fuel and hydraulic fracturing fluids containing diesel fuel since 2005. These activities appear to be a violation of the Safe Drinking Water Act because the companies did not obtain permits authorizing the injection of diesel fuel.We are unable to draw definitive conclusions about the potential impact of these injections on public health or the environment. The oil and gas service companies we contacted were able to provide only limited information about the proximity of their hydraulic fracturing operations to underground sources of drinking water. Moreover, because the companies did not apply for the permits required under the Safe Drinking Water Act, the regulatory agencies that would have reviewed the permit applications knew little about the diesel injections or what their potential impact might be. We urge you to examine the use of hydraulic fracturing fluids containing diesel fuel as part of your investigation into the industry’s practices. This appears to be an area of significant noncompliance with the requirements of the Safe Drinking Water Act. Sincerely, Henry A. Waxman Ranking Member Committee on Energy and Commerce Edward J. Markey Ranking Member Committee on Natural Resources Diana DeGette Ranking Member Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations ###
01.26.2011	WASHINGTON – Today, U.S. Representative Diana DeGette (CO-1) presided for the first time as the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations within the Energy and Commerce Committee. During the hearing DeGette, began her fight to stand behind commonsense rules that protect the American people’s health, financial security, and safety.On January 18, 2011, President Barack Obama issued Executive Order 13563 on Improving Regulation and Regulatory Review. Today’s hearing, entitled “The Views of the Administration on Regulatory Reform” was premised largely upon President Obama’s call for a review of existing regulations, and marked Republicans’ opening salvo in their effort to eliminate the kind of critical regulatory safeguards that make children safer and keep lethal pollutants from our air and water. The following is DeGette’s opening statement, as prepared:“Both Democrats and Republicans have supported laws to protect the health, environment, financial security, and safety of the American public. Today’s hearing is about how to ensure that the regulatory system that implements these laws functions as efficiently and as effectively as possible. “This is laudable goal that both sides of the aisle should support.“The President’s new executive order on improving regulation and regulatory review is an excellent starting point. The order is based on sound principles such as: The regulatory system must be based on the best available science Regulations protect public welfare while promoting economic growth and job creation The process must allow for public participation and the open exchange of ideas, and The process must take into account both costs and benefits. “Consistent with this directive, the Obama Administration has already identified several regulations that could be refined or cut.“I commend the Administration for this effort. And I hope that we can work together to support cost-effective implementation of the laws Congress has enacted to protect the American people’s health, financial security, and safety. These sensible safeguards are vitally important to the American people.“We must recognize, however, how important regulations are to our national welfare. The mantra that regulations are inherently bad and kill jobs is wrong and dangerous. “Just two and half years ago, our financial system virtually collapsed. Following years of deregulatory efforts by Congress, the Securities and Exchange Commission and other federal financial regulators sat on the sidelines while flawed and unchecked financial practices robbed Americans of their retirement savings and caused the our economy to collapse. “It wasn’t regulations that caused our financial collapse and the deepest economic recession since the Great Depression. It was unbridled deregulation. “For too long, big polluters have been allowed to dump toxic mercury into the air – resulting in birth defects and developmental problems for children in affected communities. Finally – after years of delay – the Administration is taking action to rein in this toxic contamination. We should all support these efforts.“At the direction of the Supreme Court, EPA has recently set standards to cut carbon pollution from cars and trucks. This regulation is a win-win-win. Not only does it cut pollution responsible for climate change, it saves 1.8 billion barrels of oil -- making the nation more secure and saving American families at the pump.“Regulation to protect children from the health effects of tobacco and to prevent another salmonella outbreak in eggs or other threats to food safety are other important examples of where government is on schedule to act and must do so.“When you examine the details of these and other safeguards, you find that there is a real need for governmental action and that action will substantially benefit the public and the nation.“I look forward to hearing from our witness regarding implementation of the Obama Administration’s executive order on improving regulations and the regulatory process. This is a common sense plan to cut outdated regulations and promote transparency. In contrast, the Republican plan to eliminate safeguards vital to the welfare of Americans makes absolutely no sense at all.” ###
01.24.2011	WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Diana DeGette (CO-01) tonight issued the following statement in response to President Barack Obama’s State of the Union address. DeGette is a Chief Deputy Whip and Ranking Member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations. “Tonight the President outlined his vision to address our nation’s most pressing challenge – getting Americans back to work, while getting our fiscal house in order. President Obama recognizes that the first priority of this Congress must be to create jobs for millions of Americans still struggling in this tough economy. By pairing investments in innovation with a long-term commitment to improving education and supporting critical infrastructure projects, we can ensure that not only will Colorado and this country create jobs for today, we will help secure our economic future for generations to come. Generations like the students President Obama congratulated in his speech tonight from Denver’s Bruce Randolph high school, now graduating at record levels. Tonight, all of Colorado’s representatives in Congress were proud to stand as one to commend the innovation of Bruce Randolph’s leadership, recognized as a model for the nation. “But investing in job creation alone cannot yield the long-term growth we desperately need, without our also taking significant measures to reduce our national deficit. All across America, families have tightened their belts, and so must we. The President tonight outlined a strategic approach to examine our nation’s government – and thus its spending - in a targeted manner to reconfigure programs that have lost their way, while supporting those that truly work for the American people and our nation. Doing so will finally begin to reduce our deficit and create a lasting government that is leaner, smarter, and more efficient. It has been less than fifteen years since we were able to boast of a balanced budget, and while it will not be easy, I look forward to working with the President and my colleagues in Congress to once again make that a reality.“The President spoke this evening of shared challenges, and the responsibility we all have to ensure our dialogue and our actions are worthy of the American people. The truth is that most Members of Congress, regardless of party, want the same things – a strong economy where families can fulfill their American Dream, and a brighter future for our country – we simply have different approaches to getting there. When we focus on these common goals we will find that what separates us is not as strong as what binds us, and that by working together we can get our economy back on track and make America more competitive in the global economy.” ###
01.19.2011	WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Diana DeGette (CO-01) issued the following statement after House passage of H.R. 2, the Republican “Repealing the Job-Killing Health Care Law Act.” Congresswoman DeGette joined all but three Democrats in voting against the bill, which would pull the rug out from under the millions of Americans who can finally afford health coverage thanks to last year’s passage of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act. “I am extremely disappointed that so many of my colleagues supported this disingenuous legislation,” said DeGette. “Across the country millions of Americans are already benefitting from reform and with today’s vote Congressional Republicans turned their backs on children with pre-existing conditions, seniors, young adults and thousands of others in the First Congressional District of Colorado who can finally afford health care as a result of the Affordable Care Act. “Thankfully, we know today’s vote is the end of the line for the Repealing the Job-Killing Health Care Law Act. Today’s action was a political stunt aimed at mollifying extremists in the Republican Party, and did nothing to address the most pressing issues facing our country. The American people have been very clear: they are tired of politicians playing political games, and they want leaders who provide solutions to our country’s pressing problems. The Democrats in Congress are committed to finding ways to help get Americans back to work, and I hope that our Republican colleagues will join us in pursuit of that goal.” ###
01.14.2011	WASHINGTON - Congresswoman Diana DeGette (D-CO), Congressman Maurice Hinchey (D-NY), and Congressman Jared Polis (D-CO) are leading a group of 46 House of Representatives members in support of public disclosure requirements for chemicals used in hydraulic fracturing on public lands. In a letter to U.S. Interior Secretary Ken Salazar, the group described the disclosure requirement as a "critical step forward in encouraging the oil and gas industry to be more transparent and responsibly address the potential implications of hydraulic fracturing on water supplies and public health." In November 2010, Salazar said the Department of the Interior, which has the authority to require disclosure on public lands, is considering such a rule. “Oil and gas companies continue to assure us that their drilling projects are safe,” said DeGette, “but those same companies refuse to back up their assertions by disclosing the chemicals used in the hydraulic fracturing process. Without disclosure, authorities investigating incidents of concern to communities and residents are unable to prove one way or another the role hydraulic fracturing might have played in the contamination. Natural gas is an abundant and cleaner energy source that we need while incorporating more alternative energy sources into a comprehensive and strategic energy policy for the United States to execute going forward. It is also our responsibility, however, to ensure that its extraction does not come at the expense of the health of local communities.” "Communities across America have seen their water contaminated by the chemicals used in the hydraulic fracturing process," said Hinchey. "When big energy companies decide they want to drill on public lands, they should have to tell the public exactly what chemicals they're pumping into the ground. We already know of several carcinogens and neurotoxins that are used in drilling process. If the industry had their way, we wouldn't find out about the other chemicals being used until they show up in the water supply. The people have a right to know what is being done to their land and what risks that may carry." “For too long the Bush Administration let big oil dictate the rules and undercut basic safeguards,” said U.S. Rep. Polis. “I applaud Secretary Salazar’s common sense approach, restoring a much-needed balance in our energy policy. Wherever hydraulic fracturing occurs, public lands or off, we must ensure that the appropriate oversight is in place so we can tell if and when dangerous chemicals are being used, endangering water sources and the public’s health” Onshore gas wells on Interior-managed lands account for 11 percent of the nation's natural gas supply. Hinchey, DeGette, and Polis introduced the Fracking Responsibility and Awareness of Chemicals (FRAC) Act in the 111th Congress to require the disclosure of chemicals used on both public and private lands. The FRAC Act would also close a loophole created in the Energy Policy Act of 2005, which exempts fracking from regulation through the Safe Drinking Water Act. Hinchey is also the author of the provision which led to the initiation of an U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) study on the risks posed to drinking water through the fracking process. For the text of the letter, click here. ###
01.09.2011	DENVER - Congresswoman Diana DeGette (CO-01) issued the following statement following reports that Congresswoman Gabrielle Giffords was shot at an event in Tuscon, Arizona earlier today. "I am shocked and saddened by today's extraordinary tragedy in which my friend and Congressional colleague Rep. Gabrielle Giffords was gravely injured. My thoughts and prayers are with Rep. Giffords and her family, as well as with her dedicated staff and the others brutally attacked this morning. As the events of this national tragedy unfold, I know my fellow Coloradoans and all Americans join me in those prayers." ###
01.05.2011	WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Diana DeGette (CO-01) issued the following statement today after President Obama signed the landmark Food Safety Modernization Act. The bill makes the first major updates to America’s food safety infrastructure since the 1930’s. “Even as the President lends his signature to this landmark legislation, unsafe food is being ripped off the shelf – Sprouts in Washington and Chicken Pot Pies in California are just two examples,” said DeGette. “Fortunately, enactment of this new law is a major step towards protecting our families from foodborne illness, and no longer will we have to rely on voluntary recalls, because under this law the FDA for the first time has the lone authority to put safety first and pull tainted food from our stores if necessary. Ensuring the security of our nation’s food supply has been a goal of mine for much of my time in Congress, and I will continue to make sure there are adequate resources available to enforce this new law.” ###
12.21.2010	WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Diana DeGette (CO-1) today applauded the final passage of the Food Safety Modernization Act, of which she is an original cosponsor. The bill now goes to the President’s desk for his signature. Congresswoman DeGette offered the following statement: “Nearly a year and a half ago, the House passed this bill in its original form, and while it has taken awhile to get here, I am so pleased that today we take a final step in the decades-long fight to finally update our nation’s food safety infrastructure. From Salmonella in eggs to E-coli in cheese, the last few months alone have proven that every day we have waited to pass food safety legislation was one day too many. But today, we finally send this critical overhaul of the food safety system to the President’s desk to become law. “The mandatory recall authority in this bill means we no longer have to rely on corporations to act in good faith, and greater inspection of imported goods means we can ensure that they are just as safe as what is cultivated and produced domestically. I still stand by the stronger traceability provisions I fought for in the bill the House passed last year, so I look forward to working with the FDA to maximize the traceability pilot projects called for in this legislation. “Food safety is both a public health issue and an economic issue. This bill represents the best of what the American people sent us here to do – work together on a bipartisan basis to keep their families safe and healthy, while securing the key industries that help drive our economy.” H.R. 2751 now goes to President Obama’s desk for his signature. ###
12.17.2010	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-1) issued the following statement after the House vote on H.R. 4853, the Tax Relief, Unemployment Insurance Reauthorization, and Job Creation Act of 2010. The bill, which DeGette voted against, passed by a vote of 277 to 148. “While I support an extension of both unemployment insurance and tax cuts for the middle class, I cannot support this bill,” said DeGette. “It recklessly gives tax cuts to the wealthiest 2% of Americans and 6,600 large estates, while blowing a $900 billion hole in our already ballooning national deficit. I am willing to stay in session as long as it takes to make sure that middle class families get the relief they need, but am unwilling to finance that relief on the backs of our children and grandchildren. I call on my colleagues from both sides of the aisle to join me in finding a common sense solution that targets aid to those that need it most: the long-term unemployed and middle class taxpayers.” ###
12.15.2010	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (D-CO) today offered the following statement after House passage of a stand-alone measure to repeal the military’s “Don’t Ask Don’t Tell” policy. “For too long we have forced soldiers to defend our liberty and freedom without offering them the very acceptance and protection under the law that they fight to uphold,” said DeGette, “and I am proud to have joined my colleagues today in voting to immediately end this discriminatory policy. With last week’s publication of a Pentagon review demonstrating that a majority of our troops believe repealing the policy would have no effect on their unit’s battle readiness, the last vestiges of reasoned opposition to repeal have been rendered obsolete. Today’s vote comes too late for the thousands of servicemen and women who have already been forced out of service to their country because of their sexuality, but it at least offers those patriots the solace that their sacrifice helped pave the way for future soldiers to achieve equality. I urge the Senate to act swiftly to pass this legislation." ###
12.09.2010	WASHINGTON –Tonight, Congresswoman Diana DeGette (D-CO) voted for the Development, Relief, and Education for Alien Minors Act of 2010 (DREAM Act). The bipartisan, targeted legislation gives students who may have been brought here illegally by their parents, but have grown up in the United States, a chance to contribute to our country’s well-being by serving in the Armed Forces or pursuing a higher education.“In passing the DREAM Act today, the House of Representatives created a path to citizenship for thousands of young people who want to serve their country,” said DeGette. “Finally, young people who were brought to America as children, through no fault of their own, will have the opportunity so many of them desire – to give back to the country they feel has given them so much.” Under the bill, a DREAM Act applicant who meets the bill’s requirements becomes a “conditional nonimmigrant.” The DREAM Act would allow an individual to obtain this conditional status only if he or she meets all of the bill’s requirements, including: brought to the U.S. as a child (15 years old or younger); lived in the U.S. for 5 years or more before the date of enactment; has been a person of “good moral character,” as defined by our immigration laws; submits biometric and biographic information and completes security and law-enforcement background checks; among other requirements. The Act also excludes anyone with a criminal record for felonies, voter fraud, or marriage fraud, as well as anyone who has abused a student visa.“This legislation is not akin to amnesty, and will not encourage further illegal immigration. Only those who have resided in this country for the last five years are eligible under the law, and even they would have to complete a rigorous, 10 year process to be considered citizens. I do not believe that federal law should punish students who played no role in being brought illegally into this country, and want nothing more than access to education or an opportunity to serve in the armed forces. The DREAM Act will open doors for thousands of young people and strengthen our country through their continued service.” The bill now goes to the Senate for consideration. ###
12.03.2010	Congresswoman Diana DeGette issued the following statement regarding her support for the U.S. House of Representatives Ethics Committee resolution of censure of Representative Charles Rangel (NY):“I have the utmost respect for the sacrifices and contributions Representative Charles Rangel has made to our country through his military and public service. I have always admired his fearless fight for those who don't always have an advocate in the corridors of power. However, a thorough investigation by the bipartisan House Ethics Committee found he abused the rights and privileges bestowed upon him as a Member of the U.S. House of Representatives. We must always strive for the highest standards to protect the integrity of this institution for the American people who place their trust in us.” ###
12.02.2010	Congresswoman Diana DeGette today applauded the U.S. House of Representatives passage of the Middle Class Tax Relief Act of 2010, which provides for a permanent extension of the Bush-era middle-class tax cuts. The bill passed the House by a vote of 234 to 188, largely along party lines.“I am proud to have joined so many of my colleagues today to vote for this critical bill which will save a typical middle-class American family approximately $1,000 a year, without providing tax breaks for millionaires,” said DeGette. “Under this bill, 97% of taxpayers in Colorado’s First District will continue to receive relief as they face tough economic times. These tax cuts will spur economic growth and help the vast majority of American families, without adding $700 Billion to our federal deficit.”Under the Act, 97% of American families and small businesses will get tax cuts of $1.5 trillion over the next 10 years. For all families making less than $250,000 a year, the bill permanently extends the tax cuts enacted in 2001 and 2003, which includes current tax rates, marriage penalty relief, capital gains and dividends rates, and a $1,000 child tax credit (for earnings above $3,000). The Act also protects more than 25 million taxpayers from the alternative minimum tax by extending the AMT patch through 2011 and permanently extends small business expensing. “Given today’s highly polarized vote, it is clear Republicans continue to believe if the wealthiest people in America don’t get tax cuts, then nobody else deserves them either. It’s extremely disingenuous for Republicans to fight to add $700 billion to the deficit in order to give every millionaire a $100,000 check, but then refuse to extend unemployment benefits, giving families who need it most a mere $300 per week. By continuing to stand against middle-class tax cuts and withholding unemployment benefits, Congressional Republicans are quite literally the Grinch that stole Christmas for millions of Americans.”The Middle Class Tax Relief Act now goes to U.S. Senate for consideration. ###
11.23.2010	Congresswoman Diana DeGette (CO-01) today hailed the approval of the second human treatment trial using human embryonic stem cells. The test, just approved by the FDA, will be conducted by Advanced Cell Technology (ACT) and will focus on Stargardt's disease. Medical professionals believe a successful human trial will open the doors to the treatment of other, more common eye diseases such as macular degeneration. DeGette has been the leading Congressional advocate for federal funding of ethical embryonic stem cell research, as these investments drive breakthrough trials like the one announced this week. “Embryonic stem cell research holds enormous promise for countless diseases,” said DeGette, “and the approval of this test is yet another step towards the breakthroughs it can bring for millions of Americans. I am excited to see the results of this, and other trials, and encourage my colleagues to recognize the enormous benefits of ethical embryonic stem cell research.” Stargardt's disease affects central vision – e.g., reading and facial recognition – and can cause its victims to lose peripheral vision, only be able to see various levels of light, or ultimately go blind. This test will treat Stargardt's patients with healthy cells, created from embryonic stem cells, to replace the “scavenger cells” that deteriorate their vision. The test is the second trial using embryonic stem cells to be approved in the United States. Last month, the Geron Corporation was permitted to conduct a trial involving embryonic stem cells to treat spinal cord injuries. Preliminary testing is still ongoing in that trial. Like the Geron trial, this latest trial will focus primarily on the safety and viability of embryonic stem cell use in the treatment of this condition. The Stargardt's trial will likely start early next year and 12 subjects will be treated. “The approval of these two tests in such close order demonstrates how the investment by the federal government in ethical stem cell research is beginning to bear fruit for the millions of Americans facing debilitating diseases and conditions,” said DeGette. “The breakthroughs of these discoveries underscore the critical importance of finally codifying ethical stem cell research regulations, so our scientists and their critical work can no longer be subject to political whims.” ###
11.18.2010	Congresswoman Diana DeGette (CO-01) offered the following statement following the House vote to extend unemployment benefits through the end of February, 2011. DeGette voted for the bill, which required a two-thirds majority for passage, however the legislation failed by a vote of 258 to 154. “I am extremely disappointed that my colleagues on the other side of the aisle stood in the way of extending a helping hand to Americans in need,” said DeGette. “With so many Americans currently out of work, today Republicans denied two million of these citizens the insurance they have earned over years of hard work. These funds could now help sustain them until they find employment, but instead, Republicans took away the support these families needed to put food on the table, keep a roof over their heads, and pay for even minimal living expenses. “Time and again, studies have shown unemployment benefits help individuals in the short-term while stimulating our economy, with every dollar distributed injecting $2 into the national economy. Today, Republicans in the House voted against spending $12.5 billion to help unemployed Americans in these difficult times, and yet they continue to advocate giving the ultra-rich a tax break that would add $700 billion to our national deficit. The hypocrisy of voting against this bill while pursuing an extension of the Bush tax cuts for our country’s wealthiest individuals is astounding, and we hope it does not portend who the House Republicans will be fighting for in the 112th Congress.” ###
09.27.2010	WASHINGTON—Congresswoman Diana DeGette (CO-1) applauded the enactment of the Small Business Lending Fund Act, signed into law today by President Barack Obama. The bill, which passed the U.S. House of Representatives last week by a vote of 237-187, provides tax cuts and credits for small businesses, as well as provides community banks with funding to increase lending opportunities to small businesses. “I am pleased that President Obama signed legislation today providing relief and opportunities for small businesses across our country,” said DeGette. “Small businesses are the backbone of our national and local economy and any efforts to reduce unemployment and improve our economy must be made with an eye towards helping these important institutions. As a former small business owner I know very well the challenges that small businesses face, and that is why I am proud of legislation, such as this, that allows these institutions to compete globally without sacrificing their commitment to their local communities. “While there are official indicators showing that the recession is over, for far too many American families, economic indicators still cannot pay the mortgage, put food on the table, or keep creditors at bay. With signs of stability in the larger economy, it is my goal to help ensure that improvement is felt not just on Wall Street, but also on Main Street, where unemployment remains high, and consumer confidence remains low. Without a doubt, the economic engines of Main Street are America’s small businesses. That is why I am proud to have supported this small business act, which loosens the credit market to provide loans for small businesses, so they can create jobs and boost their local economies.” ###
09.16.2010	(WASHINGTON, DC) - Congresswoman Diana DeGette (D-CO) today applauded Senate passage of the small business lending bill. On June 17th, DeGette joined the U.S. House when they passed similar legislation. “I am pleased that my colleagues in the Senate have voted to extend this important aid to America’s small businesses. Small businesses are the backbone of the nation’s economy, and any efforts to reduce our unemployment rate and improve the economy must include protections and incentives for these important institutions. As a former small business owner, I know too well the challenges that small businesses face in the increasingly global marketplace. That is why I will continue to support bills such as this one that offer small businesses the opportunity to compete globally without sacrificing their commitment to their local communities. In these tough economic times, the bill’s provisions’ eliminating tax incentives for companies that ship American jobs overseas, will strengthen our economy and keep meaningful jobs here in the U.S. “It is disappointing that small businesses across the country were denied relief while Senate Republicans tried to score political points by denying a vote on this legislation. I hope that my colleagues on the other side of the aisle do not make the same mistake as we discuss extending the Bush-era tax cuts. Holding tax cuts for 98% of Americans hostage in exchange for breaks for the wealthiest 2% would only result in adding $4 billion to the deficit over the next ten years while denying struggling, middle-class Americans the relief they need. As government works to manage our resources in these tough economic times, what is most fiscally responsible and best fulfills our duties to the American people is to help working families, not give breaks to the wealthy.” ###
09.09.2010	DENVER, CO – Today, Congresswoman Diana DeGette (CO-1) moderated a panel of health insurance and small business experts to discuss the impacts of health reform on Denver small businesses. Congresswoman DeGette played a key part in the enactment of The Affordable Care Act, and has now taken on a leading role in helping her constituents understand what reform means for them. The reform bill contains many provisions designed to bolster and protect small businesses, including a tax credit for those that offer insurance coverage to their employees. “Throughout the reform process we took steps to ensure that small businesses were adequately protected and accounted for under the legislation,” said DeGette. “Understanding these protections and taking advantage of the credits offered by the law can be difficult, however, and I am glad that I could convene such an extraordinary panel today to help small businesses prepare for the implementation of the reforms, and ensure they can maximize those benefits.” Congresswoman DeGette was joined by the Region 8 Director of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services Marguerite Salazar, Colorado Health Care Policy and Financing Executive Director Joan Henneberry, Colorado Division of Insurance Director of External Affairs Jo Donlin, and the Senior Vice President of Benefits for Locton Companies, LLC Leo Tokar. Together, the panelists brought to the forum a wealth of knowledge and experience from within both the public and private sectors. “I know the unique challenges these employers are faced with on a daily basis,” said DeGette. “I am proud of the steps we took in the health reform bill to protect small businesses, and was excited to help those businesses better understand those reforms here today. Thanks to our extraordinary panel, I am confident that we were able to help those in attendance today take full advantage of the protections and benefits afforded by the reforms.” ###
09.07.2010	DENVER, CO - Today, Majority Leader of the U.S. House of Representatives, Steny Hoyer (MD-5) joined Congresswoman Diana DeGette (CO-1) to highlight the impact of the Affordable Care Act on the people of Colorado – particularly with regards to safety-net hospitals and community health centers. Hoyer and DeGette discussed the local and national implications of the new reforms while visiting Colorado’s primary safety-net hospital, Denver Health. They were joined by Dr. Patricia A. Gabow, CEO and Medical Director of Denver Health, and Dr. Paul Melinkovich, Director, Denver Health Community Health Services, who spoke about the great promise of health reform, and the impact on the Colorado health care community. “The Affordable Care Act dramatically decreases the number of uninsured Americans, meaning that no longer will a significant portion of our population use the ER as their primary care physician,” said DeGette. “This will allow emergency rooms, such as the one at Denver Health, to more quickly provide their outstanding care to the individuals that need it most, while those with less pressing concerns can seek refuge in our burgeoning community health centers. The Affordable Care Act helps Americans get the right care, at the right place, at the right cost. Majority Leader Hoyer and I share a commitment to the safety and health of our children and families, and I was honored to show him today the extraordinary care provided by the physicians, nurses, and employees at Denver Health.” More than 8 million new Americans are expected to receive coverage through one of the many mechanisms in health care reform. Currently, these uninsured citizens are forced to admit themselves to the emergency rooms of safety-net hospitals like Denver Health to receive basic, primary care. Not only does this create a backlog of people seeking emergency care, but it also represents an enormous drain on the American economy – Denver Health is on track to spend more than $350 million this year to treat the uninsured – at a time when the country can ill-afford it. “I want to commend the Denver Health System for providing the high-quality, accessible care to their community that all Americans deserve,” stated Majority Leader Hoyer. “For too long, America has struggled with a broken health care system. As a result of action taken by Congress, the new health reform law is putting American families and small businesses – not insurance companies – in control of their own health care. In the coming years, we’ll see health reform take a significant bite out of our deficit, and we’ll see coverage extended to tens of millions of uninsured Americans—not just because it’s the right thing to do, but because it means lower costs and more control for Americans over their health care.” Under the new reforms, the newly insured will likely lean heavily on Community Health Centers for their health-care needs. Community Health Centers will receive increased funding under the Affordable Care Act, and expect to double their capacity within the next five years. Thanks to this funding, these centers will be able to meet the increased demand for primary care services and will continue to provide exemplary primary care for low-income Americans. “We at Denver Health are proud to already have a first-rate integrated system in place, bringing quality care through both our hospital here and our community health center network,” said Dr. Patricia A. Gabow, M.D., CEO, Denver Health. “But the health reform just passed into law, is going to address the challenges we face in that system, significantly –helping us to bring better care to all our patients, keeping our costs under control, and making our first-rate system even better. For example, once uninsured families receive coverage, they will be able to see actual primary care physicians for their ongoing well-being and their periodic illnesses like colds and sore throats. This will help the entire Denver Health system care for all our patients, by ensuring they always receive the right care, at the right place, at the right cost.” “Thanks to safety-net hospitals like Denver Health, Colorado residents already receive outstanding care,” added DeGette, “but thanks to the health care reform bill, the manner in which they receive that care will become exponentially more efficient. ER doctors will be free to do what they do best: treat emergencies, while our extraordinary Community Health Centers will help prevent sickness, provide primary care, and keep Americans healthy enough sustain their livelihoods and provide for their families.” ###
09.01.2010	WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Diana DeGette (CO-1) today offered the following statement in response to President Barack Obama’s Oval Office address announcing the end of combat operations in Iraq.“Tonight, President Obama adhered to his promise of ending combat operations in Iraq by August 31st, 2010, and brought home thousands of our young men and women that have performed so admirably in the region. These American heroes accomplished what was asked of them, and went about their task with unflappable courage and a never-ending commitment to the American ideal. I am proud of these soldiers for their admirable service, and applaud President Obama for bringing them back home and into the waiting arms of their friends and families."Despite this announcement, however, many questions remain about the sustainability of the Iraqi Republic as well as our continued presence in the country. Decreasing our military and economic involvement in Iraq was long overdue, but now the process of cultivating a moderate ally from the remains of the Saddam Hussein dictatorship will require both a strong commitment to peace from the Iraqi government and durable diplomatic support from the United States. President Obama has remained focused on this goal since he first took office, and his efforts have built a strong foundation that will enable the Iraqi Republic to ensure its own security and stability. I am proud of the President for keeping his promise of ending combat operations by the end of August, 2010, and look forward to standing by his side as we help Iraq build a safe and sustainable democratic republic.” ###
08.23.2010	WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Diana DeGette issued the following statement regarding Judge Royce Lamberth’s decision to block federal funding of embryonic stem cell research. DeGette and Congressman Michael Castle (R-DE) are the chief architects of bipartisan stem cell legislation in the U.S. House of Representatives. “Today’s ruling from the US District Court is deeply disappointing, as it once again delays groundbreaking treatment and even cures for the millions of patients and their families clinging to the hope of embryonic stem cell research. We strongly disagree with the judge’s ruling because, by definition, embryos and stem cells are two entirely different organisms. Today’s ruling is the case of one judge ignoring the scientific fact that research on pluripotent stem cells is not the same as research on an embryo. “Our nation already lost valuable time over the last decade, when we could have been bringing our massive resources and expertise to bear, expanding stem cell research and helping 100 million American patients living with devastating and debilitating diseases. President Obama’s executive order last year opened a door to hope and promise for those patients, and today, Judge Lamberth has sadly once again closed that door. Today’s ruling underscores why we must pass common-sense embryonic stem cell research legislation, placing these regulations into statute and once and for all, ensuring this critical life-saving research can be conducted for years to come, unimpeded by political whims or naysayers.” ###
08.05.2010	WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Diana DeGette (CO-1) today offered the following statement on the Senate confirmation of Elena Kagan as the next United States Supreme Court Justice. “In confirming Elena Kagan as the next Supreme Court Justice, the Senate today recognized the keen legal mind and unique, thoughtful perspective she will bring to the Court. Kagan brings to the bench a fair and reasonable judicial philosophy that has been honed during her successful stints as Dean of Harvard Law School, and as our nation’s first female Solicitor General. She acquitted herself admirably during the confirmation hearings in the Senate, and the bi-partisan support she received in both the Judiciary Committee and on the floor is a testament to her outstanding qualifications. With an unparalleled history of building consensus across diverse coalitions, Kagan brings important leadership to the bench and joins Justices Ruth Bader Ginsburg and Sonia Sotomayor as one of a record three female justices currently on the Court. Possessing both the requisite temperament and intellect, Kagan is an outstanding addition to the Court as it continues to grapple with the most important issues of our time.” ###
07.30.2010	WASHINGTON, DC - Today, Congresswoman Diana DeGette (CO-01) voted for legislation that will not only hold BP and other responsible parties accountable, but will also prevent such disasters from occurring in the future. The CLEAR Act (Consolidated Land, Energy and Aquatic Resources Act), passed tonight by the U.S. House of Representatives, establishes new safety measures, ensures taxpayers will not shoulder the burden of the clean-up costs, and strengthens oversight and regulation of the oil and gas industry. It includes provisions designed to help restore the natural beauty and economy of the Gulf Coast. “With this vote, I am proud to extend a hand to those families affected by the crisis in the Gulf, as well as take steps to make sure that nothing like this ever happens again,” said DeGette. “While nothing can turn back the clock and undo the environmental and economic damage of the last 100 days, this legislation protects taxpayers from footing BP’s bill and ensures that in the future, the oil and gas industry will be held to a higher standard of safety and responsibility than they are under the current broken system.” As part of the strong safety measures created by the bill, oil and gas companies would be required to submit critical equipment for independent safety certification. It also divides the revenue collection and inspection functions at the former Minerals Management Service to prevent conflicts of interest in regulating off-shore drilling, and provides long overdue taxpayer protections to ensure the industry pays their fair share for drilling and production on federal lands. It was brought to the floor of the House alongside legislation that provided protection for workers who report offshore violations to state or federal authorities. Finally, it holds BP accountable for its actions, establishing strong guidelines that will require the company to fully, and quickly, pay for cleanup costs and economic recovery. “When I visited the Gulf Coast in early June I saw first-hand what the oil spill had done to the local economy and environment,” said DeGette. “Individuals and small businesses that rely on tourism, fishing, or other outdoor resources on the Gulf are struggling to make ends meet, and this bill is designed to make sure they receive all they are entitled to, while simultaneously shielding the taxpayers from shouldering the burden. This bill holds BP accountable for its carelessness and provides relief for millions of hardworking American families.” ###
07.30.2010	WASHINGTON, DC - Late last night Congresswoman Diana DeGette (CO-1) led the House of Representatives in adopting the Ski Area Recreational Opportunity Enhancement Act of 2009. DeGette was the original sponsor of the legislation, which went to the floor of the House with bi-partisan support. "In my home state of Colorado, outdoor activities such as skiing, snowboarding, mountain biking, and hiking are an intrinsic part of our everyday lives," said DeGette. "I was proud to bring this bill to the floor to expand recreational opportunities for Americans to enjoy the pristine natural environments in my state and others that are home to many of our nation’s ski resorts. I look forward to the Senate taking up this bill in the near future, under the leadership of my Senate partner on this bill, Mark Udall." The bill updates the Ski Area Permit Act of 1986, enabling the Forest Service to permit appropriate summer or year-round activities for ski areas. It will also expand the Act to include snow sports such as snowboarding, which currently accounts for roughly one-third of all ski area visits. "The original law no longer reflected the way people take advantage of the outdoor opportunities at ski areas," said DeGette. "This bill garnered bi-partisan support because of its recreational and environmental benefits, as well as its economic ones. Year-round recreational activity will provide substantial benefits to our local economies, and help create stable jobs in the thirteen states that are currently home to ski resorts on public land." ###
07.27.2010	Congresswoman Diana DeGette (CO-1) congratulated Colorado educators today as the state was announced as one of the 19 finalists for Phase 2 of the U.S. Department of Education’s Race to the Top competition. Colorado was previously a finalist for Phase 1, completed in March. During Phase 2, an estimated $3.4 billion in education funding is available, and Colorado is eligible for up to $175 million of that total. Race to the Top funds were provided for under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act. “I’m pleased that Colorado has once again been named as a finalist for the Race to the Top program,” said DeGette. “Colorado has long been at the forefront of education reform and this funding would support programs that better prepare our students for college, while rewarding and retaining our high achieving teachers and principals. Today’s announcement recognizes our state as a driver of real and meaningful education reform, and one which can serve as a model for the rest of the nation. We look forward to seeing the diligence and innovative thinking of Colorado’s educators rewarded in the coming months.”A delegation from Colorado will travel to Washington, DC in early August to present their proposal to the selection committee, and the winners will be notified in September. For more information about Race to the Top: https://www2.ed.gov/programs/racetothetop/index.html###
07.22.2010	WASHINGTON - Congresswoman Diana DeGette (D-CO) today offered the following statement regarding House passage of H.R. 4213, the Unemployment Compensation Extension Act, extending unemployment benefits for millions of Americans who have been impacted by the economic crisis of the last few years. The Act will provide benefits through the end of November, and will retroactively restore benefits to those who have been without aid since late May due to Senate Republican obstruction. “I am proud to be able to finally offer the millions of Americans still looking for work this extension of unemployment benefits. This funding is an important bridge for those who are still looking for work in an economy where there are over five unemployed workers for every one job opening. We look forward to the President signing this Act into law, and hopefully States will act quickly to provide these benefits to their citizens. “It is unconscionable that the same Senate Republicans who are now seeking to extend massive tax breaks for the wealthy, stood in the way of much-needed assistance for average Americans for nearly two months, leaving over 2.5 million people without benefits. Today those families can breathe a little easier as they can put food on the table, keep a roof over their heads, and pay their bills, all while they continue their search for employment. “We must remember, however, that this legislation is only a temporary measure. While it buys important time, we remain committed to finding long-term solutions that put Americans back to work and get our country moving again.” ###
07.15.2010	Comprehensive Energy Bill Includes First Step in Long-Fought Battle for Disclosure WASHINGTON, DC – As a leader in the effort to require disclosure of hydraulic fracturing chemicals, Congresswoman Diana DeGette (CO-1), today, hailed the Committee on Natural Resources’ passage of the "Consolidated Land, Energy, and Aquatic Resources (CLEAR) Act" (H.R. 3534), which included a provision to mandate disclosure of chemicals used in drilling on federal lands. Congresswoman DeGette has long sought regulations requiring oil and gas companies to disclose the chemicals used in hydraulic fracturing (aka "fracking"), to protect our nation’s communities and their water supply. "The fracking provision we voted for today in the CLEAR Act is an important step to providing governments and communities with the information they need on potentially damaging chemical use," said DeGette. "For the many families in Colorado who live near natural gas drilling wells, this is a great victory that enables them to finally know what chemicals are being used near their homes. But as I have long fought for, we must mandate disclosure in all communities where fracking is taking place. "Around the country, including in my home state of Colorado, cases are emerging of residents, workers, and health care providers becoming ill after fracking operations began in their communities. Without disclosure, it is difficult to assess whether these incidents are from fracking chemicals or not. Quite simply, the American public has a right to know what chemicals are being used in their communities, particularly if those chemicals might threaten their water supply. Today, millions of Americans who live near public lands are a step closer to exercising that right. But we must continue to fight until every family in the nation near natural gas wells can rest easy with clear knowledge of the chemicals used in their communities." DeGette also helped beat back efforts today to strip the fracking disclosure provision from the bill, when an amendment to do so was struck down, 19 – 25. She previously introduced the FRAC ACT -- Fracturing Responsibility and Awareness of Chemicals Act, to amend the Safe Drinking Water Act. Currently, the oil and gas industry is the only industry granted an exemption from complying with the Safe Drinking Water Act, and the proposed legislation would repeal that exemption and require the industry to disclose the chemicals they use in their hydraulic fracturing processes. "As a Representative from Colorado, I support developing domestic natural gas as an important bridge fuel to cleaner energy, and an economic driver for my state and our nation. But as we have seen from the tragedy in the Gulf, we must have reasonable regulations on the oil and gas industry to ensure that energy exploration is done safely. Today’s provision is a critical first step towards safeguarding our drinking water, protecting our communities, and driving safer energy exploration across the nation." ###
07.09.2010	DENVER, CO - Today Congresswoman Diana DeGette (CO-1) joined with United States Department of Transportation (DOT) Assistant Secretary Polly Trottenberg to announce a $5.2 million Bus and Bus Livability Grant for the 16th Street Mall Shuttle Replacement Project. This investment will go to enhance shuttle service along the 16th Street Mall, a vital commercial, residential, and retail strip in Downtown Denver. DeGette and Trottenberg were joined at the announcement by Denver Mayor John Hickenlooper and Denver Regional Transportation District (RTD) Chair Lee Kemp. "Public transit has a multiplier effect on the community – stimulating the economy, improving the quality of life, reducing congestion and addressing climate change – and the 16th Street Mall Shuttle is a great example of that," said Congresswoman DeGette. "The Shuttle is a connector for commuters and city residents alike, linking them between home and work, and enabling ‘life’ to take place in between. It helps the businesses along this stretch thrive, helping our city recover and creating jobs, while giving our downtown a unique, green transportation option that makes our lives just a little bit easier." The 16th Street Mall Shuttle Replacement project is important to maintaining accessibility throughout Downtown Denver for the estimated 50,000 people who currently utilize the mall shuttle daily. With the assistance of this federal grant, RTD will replace up to eight mall shuttles, helping to improve bus availability and reduce maintenance costs in the RTD subfleet of 36 mall shuttles. As the planned 16th Street Mall extension nears completion, these additional vehicles will be vital to maintaining transit service in the area. These improvements to the fleet will also help stimulate the local economy and drive sustainable transportation for Denver’s residents and visitors. The Denver Bus and Bus Livability Grant is part of a $293 million federal investment to help residents in dozens of communities nationwide to enjoy major transit improvements. This grant program is part of the Obama Administration’s livability initiative to better coordinate transportation, housing and commercial development investments to serve the people living in communities like Denver. "This investment by the Obama Administration in the Denver community will help create jobs, boost economic development and recovery, and further reduce our dependence on oil," said U.S. DOT Assistant Secretary Polly Trottenberg. "Our goals are to provide cleaner, safer, and more efficient ways to get around, and the 16th Street Mall Shuttle is a great example of that. We’re seeing more and more projects like this one because cities across America are recognizing that they can restore economic development downtown – giving citizens the choice to move between home, shopping and entertainment without ever looking for a parking space. These projects help create communities that are more prosperous and less congested." The grant awarded to Denver was selected from 281 applications totaling over $2 billion in funding requests. The 16th Street Mall Shuttle project will be part of the construction of bus facilities and new bus and bus-related purchases moving forward in the 31 states where the winning 47 Bus and Bus Livability projects are located. Inaugurated in December 2009, the two programs are a continuation of the FTA's effort dedicated to carrying out the Obama Administration’s Livability Initiative, a joint venture of the U.S. Department of Transportation, the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development, and the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency. Everyone standing up here today shares a vision about the power of smart, quality transportation for our city, our state, and our nation," concluded DeGette. "Today we come together to celebrate a significant commitment of federal funding that will help ensure the 16th Street Mall Shuttle continues to drive extraordinary economic, environmental, and quality of life benefits for downtown Denver." ###
07.01.2010	Website Mandated as Part of Health Reform Statute Enables Consumers and Small Businesses to Easily Find Health Care Information and Shop for InsuranceWASHINGTON – Congresswoman Diana DeGette (CO-1) today applauded the launch of HealthCare.gov, a revolutionary health care resource, which offers the first comprehensive tool to help individuals and small businesses navigate the complicated process of shopping for health insurance. The website also hosts a wealth of clear, jargon-free information on health care and insurance. It was one of the key consumer-focused features included in the health insurance reform legislation signed into law in March.“Today marks a meaningful step in our efforts to bring access to affordable health care to all Americans,” said DeGette. “This website empowers consumers and small businesses to be in better control of their health care by providing the first comprehensive health insurance online search function. Whether you’re a small business owner, a family who has recently lost insurance or someone with a pre-existing condition – this site can give you a list of insurance options available to meet your needs. Finally Colorado’s families and small businesses can easily search for available insurance options and make informed decisions about their health care with thorough, unbiased information.”While the website provides a full range of health care information, like useful advice to live a healthier life, the core of the new website is the powerful insurance options finder. After users input a few pieces of background information – such as state, age range, and current insurance status – the tool generates a list of both private and public health insurance options. The tool lists details of insurance plans offered in that state, and includes contact information for each company so consumers can contact the companies that best fit their needs. Beginning in October, the tool will also include pricing information, further simplifying health insurance shopping.“The insurance options finder actually creates a marketplace of transparency and competition,” continued DeGette. “With the addition of plan price estimates in October, HealthCare.gov will enable consumers to compare both the quality and the cost of their health insurance options so they can choose what plan works best for them. Not only will this website expand consumer choice, it will increase competition among insurers to offer better quality and more affordable coverage.”The insurance options finder has a database of over 3 billion scenarios, with listings from more than 1000 insurance carriers and over 5500 insurance products. The website also hosts over 500 new pages of content, such as a health care reform implementation timeline and state-by-state information for individuals with pre-existing conditions. # # #
06.30.2010	WASHINGTON – Today, Congresswoman Diana DeGette (CO-1) put America’s main streets ahead of Wall Street, by voting for legislation that ends taxpayer bailouts of big banks and creates a consumer financial protection bureau. The Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (H.R.4173) will end the era of abuses by "too big to fail" banks that have cost the American people eight million jobs and $17 trillion in retirement savings and net worth. The bill was publicly debated for more than 50 hours, and includes over 70 Republican and bipartisan amendments. "Since December 2007, millions of hard-working Americans have lost their jobs, their homes and their retirement security, and the blame for that disastrous situation rests largely at the feet of Wall Street banks who let America’s families and small businesses pay the price for their recklessness," said DeGette. "This bill is a huge step in the right direction to finally put Main Street ahead of Wall Street and make sure that recklessness cannot happen again. This reform will empower consumers, protect our families from fraud, and provide Coloradans with better financial security moving forward." The Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act will help prevent the risky financial practices that led to the financial meltdown and stop large financial firms from gambling with Americans’ retirement and college savings and home values. In addition, taxpayers will no longer pay the price for Wall Street’s irresponsibility. The bill creates a process to shut down large failing firms whose collapse would put the entire economy at risk. After exhausting all of the company’s assets, additional costs would be covered by a "dissolution fund," to which all large financial firms would contribute. The bill will create the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB), a new consumer watchdog devoted to protecting Americans from unfair and abusive financial practices. This independent bureau will provide clear and accurate information to families and small businesses to ensure that bank loans, mortgages, and credit cards are fair and affordable. The CFPB will set safety standards to prevent practices such as hidden credit card fees, deceptive "fine print," and other financial abuses that have escaped oversight so far. The bill has been called the "strongest set of Wall Street reforms in three generations" by Elizabeth Warren, Chair of the nonpartisan Congressional Oversight Panel, and has been endorsed by the AARP, Consumer Federation of America, Consumers Union, Council of Institutional Investors, National Fair Housing Alliance, National Restaurant Association, Public Citizen, SEIU, and US PIRG, among other organizations. # # #
06.25.2010	WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Diana DeGette (CO-1) issued the following statement in response to the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) Energy Initiative interim report, The Future of Natural Gas, released today. The report recommended greater regulations of natural gas development including to "require the complete disclosure of all components of hydraulic fracture fluids." This is consistent with the disclosure provisions in Congresswoman DeGette’s FRAC Act (Fracturing Responsibility and Awareness of Chemicals Act), which would require public disclosure of fracking fluid components, but not companies’ proprietary formulas. "The findings of the MIT Study provide further objective support for the importance of disclosure in conducting safe and responsible natural gas exploration. As a Representative from Colorado, I support developing domestic natural gas, demonstrated in this report as an important bridge fuel to a cleaner economy. But as we have seen from the tragedy in the Gulf, we must have reasonable regulations on the oil and gas industry to ensure that energy exploration is done safely. Around the country, including in my home state of Colorado, cases are emerging of residents, workers, and health care employees becoming ill after fracking operations began in their communities. Without disclosure, it is difficult to assess whether these incidents are from fracking chemicals or not. Quite simply, the American public has a right to know what chemicals are being used in their communities, particularly if those chemicals threaten their water supply. As one of the most distinguished research entities in the world, MIT’s report and recommendations underscore the importance of achieving disclosure – to safeguard our drinking water, to protect our communities, and to drive safer energy exploration across the nation." ###
06.24.2010	Advocates for Permanent Fix WASHINGTON – U.S. Representative Diana DeGette (D-CO) issued the following statement regarding House passage of the Preservation of Access to Care for Medicare Beneficiaries Ace (H.R. 3962): "For too long the physicians who care for America’s seniors have had to live in limbo, while we in Congress attempted to stave off – month-to-month - the 21% cut in Medicare payments that went into effect June 1. Today, that limbo is finally set to end, as we send the Preservation of Access to Care for Medicare Beneficiaries Act to President Obama’s desk. Often referred to as the SGR (Sustainable Growth Rate) Fix, the Act will retroactively reverse the cut back to June 1, while also providing a 2.2 percent update to physician payments. However, while Colorado doctors and physicians around the nation can breathe a sigh of relief today, that relief will be short-lived. The extension expires November 30, and unless we in Congress finally take the crucial measure of developing a permanent solution, doctors will once again be forced to return hat-in-hand. Before the next expiration we must fight for doctors across the US, so we can ensure that America’s seniors continue to receive the quality care they deserve." ###
06.24.2010	WASHINGTON – U.S. Representative Diana DeGette (D-CO) today offered the following statement after voting for the DISCLOSE Act (Democracy is Strengthened by Casting Light on Spending in Elections Act) H.R.5175: "The DISCLOSE Act passed by the House today will help shine a light on the role of special interests by increasing disclosure and strengthening transparency in federal campaigns, so business and special interests cannot have a greater voice than the American individual. From the collapse of Wall Street to the current spill in the Gulf, Americans have great reason to be distrustful of the influence corporations have over elections and, therefore, their Representatives in Washington. That is why the Citizens United Supreme Court decision came as a shock to those of us committed to protecting our democracy from excessive influence that is bought and paid for. The Citizens United decision opened the door to a flood of new campaign spending from corporations without disclosure or accountability, diminishing the voice of the average American voter. The DISCLOSE Act passed today will go a long way towards bringing transparency and accountability back to the federal electoral process, preserving the integrity of our elections from foreign companies or from corporations striving to have greater influence over our government. It enables our nation’s citizens to know exactly which corporation or interest group is paying for the political advertisements aimed at influencing their vote, and prevents foreign governments, TARP recipients and government contractors from making any political expenditures. While I remain concerned about the exemption in the bill for certain organizations, I continue to be committed to the greater good accomplished by achieving transparency and accountability in the electoral process, and securing the power of the American voter in our democracy." ###
06.22.2010	One Year after Tobacco Control Act’s Passage, New Rules Crack Down on Tobacco Marketing to Kids; Mandate Clearer Labeling WASHINGTON – Today, Congresswoman Diana DeGette (CO-1) applauded tough new rules that take effect today cracking down on tobacco marketing and sales to children, as well as rules requiring much larger health warning labels on smokeless tobacco products and banning the use of deceptive “light” or “low-tar” labels on cigarettes.“Tobacco is one of the deadliest products sold legally, responsible for more than 400,000 deaths a year and the number one cause of preventable death in the U.S.,” said DeGette. “The tobacco industry spends more than $12 billion a year in marketing to convince people to become addicted, and perhaps most egregious has, for decades, targeted young people through its marketing techniques. The law taking effect today finally brings to an end the offensive tactics used by tobacco companies to manipulate young people and hook a new generation on their deadly products.” The Family Smoking Prevention and Tobacco Control Act was signed into law on June 22, 2009, and many key provisions of the law go into effect today – one year after the date of enactment. Currently, every day, more than 3,500 young people try a cigarette for the first time, and another 1,000 will become new, regular daily smokers. One-third of these youth will eventually die prematurely as a result. Taking effect today are key provisions of the Act that crack down on the industry’s ability to hook young people on their deadly products. These provisions include banning all remaining tobacco-brand sponsorships of sports and entertainment events; banning virtually all “giveaways” of non-tobacco items – like hats and t-shirts – with the purchase of tobacco; and prohibiting the sale of cigarettes in packs of less than 20. The Act also requires that all stores place cigarettes and other tobacco products behind the counter; and restricts vending machines and self-service displays to adult-only facilities. As opposed to the current state-by-state bans on the sale of tobacco products to people under 18, the Act today extends that ban nationally.In addition to cracking down on marketing to young people, many provisions mandating larger and more honest labeling also go into to effect. The Act, starting today, bans terms like “light,” “mild,” or “low-tar,” which have long erroneously implied to smokers that these products help reduce the risk from smoking. The Act also requires larger warning labels for smokeless tobacco, mandating that warnings must cover 30 percent of package display panels and 20 percent of advertising.“While we still have a long way to go, today marks an important step in stemming the scourge of tobacco addiction. I have long supported Food and Drug Administration (FDA) regulation of tobacco products, and now that they have that ability, the FDA has been able to do a lot over the last year since the Act became law. As these key provisions take effect today, I am confident this will improve health and save lives.”###
06.18.2010	WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Diana DeGette (D-CO) took another step to help Coloradans rebuild their economic footing, by voting yesterday for legislation that leverages $30 billion in lending for small businesses and creates hundreds of thousands of jobs. The Small Business Jobs and Credit Act will expand much-needed lending to small businesses and offer tax incentives to help America’s small businesses grow. "This legislation is yet another part of our ongoing effort to create jobs for Colorado and our nation and re-build our economy," said DeGette. "Over the past 15 years, small businesses have created two-thirds of the new jobs in our country. Yet last year, almost half of the small businesses seeking loans were unable to receive the credit they needed. To bring back America’s Main Streets we must strengthen the small businesses that are the engine of our economic recovery, and this legislation will do just that." The Small Business Jobs and Credit Act (H.R.5297) will help small businesses expand through investments in states and small banks that focus on lending to local small businesses. This new $30 billion lending fund, with tough performance-based incentives and safeguards to ensure that funds go to American small business, will spur job creation across America. The bill will also help cultivate American innovation through a new public-private partnership designed to channel early stage investment capital to promising new start-ups. The Act also offers tax incentives to spur immediate investments in America’s small businesses. These reforms will lower the capital gains taxes on small business investments, and increase tax deductions to help entrepreneurs to recover more start-up expenses. The Act is fully paid for and will actually save taxpayers $1 billion over the next ten years. The Small Business Jobs and Credit Act has been endorsed by a variety of organizations, including the National Small Business Association, the Small Business Majority, National Association of Realtors, the Conference of State Bank Supervisors, the American Bankers Association, Biotechnology Industry Organization and the National Bankers Association. # # #
06.07.2010	LOUISIANA – Today, Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-1) completed a two-day visit to the Gulf of Mexico, to witness first-hand the devastation to the region following the Deepwater Horizon oil spill. On Sunday, DeGette joined with other Members of the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations to tour the marshes impacted by the spilling oil over the last 49 days. Today, DeGette and her colleagues heard testimony from widows of men killed in the April 20 explosion, as well as from small businesses and community advocates struggling to address the challenges created by this tragedy. "The Deepwater Horizon explosion and oil spill is a national tragedy, but as we are seeing here, its local effects are felt far more acutely," said DeGette as today’s hearing opened. "More and more, it is apparent that this catastrophe was a man-made ‘perfect storm.’ We’re going to get to the bottom of what happened that day so it never happens again – so we never have to face the loss of human lives; the loss of ecosystems; the loss of economies; the loss of jobs – that has been the result." Rep. DeGette questioned two panels of impacted individuals from the Gulf Coast region. The first panel provided perspective on the realities of working on the rig, from Natalie Roshto of Liberty, M.S., and Courtney Kemp of Jonesville, L.A., two widows whose husbands were killed in the Deepwater Horizon explosion. The second panel spoke to the business and environmental impact of the spill with testimony from: Kelby Linn, Owner, ACP Real Estate, Inc., and Vice President, Dauphin Island Chamber of Commerce; Clarence Duplessis, Braithwaite, Louisiana; Moby Solangi, Ph.D., President and Executive Director, Institute of Marine Mammal Services; and Wilma Subra, President, Subra Company. In today’s hearing, DeGette heard testimony regarding the failures of preparedness on the rig, including the need for better emergency training; the gaps in the chain of command, particularly between BP staff and their subcontractors’ staff; the environmental impact of dispersant on the wildlife, including the specific devastation from the dolphins’ current birthing season; the health hazards to workers cleaning up the spill who have not received proper equipment from BP; and the immediate economic devastation to local communities. In one of the most revealing exchanges, Kelby Linn of Dauphin Island expressed frustration with the cumbersome process of filing economic loss claims, and the seemingly insurmountable challenges of recovering what’s been lost. Linn told Rep. DeGette, "We as individuals with small businesses? We do not have a chance of fighting BP. We will not win that battle. But you guys? You guys can help us." "And we intend to help you," responded DeGette. "We’re going to stay on this until we do." Last evening, Rep. DeGette toured the marshes outside of Venice, LA to survey the direct impact of the oil on the Gulf Coast’s ecosystem. She described the significance of seeing the oil covering the marshes’ sensitive vegetation, and the smell of oil in the air. "Witnessing the miles and miles of devastation first-hand, underscores the reality that this is a massive environmental disaster we are going to be living with for many years to come." ###
05.27.2010	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (D-CO) today offered the following statement after the House passage of a measure that would repeal the military’s "Don’t Ask Don’t Tell" policy, pending a Pentagon review: "The passage today of the compromise allowing openly gay soldiers to serve in the military is a major step towards full equality for every man and woman defending our country. For too long, these brave soldiers have had to put their lives on the line for our nation, while the policies of that same nation forced them to hide their true selves. Our major Western allies have long realized the cruelty of denying capable men and women the right to serve their country based solely on their sexual orientation and as the leader of the free world, it is time for the U.S. to catch up. Today’s pivotal step comes too late to bring justice for the more than 13,000 men and women already forced out of service, but hopefully those patriots recognize how their sacrifice paved the way for future soldiers to ultimately achieve equality. I have fervently supported an immediate repeal of ‘Don’t Ask Don’t Tell,’ but today’s vote will finally begin to strike down one of the remaining legal discriminations left scarring our national laws." ###
05.19.2010	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (D-CO) today offered the following statement on Secretary of the Interior Ken Salazar’s announcement of the restructuring of the Minerals Management Service: "In light of the recent crisis in the Gulf, I am pleased Secretary Salazar has taken the long overdue step of reorganizing the Minerals Management Service (MMS). MMS serves an invaluable role in the regulation and oversight of all drilling activities – both offshore and onshore. As discussions continue regarding the expansion of offshore drilling, as well as the increased extraction of natural gas within the US, we must ensure that MMS has an effective and transparent mission to keep those drilling initiatives safe. Separating enforcement from revenue is a best management practice that will help achieve that goal. The spill in the Gulf is, unfortunately, yet another challenge faced by this agency and its employees in recent years. But this reorganization should finally provide a clear and precise mission for the hard-working MMS employees who operate with integrity and commitment every day." ###
05.10.2010	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (D-CO) today offered the following statement on President Barack Obama’s nomination of Solicitor General Elena Kagan as the next Supreme Court Justice: "In nominating Elena Kagan as the next Supreme Court Justice, President Obama today made an outstanding choice for the Court and for our nation," said DeGette. "With a distinguished record of accomplishment as a Supreme Court clerk, dean of Harvard Law School, and the first female Solicitor General, Kagan will bring a unique and thoughtful perspective to the Court. Kagan’s fair-mindedness and unparalleled ability to build consensus will serve her well on the Court, as will her unwavering commitment to understanding how the law impacts the lives of all Americans. She will be an important voice on a Court that will continue to confront the pressing issues of our time, from civil liberties to the environment, from consumer protection to a woman’s right to choose. Regarded as a first-rate legal scholar and universally respected for her integrity and passion for the law, Kagan’s leadership will help provide sound judgment at this critical time in our nation’s history, while she would make history as one of a record three female justices sitting on the Court. I look forward to the U.S. Senate’s confirmation of Solicitor General Kagan as the next Supreme Court Justice." ###
05.04.2010	WASHINGTON – This morning, the White House and Department of Education announced that Kalamazoo Central High School in Kalamazoo, MI has won the Race to the Top Commencement Challenge and will welcome President Barack Obama as their commencement speaker this spring. The competition was announced in late February and over one thousand schools submitted applications. Applications were judged based on the schools performance, four essay questions and supplemental data. This resulted in the selection of six semi-finalists. Between April 26th and April 29th, more than 170,000 people voted on the finalists’ videos through the White House website. DSST was chosen along with two other finalists, Clark Montessori Junior & Senior High School in Cincinnati, OH, and Kalamazoo Central High School in Kalamazoo, MI“Congratulations to Kalamazoo Central High School for their success and having the honor of President Obama addressing their graduating class,” Rep. DeGette said. “All of the finalists should be extremely proud for being selected from over one thousand schools nationally. The Denver School of Science and Technology has much to be proud of, and it was inspiring to see the students, teachers, staff and parents come together throughout this process. As states and school districts look for innovative strategies to improve schools, DSST will serve as a powerful example of what a public charter school can accomplish.” ###
05.03.2010	Washington, D.C., -- Today U.S. Representative Diana DeGette (D-CO) and U.S. Senator Mark Udall (D-CO) sent a letter to President Barack Obama to highlight the Denver School of Science and Technology (DSST) as the most worthy candidate for his delivery of a commencement speech in the Race to the Top Commencement Challenge. The competition was announced in late February and over one thousand schools submitted applications. Applications were judged based on the schools performance, four essay questions and supplemental data. This resulted in the selection of six semi-finalists. Between April 26th and April 29th, more than 170,000 people voted on the finalists videos through the White House website. DSST was chosen along with two other finalists, Clark Montessori Junior & Senior High School in Cincinnati, OH, and Kalamazoo Central High School in Kalamazoo, MI. The winner will be selected Tuesday, May 4, 2010, and will be announced through https://www.whitehouse.gov/commencement . "Being named a finalist from a pool of over one thousand high schools nationwide is truly a testament to the success of the teachers, students, staff, and parents who work together to foster academic excellence at DSST," said Rep. DeGette. “These students deserve credit for all their hard work and welcoming President Obama to Denver for commencement would be a great way to send all the graduates off to college.” "DSST students, teachers and administrators worked extremely hard to become one of the highest-achieving high schools in the state, and they definitely deserve the honor of welcoming President Obama as their commencement speaker," Senator Udall said. "DSST's commitment to excellence and legacy of innovative learning is an inspiration to schools across the country." The text of the letter can be found here.
04.23.2010	DENVER – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (D-CO), Vice Chair of the Committee on Energy and Commerce, announced that Seiji Hewson, a student at Colorado’s Finest Alternative Arts School, won the 2010 First Congressional District Arts Competition. As part of the award, Mr. Hewson’s pencil and watercolor piece titled “The Lost World”, will be displayed in the Cannon Tunnel of the United States Capitol in Washington, D.C. He will also accompany Rep. DeGette to a special reception.The First Congressional District Arts Competition is part of a nationwide program entitled An Artistic Discovery, in which Members of Congress raise awareness of the importance of art education by recognizing outstanding art students from their Congressional Districts. “I am pleased to award Seiji Hewson the Grand Prize Award and the honor of having his work displayed in the U.S Capitol.” Said Rep. DeGette, “I was overwhelmed by the quality of art from all the students in this year’s competition and am proud of our Denver area high school’s art education programs” # # #
03.22.2010	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (D-CO), Vice Chair of the Committee on Energy and Commerce, today applauded passage of historic health care legislation to provide Americans with access to affordable health insurance coverage. By a vote of (219 to 212) on the Senate Amendments to the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (H.R. 3590) and a subsequent vote of (220 to 211) on the Health Care and Education Affordability Reconciliation Act of 2010 (H.R. 4872), final health reform legislation was cleared for action in the Senate. “We took a giant step toward ending a decades-long struggle to provide health care coverage for the citizens of this country who, despite their best efforts, cannot afford health insurance,” said Rep. DeGette. “Countless children and people suffering from chronic conditions will soon see the benefits of this legislation. Today we are closer to ending the strangle-hold of rising health care costs on our country and making health insurance coverage a reality for the more than 30 million who feel the needless shame and pain of going without,” she said.Numerous provisions of the health reform legislation will take effect immediately, including providing small business tax credits to make employee coverage more affordable; prohibiting health plans from denying coverage to children with pre?existing conditions; banning lifetime limits on coverage; and requiring health plans to allow young people up to their 26th birthday to remain on their parents’ insurance policy, at the parents’ choice.In the First Congressional District of Colorado, an analysis of the health care reform bill estimates it will: · Improve coverage for 365,000 residents with health insurance. · Give tax credits and other assistance to up to 181,000 families and 21,600 small businesses to help them afford coverage. · Improve Medicare for 80,000 beneficiaries, including closing the donut hole. · Extend coverage to 104,500 uninsured residents. · Guarantee that 18,500 residents with pre-existing conditions can obtain coverage. · Protect 1,300 families from bankruptcy due to unaffordable health care costs. · Allow 52,000 young adults to obtain coverage on their parents’ insurance plans. · Provide millions of dollars in new funding for 52 community health centers. · Reduce the cost of uncompensated care for hospitals and other health care providers by $54 million annually. U.S. Rep. DeGette’s remarks on the floor of the House of Representatives may also be found by clicking here.
03.22.2010	WASHINGTON – This evening, U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (D-CO), Vice Chair of the Energy and Commerce Committee, delivered a speech on the House floor supporting historic health reform legislation. Below are U.S. Rep. DeGette’s remarks as prepared for delivery:“Madame Speaker, just as when building a house, you have to first put down a foundation. Today, we are laying the foundation for a health care system that will provide every American access to high-quality care. “A foundation that will immediately ban insurance companies from dropping people from coverage when they get sick—people like my childhood friend who lost his insurance when he got prostate cancer and later died too soon. “A foundation that will, beginning this year will give tax credits to small businesses so they can offer affordable coverage to their employees; a foundation that will NOW give parents of young adults the ability to keep their kids on their policies while they start their careers; a foundation that will finally give adults with pre-existing conditions the ability to buy affordable insurance. “And starting right away, insurance companies cannot exclude children like my own young daughter who have chronic conditions, such as diabetes or asthma, from coverage.“Madame Speaker, this bill is just a foundation—we still need to build upon it. But it sets up a good, strong, foundation—one that will serve us now and in the years to come. Vote yes on this historic bill.” ###
03.18.2010	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (D-CO), Vice Chair of the Committee on Energy and Commerce, praised EPA’s announcement today that it is re-allocating $1.9 million for a comprehensive study of hydraulic fracturing. “I applaud EPA’s decision to undertake a comprehensive study of the potential environmental impacts of hydraulic fracturing. Such an effort has never truly been done. In 2004, EPA conducted a review of the issue that stopped short of the full scientific assessment and independent analysis that is required. This study may be a challenge, given that companies are not currently required to disclose the chemicals used in hydraulic fracturing fluids. But it will be a significant step in ensuring that our nation’s drinking water supply is protected. I look forward to working with EPA to provide the resources it needs to conduct a full evaluation of this important issue.” Rep. DeGette’s FRAC Act would reverse a 2005 exemption removing hydraulic fracturing from the Safe Drinking Water Act, and would require disclosure of the chemical constituents used in the fracking process. # # #
03.11.2010	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (D-CO), Vice Chair of the Committee on Energy and Commerce and member of the Committee on Natural Resources, released this statement on today’s hearing on H.R. 4289, Colorado Wilderness Act of 2009.“After 10 long years I am proud that the Colorado Wilderness Act has finally received a hearing in the U.S. Congress. This balanced and well-researched citizen wilderness bill was brought to me by Coloradans committed to protecting the few remaining wild places in our state. Colorado’s open spaces and wilderness lands are central to our lifestyle, quality of life and essential to our state’s economy, bringing in millions of tourist dollars every year. Wilderness is also vital for providing wildlife habitat and protecting our natural ecosystems. ” The Colorado Wilderness Act of 2009 would add 34 areas consisting of roughly 850,000 acres to the National Wilderness Preservation System. Many of these areas are lower lying canyons and lower elevation desert terrain that are not well represented among Colorado’s wilderness areas. DeGette’s proposal includes Colorado gems such as the striking outcroppings of the Palisade in Mesa County, the grassy hillsides of Castle Peak in Eagle County, and the vital riparian areas and wildlife habitats of Beaver Creek near Colorado Springs. “The areas in my bill are ripe for wilderness designation, and I am pleased that we took an important step towards protecting these areas with today’s hearing. I look forward to working with local residents and leaders, and all members of the Congressional delegation going forward to continue to refine this proposal.” The bill would leave unaffected over 90% of BLM-managed lands, which would remain open to oil and gas drilling, mining, off-road vehicle use and other development. The proposal has amassed significant local support over the last decade. It has been endorsed by 350 Colorado businesses and organizations from across the state. Fourteen Colorado counties and municipalities have expressed their support for wilderness. In a 2007 poll conducted by Talmey-Drake Research & Strategy, over 70% of Coloradans supported additional wilderness designation, including majorities from all parts of the state and from both political parties. Over 90% of Coloradans agreed that wilderness was important for the tourism it supports, and 71% agreed that wilderness-quality lands should not be sacrificed for energy development. For maps and detailed descriptions of the Colorado Wilderness Act please visit: /we-recently-redesigned-our-site.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=844&Itemid=189 # # #
03.09.2010	Creates Lasting Ethical Framework for all Human Stem Cell Research WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Reps. Diana DeGette (D-CO), Vice Chair of the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and Michael Castle (R-DE), both chief architects of legislation to expand federal funding of embryonic stem cell research, the current policy at the NIH under President Obama's Executive Order, today will introduce bipartisan stem cell research legislation—the Stem Cell Research Advancement Act—to ensure a lasting ethical framework overseeing stem cell research at the National Institutes of Health (NIH). “I am grateful that one year ago today, President Barack Obama asserted U.S. leadership in stem cell research by lifting President George W. Bush’s ban on embryonic stem cell research,” said Rep. DeGette. “But Congress must still enact legislation so that both scientists and individuals who stand to benefit from the promise of this research will have some stability backing their quest for life-changing cures. Since the President’s Executive Order establishing a guidelines process for ethical human stem cell research, the NIH has approved 43 stem cell lines eligible for federal funding. I am committed to codifying the process set out in the President’s Executive Order and ensuring that stem cell lines such as these remain eligible as we look to the future.”“I continue to share in the view of so many scientists that stem cell research holds great promise for alleviating the suffering of the 100 million American patients living with devastating diseases for which there are no good treatments or cures," said Rep. Castle. "The President's Executive Order lifted restrictions that allowed important research to move forward, but Congress must act to ensure that an over-arching ethical framework is signed into law. Congresswoman DeGette and I will work to advance bipartisan, bicameral consensus for passing this important complementary legislation.” The Stem Cell Research Advancement Act builds on President Barack Obama's Executive Order overturning former President Bush’s restrictions on federal funding of embryonic stem cell research. Several years have passed since H.R. 810 / H.R. 3, the Stem Cell Research Enhancement Act was initially written, passed, and twice vetoed. During that time, the field of human stem cell research has progressed steadily. Just as President Barack Obama did on March 9, 2009, through the issuance of Executive Order 13505 “Removing Barriers to Responsible Scientific Research Involving Human Stem Cells”, Congress must do its job to promote the full potential for stem cell therapies by establishing a lasting framework for National Institutes of Health (NIH) leadership and research in this area.To ensure it is current with the ever-expanding field of stem cell research and consistent with the President's Executive Order, the Stem Cell Research Advancement Act retains the strong ethical requirements for embryonic stem cell research; requires NIH to maintain guidelines on all human stem cell research; requires NIH to review the guidelines at least every three years and make periodic updates to the guidelines as scientifically warranted; bans the use of federal funding for human cloning under the NIH guidelines; and requires a biennial report to Congress on the research. Under this legislation the NIH is required to ensure the guidelines it published on July 7, 2009, in accordance with President Obama’s Executive Order, are periodically reviewed, and are ethically responsible, scientifically worthy, and compliant with all applicable laws. It will help to ensure that scientists, businesses, and investors are guaranteed regulatory consistency and transparency as the field of human stem cell research continues to evolve. ###
03.04.2010	WASHINGTION –U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (D-CO), Vice Chair of the Committee on Energy and Commerce, supported H.R. 2487, the Hiring Incentives to Restore Employment (HIRE) Act, which passed on a bipartisan vote of 217 – 201. “It is vitally important that we continue to support job creation. In February 2009, I voted for the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act in order to support ailing state budgets, make critical investments in energy, health, and broadband technology, and save much-needed jobs. The HIRE Act builds on the success of the Recovery Act by encouraging job creation and investments in infrastructure. Getting Americans back to work will continue to be one of my top priorities.”The $15 billion HIRE Act includes a payroll tax holiday for businesses that hire unemployed workers, to create some 300,000 jobs, and an income tax credit of $1,000 for businesses that retain these employees. Further, it includes tax cuts to help small businesses purchase equipment that supports hiring new workers, an extension of the Highway Trust Fund allowing for tens of billions of dollars in infrastructure investment, and expands the popular Build American Bonds program which Colorado has effectively used to finance infrastructure projects. The House did make some minor changes to the Senate legislation to ensure that the bill does not add to the budget deficit, that small businesses can take advantage of the payroll tax holiday, and increase the bond subsidy for states. ###
03.04.2010	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (D-CO), congratulated the State of Colorado today as one of the 16 finalists for the U.S. Department of Education’s Race to the Top competition. The awards given are estimated to be between $20 and $700 million. Colorado’s proposal requests $377 million to be used over four years for innovative school reform.“I congratulate Colorado for being named a finalist today. Colorado has been at the forefront of education innovation and reform and this funding could greatly assist our State’s ongoing efforts to better educate our students and reward and retain our high achieving teachers and principals. I know Lieutenant Governor Barbara O’Brien and her team will be well prepared when they come to Washington, D.C. to present Colorado’s proposal.”The Race to the Top funds were provided under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, which U.S. Rep. DeGette supported, and was signed into law in Denver on February 17, 2009. For more information about Race to the Top: https://www2.ed.gov/programs/racetothetop/index.html ###
02.24.2010	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (D-CO), Vice Chair of the Committee on Energy and Commerce, praised today’s passage of the Health Insurance Industry Fair Competition Act (H.R. 4626). This legislation would repeal the McCarran-Ferguson Act exemption from U.S. antitrust laws and subject health insurers to the same good-competition laws that apply to virtually every other company doing business in the United States. Rep. DeGette was an original cosponsor of similar legislation approved by the House Judiciary Committee. She also worked to secure similar provisions in the health insurance reform passed on November 7 by a vote of 220-215..“Competition is a value that has been unwelcome in the health insurance industry. As health insurance premiums continue to skyrocket across the country, we can no longer tolerate the exemption of health insurers from our antitrust laws,” said DeGette. “I have worked closely with my colleagues to pass this legislation to ensure that places like Pueblo, Colorado, where over 75 percent of the market is controlled by one insurance company, can have more choices in the future. This bill will give the federal government the tools it needs to inject competition into the health insurance market, and I am pleased to see this important legislation move forward.” # # #
02.22.2010	Washington, D.C. – Today the Colorado Congressional Delegation sent a letter to VA Secretary Eric Shinseki seeking support and funding to build a new 20-bed stand-alone Fisher House near the new VA Medical Center at the Anschutz Medical Campus in Aurora. The Fisher House will provide on-site residential housing facilities for families of active duty and veteran patients receiving care at the VA Medical Center. The delegation stated in their letter, “construction of a new VA Medical Center in Aurora, Colorado, is the fulfillment of this nation’s long-standing commitment to our Colorado veterans and their families. That commitment also extends to the families of our active duty service members, as well as veterans. …. We urge your support for this project and the acceleration of the construction schedule to ensure that the Fisher House will be ready to serve the families of those who served this nation with honor.” Over the years, Fisher Houses across the world have provided free short-term residential housing services to over 10,000 families at a savings to the families of veterans and service members of over hundreds of millions of dollars. ###
02.18.2010	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (D-CO), Vice Chair of the Committee on Energy and Commerce, today applauded the Committee’s intent to investigate hydraulic fracturing:“I welcome today's announcement of an investigation into hydraulic fracturing practices. I am particularly troubled by the revelation that companies have been using diesel fuel, apparently in violation of the Memorandum of Agreement with EPA. Natural gas is an important fuel for our energy future, but we must ensure that the way we retrieve natural gas does not endanger drinking water. My hydraulic fracturing bill, the FRAC Act, strikes the right balance between energy development and protecting the public’s water sources.” The Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Energy and the Environment today announced that Chairman Henry Waxman and Chairman Ed Markey are sending letters to eight oil and gas service companies regarding their hydraulic fracturing practices. Attached is a memorandum regarding the FRAC Act. # # #
02.04.2010	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (D-CO), Vice Chair of the Committee on Energy and Commerce, supported H.J.Res. 45, the Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Act 2009, which passed on a vote of 233 to 187. “To put our economy back on track, we must not view investments in job creation and reducing the federal deficit as mutually exclusive,” said DeGette. “Still, we cannot continue to spend into the red further ballooning our deficit for future generations. After years of fiscal irresponsibility, I am proud to support the Houses’ “pay-as-you-go” (PAYGO) rules that requires Congress to offset all new policies that reduce revenues or expand entitlement spending over five and ten years. Just as millions of American families have learned, we should not be spending money we do not have.” # # #
01.27.2010	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (D-CO), Vice Chair of the Committee on Energy and Commerce, today offered the following response to President Barack Obama’s State of the Union Address before a joint session of Congress: “It’s no secret that our country has experienced troubled economic times. Beginning with the Recovery Act, the Obama Administration and Congress have begun the process of putting our country and our economy back on track. Yet, more work is still needed. The president tonight renewed his commitment to a new long-term economic strategy that will stabilize our economy by creating jobs and reducing the deficit. “Our ballooning federal deficit cannot continue into the red, and the creation of an bipartisan fiscal commission to recommend additional ways to cut it is the right path forward. I pledge to continue to support fully paid-for programs under the House’s pay-go rules ensuring the strong fiscal health of our country. I also support the president’s call for bipartisan solutions and urge the Senate to consider important pieces of legislation already passed by the House, such as comprehensive food safety legislation, energy independence legislation, and the House-passed jobs bill.” # # #
01.06.2010	DENVER – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (D-CO), Dean of the Colorado Congressional Delegation, offered the following comments after the withdrawal of Governor Ritter from the Gubernatorial race:“Governor Ritter has illustrated great leadership steering our state forward during turbulent economic times. As his friend, I am proud of his accomplishments as the Chief Executive of our state. While his decision to exit the gubernatorial race was extremely personal, it is one that I support.“Democrats are committed to uniting behind a dynamic candidate for the November election. I am confident that we will prevail in retaining the Governor’s seat.” # # #
12.18.2009	COPENHAGEN – As the United Nations Climate Change Conference (COP 15) in Copenhagen, Denmark comes to a close, U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (D-CO), the Vice Chair of the Committee on Energy and Commerce and a member of the official bipartisan Congressional delegation, released two blog pieces on the U.S. delegation’s activities.Day One – Thursday, December 17th Report from CopenhagenOur bipartisan House Congressional delegation arrived in Copenhagen this morning on the heels of Secretary of State Clinton's announcement that the U.S. will contribute to an international fund of $100 billion a year by the end of the next decade to assist developing countries' efforts to reduce greenhouse gasses. The announcement and arrival of the 20-member bipartisan Congressional delegation seemed to kick start discussions of at least assembling a framework of agreed-upon objectives for ratification early in 2010.Read More: https://politicswest.com/50772/report_copenhagenDay Two – Friday, December 18th Report from CopenhagenThe U.S. Congressional delegation began the final day of the Climate Change Conference in Copenhagen at a working breakfast with high-tech executives from companies such as Google and Maytag. The executives were extremely excited about the new business and green job opportunities presented by a new alternative energy and smart grid system.Read More: https://politicswest.com/50811/rep_degette_final_day_copenhagenThe blog posts are also cross-posted at Denver’s HuffingtonPost page : https://www.huffingtonpost.com/denver/Click here to read U.S. Rep. DeGette’s statement on climate change and being part of the official bipartisan Congressional delegation. # # #
12.17.2009	COPENHAGEN – As the world gathers in Copenhagen, Denmark for the United Nations Climate Change Conference (COP 15), U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (D-CO), the Vice Chair of the Committee on Energy and Commerce and a member of the official bipartisan Congressional delegation, released the following statement: “I am pleased to be a part of the Congressional delegation to this important conference in Copenhagen. Our goal is to show the world that the United States Congress is committed to tackling climate change, both in our own country and by assisting other nations on the path to sustainability,” said DeGette. “The House has already acted by passing forward-thinking legislation that aims to cut global warming pollution 83 percent by 2050, which will stimulate our economy and create green jobs and businesses. The science is clear that our climate is changing from manmade causes, and this is an historic opportunity for the world community to come together and commit to collectively addressing our common challenge.” # # #
12.16.2009	WASHINGTON – As the Natural Resources Committee approves the Ski Area Recreational Opportunity Enhancement Act of 2009 (H.R. 2476) by unanimous vote, U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (D-CO) released the following statement:“The Natural Resources Committee approved needed legislation that will expand summer recreational opportunities on our ski areas on public land, and make the common sense change of expanding allowed activities to include snow sports such as snowboarding,” said DeGette. “I look forward to moving this legislation through the House, which will encourage families and kids to spend more time outdoors, provide economic benefits to our local communities, and create stable, year-round jobs.”U.S. Rep. DeGette is the chief sponsor of the legislation. # # #
12.15.2009	WASHINGTON – With the introduction of the Comprehensive Immigration Reform for America’s Security and Prosperity (CIR ASAP) Act of 2009, U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (D-CO), a cosponsor of the legislation, released the following statement: “These comprehensive immigration reforms are much-needed to fix our broken immigration system,” said DeGette. “This bill includes the common-sense solutions that will move our immigration system towards a humane approach that will help build our economy, protect children and families, and provide for effective enforcement. I look forward to working to pass these long overdue reforms.” # # #
12.11.2009	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (D-CO) today introduced H.R. 4289, the Colorado Wilderness Act of 2009. The Act identifies 34 areas, comprising 850,000 acres, as public lands deserving protection in Colorado:“I am proud to introduce the Colorado Wilderness Act of 2009. For the last decade, I have introduced legislation to protect wilderness quality public land across Colorado. During that time, we have seen many of our state’s special places and wilderness quality areas come under increasing pressure of being lost forever. “The Colorado Wilderness Act of 2009 would protect 34 areas, comprising a total of 850,000 acres. The Act is a balanced proposal that will protect just over 1% of Colorado’s total land area. The proposal was carefully researched, with its wilderness qualities and boundaries established using sophisticated geographic information systems and double checked on the ground by dedicated citizen volunteers.” DeGette’s proposal includes Colorado gems such as the soaring alpine 14,000 ft. vista’s of Red Cloud Peak, the red rock canyons of Dolores River Canyons, and the vital riparian areas and wildlife habitats of Beaver Creek near Colorado Springs. The Colorado Wilderness Act of 2009 would preserve critical mid-elevation wilderness areas, which are not well represented in the National Wilderness Preservation System. “The areas in my bill represent some of the most cherished and magnificent public lands in our state, and it is my strong belief that we must conserve these areas for future generations. Colorado has a remarkable outdoor heritage, and it is the outdoors that will remain central to our economy and lifestyle.” There is strong public support for protecting wilderness areas in Colorado. In a recent Wilderness Society poll, over 70% of Coloradoans support more Colorado wilderness and wild lands. For maps and detailed descriptions of the Colorado Wilderness Act please visit: /we-recently-redesigned-our-site.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=844&Itemid=189 # # #
12.11.2009	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (D-CO), Vice Chair of the Committee on Energy and Commerce, released the following statement after the House of Representatives passed the Consolidated Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year 2010:“President Obama has signed five of the 12 annual appropriations bills for this year. Today Congress passed a consolidated appropriations act combining six additional bills that provide funding for the Departments of Transportation, Housing and Urban Development, Commerce, Justice, Labor, Health and Human Services, Education, and Veterans Affairs, as well as funding numerous other government agencies. With this action, we are very close to completing our work and funding the government for 2010.“Within this Act, I fought for several projects for the First Congressional District. I am pleased that, in addition to the $500,000 that I secured for the City of Denver's Neighborhood Weatherization initiative earlier this year, our residents will benefit from major investments in our transportation, public health, and education infrastructure.”The following projects sponsored by U.S. Rep. DeGette will receive funding through the 2010 Consolidated Appropriations Act:· Denver Health and Hospital Authority, Denver, CO for facilities and equipment - $500,000· RTD West Corridor Light Rail Transit (LRT) - $90 Million · I-70 Central Park Boulevard and Stapleton Interchange - $1 Million· Denver International Airport, west airfield taxiway improvements - $500,000· Southeast Corridor Light Rail Transit (LRT) - $10,312· Metropolitan State College, Denver, CO, for equipment and technology for its accredited aviation training program - $200,000The measure now moves to the U.S. Senate for its consideration. # # #
12.08.2009	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (D-CO), Vice Chair of the Committee on Energy and Commerce and co-chair of the Congressional Pro-Choice Caucus, released the following statement after the U.S. Senate voted to table the Nelson amendment:“I am delighted the U.S. Senate has rejected an extreme amendment that would have turned back the clock on a woman’s right to choose. The underlying Senate bill already prohibits federal funding of abortion. The amendment the Senate rejected today was an attempt to use health care reform to restrict women’s access to reproductive health services. Throughout the conference process, pro-choice Members will be working to ensure that health care reform legislation does not restrict abortion rights beyond current law. Over 40 Members of the House have vowed not to support a conference report that further restricts a woman’s right to choose.” Click here to read the abortion provision included in the U.S. Senate’s underlying bill. # # #
12.07.2009	WASHINGTON – As the United States prepares to engage the world on climate change in Copenhagen, U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (D-CO), Vice Chair of the Committee on Energy and Commerce, released the following statement on the Environmental Protections Agency’s (EPA) finding that greenhouse gases threaten public health and the environment:“I applaud Administrator Jackson’s decision to release a strong finding of the scientific consensus that our climate is warming, and that greenhouse gases from sources such as automobiles are the cause. This decision from our nation’s top environmental agency was a long time in coming, and I am pleased that EPA will be moving forward with important rules to protect our environment from the harmful effects of climate pollution.” # # #
12.02.2009	DeGette and Castle Praise Renewed Investment in Stem Cell Research WASHINGTON – U.S. Reps. Diana DeGette (D-CO) and Michael Castle (R-DE), the chief architects of bipartisan stem cell research legislation, released the following joint statement on the National Institutes of Health (NIH) approval of the first batch of stem cell lines in accordance with the Guidelines issued in July:“We are pleased that the NIH has approved the first batch of embryonic stem cell lines in accordance with its recently issued Guidelines. This will be the first time that lines beyond those approved by former President Bush in 2001 have been eligible for federal funding—marking a new day for stem cell research. We look forward to more lines being approved by the NIH in the coming weeks and to the approval of grants utilizing these new lines. “We look forward to working with our colleagues in Congress next year in gathering a bipartisan, bicameral consensus for finally signing into law legislation to promote the federal funding of all scientifically worthy stem cell research, so worthwhile research cannot be blocked by a future Administration.“We also would like to congratulate our friend, Dr. George Daley at Children’s Hospital in Boston, as well as researchers at Rockefeller University, who worked tirelessly to develop the lines approved today, even in the face of President Bush’s restrictions on the field for the past 8 years.”On July 7, 2009, the NIH issued final Guidelines for human stem cell research. The Guidelines were issued in response to President Barack Obama’s Executive Order 13505, issued on March 9, 2009, which called on the NIH to support and conduct scientifically worthy human stem cell research. In his speech, President Obama also called on Congress to pass bi-partisan legislation providing ongoing support for embryonic stem cell research. U.S. Reps. DeGette and Castle plan to introduce legislation in early 2010. # # #
12.02.2009	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (D-CO), Vice Chair of the Committee on Energy and Commerce Committee, today released the following statement on the Obama Administration’s new Afghanistan policy:“I am pleased that President Obama has laid out a clear strategy to end the war in Afghanistan. It is in our national security interest to stabilize the country and prevent terrorists from using Afghanistan as a base for terrorist activity. Accelerating the recruitment and training of Afghan security forces will allow Kabul to take control and responsibility for its own security more quickly. Unfortunately, these goals were long-delayed when the previous Administration was distracted by a war in Iraq. “Before I agree to support funding the President’s increased troop levels in the 2011 budget, I will closely examine the efficacy of his plan to ensure that it is stabilizing Afghanistan, and preparing the country to defend itself.” # # #
11.19.2009	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (D-CO), Vice Chair of the Committee on Energy and Commerce Committee and co-chair of the Congressional Pro-Choice Caucus, today released the following statement regarding the abortion provision included in the U.S. Senate’s Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act:“I am pleased that the U.S. Senate has maintained current law when addressing the abortion issue. By adopting a common-sense abortion provision, the U.S. Senate ensures that no federal funds will be spent on abortion coverage while not further restricting a woman’s right to choose. The health care bill is about providing access to quality health care to over 36 million Americans. I encourage the U.S. Senate to work towards producing a bill that works for everyone.” Breakdown of the U.S. Senate abortion provision:Summary:The Senate health reform bill has adopted a reasonable, common ground approach on abortion provisions. The legislation does NOT include the more extreme and restrictive Stupak-Pitts language adopted by the House. The Senate’s compromise approach closely mirrors the Capps language which was originally included in the House and Senate Finance Committee bills, with an additional provision stating that the HHS Secretary must ensure that no federal funds are used for abortion, if he/she determines that abortion should be a benefit in that plan.Key Provisions: 1. Voluntary Choice of Coverage of Abortion Services Abortion cannot be a mandated benefit as part of a minimum benefits package. A qualified health plan would determine whether it will cover: no abortions only those abortions allowed under Hyde (rape, incest and life endangerment) or abortions beyond those allowed by Hyde 2. No Federal Funds for Abortion Coverage in the Community Health Insurance Option If the Secretary chooses to cover abortion services in the public plan beyond those allowed by Hyde, he/she must: Guarantee compliance with the provision prohibiting the use of Federal funds to pay for abortions (beyond those allowed by Hyde) Guarantee that, according to three different accounting standards, no Federal funds will be used; and Take all necessary steps to ensure that the United States does not bear the insurance risk for abortions that do not meet the Hyde exceptions in the public plan. 3. State Flexibility and the Community Health Insurance Option States may require the coverage of additional benefits in the Community Health Insurance Option, but must assume costs associated with covering these benefits. A State may elect to require coverage of abortions beyond those allowed by Hyde only if no Federal funds are used for this coverage. The U.S. Government may not bear the insurance risk for a State’s required coverage of abortions beyond those allowed by Hyde. 4. Hyde Amendment Exceptions and the Community Health Insurance Option: Abortions currently permitted by Hyde shall be covered in the Community Health Insurance Option to the same extent as they are under Medicaid (only cases of rape, incest and life endangerment).5. Consumer Choice Assured Among a Variety of Plans in the Exchanges The Secretary would ensure that in each State Exchange, at least one plan provides coverage of abortions beyond those permitted by Hyde and at least one plan does not provide coverage of abortions beyond those permitted by Hyde.6. Strict Prohibition on the Use of Federal Funds to Pay for Abortion Services No tax credit or cost-sharing credits may be used to pay for abortions beyond those permitted by the Hyde Amendment (only cases of rape, incest and life endangerment).7. Segregation of Funds Issuers of health insurance plans that offer coverage for abortion beyond those permitted by the Hyde amendment must segregate from any premium and cost-sharing credits an amount of each enrollee’s private premium dollars that is determined by the Secretary to be sufficient to cover the provision of those services.8. Actuarial Value of Optional Service Coverage The HHS Secretary would be required to estimate, on an average actuarial basis, the basic per enrollee, per month cost of including coverage of abortions beyond those permitted by the Hyde Amendment. In making such estimates, the Secretary may take into account the impact of including such coverage on overall costs, but may not consider any cost reduction estimated to result from providing such abortions, such as prenatal care. In making the estimate, the Secretary would also be required to estimate the costs as if coverage were included for the entire covered population, but the costs could not be estimated at less than $1 per enrollee, per month. 9. Provider Conscience Protections No individual health care provider or health care facility may be discriminated against because of a willingness or an unwillingness, if doing so is contrary to the religious or moral beliefs of the provider or facility, to provide, pay for, provide coverage of, or refer for abortions.10. Application of State and Federal Laws No pre-emption or interference with State laws. State laws regarding the prohibition of or requirement of coverage or funding for abortions and State laws involving abortion-related procedural requirements are not preempted. The provision similarly provides that Federal conscience protections and abortion-related antidiscrimination laws would not be affected by the bill. The rights and obligations of employees and employers under Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 would also not be affected by the bill. In addition, this bill does not affect State or Federal laws, including section 1867 of the Social Security Act (EMTALA), requiring health care providers to provide emergency services. # # #
11.18.2009	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (D-CO), Vice Chair of the Committee on Energy and Commerce and co-chair of the Congressional Pro-Choice Caucus, today clarified claims made regarding the Stupak-Pitts Amendment. “The Stupak-Pitts restrictions on a woman’s right to choose are dangerous and unprecedented,” said DeGette. “They go far beyond current law by telling women they cannot use their own private dollars to purchase a health insurance plan that offers a full-range of reproductive services. The health care bill should be about providing health care to over 36 million Americans – not about further restricting a women’s right to choose.” CLAIM: The Stupak-Pitts Amendment is an extension of current law on abortion funding.REALITY: Stupak-Pitts goes far beyond current law by placing unprecedented restrictions on individuals’ use of their own private dollars. The Hyde Amendment does not apply to private funding nor does it apply to administrative costs. It has only placed limits on direct federal appropriations being used to fund abortion benefits. The Stupak Amendment expands the Hyde prohibitions on the use of federal funds for an abortion benefit to include “any part of the costs of any health plan that includes coverage of abortion.” The Hyde Amendment does not include similar, far-reaching language. Seventeen states currently provide abortion coverage in Medicaid with separate state funding.CLAIM: The original House bill allows federal funding to be used for abortions.REALITY: The original House bill preserves current law in the health insurance Exchange and establishes a segregation mechanism that would require insurance companies to reserve private premium dollars to cover abortions separate from any affordability credits. This is consistent with longstanding federal policy that requires segregation of funds in order to permit religious organizations to accept federal funds.CLAIM: Segregation of funding under the original House bill is an accounting sham.REALITY: Segregation of funding to pay for abortions is currently permitted in Medicaid. Supporters of the Stupak-Pitts Amendment claim that segregation of funds, as set out in the House bill, is not truly an extension of Hyde because funds are fungible. However, current law also allows for the segregation of funds to cover abortion under Medicaid. States are permitted to use their own funding to provide additional abortion coverage under Medicaid. CLAIM: Allowing women to purchase an abortion rider with private dollars will guarantee access to a full range of reproductive services.REALITY: There is nothing in the Stupak-Pitts Amendment to ensure that riders are available or affordable to individuals purchasing coverage in the Exchange. There is no evidence that insurance companies actually offer such riders in the five states that currently require women to purchase a separate rider for abortion coverage. It is not practical to expect women to plan ahead for an unintended pregnancy, or a pregnancy that goes terribly wrong, by purchasing a supplemental rider. Furthermore, if only women of childbearing age purchase such a rider then the premium for the rider will likely cost almost as much as the service.CLAIM: Private plans will still offer abortion coverage under Stupak-Pitts.REALITY: The Stupak-Pitts Amendment severely limits private plans’ ability to cover abortions. The Stupak-Pitts Amendment would prohibit any abortions beyond the Hyde exceptions within the public option and any plans sold in the Exchange that receive affordability credits. Although insurance companies are permitted to offer plans that cover abortion to individuals who do not receive affordability credits, it is unlikely that a health insurance company would choose to forego federal affordability credits—and the profit from the millions of newly insured individuals who will receive them—in order to be allowed to offer abortion coverage. Furthermore health insurance companies would be unlikely to even offer a plan that does receive any funding from affordability credits because the risk pool would be too small. In effect, this ensures there will not be any private plans covering abortion available to individuals and small businesses that purchase health insurance in the new Exchange.Click here to read an interview with The Atlantic with U.S. Rep. DeGette about the Amendment’s effect on a women’s right to choose. A recent report by the George Washington University School of Public Health and Health Services found that Stupak-Pitts “is likely to have consequences that reach far beyond its supposedly intended scope.” The report concludes that "the treatment exclusions required under the Stupak/Pitts Amendment will have an industry-wide effect, eliminating coverage of medically indicated abortions over time for all women, not only those whose coverage is derived through a health insurance exchange." # # #
11.10.2009	Stupak-Pitts Amendment Effectively Bans Abortion Coverage in All Plans in the Exchange, including the Public Health Insurance Options and All Private Health Insurance Plans WASHINGTON -- U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette of Colorado and U.S. Rep. Louise M. Slaughter, co-chairs of the Congressional Pro-Choice Caucus, today sent a letter to President Barack Obama requesting a meeting to discuss reproductive health in health care reform and ensure the rights of all women are protected. The letter is signed by a total of 90 Pro-Choice Members of Congress and seeks a meeting with President Obama at the earliest possible date. The letter grew out of concern that the Sunday morning House vote on the health care reform bill will significantly erode the reproductive rights of women.The members write: “Health care reform must not be misused as an opportunity to restrict women’s access to reproductive health services. The Stupak-Pitts amendment to H.R. 3962, The Affordable Healthcare for America Act, represents an unprecedented restriction on a women’s access to health insurance coverage of reproductive health services.” The underlying health care bill, H.R. 3962, already includes compromise language, the Capps Amendment, that applies the Hyde amendment so that it has the same effect as it currently does in Medicaid. The health insurance Exchange is not comparable to Medicaid. This is fundamentally a private health care system whereby individuals will be purchasing plans from private insurance companies, in large part with their own money. The Stupak-Pitts Amendment dramatically changes federal policies related to abortion coverage and undermines the principle of abortion neutrality in health care reform.Click here to read the full letter # # #
11.09.2009	Amendment Effectively Bans Abortion Coverage in All Plans in the Exchange, including the Public Health Insurance Options and All Private Health Insurance Plans Will Not Vote for Conference Report that Restricts a Women’s Right to Choose Any Further than Current LawWASHINGTON -- After the House of Representatives passed a measure restricting a woman’s right to choose early Sunday morning, U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette of Colorado and U.S. Rep. Louise M. Slaughter, co-chairs of the Congressional Pro-Choice Caucus, today released the text of a letter to Speaker Nancy Pelosi outlining objections to the intentions of the Stupak-Pitts Amendment. With over 40 signatures collected so far, the letter is currently being circulated for additional signatures and will then be sent to Speaker Pelosi:-- November 7, 2009The Honorable Nancy Pelosi Speaker U.S. House of Representatives H-232 Capitol Washington, DC 20515Dear Madam Speaker:As Members of Congress we believe that women should have access to a full range of reproductive health care. Health care reform must not be misused as an opportunity to restrict women’s access to reproductive health services. The Stupak-Pitts amendment to H.R. 3962, The Affordable Healthcare for America Act, represents an unprecedented and unacceptable restriction on women’s ability to access the full range of reproductive health services to which they are lawfully entitled. We will not vote for a conference report that contains language that restricts women’s right to choose any further than current law. Sincerely, --The underlying health care bill, H.R. 3962, already includes compromise language, the Capps Amendment, that applies the Hyde amendment so that it has the same effect as it currently does in Medicaid. The health insurance Exchange is not comparable to Medicaid. This is fundamentally a private health care system whereby individuals will be purchasing plans from private insurance companies, in large part with their own money. The Stupak-Pitts Amendment dramatically changes federal policies related to abortion coverage and undermines the principle of abortion neutrality in health care reform. # # #
11.08.2009	WASHINGTON -- U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (D-CO), Vice Chair of the Committee on Energy and Commerce, today voted in support of H.R. 3962, the Affordable Health Care for America Act, which passed on a bipartisan vote of 220 to 215:“We live in the wealthiest and most powerful country in the world, yet we cannot even provide our citizens with a basic right to quality health care. Our under-five mortality rate is ranked 40th worldwide -- coming in just behind Cuba. Our life expectancy rate is ranked 35th worldwide -- coming in just ahead of Albania. This is morally unacceptable. Quality health care should not be the privilege of the fortunate few, but rather the right of every American. “The historic passage of our health insurance reform bill is a win for all Americans. It will vastly improve competition in the health insurance market and rein in rising costs for the American consumer. Under our plan, Americans will be offered a true choice of health insurance plans, and a public option will be available as an alternative choice to the private insurance plans.” # # #
11.08.2009	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Louise M. Slaughter of New York and U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette of Colorado, co-chairs of the Congressional Pro-Choice Caucus, tonight issued the below joint statement following the vote on the House floor on the Stupak-Pitts amendment to the health care reform bill:“Placing onerous new restrictions on a woman’s right to choose sets a terrible precedent and marks a significant step backwards. This effort will effectively ban abortion coverage in all plans, both private and public – marking a significant scaling back of the options offered under existing laws. Such a terrible, last minute amendment to a critical, historic piece of legislation is a shame. This kind of outrageous interference in health care by the government marks a sad day in this struggle and will result in women across America losing the right to health care.” ###
11.07.2009	Mr. Speaker, to say that this amendment is a wolf in sheep’s clothing would be the understatement of a lifetime. The proponents say it simply extends the Hyde amendment – just a clarification of current law. Nothing could be further from the truth. If enacted, this amendment would be the greatest restriction of a women's right to choose to pass in our careers. Here is why. The Hyde amendment states that no federal funds shall be used for abortion. This has been contained in our annual Appropriations bills for many years. In the Energy and Commerce Committee, the pro-choice and some pro-life Democrats, came together and compromised; we said no federal funds in this bill will be used for abortions, the Capps amendment; this bill does not ban one federal dollar on abortions. This amendment -- this Stupak-Pitts amendment, goes further. It says as part of basic coverage, the public option cannot offer abortions to anyone, even those who are purchasing the policies with 100% private money. The amendment further says that anyone who purchases insurance in the Exchange and who receives premium assistance cannot get insurance coverage for a legal-medical procedure even with a portion of their premium that is their own private money. Well, the proponents say, women can just purchase supplemental insurance for abortions. This very notion is offensive to women. No one thinks that women will have an unplanned pregnancy or a planned pregnancy that goes terribly wrong. Why would we expect to have people to buy supplemental insurance for cancer treatment just in case maybe they might get sick? Like it or not, this is a legal-medical procedure and we should respect those who need to make this very personal decision. Once again, the base bill contains language that preserves the Hyde amendment. Let’s keep our eyes on the goal here, providing safe medical treatment for 36 million Americans. Let’s not sacrifice reproductive rights today in pursuit of that noble goal.
10.29.2009	As House of Representatives Introduces Health Care Bill, DeGette Writes that the Barriers to Competition Must Come DownWASHINGTON – As the House of Representatives introduces H.R. 3962, the Affordable Health Care for America Act, U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (D-CO), Vice Chair of the Committee on Energy and Commerce, today offered the following statement:“Our health care bill will improve competition in the health insurance market and rein in rising costs for American consumers,” said DeGette. “A public option will offer a choice of health insurance while providing more Americans with health care coverage. The bill we are introducing today meets President Obama’s principles for health reform, and most importantly, it expands access to high quality, affordable health coverage for millions of Americans.”With the introduction of the House health care bill, U.S. Rep. DeGette published the below opinion editorial on tearing down the barriers to competition in the health insurance market in HuffingtonPost. Rep. Diana DeGette Posted: October 29, 2009 10:37 AMTearing Down the Barriers to Competition WHAT'S YOUR REACTION?Congress is on the brink of passing legislation that will truly reform the health insurance market. Reform will improve competition and reign in rising costs, while providing millions of uninsured Americans with access to high quality health care. Competition is the crux of the debate - the lack of competition in the market has hurt consumers, and has contributed to rapidly escalating health care costs. Every year, health care premiums consume a larger portion of Americans household budgets. By tearing down the barriers to competition, for example, by repealing an antitrust exemption and creating a strong public insurance option, Congress can achieve the goals of lower costs and improved health care outcomes.As premiums continue to skyrocket, we must ensure that health insurers are not engaging in anticompetitive behavior and unfairly driving up health care costs. Since 1945, the health insurance industry has enjoyed an exemption from federal antitrust law. This exemption prevents the application of federal antitrust laws to the business of insurance, provided that the activity is regulated by state law and is not designed to boycott, coerce, or intimidate. Despite the fact that the health insurance industry is highly concentrated, the federal government is handcuffed in its ability to identify or respond to any potential violations. The American Medical Association estimates that 94 percent of the top insurance markets are anticompetitive. In Pueblo, Colorado, for instance, one insurance company controls over 75 percent of the market. Yet the Department of Justice currently does not have the authority to investigate the industry to determine if anticompetitive violations are occurring.To protect consumers from such unfair practices, House Judiciary Chairman John Conyers (D-MI) and I introduced The Health Insurance Industry Antitrust Enforcement Act. This measure would repeal the insurance industry's immunity in instances of price fixing, bid rigging, and market allocation by health or medical malpractice insurance issuers. These potentially egregious violations should not be permitted to occur in any industry, and the federal government should be given the power to protect the public from harmful behavior that drives up prices. President Obama recently voiced support for our efforts, criticizing health insurance companies for "earning [large] profits and bonuses while enjoying a privileged exemption from our antitrust laws, a matter that Congress is rightfully reviewing." In conjunction with House leadership, we expect to fold our provision into the broader health care proposal currently moving through the House.Congress is also debating the benefits of creating a public insurance option, which would provide much needed competition in the market. Both the House and Senate are poised to approve bills that will include a public option. A recent Wall Street Journal/NBC News poll found that 72 percent of Americans think it is "extremely or quite important to give Americans the choice" of health care plans, while a Washington Post/ABC News poll shows that a majority of Americans - by a margin of 57 percent to 40 percent - support a public option. Offered within a health insurance Exchange, a public option would compete on a level playing field against private insurance companies in order to reduce costs. It would not come close to replacing private industry; rather it would simply provide Americans with another choice that will likely be more innovative and affordable than the options currently available. A public option is essential to creating the cost-savings necessary to offset the cost of providing all Americans access to affordable health care.Reforming our health care system begins with tearing down the barriers to competition in the health insurance market. Without competition, as in the form of antitrust reform and a public option, our health care costs will continue to rise at rates that are unsustainable. U.S. premiums have risen already by the dramatic rate of 87 percent over the last six years. This is simply untenable. We must begin removing barriers to competition by moving forward with market reforms that will improve competition and hold down costs.U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette, serving her 7th term as the Representative of First Congressional District of Colorado, is the Vice Chair of the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
10.21.2009	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (D-CO), Vice Chair of the Committee on Energy and Commerce, today praised House Judiciary Committee approval of the Health Insurance Industry Antitrust Enforcement Act, which would repeal the McCarran-Ferguson Act exemptions from certain antitrust violations, including price fixing, bid rigging, and market allocations. U.S. Rep. DeGette, joined by Judiciary Chairman John Conyers (D-MI), both original cosponsors of the legislation, intend to include it into the comprehensive health insurance reform legislation. “It is outrageous that health insurance companies are exempted from antitrust laws while the American consumer continues to see their health care costs rise,” said DeGette. “There are many locations across the country that lack real competition in the health care market. In Pueblo, Colorado, for instance, one health insurance company controls over 75 percent of the market. Repealing this exemption will help inject much needed competition and hopefully rein in costs. I look forward to working with my colleagues, including Chairman Conyers, to include this in the comprehensive health care legislation currently moving through the House.” Key provisions of the Health Insurance Industry Antitrust Enforcement Act will repeal the federal antitrust exemption for health insurance and medical malpractice insurance companies for flagrant antitrust violations, including price-fixing, bid rigging, and market allocations, and subject health insurers and medical malpractice insurers to the same good-competition laws that apply to virtually every other company doing business in the United States. Chairman John Conyers, U.S. Reps. Diana DeGette and Hank Johnson introduced the measure in the House, while Senate Judiciary Chairman Patrick Leahy of Vermont has introduced it in the Senate. # # #
10.08.2009	DeGette Applauds House for Extending Hate Crimes Protections WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (D-CO) today joined her colleagues in passing the National Defense Authorization Act of 2009, which includes the Matthew Shepard and James Byrd, Jr. Hate Crimes Prevention Act, on a vote of 281 to 146. The Act is focused on giving state and local law enforcement the tools and resources they need to prevent and prosecute hate crimes. It also extends protections to more Americans. The current federal hate crimes law authorizes federal aid in cases of hate crimes committed because of a person’s race, color, religion, or national origin. This bill closes gaps in federal law to help combat hate crimes committed because of a person’s gender, sexual orientation, gender identity, or disability. U.S. Rep. DeGette cosponsored the Hate Crimes Prevention Act. “Everyone in this country deserves the opportunity to live their lives free from intimidation and persecution,” said DeGette. “When signed by President Obama, this will be the first federal law specifically protecting LGBT Americans. This Act will provide state and local law enforcement agencies with resources they need to investigate and prosecute hate crimes, while also protecting the exercise of free speech under our Constitution.”U.S. Rep. DeGette is Vice Chair of the LGBT Equality Caucus, a bipartisan caucus that represents different races, genders, sexual orientations, geographic regions, different generations, and parties, but shares a common mission: to promote lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender (LGBT) equality. # # #
10.01.2009	Proposal Protects 34 Areas Designating Nearly 900,000 Acres of Colorado Public Lands as Wilderness WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (D- CO), a member of the House Natural Resources Committee, today released a discussion draft of the Colorado Wilderness Act of 2009. Having introduced similar legislation since 1999, the draft identifies 34 areas, comprising 890,000 acres, as public lands deserving protection in Colorado. “I am proud to release a draft of this important Wilderness legislation to protect the quality of our public lands throughout Colorado for generations to come,” said DeGette. “Over the past few years, our state has seen many of our special places come under threat of being lost forever. I believe we can strike a balance between preserving our wild places and economic development. That is why I am releasing a balanced proposal that will protect our beautiful landscape while leaving over 98 percent of our land untouched.” DeGette’s proposal includes Colorado gems such as the soaring alpine 14,000 ft. vista’s of Red Cloud Peak, the red rock canyons of Dolores River Canyons, and the vital riparian areas and wildlife habitats of Beaver Creek near Colorado Springs. The Colorado Wilderness Act of 2009 would preserve critical mid-elevation wilderness areas, which are not well represented in the National Wilderness Preservation System. “Colorado’s tremendous natural beauty is a vital part of our daily lives as Coloradoans. I welcome comments to this discussion draft and look forward to working with the entire Colorado community to craft a bill that will let our children’s children experience the Colorado we love and cherish today.” The Colorado Wilderness Act of 2009 is a carefully researched proposal with its wilderness qualities and boundaries established using sophisticated geographic information systems and double checked on the ground by dedicated citizen volunteers. The legislation has evolved over the years as result of the field work by volunteers and from ongoing discussions with Colorado leaders and community members. It does not affect over 90% of lands managed by the Bureau of Land Management, which remain open to oil and gas drilling, mining, off-road vehicle use and other development activities. The legislation honors all existing water rights and mining claims and allows existing livestock grazing to continue. There is strong public support for protecting wilderness areas in Colorado. In a recent Wilderness Society poll, over 70 % of Coloradans support more Colorado wilderness and wild lands. # # #
10.01.2009	WASHINGTON – As a result of a leadership meeting yesterday of the Congressional Pro-Choice Caucus, U.S. Reps. Diana DeGette (D-CO) and Louise Slaughter (D-NY), co-chairs of the Caucus, released the following statement regarding a women’s right to choose and the pending health insurance reform legislation:"Since the beginning of the health care reform debate, we have committed ourselves to the premise that nothing in the bill should change existing abortion laws in this country. The Congressional Pro-Choice Caucus will not vote in favor of a bill that takes a woman's access to care back one step."The Congressional Pro-Choice Caucus is over 190 members strong. # # #
09.30.2009	Over 50 House Democrats Representing Broad Spectrum of Caucuses Call for House Health Care Bill to Include Robust Public Option WASHINGTON, D.C. – As the U.S. House of Representatives works to bring comprehensive health insurance reform legislation to the floor for a vote, today U.S. Reps. Diana DeGette (D-CO), Lois Capps (D-CA), Jane Harman (D-CA) and Chris Murphy (D-CT) spearheaded a letter to House Speaker Nancy Pelosi (D-CA) and Majority Leader Steny Hoyer (D-MD), signed by over 50 House Democrats, to pronounce their support for a public option to be included in the House bill. Members who signed the letter are affiliated with a broad spectrum of caucuses, including the Progressive Caucus, the Blue Dog Coalition, the New Democrat Coalition and Members who don’t belong to any ideological caucus.The Members wrote: “We write to reiterate our strong commitment to health insurance reform legislation that includes a robust public health insurance option that will provide greater choice and lower costs for American consumers by injecting much needed competition into the health insurance marketplace. When weighed against other ideas, the public option remains the most effective tool to bring about competition, choice, efficiency, transparency and cost reduction in the marketplace.”In 1980, the U.S. spent more than $250 billion, or 9 percent of our Gross Domestic Product (GDP), on health care. In the decades since, that figure has grown to more than $2.2 trillion (16.2% of GDP). By 2018, it is expected to nearly double again to $4.3 trillion (20.3% of GDP). Also during this time, the American people have seen premiums more than double since 2000 while wages have stagnated. DeGette, Capps and Murphy argue that including a public option in a health care reform bill will provide more choice in the marketplace and save money in our health care system.“A public health insurance option as part of comprehensive health insurance reform is an effective way to ensure competition,” said DeGette, Vice Chair of the Committee on Energy and Commerce. “With health costs rising faster than wages, competition in the health insurance marketplace will make health care more affordable for consumers. I am confident that the majority of our Caucus is supportive of a public option.”“To paraphrase Mark Twain, reports of the death of the public health insurance option are greatly exaggerated,” said Congresswoman Capps. “The strong support for the public health insurance option is alive and well as demonstrated by our letter signed by Members representing the wide ideological spectrum of our diverse Caucus. Our letter makes clear that the best way to ensure competition and bring down health care costs is by making available a robust public health insurance option.”“There is no alternative to a robust public option. No one is talking about a government takeover of our health care system. But a public option—when seen as a market mechanism to foster competition—is the best way to control costs and rein in insurance company excesses,” said Harman.“Day by day, more and more Members are figuring out that the public option is the key to keeping the cost of the bill down. This letter isn’t intended to be an exhaustive list of those who support the public option, but it does have broad cross-ideological support in the caucus,” said Murphy. # # #
09.29.2009	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (D-CO), Vice Chair of the Committee on Energy and Commerce, today applauded the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (ARRA) award to Colorado health care organizations by Health and Human Services Secretary Kathleen Sebelius. Secretary Sebelius announced awards totaling $27.8 million – over $2 million in Colorado – to health center-controlled networks and large multi-site health centers to implement Electronic Health Records (EHR) and other health information technology (HIT) innovations. The funds are part of the $2 billion allotted to HHS’ Health Resources and Services Administration (HRSA) under the ARRA to expand health care services to low-income and uninsured individuals through its health center program. “Investing in health information technology is a key component of fixing our broken health care system,” said DeGette. “These funds will be used to expand and upgrade Electronic Health Records systems that are critical to providing health care to those who need it. Efficient health information technology helps improve the safety and quality of health care across the country.” Electronic Health Record Implementation Initiative Grants, FY 2009 Colorado Coalition for the Homeless - Denver, CO $1,865,625 In August, U.S. Rep. DeGette and Speaker Nancy Pelosi toured the Colorado Coalition of the Homeless’ Stout Street Clinic to see first-hand how ARRA funds were utilized in the delivery of local health care services. The Stout Street Clinic is investing heavily in Electronic Health Records putting them at the forefront of health care reform. Electronic Health Record Quality Improvement Grants, FY 2009 Colorado Community Managed Care Network - Denver, CO $250,000 Eighteen grants totaling more than $22.6 million will support EHR implementation. Grants totaling more than $2.6 million will help four grantees implement a variety of HIT innovations, including health information exchanges among different providers and bringing HIT to dental delivery sites. Another five grants totaling over $2.5 million will help health centers devise plans to use existing EHRs to improve patient health outcomes. HRSA received $2 billion through ARRA to expand health care services to low-income and uninsured individuals through its health center program. To date, more than $1.3 billion of these funds have been awarded to community-based organizations across the country. HRSA-supported health centers treated 17 million patients in 2008, 40 percent of whom have no health insurance.In addition, HRSA received $500 million in ARRA workforce funds -- $300 million to expand the National Health Service Corps and another $200 million for other health workforce programs. The NHSC funds will pay for student loan repayments for primary care medical dental and mental health clinicians who wish to practice, for a minimum of two years, in NHSC sites that treat underserved and uninsured people. Recently, awards totaling $33 million – part of the $200 million total – were announced to expand the training of health care professionals. # # #
09.17.2009	WASHINGTON – As health insurance premiums continue to skyrocket, U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (D-CO), Vice Chair of the Committee on Energy and Commerce, today joined her colleagues in the House of Representatives to introduce legislation eliminating a federal antitrust exemption for health insurance and medical malpractice insurance companies. The Health Insurance Industry Antitrust Enforcement Act would repeal the McCarran-Ferguson Act exemption from certain antitrust violations, including price fixing, bid rigging, and market allocations. “As health insurance premiums continue to go through the roof, now is the time to ensure that health insurance companies are not engaging in anti-competitive behavior that make it more difficult for Americans to get health coverage,” said U.S. Rep. DeGette. “Families across our nation – including those in Colorado – are feeling the pinch in their budgets from having to keep up with rising insurance rates. This bill takes an important step towards making sure our health insurance industry is competitive and is providing consumers with affordable health insurance. Simply put, the bottom lines of the big insurance companies should not be put above the American public’s ability to gain access to health care.” The key provisions of the Health Insurance Industry Antitrust Enforcement Act will repeal the federal antitrust exemption for health insurance and medical malpractice insurance companies for flagrant antitrust violations, including price-fixing, bid rigging, and market allocations, and subject health insurers and medical malpractice insurers to the same good-competition laws that apply to virtually every other company doing business in the United States. In Colorado, health insurance premiums have skyrocketed for working families, increasing 75 percent from 2000 to 2007. Furthermore, one insurance company alone controls 76 percent of the market in Pueblo, Colorado. Along with U.S. Rep. DeGette, the measure is sponsored by U.S. Rep. John Conyers (D-MI), Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee. Senator Patrick Leahy (D-VT) introduced the bill’s Senate counterpart also today. # # #
09.17.2009	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (D-CO), Vice Chair of the Energy and Commerce Committee, today supported legislation that makes the largest single investment in aid to help students and families pay for college in history. The Student Aid and Fiscal Responsibility Act, which will expand access to an affordable college education, transform early education opportunities, and build a world-class community college system, passed the House of Representatives on a bipartisan vote of 253 to 171. “This legislation makes a strong commitment to our students,” said U.S. Rep. DeGette. “Too often I hear from students who want to attend college, but are deterred by the thousands of dollars in debt they would incur. As our economy rebuilds, it is in our best interest to make sure students who want to continue their education have the necessary resources.”This bill is a major step forward in President Obama’s initiative to make sure America once again leads the world in college graduates by 2020. The Student Aid and Fiscal Responsibility Act will reform the system of federal student loans to save taxpayers $87 billion and will direct $10 billion back to the Treasury to reduce entitlement spending. It increases the maximum Pell Grant from $5,350 in 2009 to $5,550 in 2010 and $6,900 in 2019, and keeps interest rates low on subsidized federal loans. Additionally, it includes substantial investments in early childhood education, expands the Perkins low-cost loan program to every U.S. college, and simplifies the process of applying for student financial aid. “Americans deserve a streamlined, cost-effective federal student aid program. This legislation eliminates billions in waste by cutting out the middleman and originating all new federal loans through the more efficient Direct Loan program. This legislation also meets the Pay-As-You-Go fiscally responsible principles.” # # #
09.15.2009	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette today joined her colleagues as an original cosponsor of the Respect for Marriage Act, which repeals the Defense of Marriage Act (DOMA). The measure was introduced in the House of Representatives today by U.S. Reps. Jerrold Nadler (D-NY), Tammy Baldwin (D-WI), Jared Polis (D-CO), John Lewis (D-GA), Nydia Velazquez (D-NY), and Barbara Lee (D-CA), with a total of 88 original cosponsors.“The Respect for Marriage Act will repeal a discriminatory and disrespectful measure that does not live up to ‘equality for all’ that is protected under the U.S. Constitution,” said DeGette. “We must respect the rights of all Americans who seek to form loving, committed relationships regardless of their sexual orientation. I am proud to be an original sponsor of this much-needed and long-overdue legislation.” The Respect for Marriage Act would ensure that valid marriages are respected under federal law, providing couples with much-needed certainty that their lawful marriages will be honored under federal law and that they will have the same access to federal responsibilities and rights as all other married couples. This measure would repeal the 1996 Defense of Marriage Act that currently singles out same-sex couples for discriminatory treatment under federal law, selectively denying them critical federal responsibilities and rights, including Social Security and other important programs. U.S. Rep. DeGette is Vice Chair of the Equality Caucus, a bipartisan caucus that represents different races, genders, sexual orientations, geographic regions, different generations, and parties, but shares a common mission: to promote lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender (LGBT) equality. # # #
09.10.2009	Public Option Essential to Bringing Down Rising Costs, Ensuring Competition in the Market WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (D-CO), Vice Chair of the Committee on Energy and Commerce, today released the following statement in response to President Barack Obama’s address to a joint session of Congress on health care: “President Obama clearly laid out the way forward in reforming our nation’s health insurance system. The President and Congress are working together on a plan that will bring security and stability to millions of Americans who have insurance today, and affordable coverage to those who do not. Doing nothing is simply not an option.“As President Obama has called for, our plan builds upon the parts of our health care system that do well while reforming the parts that are broken. Skyrocketing costs and the lack of competition in our insurance market have put us in an unsustainable position. I agree with the President that consumers do better when there is choice and competition. The best way to achieve this is by offering a strong public option that will not only bring down rising costs, but will also ensure competition and transparency among private companies within the insurance Exchange. No one will be forced into the public option, but they will have that choice as an affordable alternative.” # # #
08.26.2009	Kennedy’s Legacy Will Be Firmly Ingrained in Our Nation’s History WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (D-CO), Vice Chair of the Committee on Energy and Commerce, released the following statement today on the passing of Senator Ted Kennedy (D-MA). “The nation has lost a true champion for the poor and the powerless with the passing of Senator Ted Kennedy. His influence on health care can be seen in everything from mental health parity to community health centers to our current work on comprehensive health insurance reform. Given Senator Kennedy’s knowledge and experience, I sought his guidance early on as I crafted my stem cell bill. His advice was key to ensuring passage of the Stem Cell Research Enhancement Act. Senator Kennedy’s legacy will be firmly ingrained in our nation’s history when it comes to health care, immigration, and civil rights.” # # #
07.30.2009	Includes Two Key Provisions – Mandatory Recall Authority and Traceability – Secured By DeGette WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (D-CO), Vice Chair of the Committee on Energy and Commerce, today supported H.R. 2749, The Food Safety Enhancement Act, which passed the full House of Representatives on a strong bipartisan vote of 283 to 142. U.S. Rep. DeGette secured two key provisions in the bill, mandatory recall authority and traceability. Earlier this week, U.S. Rep. DeGette penned an opinion-editorial that was published in both The Mission Ahead, Roll Call’s online policy forum and cross-posted on HuffingtonPost.com. Below is U.S. Rep. DeGette’s floor speech on this historic legislation. {youtube}nT-OFtwapYw|400|400{/youtube} Below are U.S. Rep. DeGette’s remarks as prepared for delivery:“Thank you, Mr. Speaker. “Many of us have been talking about comprehensive food safety for years. Our nation's business community is calling for it. Our constituents are begging for it. I’m so pleased that today at long last we are considering this bill on the House floor on a bipartisan basis. “The bill before us will strengthen our food supply in a number of areas; it will transform our food system into one that focuses on prevention rather than reaction. It will provide the FDA with the resources it has lacked, and by giving it mandatory recall authority and subpoena authority, it will give the FDA the tools it needs to deal with an emergency. “This bill will also give the FDA the ability to track our food products along the supply chain, enabling targeted and speedier recalls that will benefit businesses and consumers alike this provision of the legislation. We know we can't do it overnight, but it will require the FDA to write regulations undertaking a pilot project, cost benefit analysis, feasibility studies, and public meetings, to make sure that we can track food from field to fork. “This will improve consumer safety and we exempt the family farm. I urge adoption of this important bill.”# # #
07.14.2009	Health Care Plan Puts Patients First While Reducing Costs WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (D-CO), Vice Chair of the Committee on Energy and Commerce, today hailed historic health care reform legislation, the America's Affordable Health Choices Act, introduced in the House. The America's Affordable Health Choices Act will reform our health care system and ensure affordable, quality care for all Americans. Three House Committees, Energy and Commerce, Education and Labor, and Ways and Means, working with House leadership, has developed an American solution that builds upon what works in our health care system and fixes what is broken. It puts patients – not profits – first, while reducing the burden of ballooning health care costs on American families, businesses, and our fiscal future. “For too long, Americans across the country have struggled to provide health care for their families while costs continue to rise,” said DeGette. “I applaud the House Committees on Energy and Commerce, Education and Labor, and Ways and Means, for making health care reform a top priority. Our commitment is that Americans will now have access to quality health care that will be affordable and reduce costs. I look forward to working with my colleagues in Congress and President Obama on moving this historic legislation forward.” # # #
07.07.2009	Calls on Congress to Pass Comprehensive Food Safety Legislation Giving the FDA New Authorities to Protect ConsumersWASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (D-CO), Vice Chair of the Committee on Energy and Commerce, today released the below statement regarding the announcement by the White House on its key findings of the Food Safety Working Group. The Food Safety Working Group, created by President Obama in March, advises the Administration on how to upgrade the food safety system for the 21st century. The Working Group is recommending a new, public health-focused approach to food safety based on three core principles: prioritizing prevention; strengthening surveillance and enforcement; and improving response and recovery.Last month, the Energy and Commerce Committee approved The Food Safety Enhancement Act of 2009 by a unanimous vote. Among other improvements, the bill incorporates U.S. Rep. DeGette’s two major food safety priorities, mandatory recall authority and traceability, which she has introduced every Congress since 2002. “I applaud the Obama Administration’s announcement today that it is doing everything within its legal power to improve the safety of our food safety system. For too long, our food safety system has had gaping holes leaving American consumers vulnerable to tainted foods. It is good news that the Administration is implementing the recommendations of the Food Safety Working Group, but Congress must still pass comprehensive legislation to bolster the legal authority of our food safety agencies. “This legislation, passed with bipartisan and unanimous support by the Committee, institutes preventative measures such as food safety plans, increased inspections, and better enforcement. Also, implementing mandatory recall and traceability would help get contaminated food off our store shelves more quickly in the event of an emergency. These important upgrades of our food safety laws will complement the Administration’s actions today.” # # #
07.06.2009	Optimistic About Future Progress for Stem Cell Research WASHINGTON – U.S. Reps. Diana DeGette (D-CO) and Michael Castle (R-DE), chief architects of bipartisan legislation expanding stem cell research, today released the following joint statement in response to the National Institutes of Health's (NIH) final guidelines on federal funding of stem cell research, including embryonic stem cell research. The guidelines are a requirement of the March 9th Executive Order issued by President Barack Obama, which overturned restrictions placed on federal funding of embryonic stem cell research by former President George W. Bush. “We applaud the National Institutes of Health for releasing final guidelines on stem cell research today, as called for in President Barack Obama’s Executive Order on March 9, 2009. Since 2001, we have been working to strengthen federal support for scientific research, including embryonic stem cell research, which potentially holds so much promise for the millions of Americans who are living with debilitating diseases such as Parkinson’s, diabetes, and spinal cord injury.“We are pleased to see that the NIH has taken into consideration the comments of 139 Members of Congress, including the need to determine eligibility of currently existing stem cell lines for federal funding, as well as the need for NIH to maintain a registry of eligible stem cell lines. The guidelines will enable researchers to build upon current research and facilitate further advancements. Additionally, we support the NIH’s commitment to continuously updating the guidelines as scientifically warranted. “We look forward to fulfilling President Obama’s call on Congress to ‘provide further support for this research.’ We remain committed to formulating a bipartisan, bicameral consensus and sending complimentary legislation to the President, which will promote all ethical forms of stem cell research.”On May 27th, U.S. Reps. DeGette and Castle led a bipartisan group of 139 Members of Congress in submitting comments on the draft guidelines for human stem cell research. # # #
06.26.2009	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (D-CO), Vice Chair of the Committee on Energy and Commerce, today supported H.R. 2454, the American Clean Energy and Security Act, which passed on a bipartisan vote of 219 to 212.“In the face of overwhelming data on climate change, the U.S. House has finally taken action,” said Rep. DeGette. “This bill will unleash the entrepreneurial genius of America to address one of our greatest challenges.” “We went to great lengths in this legislation to protect American consumers, particularly low income families, from rising energy costs. According to the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office, this legislation would cost the typical American household less than a postage stamp per day. But the cost of inaction on climate change is immeasurable.” The American Clean Energy and Security Act reduces global warming emissions by over 80 percent by 2050 and creates a renewable energy standard of 20 percent by 2020. It invests in new clean energy technologies and efficiencies such as carbon capture and sequestration, electric and other advanced technology vehicles and modernizing the electricity grid. It also has provisions to protect consumers from energy price increases and protect trade-vulnerable industries.Click here to read the nonpartisan CBO’s cost estimate. Click here to read the EPA’s analysis of the legislation. # # #
06.25.2009	DeGette Calls on Congress to Pass Comprehensive Food Safety Legislation WASHINGTON – As the nation braces for yet another recall of beef due to E. coli contamination, U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (D-CO), Vice Chair of the Committee on Energy and Commerce, today called on the U.S. Congress to pass sweeping food safety legislation aimed at protecting consumers. Last week, the Energy and Commerce Committee approved The Food Safety Enhancement Act of 2009 by unanimous vote. The House is expected to take up the legislation soon. The Food Safety Enhancement Act of 2009 incorporates U.S. Rep. DeGette’s two major food safety priorities, mandatory recall authority and traceability, which she has introduced every Congress since 2002. “We must give our food safety agencies the resources they need to protect the U.S. consumer,” said DeGette. “This comprehensive legislation institutes preventative measures such as food safety plans, increased inspections, and better enforcement. Also, implementing mandatory recall and traceability would help get contaminated food off our store shelves more quickly in the event of an emergency. As evidenced by today’s beef recall, we cannot afford any more delay. How many consumers must get sick before we act?”According to the Department of Agriculture, the JBS Swift Beef Company in Greeley, Colorado recalled more than 21 tons of beef products that may be contaminated with E. coli. The beef products were produced April 21 and 22, 2009. They went to distributors and stores in Colorado, Arizona, California, Florida, Illinois, Michigan, Minnesota, Nebraska, Oregon, South Carolina, Tennessee, Utah, and Wisconsin. # # #
06.24.2009	Secretary Confident Obama Administration Will Fulfill Bill’s Mandate and Develop Pediatric Quality Measures WASHINGTON – During a Energy and Commerce Committee legislative hearing with Secretary Kathleen Sebelius, Department of Health and Human Services, on the comprehensive health care reform discussion draft, U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (D-CO), Vice Chair of the Committee on Energy and Commerce, today addressed health care quality, the unique needs of children, and the need for a robust health care workforce. This was the second day of three days of scheduled hearings by the Energy and Commerce Committee on the health care reform discussion draft. “The discussion draft incorporates many components of the National Health Care Quality Act, which I introduced with Senators Rockefeller and Whitehouse. It would strengthen the national health care quality infrastructure, in order to identify and track key health indicators as well as to develop and implement new science across the states. The draft bill also contains a provision that requires the Director of the Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality to work with the Secretary to ‘develop quality measures for the delivery of health care services in the United States.’ I believe this is of the utmost importance. “However, I am concerned about the implications for pediatric health care quality measures because even though the bill requires that measures be designed ‘to assess delivery of health care services to individuals regardless of age,’ this section is funded with Medicare dollars. Under the previous Administration, the Department of Health and Human Services determined that Medicare funding could not be used for pediatric measures.”Secretary Sebelius responded to U.S. Rep. DeGette’s questioning by indicating that Medicare can be a leader in improving the quality of care for all Americans, and children fall under this umbrella. She was also confident that the Obama Administration will be able to move forward with fulfilling the bill’s mandate and develop pediatric quality measures.Please click here to view the exchange between U.S. Rep. DeGette and Secretary Sebelius. # # #
06.19.2009	Members of the Colorado Delegation Request Interior Department Make Project Priority WASHINGTON – Members of the Colorado Delegation sent a letter today to Secretary of the Interior Ken Salazar expressing their support of Over The River, the temporary work of art that internationally renowned artists Christo and Jeanne-Claude have proposed to exhibit in Colorado. They requested that the Department make this project a priority and that the Bureau of Land Management give a fair, full and expeditious environmental review of the artists’ application. Senators Mark Udall and Michael Bennet were joined by U.S. Reps. Diana DeGette, John Salazar, Ed Perlmutter, Betsey Markey, Jared Polis, and Mike Coffman in sending the letter. This project involves suspending 5.9 miles of silvery fabric high above a 40-mile stretch of the Arkansas River between Cañon City and Salida. It would be exhibited for two weeks, hopefully during the summer of 2012.The Delegation Members wrote:“We believe that Over The River has the potential to be of great benefit to the state of Colorado, both culturally and economically. Estimates by independent researchers have projected that nearly $200 million in additional spending could flow into the Colorado economy as a result of this project. Furthermore, Over The River will leave Colorado with a lasting artistic legacy and will help enhance our state’s growing reputation as a place of cultural excellence. Even more impressive is the fact that Colorado will reap these benefits without public subsidy or taxpayer support, as the estimated $50 million cost of Over The River will be entirely funded by the artists.”“We greatly thank U.S. Rep. DeGette and the Members of the Colorado Delegation for their support of our temporary work of art, Over The River. The benefits of this visual expression of joy and beauty will be appreciated by all Coloradans and everyone who visit the state,” said Christo and Jeanne-Claude. # # #
06.17.2009	DeGette’s Mandatory Recall Authority and Traceability Included in Comprehensive Food Safety Bill WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (D-CO), Vice Chair of the Committee on Energy and Commerce, offered the following remarks at the full committee mark-up of the Food Safety Enhancement Act of 2009. U.S. Rep. DeGette is an original cosponsor of the legislation along with Chairman Henry Waxman, Chairman Emeritus John Dingell, U.S. Reps. Frank Pallone, Bart Stupak, and Betty Sutton. The Food Safety Enhancement Act of 2009 incorporates U.S. Rep. DeGette’s two major food safety priorities, mandatory recall authority and traceability, which she has introduced every Congress since 2002. The legislation was approved by the committee by unanimous voice vote. The measure will now move to the full House Floor for its consideration. U.S. Rep. DeGette’s remarks as prepared for delivery:“I’m glad to hear that my colleague from Oregon mentioned the Hurley Family, because as he will recall, at the end of the last Oversight Investigations hearing we had this spring, the last of a series that lasted a number of years, I told Peter Hurley, Jacob’s dad, that we would make a commitment to him and his family, that we would pass comprehensive food safety legislation this year – and we are. This is the way legislation should go, because we’re doing it on a bipartisan basis; we have worked together; we have explored the issues; and everyone has pulled together to make this happen. “It almost looks easy, but everybody, particularly on the Oversight and Investigations subcommittee, Mr. Stupak and everybody else, will attest that it was difficult, because when we started this effort seven years ago, we had a food safety system in disarray and it had been in disarray for many years and it continued in disarray. “Story after story, recall after recall, and in those days, it was difficult for us to even convince people that we needed mandatory recall authority for the FDA, much less traceability and some of the other components that are here in this comprehensive bill today. And so it really has been an extraordinary team effort, and that team effort has been directed at one goal: protecting the safety and health of our constituents. “We hope this bill today will give the resources and the powers to the FDA to be able to protect that health and safety and if there are problems with our food system, to make sure we can address those problems quickly. That is why I am particularly pleased that the Chairman has worked with me and others to include mandatory recall authority by the FDA in the bill. We hope that we’ll be able to catch contamination and avoid contamination before it happens, but if there is contaminated food found, we’ll be able to have recall authority. “And secondly, I’m so delighted that the FDA will be implementing traceability systems for the entire food agency. We saw this last year with the tomato and then jalapeño recall where we never really could figure out what was wrong with the salsa, but what we did know was that people across the country were being sickened, and what we also knew was that the entire tomato industry was devastated for that year. So traceability is going to help us identify quickly, and remove the foods in a targeted way, that are causing sickness. “I just want to say one last thing: I have a staff member to thank who’s here today, Steve Plevniak. Steve is my Food Safety maven on my staff. He’s been with me for seven years, just about as long as we’ve been studying these issues. And he’s leaving us to go elsewhere, so this is a fine end to his congressional career and I just really want to thank Steve and all the staff of the entire committee who have worked so hard on this legislation.” # # #
06.12.2009	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (D-CO), Vice Chair of the Committee on Energy and Commerce, today hailed the passage of H.R. 1256, the Family Smoking Prevention and Tobacco Control Act, as amended by the Senate, by a vote of 307 to 97. This legislation grants the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) authority to regulate the advertising, marketing, and manufacturing of tobacco products in order to protect the public health. U.S. Rep. DeGette secured a provision in the bill that requires a study and report on the public health implications of raising the minimum age to purchase tobacco products.“The tobacco industry routinely targets young people through its marketing techniques,” said DeGette. “We must stay focused on stopping tobacco companies from hooking a new generation on their deadly products. This bill gives the FDA the tools it needs to improve public health and to save lives.”The legislation now moves to the President’s desk for his signature. # # #
06.09.2009	DENVER – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (D-CO) delivered the undergraduate commencement address at the University of Denver on Saturday, June 6th. Below is a copy of her remarks as prepared for delivery. REMARKS Thank you. I want to thank Chancellor (Robert) Coombe, the Board of Trustees, President and the entire University of Denver community for inviting me to join you and for honoring me today as a member of the DU Family. The University of Denver has always had a special place in my family. My mother graduated from DU in the class of 1956. She was a theatre major and an education minor. She was very proud of her degree, and we were always proud of her education here. I grew up near campus and took classes at the Lamont School of Music back in high school. It was an inspiring experience that gave me a life-long love of music.So it is with a sense of commonality that I congratulate the Class of 2009. You did it. And what an amazing, memorable, and intense journey. Remember four years ago, when you came to campus and wondered what it was all about. Remember the sense of wonder…those first few days figuring out the landscape, looking at University Hall and Evans Chapel, finding the classrooms, surprised that the professors really expected you to read all those books on the syllabus, and making new friendships that will now last a lifetime. That was the beginning of innumerable hours in the library and on the Internet, conversations that went far into the night, and more than 1400 days of new books, hard work, formal lectures, informal laboratory work, sophisticated time management, and endless guilt. There must have been moments of self doubt, dark despair, tough times. But now, at the end of this quest, there are meaningful rewards: a solid education, growth, maturity, confidence, and, yes, even wisdom. You earned this moment. And this education enlarged your intellectual horizons. You were face to face in conversation with the “greats”: Plato and Descartes, Einstein and Hawking, Washington and Lincoln, Shakespeare and Gabriel Garcia Marquez, not to mention Jay-Z and Shakira. You now see farther, because, like Newton, you stood on the shoulders of giants. And you could even go up to the telescope on Mount Evans to gaze at the universe.A few people still think college is only about reading and contemplating. But it is so much more. A university education is now about engagement with the world. Most of you took a full load (or overload) each semester, and then put your lives into overdrive by working one or two jobs, then spending time in community service, then filling your soul with music or art, and then enjoying the beautiful blessings of Colorado’s mountains. A large percentage of you did a semester of study abroad, or two, becoming ambassadors to the world. Many of you learned a second, third, or fourth language. All of you tried to cram as much as possible into these four years. And all of that study and sacrifice and determination has somehow brought you to this moment, this milestone in your lives. We should congratulate you just for surviving...but you were actually thriving. So today we celebrate your achievement. We celebrate you!And let’s be honest. This moment would not be possible without the care, love, assistance, and innumerable sacrifices of your families, your friends, your loved ones…those who beam with pride today. This is their moment too. I would like to ask the graduates to join me in applauding your parents, families, and friends for their constant love and support. I also want to take a moment for the faculty. DU is known for its outstanding faculty…scholars and opinion-leaders. They invested themselves into each one of you. They gave their thoughts and experiences to you…a great gift of love and learning. Over the coming years you will think about them, constantly using what you have learned. And some of the books from class will still be there, ready for action. I know that there are two books I constantly use from my undergraduate days: Aristotle’s Politics and a history of jazz. Somehow Aristotle understood 21st Century politics 2300 years ago. And Miles Davis will still speak through his music for centuries to come. So I want to join you in thanking the faculty, this august community of scholars, who devoted themselves to your education.Former South African President Nelson Mandela has said that a university must be “a custodian of tradition and (an) agent central to renewal.” I believe that DU is such a university. One aspect of DU I have always admired is the orientation to service. This is a campus that produces leaders in every field. DU grads turn knowledge into action. They find a way to give back to Colorado and the world. I suppose graduates are always told about the need for their leadership. That is always true. But now we need your leadership as never before. We are at a turning point in history. We are in a time of renewal and a time of change. The world is rapidly mutating around us, a whirlwind of motion, with wild fluctuations in global stock markets, and a crisis of confidence in our minds. The London Economist recently said we live in a time of “fear.” Economically we are told this is a “recession.” Some have called this “the collapse of capitalism.” But, in fact, it is a “moment of truth.” The events of the last few years force us to re-focus our thoughts, to re-prioritize, to rise to the challenges of change. We are not studying history; we are living it. Our actions now will determine our future. There are some who say that your future is bleak…that you can’t have it all…that your financial future has been diminished, that our globe is beyond repair, that your quality of life will be horrible, as if, somehow, the future were a cross between “Blade Runner” and “Terminator.” But The future is unwritten. You can make it nobler, better, safer, with a better, more complete, quality of life. I believe that your generation just may be the next “great” generation. You have spent four years learning from us. But we have so much to learn from you. You have shown us how to balance school and public service, with many of you spending vacations in New Orleans rebuilding homes and providing services for those in need. Many of you have gone to Zambia or Ukraine to help combat the spread of HIV infection. Some of you worked in downtown Denver to promote literacy. You have found time for jobs, internships, volunteerism, community service, family, and friends. In the past, many people talked about family or career, service or financial security, friends or networking. But you have shown that these are false alternatives. You have taken the “or” and made these choices into an “and.” You have shown us how to make this country strong and to be good global citizens. You have shown that this country can provide world leadership and be respectful of our neighbor countries. You have shown that students are ambassadors and universities good neighbors. And what you have learned here is just the beginning.I would expect nothing less from a university that has been a world leader in global leadership: the school where Josef Korbel taught and his daughter Madeline Albright grew up, and where Condoleezza Rice was his student.You can provide powerful, positive, inspiring leadership, both in this country and abroad. And in doing so you will show the world how there must be mutual regard, understanding of different cultures, empowerment of people, freedom of choice, and unity of purpose. We must protect our environment. We must reduce the risk of a nuclear nightmare. We must stop terrorism and remove the causes, the roots, and the attractiveness of conflict. This is a time for common cause. We cannot continue to allow ourselves to be defined by our differences. We must be a generation that rises to greatness in response to the challenges we confront. And we have learned that the solution to a global crisis in a global village is a global partnership based on a vision of political freedom, protection of human rights, responsible business dealings, and transparent practices. The United States must lead primarily through example and persuasion. That means the skills learned here are the skills we so desperately need: knowledge, partnership, commitment, and respect. We have also learned that it matters how we conduct our lives and how we do business, that ethics must be part of commerce, that we must care about each other. We have watched long-standing companies implode because of mismanagement and sloth. There are some unprincipled people who have ruined the lives of millions of people. We have watched a gluttony of greed steal away millions of jobs, lead to millions of people losing their homes through foreclosures, and trillions of dollars in losses. Now we must pick up the pieces and start again. It won’t be easy. But we can do it. you can lead the way. This is a great country because of its people and its history. And it is up to you and me… up to all of us … to reject past practices, to say “No more…this is not how we will do business in the future…this is not how we will treat people…this gluttony of greed is not acceptable, not the way to live life or build a community or unite our world. This is the time for renewal of principle, for remembering who we are. This is a time for service. We must now present a new vision, engage in a new form of world leadership. And each one of you can do your part, in politics, business, marketing, philosophy, physics, the arts, international relations, or government. We need every one of you…no one is expendable. Again, I congratulate each and every member of the Class of 2009. Well done. Godspeed. ####
06.09.2009	American Public Deserves to Know Chemicals Used Near Their Water Sources WASHINGTON – Senator Bob Casey (D-PA) joined U.S. Reps. Diana DeGette (D-CO), Maurice Hinchey (D-NY), and Jared Polis (D-CO) today to introduce companion Senate and House bills, the FRAC ACT -- Fracturing Responsibility and Awareness of Chemicals Act, amending the Safe Drinking Water Act. The legislation would repeal the exemption provided for the oil and gas industry and would require them to disclose the chemicals they use in their hydraulic fracturing processes. Currently, the oil and gas industry is the only industry granted an exemption from complying with the Safe Drinking Water Act. “Drilling for natural gas in the Marcellus Shale across much of Pennsylvania is part of our future,” said Senator Casey. “I believe that we have an obligation to develop that natural gas responsibly to safeguard the drinking water wells used by 3 million Pennsylvanians. We already have private wells contaminated by gas and fluids used in hydraulic fracturing. We need to make sure that this doesn’t become a state-wide problem over the next few decades as we extract natural gas.” “When it comes to protecting the public’s health, it’s not unreasonable to require these companies to disclose the chemicals they are using in our communities – especially near our water sources,” said U.S. Rep. DeGette, Vice Chair of the Committee on Energy and Commerce. “Our bill simply closes an unconscionable Bush-Cheney loophole by requiring the oil and gas industry to follow the same rules as everyone else.” “It's time to fix an unfortunate chapter in the Bush administration's energy policy and close the 'Halliburton loophole' that has enabled energy companies to pump enormous amounts of toxins, such as benzene and toluene, into the ground that then jeopardize the quality of our drinking water,” U.S. Rep. Hinchey, Member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Interior and the Environment and Member of the House Natural Resources Committee, said. “Our legislation says everyone deserves to have safe drinking water by ensuring that hydraulic fracturing is subject to the protections afforded by the Safe Drinking Water Act. The bill also lifts the veil of secrecy currently shrouding this industry practice.” “Families, communities, and local governments are upset that the safety of their water has been compromised by a special interest exemption, and we join them in that frustration,” said U.S. Rep. Polis. “It is irresponsible to stand by while innocent people are getting sick because of an industry exemption that Dick Cheney snuck in to our nation’s energy policy. Many new sources of energy, including natural gas, will play an important role in our nation’s transition to cleaner fuels, but we must make sure this isn’t at the expense of public health. The problem is not natural gas or even hydraulic fracturing itself. The problem is that dangerous chemicals are being injected into the earth, polluting our water sources, without any oversight whatsoever.” Hydraulic fracturing – also known as “fracking”, which is used in almost all oil and gas wells, is a process whereby fluids are injected at high pressure into underground rock formations to blast them open and increase the flow of fossil fuels. This injection of unknown and potentially toxic chemicals often occurs near drinking water wells. Troubling incidents have occurred around the country where people became ill after fracking operations began in their communities. Some chemicals that are known to have been used in fracking include diesel fuel, benzene, industrial solvents, and other carcinogens and endocrine disrupters. During the 110th Congress, U.S. Reps. DeGette and Hinchey introduced similar legislation in the House. # # #
06.03.2009	Mandatory Recall Authority and Traceability Included in Omnibus Food Safety Bill WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (D-CO), Vice Chair of the Committee on Energy and Commerce, today praised the Food Safety Enhancement Act of 2009 during a legislative hearing on the measure before the Energy and Commerce Health Subcommittee. U.S. Rep. DeGette is an original cosponsor of the legislation along with Chairman Henry Waxman, Chairman Emeritus John Dingell, Reps. Frank Pallone, Bart Stupak, and Betty Sutton. The Food Safety Enhancement Act of 2009 incorporates U.S. Rep. DeGette’s two major food safety priorities, mandatory recall authority and traceability.Click here for a summary of the legislationBelow are U.S. Rep. DeGette’s opening remarks as prepared for delivery:“Mr. Chairman, this is the first step towards realizing a long held dream, not just by me and other members of this committee, but by the millions of Americans who have been concerned about the safety of our food – especially in light of the cascading litany of food borne illnesses that we have heard about from other members of this committee. “We have had a dozen oversight hearings and also legislative hearings. We’ve had bills dropped by many Members of Congress for many years and I’m so excited under your leadership and the leadership of Chairman Waxman and Chairman Dingell, that we are finally on the verge of enacting comprehensive food safety legislation. The most important thing about this bill is it would be a definitive statement by this committee and this Congress that food safety is a priority in the United States of America. “I want to highlight two of the sections of this bill and I want to thank you and Mr. Dingell and others and Mr. Stupak for including the provisions of my two bills in this draft mark because they’re critically important in the future to assuring safe food for everybody. “The first one is traceability. As you know Mr. Chairman, I have been working on these traceability issues for many years, and when I first started people said it couldn’t be done. But then as we realized with time, not only can it be done, and in slightly different ways within every industry, but If we want to insure the integrity of the food system, it has to be done. What I fondly call the salsa scare of last year is the perfect example of why. We found people being sickened by salsa, and we couldn’t figure out why. This destroyed pretty much the entire profit of the tomato crop for that whole year because everybody thought it was tomatoes that had the salmonella. As it turned out, after months and months and months of increased sickness of increased scrutiny we found out that: no, it wasn’t the tomatoes at all, it was jalapeños, and they were from Texas. And what I found out is that we can go to the particular sector of the field and find those jalapeños and we can do it quickly. So traceability is going to be essential and I look forward to working with my friends on the other side of the aisle to make sure it is not onerous. But I will say this, it is not just in the interests of consumers, it is in the interest of businesses that want to protect their profits to have traceability.“Mandatory Recall is a second provision of this bill that I’ve been working on for many years and I’m so grateful has been included. And I want to say finally Mr. Chairman, all of this policy that we talk about, it’s all well and good, but I can’t help but think about young Jacob Hurley who you might have seen, he was in our last Oversight and Investigations subcommittee hearing.“Jacob is from Portland, Oregon, and he got sick from eating Peanut Butter Crackers, his favorite food. When his parents took him to the Doctor, they said they finally got him stabilized and he wouldn’t eat, so they told the parents: Have Jacob just eat what he loves, the Peanut Butter crackers. The very food that had made him sick in the first place, and the only way we found out about this was because the alert Commissioner of Consumer Protection in Oregon showed up personally at his door and confiscated the Peanut Butter crackers. “We need to fix this, we need to fix it now and I’m so grateful that we are. “Thank you Mr. Chairman.” # # #
06.01.2009	WASHINGTON – U.S. Reps. Diana DeGette (D-CO) and Louise M. Slaughter (D-NY), Co-Chairs of the Bipartisan Congressional Pro-Choice Caucus, joined U.S. Rep. Henry A. Waxman (D-CA), Chairman of the Committee on Energy and Commerce, today in expressing sadness over the murder of Dr. George Tiller, Medical Director of Women’s Health Care Services in Wichita, Kansas. “We are deeply saddened and appalled by the murder of Dr. Tiller. He devoted his life to providing women with high-quality health care. He courageously refused to be intimidated by those who use violence to force their beliefs on others, contrary to the law. Our thoughts and prayers are with his family and loved ones.”U.S. Rep. DeGette, Vice Chair of the House Committee on Energy and Commerce, U.S. Rep. Slaughter, Chairwoman of the House Committee on Rules, and U.S. Rep. Waxman, Chairman of the House Committee on Energy and Commerce, are sponsors of the Prevention First Act, comprehensive legislation to protect women’s reproductive health, prevent unintended pregnancies and reduce the need for abortion. # # #
05.27.2009	WASHINGTON, DC — Today Chair Emeritus John D. Dingell, Chairs Henry A. Waxman, Frank Pallone, and Bart Stupak, and Reps. Diana DeGette and Betty Sutton released a discussion draft of the Food Safety Enhancement Act of 2009. The draft is largely based on the food provisions of H.R. 759, the Food and Drug Administration Globalization Act of 2009, introduced in January by Reps. Dingell, Stupak, and Pallone. The Food Safety Enhancement Act of 2009 incorporates technical assistance from the new Administration as well as other stakeholders. The legislation grants the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) the authorities and resources it needs to better ensure the safety of the nation's food supply. The Committee has scheduled a legislative hearing for June 3, 2009. “This legislation is a long time coming,” said Rep. Dingell, Chair Emeritus of the Energy and Commerce Committee. “Just in the past two years American consumers have been confronted with melamine in milk, tainted peppers, Salmonella in peanut products, and E.coli in spinach. Consumer confidence in the nation's food supply is low and we must act now to address this problem. The legislation will grant FDA the authorities, and more importantly, the resources to protect the nation's food supply. I look forward to continued work with the new leadership at FDA to ensure they are adequately equipped to handle an increasingly global marketplace." “The current state of our food safety system is dangerous not just for the American public, but also for the food industry itself,” said Rep. Waxman, Chair of the Energy and Commerce Committee. “This bill recognizes that the hallmark of strong food safety legislation must be a shared responsibility for food safety oversight between FDA and industry. This legislation will go a long way toward restoring Americans’ confidence in our food supply.” “As evidenced by the recent widespread contaminations in our food supply, including E.coli in spinach, salmonella in peppers and the most recent outbreak of salmonella in peanut butter, it is clear that we must act now,” said Rep. Pallone, Chair of the Health Subcommittee. “This draft builds on legislation introduced earlier this year and will empower the FDA with the resources and authorities it needs to ensure that our food is safe to eat. I look forward to continuing to work with my colleagues and the administration to move this crucial piece of legislation forward." “Our 10 food safety hearings in the Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations have highlighted the need for an overhaul of our food safety laws,” said Rep. Stupak, Chair of the Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee. “The American people deserve a Food and Drug Administration that has both the funding and the regulatory authority needed to protect our food supply and hold the food industry accountable. President Obama and the new FDA leadership have expressed a commitment to food safety reform and I look forward to working with them to return FDA to the gold standard in protecting the public health.” “We cannot afford any further delay in moving comprehensive food safety legislation,” said Rep. DeGette, Vice Chair of the Committee on Energy and Commerce. “This bill takes a number of positive steps in addressing the holes in our nation’s food safety system. The FDA needs the resources to prevent foodborne illness from happening in the first place, but also tools like mandatory recall and traceback to better deal with emergencies.” "Americans should be able to trust that the food they eat and feed their families is safe,” said Rep. Sutton. “Congress must ensure that the FDA is doing all that it can to protect our families and ensure our food safety. That is why I introduced the Protect Consumers Act which gives the FDA mandatory recall authority when we learn that food is unsafe to eat. Many of my colleagues have introduced additional measures and I am pleased that this issue has become a priority. I am pleased to join Chairman Waxman, Chairman Pallone and Reps. Dingell, Stupak and DeGette in releasing this collaborative discussion draft to give the Food and Drug Administration mandatory recall authority and the tools needed for comprehensive food safety reform. Americans need to know that the food on their family's table and in their children's lunchboxes will be safe." For a summary of the legislation, please click here.
05.27.2009	WASHINGTON – U.S. Reps. Diana DeGette (D-CO) and Michael Castle (R-DE), chief architects of bipartisan legislation overturning former President George W. Bush’s restrictions on embryonic stem cell research, today led a group of 139 bipartisan Members of Congress in submitting comments to the National Institutes of Health (NIH) on the draft guidelines for human stem cell research. U.S. Reps. DeGette and Castle, along with 137 other Members of Congress, wrote: “We believe that any responsibly derived stem cell lines should be eligible for federal funding, regardless of the date on which they were derived. In order to maximize the scientific research already underway, the NIH must adopt an inclusive policy that would expand and not limit stem cell research; the NIH should develop criteria for determining whether or not lines that are currently in use should continue to be eligible for federal funding. “We support periodic updates to the guidelines by NIH, so that the guidelines will reflect scientific needs and advances for all forms of ethical stem cell research, and encourage the NIH to expressly state that scientifically worthy advances will be addressed in future updates to the guidelines. Important research tools will likely be discovered in the coming years, necessitating that the guidelines be adapted accordingly. Similarly, we believe that the guidelines should specify only which types of stem cell research are currently eligible to receive federal funding.” Click here to view the entire letter submitted to the NIH.
05.26.2009	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (D-CO) today offered the following statement on President Barack Obama’s nomination of Judge Sonia Sotomayor as the next Supreme Court Justice:“President Obama made an outstanding choice in nominating Sonia Sotomayor as the next Supreme Court Justice,” said DeGette. “As a judge and a former prosecutor and litigator, Judge Sotomayor has gained invaluable experience in complex legal and constitutional issues. Her experience at various levels of our judicial system has provided her with a well-rounded perspective that will benefit the Court. In addition to being nominated to the bench by Republican and Democratic presidents, she has been confirmed by both Republican and Democratically-controlled U.S. Senates. I am confident the U.S. Senate will confirm Judge Sotomayor as the next Supreme Court Justice.” # # #
05.20.2009	Provision Calls for 2.5 Percent Annual Increase in Energy Efficiency WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (D-CO), Vice Chair of the Committee on Energy and Commerce, today lauded the passage of an amendment to H.R. 2454, the American Clean Energy and Security Act of 2009, offered by herself and U.S. Rep. Peter Welch (D-VT). The amendment calls on the Secretary of Energy and the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency to develop a strategic plan based on the goal of improving energy efficiency 2.5 percent-per-year from 2012 through 2030. The Secretary of Energy would make these National Energy Efficiency Goals available in a report every two years, providing guidance to all sectors of our economy on how use less energy. “Finding greater efficiencies is simple commonsense,” said DeGette. “This is something the government and our industries should be doing on a larger scale even in advance of Congressional action on energy legislation. We need to set a target for all of the sectors of our economy: buildings, industry and transportation, as well as electricity.” “Energy efficiency is widely accepted as the best way to reduce costs and emissions at the same time,” said former Senator Tim Wirth (D-CO). “An international expert group convened by the United Nations Foundation found that doubling our rate of improvement in energy efficiency is both doable and desirable. Congresswoman DeGette displayed her leadership and vision in advancing a national efficiency goal. It will give us a benchmark to measure our progress and challenge us to think bigger about this most important energy opportunity.”H.R. 2454, The American Clean Energy and Security Act of 2009, seeks to reduce global warming emissions 83 percent by 2050 and create a renewable energy standard of 20 percent by 2020. The amendment passed today supports these benchmarks by providing national efficiency goals and an efficiency plan that would keep the United States on track to meet emissions reduction targets. A groundbreaking 2007 report issued by the United Nations Foundation found that improving annual energy efficiency at 2.5% a year in just the G8 countries – roughly double the historical average – would reduce G8 energy demand by about 20 percent in 2030, returning it to 2004 levels and offsetting the equivalent of 80 percent of the increased energy supply needs currently projected by the International Energy Agency (to be met by new coal-generated power plants) between now and 2030. # # #
05.19.2009	WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Diana DeGette of Denver, CO, and Congresswoman Lucille Roybal-Allard of Los Angeles, CA today made a friendly wager on the upcoming Denver-Los Angeles Western Conference Finals series in the NBA Playoffs. Congresswoman Roybal-Allard is backing the L.A. Lakers, while Congresswoman DeGette supports her local team, the Denver Nuggets. If the L.A. Lakers win, Congresswoman DeGette will give Congresswoman Roybal-Allard and her staff tamales, a Denver specialty. If the Denver Nuggets win, Congresswoman Roybal-Allard will give Congresswoman DeGette and her staff Mochi ice cream balls, made in Little Tokyo, Los Angeles. “The Denver Nuggets cannot be stopped this year. They knocked off the New Orleans Hornets and the Dallas Mavericks and now it is time to dominate the L.A. Lakers. Their advancing to the Finals will be as sweet as the Mochi ice cream balls that my friend Lucille Roybal-Allard is betting,” said Congresswoman DeGette. “I am so confident the Denver Nuggets will prevail, I am willing to bet our famous tamales. While the Lakers like to tout their round one series win in last year’s playoffs, they need to be prepared for a different, much improved Denver team, complete with hometown hero, Chauncey Billups, who was raised in the Park Hill neighborhood of Denver and is a graduate of George Washington High School.”Congresswoman Lucille Roybal-Allard (CA-34), who represents the Staples Center in Downtown Los Angeles, said: “This season has been another glorious chapter in the history of one of the NBA’s most storied and victorious franchises. The Lakers may have a veritable Who’s Who of superstars including guard Kobe Bryant, and forwards Pau Gasol and Lamar Odom, but what truly sets the Lakers apart is the team’s drive and determination to bring back the championship trophy where it belongs – LOS ANGELES. Faced with the formidable adversary in the Denver Nuggets, Angelenos are confident that the hardworking team they love will get the job done. With four of seven games on our home court at the Staples Center in my congressional district in Downtown Los Angeles, Angelenos are ready to come out and support their team.”The Denver Nuggets best of seven series with the L.A. Lakers begins tonight, Tuesday, May 19 at 9:00 PM EST. ###
05.15.2009	Trip to Afghanistan Reaffirms Commitment to Afghan People and U.S. Troops WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (D-CO) today supported H.R. 2346, FY 2009 Supplemental Appropriations Bill, which passed on a vote of 368 to 60. “I support this legislation because it is absolutely essential we address the problems created in Afghanistan by the past Administration when our military was unnecessarily misdirected into Iraq,” said DeGette. “After recently returning from a trip to Afghanistan, I am convinced even more that we must uphold our commitment to the Afghan people – many of whom have been subjected to human rights abuses. We also have a responsibility to provide the resources for U.S. troops who have been trying to eliminate the Taliban. If we abandon Afghanistan now, our national security interests would be severely compromised. We have an interest in strengthening the institutions in Afghanistan and helping them create the infrastructure that will allow us to build a legitimate and lasting partnership.” U.S. Rep. DeGette recently returned from a trip to Afghanistan, where she met with many Afghan women, from elected leaders to representatives of advocacy groups to average citizens. Upon her return, she joined U.S. Reps. Susan Davis, member of the Armed Services Committee and Chair of the Military Personnel Subcommittee, Judy Biggert, Carol Shea-Porter, Donna F. Edwards, and Ann Kirkpatrick, in sending a letter to President Hamid Karzai urging him to amend the recently passed Shiite Personal Status Law. The Shiite Personal Status Law legalizes marital rape, undermines womens’ parental rights in divorce proceedings, and restricts their rights to movement. While the Afghan government is reviewing the law, President Karzai still has the opportunity to amend it by removing the offensive sections. “It is also important to recognize the funding provided by this bill is consistent with the President’s goal to reduce the number of combat forces. I opposed the original authorization to go to war in Iraq because I believe it redirected our efforts away from the real focus – Afghanistan,” DeGette concluded. # # #
05.14.2009	WASHINGTON – Upon returning from an informative and productive trip to Afghanistan, a bipartisan delegation of female Members of Congress sent a letter to Afghanistan President, Hamid Karzai, expressing their deep concern about the treatment of women and erosion of their rights in Afghanistan under the Shiite Personal Status Law recently passed by the National Assembly. The delegation was in Afghanistan on a fact-finding mission over the May 9 and 10 weekend. The delegation emphasized in the letter:“This law has raised a furor, both among the Afghan public and the international community, because of its blatant violation of the fundamental human rights of women. The Shiite Personal Status Law legalizes marital rape, undermines womens’ parental rights in divorce proceedings, and restricts their rights to movement. While you have stated that the government is reviewing the law, it could be published and go into effect at any time. Therefore, we urge you to immediately act to amend the bill by removing the offensive sections before publication. This decisive action will alleviate the current fear and uncertainty as the August elections approach.” “A key component to the stabilization and prosperity of Afghanistan is the full respect of women’s rights,” said Rep. Susan Davis (D-CA), Chairwoman of the House Armed Services Military Personnel Subcommittee. “Progress is difficult, if not impossible, if half of the nation’s population is placed at a significant disadvantage. I hope that President Karzai will recognize this and take steps to protect the rights of Afghan women and include more women in the rebuilding of the Afghanistan.”“Our troops are working hard every day to ensure that Afghanistan becomes a free and stable ally that will be a force for peace in the region rather than a staging ground for attacks on U.S. soil,” said U.S. Rep. Judy Biggert (R-IL-13), who has worked personally with Afghan women for several years. “Protecting the rights of these women is critical to ensuring that we meet that goal and don’t turn back the clock on the progress we have made. President Karzai must immediately rescind this abhorrent law. Women in Afghanistan deserve to know that their daughters will grow up in a culture of dignity, security, and basic freedoms.”“As a full partner in the international community, the Afghan government must respect women’s rights,” said Rep. Diana DeGette (D-CO), Vice Chair of the Committee on Energy and Commerce. “The Shiite Personal Status Law is dangerous– it instills fear and trepidation in women by sending the message they are worth less than their male counterparts, have no right to determine their own future, and worse yet, must forfeit their rights over their own bodies. While we must support Afghanistan as it builds the infrastructure and institutions that will allow the country to more effectively engage the global community, we must also insist that the government respect the rights of all people.”“A nation cannot recover if fifty percent of the population is unable to participate in their country’s future,” said Congresswoman Carol Shea-Porter (D-NH). “After visiting Afghanistan and meeting with local women and girls, I remain deeply concerned about the lack of women’s rights throughout the country. I urge President Karzai to immediately rescind the Shiite Personal Status Law and to stand up for the women of Afghanistan.”“I join my colleagues in urging Afghanistan President Hamid Karzai to take significant and immediate steps to protect the rights of Afghan women,” said Rep. Donna F. Edwards (D-MD). “I was moved by the courage of the women with whom we met -- the mothers, sisters, and daughters who struggle each day under the most difficult of circumstances. The rights of women must be protected if Afghanistan is to become a prosperous and secure nation. I thank Chairwoman Davis for her leadership in organizing this Congressional delegation.”“Our mission in Afghanistan is to disrupt terrorist networks and stop the spread of the Taliban,” said Rep. Ann Kirkpatrick (D-AZ). “But at the same time, President Karzai and the democratically-elected leadership of the country must do all they can to recognize and respect the women of Afghanistan and integrate them as equal members of their society.”Link to House Resolution cited in letter below The full text of the letter is below:May 14, 2009His Excellency Hamid Karzai President of the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan Presidential Palace Kabul. Afghanistan Dear Mr. President, As members of a bi-partisan Congressional delegation who recently visited Afghanistan over the May 9 and 10 weekend, we valued our time in your country and found it to be an informative and productive visit. However, we were deeply concerned to learn that your government has not rescinded the Shiite Personal Status Law that was passed by the National Assembly and you signed in April of this year. This law has raised a furor, both among the Afghan public and the international community, because of its blatant violation of the fundamental human rights of women. The Shiite Personal Status Law legalizes marital rape, undermines womens’ parental rights in divorce proceedings, and restricts their rights to movement. While you have stated that the government is reviewing the law, it could be published and go into effect at any time. Therefore, we urge you to immediately act to amend the bill by removing the offensive sections before publication. This decisive action will alleviate the current fear and uncertainty as the August elections approach. During our trip, we met with many Afghan women, from elected leaders to representatives of advocacy groups to average citizens. Many of them face violence in their own homes. Their voices are often not heard in the discussions that affect the future development of your country. As women representatives in the United States Congress, we have concluded that it is imperative that under your leadership, Afghanistan takes more concrete and substantial steps toward including women in the development of laws, programs and policies that are important to the future stability of your nation. Women around the world seek the same goals—ensuring that their families are safe and secure; they have the ability to feed and clothe their families; have access to education for themselves and their children, and are able to receive health care when needed. Unfortunately, the security situation in most of Afghanistan does not allow women to feel safe or secure as they work to provide for the basic needs for themselves and their families. Mr. President, this situation must change if Afghanistan is to have a chance for a prosperous and secure nation that will be recognized and respected among the international community.Members of the United States Congress share our views, and a resolution expressing their concerns with the Shiite Personal Status Law has been introduced. We look forward to working with you. Sincerely, Susan A. Davis Judy Biggert Member of Congress Member of CongressDiana DeGette Carol Shea-Porter Member of Congress Member of CongressDonna F. Edwards Ann Kirkpatrick Member of Congress Member of Congress ###
05.14.2009	Colorado Estimated to Receive $66 Million; $16 Million Estimated for Denver County Alone WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (D-CO), Vice Chair of the Committee on Energy and Commerce, today supported legislation that will improve our public schools, create clean energy jobs, reduce our dependence on foreign oil and lower energy costs for taxpayers. The 21st Century Green High-Performing Public School Facilities Act passed by the House, on a bipartisan vote of 275 to 155, will invest in our schools to boost our economy now and help prepare our children for the jobs of the future. “This legislation will go a long-way in boosting our economy by investing in our schools,” said DeGette. “It will also give us a chance to upgrade our school buildings and boost student achievement while creating good local jobs in new, clean energy industries. Coloradoans will benefit greatly from this forward-looking bill. With our schools hundreds of billions of dollars short of the funding needed to bring them up to good condition, Congress has taken an important step towards ensuring our children have the facilities to receive a quality education.”The 21st Century Green High-Performing Public School Facilities Act provides over $6 billion in federal funds to upgrade school buildings to make them more energy efficient and more reliant on renewable sources of energy. Colorado will receive approximately $66 million in funding and $16 million for Denver County alone. The bill also generates long-term savings for schools by reducing energy expenses. Green schools reduce pollution by using about 30% less water and energy than conventional schools, and emit almost 40% less harmful carbon dioxide. They have also been shown to have reduced absenteeism due to asthma, colds and flu.According to calculations by the Economic Policy Institute, this legislation’s construction funding would support as many as 136,000 new jobs – many in areas that will give workers the valuable skills they need to excel in a clean energy economy.# # #
05.07.2009	DeGette and Slaughter Applaud MoveWASHINGTON – Bi-partisan Congressional Pro-Choice Caucus Co-Chairs Diana DeGette (D-CO), Vice Chair of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, and Louise M. Slaughter (D-NY), Chairwoman of the House Committee on Rules, today lauded President Obama’s inclusion of evidence-based teen pregnancy prevention programs and elimination of failed abstinence education programs in his budget proposal.“Eliminating funding for ineffective abstinence-only programs is a win for science,” said DeGette. “The Obama budget proposal invests in programs that are effective and based on sound science, rather than wasting millions of dollars on efforts that have been proven to be ineffective at best. This budget underscores the President’s commitment to science, and I look forward to working with the White House and House leadership to ensure that Congress supports his efforts.”“For too long we wasted money on programs that are proven to be ineffective. We are finally putting sound science ahead of politics,” said Slaughter. “We have an obligation to our young women and men to empower them to make informed decisions about their own sexual health.” The President’s budget includes funding “for teenage pregnancy prevention programs that have been proven effective through rigorous evaluation.” Language can be found on pages 490 to 495 of the budget appendix.
05.07.2009	Slaughter and DeGette Applaud Step in Right Direction, Call for More Action Washington, DC – Bi-partisan Congressional Pro-Choice Caucus Co-Chairs Louise M. Slaughter (D-NY), Chairwoman of the House Committee on Rules, and Diana DeGette (D-CO), Vice Chair of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, today applauded family planning investments in President Obama’s budget proposal.The President’s budget calls for an additional $10 million over fiscal year 2009 levels for Title X Family Planning programs, critical initiatives to improve women’s health care and reduce the rate of unintended pregnancies and abortions. The budget also supports teen pregnancy prevention programs with proven track records and provides funding through Medicaid to improve access to family planning services for low income women and families. These increases in family planning funding come as President Obama made $17 billion worth of cuts to the budget. “These increased investments in key family planning programs are a step in the right direction and I applaud President Obama,” said Rep. Slaughter. “Our commitment to increasing budget savings and reducing unintended pregnancies go hand in hand. It is estimated that for every dollar spent on family planning services, almost four dollars are saved in public health spending.”“This budget shows that President Obama is looking out for the American taxpayer by redirecting funds from ineffective programs to those that actually work,” said Rep. DeGette. “Family planning services prevent unintended pregnancies, reduce the need for abortion, and save money. We must keep working together to implement public health policies that are based on sound science.”Slaughter and DeGette are the sponsors of the Prevention First Act, comprehensive legislation to protect women’s reproductive health, reduce the number of unintended pregnancies and abortions and decrease the spread of STDs. The Prevention First Act calls for $700 million for Title X programs.“We still have much to do,” Slaughter continued. “If we want to reduce the number of unintended pregnancies and abortions in this country, the methodology is clear – empower women to prevent unintended pregnancies through education and access to contraception. A continued commitment to family planning services will do just that.”BACKGROUND For the first time in decades, the nation’s teen birth rate is on the rise. Additionally, research shows, and a majority of the public believes, that improving access to family planning services is the most effective way to reduce the number of unintended pregnancies and to reduce abortions. The Prevention First Act would do the following:Increase Funding for the National Family Planning Program (Title X).Expand Medicaid Family Planning Services.End Insurance Discrimination Against Women.Improve Awareness about Emergency Contraception (EC).Provide Compassionate Assistance for Rape Victims.Reduce Teen Pregnancy.Ensure that All Federal Programs Provide Age Appropriate Medically Accurate Sex Education.
05.06.2009	Urge Teens to Log-On and Take the QuizWASHINGTON - Today, a group of bipartisan legislators, including U.S. Reps. Chris Murphy (D-CT), Mike Castle (R-DE), Diana DeGette (D-CO), Louise Slaughter (D-NY), and Judy Biggert (R-IL) joined together to introduce a Congressional resolution to renew the national effort to reduce teen pregnancy by supporting the goals of National Day to Prevent Teen Pregnancy. The National Day, which will be observed today, centers on helping teens focus on the importance of postponing pregnancy and parenthood until they are adults.Unfortunately, after more than a decade of significant decline, teen pregnancy and birth rates are now on the rise. According to data released in March 2009 by the National Center for Health Statistics (NCHS), the U.S. teen birth rate increased two years in a row, increasing 5% between 2005 and 2007. This stands in stark contrast to a 34% decrease between 1991 and 2005.“As a new parent, I know the day-to-day joys and challenges of raising a child. But teenagers are in many ways still kids themselves, and so we must do everything we can to educate them about preventing unwanted teen pregnancies so that they can finish growing up, complete their education, and become better prepared for parenthood. I hope that our effort to raise awareness of the National Day to Prevent Teen Pregnancy will help reverse the recent rise in teen pregnancy rates and encourage teenagers to make healthy choices for themselves and their future,” said U.S. Rep. Chris Murphy (D-CT)."Teen pregnancy is closely linked to a number of social issues such as poverty, overall child well-being, health issues, education, and other risky behavior. We must double efforts to help reverse the recent rise in teen pregnancy in order to ensure the success of our young people," said U.S. Rep. Castle (R-DE), co-chair of the House Advisory Panel to the National Campaign to Prevent Teen and Unplanned Pregnancy.“After more than a decade of decline, teen pregnancy and birth rates have now increased. American teens need our support, in the form of effective public policies, to help them postpone pregnancy and parenting,” said U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (D-CO), Vice Chair of the Committee on Energy and Commerce and Co-Chair of the Pro-Choice Caucus."After more than a decade of decline, teen pregnancy and birth rates are now on the rise,” said Pro-Choice Caucus Co-Chair Louise M. Slaughter (D-NY). “We can all agree that we must reduce unintended teen pregnancies and the methodology is clear – empower women to prevent unintended pregnancies through education and access to contraception.”"Teen pregnancy places an immense burden on families, and it too often leads to young women foregoing the education they need to be happier and more successful mothers down the road,” said U.S. Rep. Judy Biggert (R-IL). “Teaching our children about safe behavior is critical to ensuring that they have the bright futures they deserve. I am pleased to join my colleagues in speaking out for the health and safety of our children and grandchildren.”Today, more than 175 national organizations in the health, entertainment, education, faith and media fields, and nearly 50 state and local organizations are partnering to promote and support the 8th annual National Day to Prevent Teen Pregnancy. More than 300,000 individuals are expected to take this year’s National Day Quiz, which is designed to help teens think carefully about sex and waiting, the possibility of pregnancy, and the lifelong challenges of being a parent.By logging onto www.stayteen.org, teens can take the online quiz that presents them with realistic scenarios and asks them to take a course of action. The National Campaign to Prevent Teen Pregnancy, sponsor of the National Day, says the Internet based quiz will empower teens across the nation to make a personal commitment to avoiding unplanned pregnancy. More than a quarter million people took the quiz last year and nearly three-quarters of them said it helped them think about what they might do in such situations. For more information or to learn how you can get involved, please visit https://www.thenationalcampaign.org/.
05.04.2009	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (D-CO) today unveiled a new interactive Congressional website – https://degette.house.gov – to reflect the innovation of Colorado and the Denver-metro region. The website was developed as a service for constituents and a resource for the media to learn about U.S. Rep. DeGette’s positions and activities representing the people of the First Congressional District of Colorado. “I re-designed my Congressional website to mirror the hotbed of innovation that we pride ourselves on in Colorado,” said U.S. Rep. DeGette. “My website is a resource for my constituents in Denver to not only learn about my positions on various national issues, but to also find out how to kick-start inquiries with the federal government, request a meeting, and learn more about famous Coloradoans and fun things to do in the First District.” DeGette’s new website includes a variety of links and legislative resources for constituents and members of the media to follow her latest legislative activities and read recent national and local news articles. Visitors can also sign up for DeGette’s electronic newsletter to keep informed of her activities in the U.S. Congress and also read her statements. The website also hosts information on her voting record, constituent services, and federal government resources. The website also features numerous YouTube videos and a link to DeGette’s Facebook page. “I also encourage my constituents to sign up for my e-newsletter, which features important updates on current issues. It is my hope that my website becomes a one-stop shop for those who need assistance from the federal government, or want to learn about my record and activities in Congress.” In addition to the constituent services available on the website, visitors can learn about U.S. Rep. DeGette’s activities in her leadership role as Chief Deputy Whip and as the Vice Chair of the Energy and Commerce Committee, one of the most powerful committees in Congress.
05.01.2009	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (D-CO) today congratulated Denver’s East High School for taking first place in the “We the People: The Citizen and the Constitution” competition for the third year in a row. During the national competition, East High School also won the special Lincoln Award, presented to the school whose class achieved the highest score on Question 3 of Unit Three, which is based on a lesson about Abraham Lincoln in honor of the bicentennial of Lincoln’s birth. “I am proud of the East High School students for their dedication to civics education. They continue to illustrate the top-notch education program in Denver. During the three days of competition, they demonstrated a strong understanding of the U.S. Constitution and our historical framework. As a former volunteer coach in this program, I know the high level of commitment required for them to reach this outstanding level. All those involved, from the students to the teacher and parents, should be very proud.” U.S. Rep. DeGette is a supporter of the Education for Democracy Act, which helps fund programs such as “We the People,” the “School Violence Prevention Demonstration Program” and the “Civitas International program.” These programs effectively promote among students a profound understanding of and commitment to the fundamental values and principles of American constitutional democracy as expressed in such seminal documents as the Declaration of Independence, the U.S. Constitution and Bill of Rights, and the Gettysburg Address. They also promote students' capacities to participate competently and responsibility in the political life of their communities and the nation. To learn more about the program, visit https://civiced.org/.
05.01.2009	Denver – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (D-CO), Vice Chair of the Committee on Energy and Commerce, today released a newly developed Recovery Act Resource guide to help constituents of the First Congressional District navigate The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (ARRA). This guide is designed to assist constituents, businesses, and local governments in determining what funding is available to them and how to access it. The Office of U.S. Rep. DeGette may also be able to help with grant requests including writing a letter of support for an application. “As Coloradoans grapple with the fallout of the economy, I am pleased to offer this guide as a resource to help them navigate the various funding offered by the federal government,” said U.S. Rep. DeGette. “The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act is intended to help consumers, businesses, and local government get back on their feet – and I am ready to assist my constituents in this endeavor.” Specific information and guidelines about the different programs being funded are gradually being released. In the interim, our office is happy to help with questions regarding the funds available in ARRA and direct them to the appropriate resources. Please click here to download a .pdf of U.S. Rep. DeGette’s Recovery Act Resource guide.
05.01.2009	WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Diana DeGette of Denver, CO, and Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson of Dallas, TX, today made a friendly wager on the upcoming Denver-Dallas Western Conference Semifinals series in the NBA Playoffs.Congresswoman Johnson is backing the Dallas Mavericks, while Congresswoman DeGette supports her local team, the Denver Nuggets. If the Dallas Mavericks win, Congresswoman DeGette will give Congresswoman Johnson tamales, a Denver specialty. If the Denver Nuggets win, Congresswoman Johnson will give Congresswoman DeGette five bottles of her famous Texas-style hot sauce.“The Denver Nuggets are on fire this year – they are as hot as the Texas-style sauce my friend, Eddie Bernice, is betting,” said Congresswoman DeGette. “I am so confident the Denver Nuggets will prevail, I am willing to bet our famous tamales. With this being the best Denver Nuggets team in history, I am looking forward to adding some hot sauce to my tamales.” “The Mavericks boast Dirk Nowitzki, the NBA’s MVP in the 2006-2007 season, and Jason Kidd, one of the best players of his generation,” Congresswoman Johnson said. “Jason Terry is one of the best guards in the NBA and won the sixth man award this year. He leads a deep bench on a team with a lot of playoff experience. We’ll draw on that experience in this series. I think we’re going to surprise everyone and show them what happens when a hard-working team pulls together.” The Dallas Mavericks best of seven series with the Denver Nuggets begins Sunday, May 3 at 3:30 PM EST.
04.29.2009	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (D-CO), Vice Chair of the Committee on Energy and Commerce, today released the following statement on President Barack Obama’s first 100 days in office:“President Barack Obama came to office under difficult circumstances – a battered economy, a broken health care system, and wars on two fronts. After only 100 days, President Obama has moved the country away from countless missteps made by the previous administration and refocused our attention on building the long-term foundation for America’s future. As families across Colorado and the nation continue to struggle during these tough economic times, Congress and the President have taken unprecedented actions to create or save millions of new jobs, invest in our communities, and put our country on a path toward stability. “After enhancing the Children’s Health Insurance Program, Congress is working with President Obama to reform our ailing health care system – investing in health care reform will reduce out-of-pocket costs and make Americans healthier. We are working to ensure that every American adult and child will have health care coverage. President Obama’s bold action in lifting the restrictions on embryonic stem cell research will restore our scientific strength in this country. And finally, we are developing a balanced energy policy that reduces our dependence on foreign oil, lowers emissions of global warming pollution, and makes us more competitive globally in next-generation clean energy technology.”
04.29.2009	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (D-CO), Vice Chair of the Committee on Energy and Commerce, today supported H.R. 1913, the Local Law Enforcement Hate Crimes Prevention Act, which passed on a strong bipartisan vote of 249 to 175. This bill is focused on giving state and local law enforcement the tools and resources they need to investigate and prosecute hate crimes. “Everyone in this country deserves a chance to pursue the American dream free from intimidation and persecution,” said U.S. Rep. DeGette, who is Vice Chair of the LGBT Equality Caucus and cosponsor of the measure. “Every hate crime is an attack on the liberty and equality valued by every American. This legislation will provide state and local law enforcement agencies with resources they need to investigate and prosecute hate crimes, while also protecting the exercise of free speech and religious expression provided under our Constitution.” The Local Law Enforcement Hate Crimes Prevention Act also extends existing protections to more Americans. The current federal hate crimes law authorizes federal aid in cases of hate crimes committed because of a person’s race, color, religion, or national origin. This bill closes gaps in federal law to combat hate crimes committed because of a person’s gender, sexual orientation, gender identity, or disability.
04.22.2009	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (D-CO) today joined U.S. Rep. Mike Coffman (R-CO) in leading the House of Representatives in a moment of silence in honor of the 10 year anniversary of the shootings at Columbine High School in Littleton, Colorado. Below are here comments as prepared for delivery:“Madam Speaker, 10 years ago this week, as I sat in my office in the Longworth Office Building, I watched the horrific events of the Columbine shooting occur. Sadly, that was not the first time we've had a high school shooting, and even more sadly, it was not the last time we've seen a shooting of this nature.“Every time this happens, for those of us in Colorado, the memory of the horrific events in April 10 years ago floods back to us. I'm joined today with the entire Colorado delegation; as Mr. Coffman said in mourning the loss of the teacher and the students at Columbine; Mr. Perlmutter had constituents who were killed in the shooting; I had constituents attending Columbine High School at that time, and we still do today. All of us share the hope that Principal Frank DeAngeles, who was the principal then and now shared with the country Monday this week at a ceremony commemorating the 10th anniversary of Columbine. The principal said on Monday, and we all agree with this, my hope is that school violence comes to an end and that our nation is not mourning the loss of more of our children and educators and that the members of our society come together to stop the senseless deaths that are occurring.“Our children are our future, and we must continue to pave the way for a safe and successful journey. Let's remember Columbine and let's remember these words.”
04.21.2009	WASHINGTON, DC - Today, Sens. Frank R. Lautenberg (D-NJ) and Johnny Isakson (R-GA) and Reps. Diana DeGette (D-CO-1) and Mike Castle (R-DE) introduced a bill to help prevent diabetes from affecting children and families in minority communities. Minority communities, including African-Americans, Hispanics, Asian Americans, Native Hawaiian and other Pacific Islanders, American Indians and Alaskan Natives, have higher rates of diabetes and are often less able to obtain the care they need to manage their disease.“Diabetes remains an epidemic, especially in minority communities,” Sen. Lautenberg said. “Our bill would help families in New Jersey and across the nation get the education and treatment they need to prevent diabetes from dictating their lives.”“Of the nearly 24 million Americans affected by diabetes, an alarming number are minorities,” Sen. Isakson said. “It is important to provide the education necessary to keep these individuals healthy through proper management of their disease.”“Today’s bill is a first step in addressing the unique challenges that minority populations face in the areas of diabetes education, treatment, care, and outcomes,” said DeGette, Vice Chair of the Committee on Energy and Commerce. “Racial and ethnic minorities have a much higher incidence of diabetes, and more and more young children are developing the disease as well. By investing in basic and translational research at the National Institutes of Health, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, and the Health Resources and Services Administration, we can hopefully begin to understand and combat the factors that impact the populations disproportionally affected by diabetes.”"Many do not realize the disproportionate impact diabetes has on minority communities across the nation," said Rep. Castle. "Improving prevention, access and care for minority communities impacted by diabetes will go a long way in not only eliminating disparities but improving health."The legislation, the Eliminating Disparities in Diabetes Prevention Access and Care Act, would coordinate prevention, research, treatment and education efforts across several government agencies within the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS), including the National Institutes of Health (NIH) and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). Specifically the bill would require the:· NIH to examine the various factors that lead to diabetes in minority populations, including behavior, environment, and genetics;· CDC to better educate the public on the causes and effects of diabetes in minority populations and carry out culturally-specific diabetes health education; and· Health Resources and Services Administration to increase the number of minority physicians focusing on diabetes care and treatment and educate providers on the effect of diabetes in minority populations. The bill also would require the Indian Health Service to identify ethnically and culturally appropriate diabetes prevention and treatment services for the American Indian population. A summary of all the bill’s provisions is attached. Diabetes affects 23.6 million men, women and children in the United States. One in three children born in 2000 will develop diabetes in their lifetime, but the epidemic is growing even more rapidly in minority populations. Nearly half of all minority children born in 2000 will develop diabetes at some point in their lifetime, according to the Centers for Disease Control.# # #
04.17.2009	WASHINGTON – U.S. Reps. Diana DeGette (D-CO) and Michael Castle (R-DE), chief architects of bipartisan legislation expanding stem cell research, today commented on the National Institutes of Health's (NIH) draft guidelines for the federal funding of stem cell research, including embryonic stem cell research. On March 16, Reps. DeGette and Castle visited with the Acting Director Kington and leading stem cell experts at the NIH to review plans for moving forward with an expanded federal policy. The guidelines are a requirement of the March 9 Executive Order issued by President Barack Obama, which overturned former President Bush’s restrictions on federal funding of embryonic stem cell research. “Thanks to President Obama's recent Executive Order reversing previous restrictions, we are finally on the cusp of expanding federal support for embryonic stem cell research, which has the potential to cure diseases such as Parkinson’s, diabetes, and spinal cord injury,” said Rep. DeGette. “I am pleased that the NIH has proposed guidelines that track much of the language from the Stem Cell Research Enhancement Act which was passed twice by Congress. Today's draft NIH guidelines are the first step towards an overarching, federal ethical framework. Rep. Castle and I are planning to move forward with legislation that will promote all forms of ethical stem cell research and look forward to working with the NIH towards strong federal support of ethical scientific cell based research.” "After many years under a stifled policy, we are on our way to promoting increased federal support for embryonic stem cell research," said Rep. Castle. "I am pleased to see the NIH has moved quickly to draft the Guidelines required by the Executive order, however I believe there is opportunity for more expansive Guidelines. Rep. DeGette and I have been working to develop legislative options to promote all ethical forms of stem cell research. I look forward to providing input during the comment period, and continuing to advance federal policy which is both responsible and supportive of scientific inquiry."###
04.15.2009	DENVER – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (D-CO) announced today that Alden Weissfeld, a Thomas Jefferson High School junior, won the 2009 First Congressional District Arts Competition. As part of the award, Mr. Weissfeld’s, “An Old Time,” painting, will be displayed in the Cannon Tunnel of the United States Capitol in Washington, DC. He will also accompany Rep. DeGette to a special reception this summer in the nation’s capital.“I am pleased to award Alden the Best of Show Award and the honor of having his work displayed in the U.S. Capitol,” said DeGette. “I am incredibly impressed with the quality of art from our talented students in this year’s competition. I am very proud of all of our student artists and our Denver area high school’s art education programs.”The First District Congressional Arts Competition is part of a nationwide program, entitled An Artistic Discovery, in which Members of Congress raise awareness of the importance of art education by recognizing outstanding artistic students from their Congressional districts. This year 42 high school students from the First District submitted artworks for the competition.“The Art Institute of Colorado has hosted this art show for the past eight years and I am thrilled to see how this show continues to get larger with remarkable talent. On behalf of the school, we are pleased to reward these efforts today by giving $18,000 in scholarships to the top winners of the competition. Our Best of Show winner, Alden Weissfeld will receive a $5,000 scholarship to The Art Institute, ” said Art Institute of Colorado President, David Zorn.Mr. Weissfeld’s winning painting and the rest of the First Congressional District Arts Competition submissions can be viewed at the John Jellico Gallery, at The Art Institute of Colorado, 1200 Lincoln Street in Denver until April 30.###
04.07.2009	DENVER – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (D-CO), Vice Chair of the Committee on Energy and Commerce, today made the case for the urgent need to reform our nation’s health care system during a speech to the City Club of Denver. She argued that any plan Congress developed must include three essential pillars saying, “it must cover every American; it must be affordable; it and must be portable.” As Congress moves forward holding hearings, U.S. Rep. DeGette also announced that she will begin a statewide health care tour to highlight the issue of health care reform.Below are U.S. Rep. DeGette’s remarks as prepared for delivery:“Our Supreme Duty”“I would like to you to consider the following passage:“[We], the conscience of a people, in a time of grave national problems…here dedicate ourselves…to the supreme duty of the Nation—social justice, [including] minimum safety and health standards [and] public health…without discrimination against or for any school of medicine. It is time to set the public welfare in the first place.”“These words come from 1912 when Teddy Roosevelt first campaigned for universal national health coverage—nearly 100 years ago.“Since then, our nation has taken steps toward fulfilling its “supreme duty” to the health of its people: Medicare, Medicaid, health insurance for poor children, and, I am proud to say, with President Obama’s executive order, an end to the ban—the “discrimination against”—federal funding of embryonic stem cell research, bringing new hope to millions of patients and families.“But nearly a century after Teddy Roosevelt uttered those words, the sad truth persists: the United States remains the only industrialized nation in the Western world that still doesn’t guarantee health care for all its citizens.“As the Vice Chair of the Committee on Energy and Commerce, which will play a critical role in health care reform— I have a simple message: this is morally unacceptable. “It is unacceptable when a record 47 million Americans—including 800,000 Coloradoans—have no health insurance and when thousands more Americans are losing their coverage every day. That means they’re less likely to get the medical care they need, more likely to develop chronic and life-threatening diseases and more likely to die prematurely, causing more than 20,000 preventable deaths in America every year.[i]“It is unacceptable when the uninsured population includes 9 million children—180,000 here in Colorado—children who are less likely to have their immunizations or see a doctor or dentist and more likely to be hospitalized because the only option for their sore throat or ear infection is the emergency room. “It is unacceptable when even families with health insurance struggle to keep up with skyrocketing premiums and co-pays only to have to fight their insurance companies for the coverage they thought they had.“They’re families like my sister’s—insured, middle-class family with two kids, paying monthly premiums of $1,100. And when my nephew had a skateboarding accident—a compound fracture of his wrist—what did her insurance company say? “Sorry. You didn’t get pre-approved for the emergency room service.”“And, it is unacceptable when—despite the more than $2 trillion Americans pay for health care every year…twice as much, per person, than other industrialized countries—the outcomes are abysmal. “Americans often think we have the best health care in the world. But consider this. In terms of women’s health—compared to other countries—the United States ranks 24th. In infant mortality, we rank 29th. In life expectancy, we rank 31st. And for health outcomes overall we rank 37th—below the Dominican Republic and Costa Rica. Put simply, when it comes to health care, Americans pay so much more but get so much less.“This is not only morally unacceptable, it is financially unsustainable.“It’s unsustainable for families who often spend more on medical bills than on food and housing, who fear that just one illness or accident could plunge them into bankruptcy or cost them their home. In fact, medical bills are now the leading cause of personal bankrupts—call it “medical bankruptcy.”“It’s unsustainable for businesses…especially small businesses, like the Denver Bookbinding Company, which had to slash its employer contributions and drop its 401(k) plan.“It’s unsustainable for hospitals, especially safety-net hospitals like Denver Health, where a surge of unemployed and uninsured patients have pushed uncompensated care costs above $300 million a year. “It’s unsustainable for states overwhelmed by exploding Medicaid costs, including Colorado where the rolls are rising at an unprecedented 3,000 new Medicaid recipients every month.“And the status quo is unsustainable for our nation. The more than $2 trillion we spend every year on health care constitutes 16 percent of our gross domestic product. Over the next decade—without reform—it could swell to 20 percent, to more than $4 trillion. That’s why even the chairman of the Federal Reserve—not someone typically associated with health care or hyperbole—has called this broken system “one of the most important challenges our nation faces.”[ii]“Now, some say that this recession is the wrong time to confront this challenge. On the contrary, it is precisely the right time. Because, in the short-term, millions of jobs at risk means health care for millions at risk. And, over the long-term, we will never achieve our full economic potential as a nation if we don’t free ourselves from the ball and chain of a dysfunctional health system.“That’s why the new Congress and President Obama have moved swiftly to confront the most pressing short-term challenges.· We passed an historic expansion of the Children’s Health Insurance Program, CHIP, preserving health care for millions of low-income children and expanding coverage to millions more, including 63,000 more children in Colorado. · And as part of the Economic Recovery package, we extended health coverage for those who’ve lost jobs in this recession; increased federal support for Medicaid; and—something I personally fought hard to include in the recovery package —we increased reimbursements for uncompensated care at Disproportionate Share Hospitals (DSH) like Denver Health.“And we’re confronting the long-term challenge by embarking on comprehensive reform with a clear goal—quality, affordable health care for every American.· In his first budget, President Obama proposed a reserve fund of $634 billion as a “down payment” on health care reform. · My Committee is holding hearings on the best way forward.“Different plans and various proposals are now being debated and I have not yet taken a position on any of them. My committee chairman, Congressman Henry Waxman, has asked me as Vice Chair to bring people to the table, listen to ideas from all sides, find common ground and help forge a plan that can pass.“So many questions—on coverage and cost—need to be answered. So many details need to be decided. There will be hard bargaining and hard choices. That said, I believe the broad principles of reform are already quite clear.“Reform must reflect this fundamental truth: affordable, quality health care is not the privilege of the fortunate few, it is the right of every American.“Reform must achieve key goals: reduce costs, expand coverage to those who lack it and improve the quality of care.“Reform must preserve the values we cherish as Americans: choice—of doctors, providers and plans; strong doctor-patient relationships—free from government interference, and; accountability—to avoid profiteering and discrimination based on pre-existing conditions. So disregard the fear-mongers and let there be no doubt: “socialized medicine” is not coming to America. “And reform must reflect what is politically possible. There are those who favor a single-payer, government-run health care system. But let’s be clear: such an approach has neither public nor political support at this time – despite that, we must not lose sight of our goal of providing health care for every American.“Guided by these principles, I believe a reformed system should have three essential pillars. It must cover every American; it must be affordable; and it must be portable.“It must cover everyone. Every American must have access to coverage—whether through the private plans they have now or a new public plan, perhaps modeled after the one offered to federal employees. “Why “every” American? Because if everyone is not enrolled, the old, familiar cycle will repeat itself: younger, healthier people will opt-out, leaving insurers and government programs with huge pools of older, sicker people resulting in higher costs and premiums. In contrast, covering everyone—including the formerly uninsured—would spread the risk among more people, resulting in more efficiencies and lower costs and premiums.“A reformed system must be affordable. Beyond covering everyone, there are so many ways to reign in soaring costs:· We need to put a new emphasis on preventative care—anti-smoking efforts, cancer screening and pre-natal care, where every dollar spent saves four dollars in long-term care. That’s why I’m exploring a new way to calculate not simply the costs of preventative care, but the long-term benefits—what I call the “Prevention Dividend.” · We need to invest in health care information technology—as the recovery plan does—to computerize health records and save billions of dollars now being lost every year to administrative costs. · And we need to give the federal government, under Medicare, the power to negotiate lower prices for prescription drugs.“Finally, in a reformed health care system, coverage must be portable. You shouldn’t lose your health care just because you lose or change your job. Or just because you move to another state. If we mean what we say—that quality, affordable health care is indeed the right of every American—then it must be a right that can never be taken away.“Health care for every American that is both affordable and portable – that is what we are called upon to deliver.“Few understand the urgency better than Susan Molina, a single mom from my district who testified before my Committee on behalf of MOP – Metro Organizations for People. When her abusive husband left her, she took a job as a janitor. Health care for her two children was covered by Colorado, CHP+. “In time, Susan worked her way up—from janitor to manager, this promotion came with a huge price—she made too much money to qualify for Colorado’s Medicaid plan but too little to afford private insurance. And when her son got the flu, the best she could do was go to the pharmacy for chest rub and cough medicine. At which point, she broke down in tears. At the hearing she said: “I felt ashamed that I couldn't just take my son to the doctor right there and then. It's sad that as parents we have to make hard choices—whether to pay a bill or buy groceries or take our children to the doctor. I felt like a failure.” “Ladies and gentlemen, no mother or father should ever have to feel like a failure because they can’t care for their children. No child should ever go without medical attention because their parents have to choose between food and health care. And no nation should—and certainly not the wealthiest in the world—should tolerate it. “As I mentioned, my Committee is currently holding hearings on reforming our nation’s health care system. As the House and Senate moves forward on developing a comprehensive plan, I am partnering with the Members of the Colorado Delegation to hold health care roundtables across our state.“We must enact comprehensive health care reform. And when we do—a century after Teddy Roosevelt first called for it, after so many attempts to achieve it—we will, at long last, fulfill our “supreme duty”—to Colorado, to our country and to future generations.“Thank you so much.” # # #
04.02.2009	WASHINGTON – After introducing bipartisan legislation to help Americans quit smoking, U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (D-CO), Vice Chair of the Committee on Energy and Commerce, joined her colleagues in the House of Representatives today in passing H.R. 1256, The Family Smoking Prevention and Tobacco Control Act with strong bipartisan support, 298 to 112. This legislation gives the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) authority to regulate tobacco. U.S. Rep. DeGette also secured a provision in the bill that requires a study and report to better inform Congress about public health implications of the tobacco purchase age. “Tobacco is one of the deadliest products sold legally,” said U.S. Rep. DeGette, a cosponsor of the legislation. “The tobacco industry has a long history of marketing its products to kids. I’ve supported FDA regulation of tobacco products for years because it will improve health and save lives. We must stay focused on stopping tobacco companies from hooking a new generation on their deadly products.”The Family Smoking Prevention and Tobacco Control Act is supported by over 1,000 public health, faith, and other organizations from around the country, including the American Cancer Society Cancer Action Network, American Heart Association, American Lung Association, and Campaign for Tobacco-Free Kids. The legislation· Grants FDA authority to restrict tobacco marketing, including advertising and promotion of tobacco to youth · Requires tobacco companies to disclose the ingredients in their products · Allows FDA to require changes to tobacco products to protect public health. FDA would have authority to reduce nicotine, but not to reduce nicotine in a product to zero or to ban a class of tobacco products · Regulates so-called “reduced harm” claims such as “light” or “low-tar,” which can mislead consumers about the health effects of tobacco use · Requires larger, more specific health warnings on tobacco productsThe bill would fund FDA tobacco regulation activities through a user fee on tobacco manufacturers. The measure now moves to the U.S. Senate for its consideration.U.S. Rep. DeGette, joined by U.S. Rep. Todd Russell Platts (R-PA), Senators Richard Durbin (D-IL) and Edward Kennedy (D-MA), introduced legislation in the House and Senate yesterday to help people quit smoking. The Quit Smoking for Life Act provides Medicare and Medicaid coverage for tobacco cessation treatments. Tobacco cessation medications and evidence-based counseling greatly increase the odds of quitting smoking successfully. Moreover, evidence from rigorous research shows that tobacco cessation treatment is highly cost-effective. Accordingly, the Institute of Medicine recommends that all health insurance plans should cover effective smoking cessation programs. However, these treatments are not currently available to many tobacco users who are struggling to quit. ###
04.01.2009	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senators Dick Durbin (D-IL) and Edward Kennedy (D-MA) joined U.S. Representatives Diana DeGette (D-CO-1) and Todd Platts (R-PA-19) today in introducing companion pieces of legislation in the Senate and the House that provide Medicare and Medicaid coverage to tobacco cessation treatments for senior citizens, people with disabilities and low-income adults. Each year, tobacco use kills an estimated 438,000 Americans—about 1 in 5 of all deaths in the United States. Tobacco use costs our nation nearly $100 billion annually in health care expenditures, including an estimated 14 percent of all Medicaid costs. Tobacco use is a leading cause of pregnancy complications, premature birth, and low birth weight.“Despite the known dangers of tobacco use, more than 45 million adults in the United States smoke cigarettes,” said Senator Durbin. “While nicotine is a highly addictive drug, research has confirmed that tobacco cessation treatment that includes counseling and FDA-approved therapies are extremely effective, both in terms of health improvement and cost savings. And with more than four in five smokers reporting that they want to quit, there is no excuse for not providing them with the resources to do so.”“This legislation will help millions of smokers overcome their addiction to nicotine by providing them access to tobacco cessation programs,” said Senator Kennedy, Chairman of the Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee. “Most smokers want to quit and they deserve our help. This bill makes an important investment in a healthier America.”“Tobacco cessation treatment saves lives and saves money in health costs,” said U.S. Rep. DeGette, Vice Chair of the Committee on Energy and Commerce. “Public health experts recommend that all health insurance plans should cover smoking cessation programs. This bipartisan legislation leads the way by providing coverage for tobacco cessation treatments with proven effectiveness through our two major public health insurance programs, Medicare and Medicaid.”“Reducing tobacco use will eventually save taxpayers millions of dollars in Medicaid and Medicare expenditures for smoking-related health conditions,” said U.S. Rep. Platts. “Addressing this issue head-on will save lives, reduce the public health risks related to second-hand smoking and alleviate a major burden on our health care system.”Tobacco cessation medications and evidence-based counseling greatly increase the odds of quitting smoking successfully. Moreover, evidence from rigorous research shows that tobacco cessation treatment is highly cost-effective. Accordingly, the Institute of Medicine recommends that all health insurance plans should cover effective smoking cessation programs. However, these treatments are not currently available to many tobacco users who are struggling to quit. The companion bills provide Medicare and Medicaid coverage for tobacco cessation treatments with proven effectiveness. They also define tobacco cessation treatments and anti-tobacco health promotion messages as part of quality services under the Maternal and Child Health Program—a step that is crucial for reducing tobacco use among pregnant women. The American Cancer Society, the American Heart Association, the American Lung Association, the Campaign for Tobacco-Free Kids, and the Partnership for Prevention support the bills. Highlights of the bills includeMedicare Coverage:• Extends coverage to include counseling for cessation of tobacco use. Approved counselors include state-licensed practitioners, physicians and other Medicare providers (such as clinical social workers, nurse practitioners and clinical psychologists).• Defines non-prescription tobacco cessation agents as covered drugs, if those drugs are prescribed by a doctor or other authorized medical professional. • Requires all prescription drug plan sponsors to provide coverage for tobacco cessation drugs approved by the FDA under Medicare’s prescription drug coverage. Medicaid Coverage:• Extends Medicaid coverage to include tobacco cessation counseling.• Makes coverage of prescription drugs for tobacco cessation medications mandatory for states that offer prescription drug coverage under Medicaid by eliminating the optional exclusion that exists for tobacco cessation drugs.Maternal and Child Health Services Block Grant:• Enables states to provide and to assure mothers and children (in particular those with low income or with limited availability of health services) access to tobacco cessation counseling, recommendations regarding drugs and devices that can aid tobacco cessation and programs to stop tobacco use before it starts.
03.31.2009	WASHINGTON – As the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) issues an alert regarding certain pistachios that may have been contaminated with salmonella, U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (D-CO), Vice Chair of the Committee on Energy and Commerce, today reaffirmed her commitment to giving the federal government mandatory recall authority and traceability powers.“Once again, because we lack the ability to sufficiently trace food products along the supply chain, the FDA must issue a blanket warning that consumers avoid all pistachios,” said DeGette. “This not only alarms consumers, it damages an entire industry under already difficult economic conditions. We must have the ability to quickly determine the source of the contamination, where the products were sent, and get them off the shelves quickly. The government needs the ability to recall tainted foods immediately.”Last week, the Department of Health and Human Services’ Office of the Inspector General released a report, “Traceability in the Food Supply Chain,” offering recommendations after a study found researchers were only able to track 13 percent [5 of 40] of selected food products through each stage of the food supply chain. The report further found that several factors prevented the tracing of specific products, including lack of lot-specific information and mixing of products from many farms. The report determined, “the traceability of food products and the ability of food facilities to provide information about their sources, recipients, and transporters are essential to ensuring the safety of our nation’s food supply.”U.S. Rep. DeGette has introduced two key food safety priorities that would achieve the aim of the above report recommendations. The SAFER Food Act gives the federal government the authority to order a recall of tainted foods, and the TRACE Act requires the Food and Drug Administration and United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) to establish a product tracing system to identify contaminated food. Earlier this month, Chairman Emeritus Dingell, introduced the Food and Drug Administration Globalization Act of 2009 along with Chairman Bart Stupak (D-MI) and Chairman Frank Pallone Jr. (D-NJ). The measure includes a mandatory recall provision built upon U.S. Rep. DeGette’s legislation, as well as some traceability language; U.S. Rep. DeGette is working closely with Chairman Dingell to strengthen these provisions and pass comprehensive food safety as a priority for Congress this year. # # #
03.26.2009	WASHINGTON – As the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations examines the role of independent institutional review boards (IRBs) that oversee research on human participants, U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (D-CO), Vice Chair of the Committee on Energy and Commerce, today offered her support for increased federal regulation and oversight of IRBs during a hearing titled, “Institutional Review Boards that Oversee Experimental Human Testing for Profit.” Yesterday, U.S. Rep. DeGette introduced the Protection for Participants in Research Act, legislation that would strengthen federal regulation and oversight to protect people who participate in research such as clinical trials.The Government Accountability Office today released a new study that found that the IRB system is vulnerable to unethical manipulation.Below is U.S. Rep. DeGette’s opening statement as prepared for delivery:“Patient safety in research situations, is, like food safety, a critical concern for this subcommittee. One thing you can be sure of is that a crisis is looming just around the corner. “In 1999, a young man named Jesse Gelsinger died while participating in a gene therapy trial at the University of Pennsylvania. “A Food and Drug Administration investigation concluded that the scientists involved in the trial, including the lead researcher, who had a potential financial interest in the results of the trial, broke several rules of ethical conduct including inadequate informed consent procedures.“In 2006, the antibiotic Ketek caused liver failure and death in patients who used it. An investigation showed that investigators had given fraudulent data to FDA to gain approval of Ketek. “A whistleblower who learned of the fraud contacted the institutional review board that was responsible for approval of the Ketek clinical trial. But the IRB allegedly did nothing to report the fraud and stop the use of Ketek. And now here we are again today. “Research is the key to innovation and discovery, including curing deadly diseases. But, as this whole panel agrees, that research must be conducted ethically so that participants understand the risks and make informed decisions about volunteering. That’s why we need to upgrade our entire patient protection system in this country.“I’ve introduced legislation, the Protection for Participants in Research Act, in every Congress in the last six years. It reforms federal regulation and oversight of research on human participants by:· Making federal regulations applicable to all research that is in or affects interstate commerce· Strengthens the education and monitoring of institutional review boards· Harmonizes FDA regulations and the Common Rule, the two major sets of federal regulations governing research participant protection· Strengthens protections against conflicts of interest by investigators or institutional review board members· Improves monitoring of research risks and reporting of adverse events and unanticipated problems“We have reintroduced this legislation this session of Congress, and I would urge every member of this subcommittee on both sides of the aisle to look at the bill and think seriously about cosponsoring it. “I think one thing we can all agree on in a bipartisan way is that we need to encourage medical experimentation but we need to do it in a way that both protects the patients and gives them informed consent about what they are getting into. “I don’t want to be here for thirteen hearings, like we have been on food safety. I want to get this done. We’ve been working on it for a number of years, we know the problem, we know the solutions, and I’m looking forward to working with everybody on this committee to improving research so that we have a robust system but at the same time protect the participants.” # # #
03.26.2009	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (D-CO), Vice Chair of the Committee on Energy and Commerce, today lauded the recommendations of the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS), Office of the Inspector General (OIG) Report, “Traceability in the Food Supply Chain.” While conducting the study, researchers were only able to track 13 percent [5 of 40] of the selected food products through each stage of the food supply chain. The report found that several factors prevented the tracing of specific products, including lack of lot-specific information and mixing of products from many farms.“Traceability is key to determining the source of an outbreak of food borne illness,” said DeGette. “I am not surprised that the FDA was only able to track a handful of food products through the supply chain. This report illustrates what I have been arguing for years – the need for an effective and enforceable traceability standard overseen by the FDA and the USDA. From tomatoes to jalapenos to peanuts, there has been an assault on our food supply in recent years without any protection. If companies were required to track food products from its origin to its final destination, consumers and industry would rest assured that if an outbreak occurs, we can tackle it head on quickly and effectively.”The HHS/OIG Report“The traceability of food products and the ability of food facilities to provide information about their sources, recipients, and transporters are essential to ensuring the safety of our Nation’s food supply” [Pg. 18].Recommendations· Congress should grant FDA authority to strengthen traceability recordkeeping by requiring all food processors, packers, and manufacturers to create and maintain lot-specific information.· FDA should consider seeking additional statutory authority requiring food facilities to further strengthen the traceability of food products.· FDA should work with the food industry to conduct mock recalls, monitor recordkeeping systems, and develop guidance to strengthen traceability.U.S. Rep. DeGette has introduced two key food safety priorities that would achieve the aim of the above report recommendations. The SAFER Act gives the federal government the authority to order a recall of tainted foods, and the TRACE Act requires the Food and Drug Administration and United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) to establish a product tracing system to identify contaminated food.Earlier this month, Chairman Emeritus Dingell, introduced the Food and Drug Administration Globalization Act of 2009 along with Chairman Bart Stupak (D-MI) and Chairman Frank Pallone Jr. (D-NJ). The measure includes a mandatory recall provision built upon U.S. Rep. DeGette’s legislation, as well as some traceability language; U.S. Rep. DeGette is working closely with Chairman Dingell to strengthen this provision with her language. # # #
03.25.2009	WASHINGTON – As the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations prepares to examine the role of independent institutional review boards that oversee research on human participants, U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (D-CO), Vice Chair of the Committee on Energy and Commerce, today introduced the Protection for Participants in Research Act. This legislation will strengthen federal regulation and oversight to protect people who participate in research such as clinical trials. “Research is the key to innovation and discovery, including finding cures for deadly diseases,” said DeGette. “We must ensure that ethical protections are in place so that researchers can do their important work while individuals who participate in research are adequately informed and protected.” The Protection for Participants in Research Act will: · Harmonize FDA regulations and the Common Rule, the two major sets of federal regulations governing research participant protection · Make federal regulations applicable to all research that is in or that affects interstate commerce · Strengthen education and monitoring of institutional review boards · Strengthen protections against conflicts of interest by investigators or institutional review board members · Improve monitoring of research risks and reporting of adverse events and unanticipated problems Tomorrow, the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations will hold a hearing titled, “Institutional Review Boards that Oversee Experimental Human Testing for Profit,” at 10:00AM EDT in 2123 Rayburn House Office Building. The hearing will examine whether institutional review boards and the federal government are adequately protecting individuals who participate in research. U.S. Rep. DeGette will participate in the hearing. The hearing will be webcast at www.energycommerce.house.gov.
03.25.2009	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (D-CO), Vice Chair of the Committee on Energy and Commerce, offered the following response to President Barack Obama’s address to a joint session of Congress: “President Obama put forth a bold and realistic path to fuel our economy for the twenty-first century. On the heels of an historic recovery package that put into motion the immediate steps necessary to revitalize the economy in the short-term, tonight President Obama laid a strong foundation for its long-term stability. The way forward in restoring America’s strengths is to make sustained investments in health care, energy, and education that will lead to the creation of new jobs and new industries that will make us more competitive in the global economy. “After signing the largest expansion of children’s health care into law, President Obama continues to take swift action to reform our broken health care system. His commitment to affordable health care for all Americans is firm and real; it is a promise that I am confident he will deliver. President Obama’s proposal for comprehensive reform this year not only includes a budget that ensures a system that is both efficient and cost-effective, but also guarantees health care for all.”
03.25.2009	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (D-CO) today supported H.R. 1105, FY 2009 Omnibus Appropriations Act, which contains the nine FY 2009 appropriations bills not completed in the 110th Congress. The measure passed on a vote of 245 to 178. “Today we move forward with a measure to fund programs that are really the foundation of the strong economic recovery package the President signed last week. It continues investments in vital transportation and infrastructure projects to ensure the long-term growth and stability of our economy,” said DeGette. “As the Dean of the Colorado Delegation, I am happy to have worked alongside my colleagues to secure critical funding for projects that will make our city and our state a more attractive place to invest, work, and raise a family.” U.S. Rep. DeGette, working with other Members of the Colorado Delegation, secured the below projects for the State of Colorado: TRANSPORTATION, HOUSING, AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT · Denver International Airport – Various Runway and Taxiway Improvements: $1,187,500 These funds will support several critical safety and facility improvement projects, including concrete rehabilitation of runways, airfield runway/taxiway upgrades to meet the latest FAA standards, initiation of design and studies to examine adding a 7th runway by 2015, and guard light installation at all runway entrances to improve visibility and prevent runway incursions. · Colorado Transit Coalition Statewide Bus and Bus Facilities: $237,500 This funding is for the 29-member Colorado Association of Transit Agencies (CASTA), which represents transit agencies around the state, to meet increased demand and to replace existing fleets to maintain safety and efficiency standards. · Southeast Corridor LRT: $1,031,210 Funds will be used to satisfy the final payment of $1.03 million expected from the Full Funding Grant Agreement which was granted by FTA in November 2000. While the light rail piece of this joint transit/highway project commenced service in November of 2006, future work includes follow-on activities such as a pedestrian bridge to connect to Park Meadows Mall, a pedestrian bridge extension at the Dry Creek Station, and testing of real-time communication systems. · West Corridor LRT: $60,000,000 The West Corridor is a 12-mile light rail line with 12 stations, extending from Denver Union Station on the eastern end, providing service west through Denver, Lakewood, Jefferson County and Golden, with a major Intermodal facility at the Denver Federal Center. It is a component of RTD’s 12-year comprehensive transit service and facility expansion called FasTracks, which was approved by the voters in November 2004. ENERGY AND WATER DEVELOPMENT · Chatfield, Cherry Creek and Bear Creek Reservoirs: $191,000 This continued funding is for an Army Corps of Engineers’ study examining the potential impacts from reassigning water storage in the reservoirs for flood control, conservation, fishery habitat protection, municipal and industrial water supply, agriculture, ecosystem restoration, and recreation along the South Platte River. Bill summaries are available by clicking: - Agriculture - Commerce, Justice, Science - Energy and Water Development - Financial Services - Interior and the Environment - Labor, Health and Education - Legislative Branch - State and Foreign Operations - Transportation, Housing and Urban Development
03.23.2009	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (D-CO), Co-Chair of the Bipartisan Congressional Pro-Choice Caucus, offered the following statement on today’s New York District Court ruling that the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) violated its own established procedures when it limited access to emergency contraception to women 18 and over. The restriction was put in place under the administration of President George W. Bush. “This is a win for science-based policies and a common-sense approach to reducing unintended pregnancies,” said DeGette. “Americans need FDA policies that are based on science, not ideology. FDA played politics by overruling a panel of scientific experts when restricting access to this medication – a decision that was irresponsible and harmful to public health.” U.S. Rep. DeGette is also Vice Chair of the Committee on Energy and Commerce, which has jurisdiction over health care policy.
03.18.2009	Washington, DC – Today, members of the Colorado Congressional delegation met with the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, Eric Shinseki, and discussed plans to move forward with building the new VA Medical Center at the Fitzsimons medical campus in Aurora. After the meeting, the delegation released the following statement expressing support for Sec. Shinseki’s decision to move forward with constructing a stand-alone hospital at the Fitzsimons campus. The delegation stated: “By listening to the concerns of the Colorado Congressional delegation, our local veterans’ community and veterans’ service organizations, you have truly shown your dedication to our veterans and their families. We thank you for your commitment to the men and women who have served our nation and we look forward to working with you to complete construction on Denver’s replacement hospital so our veterans can receive the best possible health care.” The entire Colorado delegation has been supportive of building a stand alone replacement facility to fulfill the promise to provide the best possible medical care to the 700,000 veterans in this region. Details announced today include: A new VA Medical Center to be built on the Fitzsimons medical campus in Aurora with a 200 total bed unit including a 30-bed spinal cord unit to serve veterans throughout the Rocky Mountain Region Health Care Centers providing ambulatory care and same-day surgical services in Colorado Springs and Billings, MT Eight new health care facilities in rural areas throughout the region. Construction will begin within 60-90 days with expected opening in 2013.
03.18.2009	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (D-CO), Vice Chair of the Committee on Energy and Commerce, today hailed the Obama Administration for the release of senior nutrition assistance from the American Recovery and Reinvestment Plan. Colorado will receive a total of $1,265,254 for meals and nutrition services under the Older Americans Act (OAA). “The American Recovery and Reinvestment Plan is having a direct impact on the everyday lives of Coloradoans in this economic downturn,” said DeGette. “As people across our state experience rising energy costs and soaring health care premiums, they also struggle to put food on the table. This is especially true for older Americans. These critical funds will help to ensure that our seniors get the nutrition services they need and will save jobs at the same time.” These funds will assist communities hit hard by rising food costs at a time when demand for services is increasing due to the economic downturn and the growing number of older adults. The funds will provide meals to seniors in need of food, restore nutrition services that have been cut, and prevent the elimination of critical jobs in programs that provide food to seniors in need. COLORADO Congregate Nutrition: $ 847,851 Home-Delivered Nutrition: $ 417,403 Total: $1,265,25
03.16.2009	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (D-CO), a member of the New Democrat Coalition, today released the following comments on the American International Group (AIG) senior executives who are set to receive $165 million in bonuses even though the company accepted hundreds of billions of dollars in TARP funding. “Businesses receiving government support should not be offering bonuses at the expense of the American taxpayer. While recognizing the contractual obligations of AIG, bonuses should only be paid after taxpayers are fully repaid. This problem underlies the necessity of the New Dems regulatory framework of strengthening consumer confidence through effective and efficient regulation. We cannot ensure market stability without strong oversight of these companies who seek government support, while at the same time, dole out huge financial bonuses from the pockets of the American taxpayer.” U.S. Rep. DeGette will join her colleagues in Congress in sending a letter to Secretary Giethner to express their anger over AIG’s payment of $165 in executive bonuses. Click here for the New Democrat Coalition 21st Century Regulatory Structure.
03.11.2009	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (D-CO), Vice Chair of the Committee on Energy and Commerce, offered the following statement on today’s Energy and Commerce Health Subcommittee Hearing, “How Do We Fix Our Ailing Food Safety System?” . “Last summer’s outbreak of salmonella in jalapenos and the recent occurrence of contamination in peanuts makes it clear that Congress must pass comprehensive food safety reform,” said DeGette. “I will continue to work on the legislation before the Committee that includes two of my priorities – mandatory recall authority and traceability. The American people expect government to have the tools and resources to ensure the safety of our food supply. I agree with Chairman Waxman that we need to do this now – but in the longer term, we must address structural changes to our system, such as a unitary agency for food safety.” Congresswoman DeGette has reintroduced two major food safety priorities: H.R. 815, the SAFER (Safe and Fair Enforcement & Recall) Food Act, gives the FDA and the USDA the authority to force a recall of contaminated foods. Under current law, recalls are completely voluntary even when public health is at risk. The United States is one of the only industrialized countries in the world that lacks this basic recall power, despite having the ability to recall toys and many other products. H.R. 814, the TRACE (Tracing and Recalling Agricultural Contamination Everywhere) Act, requires the Secretaries of Agriculture and Health and Human Services to establish a product tracing system for all food products from their origin to the market, enabling faster recall in the event of contamination. The Food and Drug Administration Globalization Act of 2009 has been introduced by Chairman Emeritus John D. Dingell (D-MI), Chairman Bart Stupak (D-MI), and Chairman Frank Pallone Jr. (D-NJ). The measure includes a mandatory recall provision built upon legislation introduced by DeGette, in addition to traceability language.
03.10.2009	WASHINGTON – As Congress tackles health reform, the Energy and Commerce Health Subcommittee held its first hearing, “Designing a High Performing Healthcare System,” in its series, “Making Health Care Work for American Families.” U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (D-CO), Vice Chair of the Committee on Energy and Commerce, today hailed the Committee’s efforts going forward. “Our health care system is broken,” said DeGette. “Maintaining the status quo is just not an option. The United States spends more – $6,697 per capita – than many developed nations on health care services. Yet, despite the high spending, our health care indicators and outcomes are far worse. This is unacceptable and it is imperative that we reform the health care system in order to provide access to affordable, quality health care for every American.” Today’s hearing explored options for making the health system work better and for designing a high performing healthcare system. The Committee on Energy and Commerce will be holding a series of hearings to prepare for reforming our health care system.
03.09.2009	WASHINGTON – U.S. Reps. Diana DeGette (D-CO) and Michael Castle (R-DE), chief architects of bipartisan legislation expanding stem cell research, today praised President Barack Obama for signing an Executive Order overturning former President Bush’s restrictions on federal funding of embryonic stem cell research. This decision comes after U.S. Reps. DeGette and Castle led a bipartisan group of legislators in writing a letter to President Obama urging he swiftly undo these stifling regulations by Executive Order. “This Executive Order is long overdue and will finally bring hope to millions of patients and their families,” said DeGette, Vice Chair of the Committee on Energy and Commerce and co-chair of the Congressional Diabetes Caucus. “For over eight years, progress on embryonic stem cell research has been stymied due to stubborn politicians who put politics above science. Researchers and scientists can now begin to unlock the cures for thousands of life-threatening diseases with potential life-saving techniques. I applaud President Obama for lifting these restrictions that will immediately allow this research to move forward. However, this is only the first step. Congress must quickly pass complementary legislation so that no future anti-science Administration will be able to hinder progress. I look forward to working with my colleagues in Congress, President Obama, and my partner in this fight, Mike Castle, to ensure that we have a robust science program in this country.” “Today begins the dawn of a new era in biomedical research in the United States, which holds so much promise for millions of Americans," said Rep. Castle, lead Republican proponent of expanding federal funding for embryonic stem cell research. “I could not be more thrilled with President Obama's decision today to lift the restrictions on federal funding for embryonic stem cell research, a change I have actively pushed over the last five years. Since 2001, we have fought a long battle in Congress to expand federal funding for embryonic stem cell research, only to face two vetoes from the Bush Administration and see scientific research stifled. Today's executive order removes a critical roadblock, but we must not allow this momentum to fade. Congress absolutely must not delay in codifying the directive to prevent science from being subject to the whim of politics. Strong leadership at the NIH remains vitally important for promoting basic science and I look forward to working with Congresswoman DeGette in gathering a bipartisan, bicameral consensus for finally signing into law complimentary legislation.” U.S. Reps. DeGette and Castle have passed two bipartisan pieces of legislation, under a Republican and Democratic-controlled Congress, repealing former President Bush’s restrictions, which ultimately became the first the third vetoes of his presidency. They will host a press conference call at 1:45PM EST/11:45AM EST to discuss the president’s Executive Order. Interested participants should call 641-715-3630 and enter code 515982#.
03.05.2009	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (D-CO) today hailed the Obama Administration for releasing Colorado’s portion of the Federal Transit Administration funds from the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act. Colorado will receive a total of $103,496,063 for transit-related projects throughout the state. “These transit funds will immediately help stabilize our economy in Denver and throughout Colorado,” said DeGette. “Colorado has many transit projects ready-to-go that will create and save thousands of jobs while reducing congestion and providing residents with green transportation options. With this funding, we can purchase and repair buses, continue expanding Denver’s light rail system, and get our economy moving.” COLORADO – Federal Transit Administration $90,223,469 Public Transit Funds (Capital and Operating Expenses) for Large Urban Cities Public Transit Funds for Growing States or Cities, or High Density States $12,492,195 Public Transit Funds for Small Towns $753,399 Public Transit Funds for Buses, also for New Starts (Fixed Guideway Systems like Denver’s Light Rail) $103,469,063 Total Funds for Colorado
03.05.2009	WASHINGTON – As homeowners seek mortgage relief during the worsening economy, U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (D-CO) today supported H.R. 1106, Helping Families Save Their Homes Act, which passed on a vote of 234 to 191. The Helping Families Save Their Homes Act builds upon President Obama’s comprehensive Homeowner Affordability and Stability Plan. The President announced details of his plan yesterday, including a website, www.financialstability.gov, with an eligibility quiz for homeowners struggling to make their payments. “As millions of hardworking Americans face losing their homes during this economic crisis, the House today took another step to help our communities and the ailing housing market,” said DeGette. “This bill improves the ability of lenders to work with responsible homeowners who face financial calamity unless sensible modifications are made to their mortgages. Not only will this measure help stabilize households, but it is also designed to prevent further foreclosures from hitting the mortgage market and harming our economy. Congress has more work ahead with President Obama to address the housing crisis in this country.” This Act gives bankruptcy judges the ability to modify existing mortgages for families who file for Chapter 13 bankruptcy as an incentive to spur lenders into voluntarily modifying loans. Without spending one taxpayer dollar on this legislation, it could keep hundreds of thousands of families across the country from facing foreclosure and losing their home. It gives lenders the confidence to modify loans by protecting them from some lawsuits. The costs to lenders are less when loan modifications can be made as opposed to under foreclosures. And it spurs mortgage refinancing by fixing the Federal Housing Administration’s Hope for Homeowners Program, reducing fees and offering new incentives for lenders. In Colorado, there are 57,068 past due mortgages.
03.04.2009	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (D-CO), Vice Chair of the Committee on Energy and Commerce, joined her colleagues today in approving The Family Smoking Prevention and Tobacco Control Act during the committee markup. The measure gives the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) jurisdiction to regulate tobacco. U.S. Rep. DeGette secured a provision in the bill that requires a study and report on the public health implications of raising the minimum age to purchase tobacco products. “The tobacco industry routinely targets young people through its marketing techniques,” said DeGette. “We must stay focused on stopping tobacco companies from hooking a new generation on their deadly products. This bill gives the FDA the tools it needs to both improve public health and save lives.” The text of the provision secured by U.S. Rep. DeGette reads: “SEC. 104 STUDY ON RAISING THE MINIMUM AGE TO PURCHASE TOBACCO PRODUCTS. The Secretary of Health and Human Services shall – (1) convene an expert panel to conduct a study on the public health implications of raising the minimum age to purchase tobacco products; and (2) not later than 5 years after the date of enactment of this Act, submit a report to the Congress on the results of such a study.” The measure now moves to the full House floor for consideration.
02.27.2009	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (D-CO) today commended President Obama on his announcement that the U.S. will begin a drawdown of troops in Iraq and transition the remaining forces from combat to security: “I commend President Obama on his announcement that he will begin to reduce the number of U.S. troops in Iraq. The Bush Administration’s failed war policies have put our nation’s soldiers and security at risk. Having opposed the original authorization to go to war with Iraq, I am also pleased that President Obama is transitioning our troops from combat to security forces. Iraq and the Iraqi people must be responsible for their own security and future – and bringing a responsible end to this irresponsible war is long overdue.”
02.26.2009	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (D-CO), Vice Chair of the Committee on Energy and Commerce, today offered the following comments on President Obama’s Fiscal Year 2010 budget plan: “President Obama’s 2010 budget reflects the priorities and values of the American people. After the passage of a strong recovery bill that addresses both the short-term and long-term stability in our economy, President Obama has followed up with a supportive budget plan that makes vital investments in health care, energy, and education. “The President’s budget plan includes funding for my key priorities – health care and food safety. For the first time, the budget puts a down-payment on health care reform in terms of actual funding to make certain that our system will be more efficient and cost-effective. This new fund makes clear that President Obama is serious about ensuring that every American has access to health coverage. Included in the President’s budget is funding for an office of Nurse Home Visitation, an evidenced-based initiative that I have championed with the Nurse-Family Partnership. In addition, the President’s budget includes additional funding to improve our food safety system in the United States. Congress is working with President Obama on getting us out of the fiscal hole the last Administration left us in.” To view President Obama’s 2010 budget, click here.
02.26.2009	WASHINGTON – Taking advantage of new media to communicate with her constituents, U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (D-CO) today held a LIVE wall chat on her facebook page. Throughout the 35 minute “post-and-chat” session, U.S. Rep. DeGette answered questions on the President’s recovery package, stem cell research, energy, HIV/AIDS, and other issues. “Facebook allows me to communicate directly with my constituents on issues of importance to them,” said DeGette. “I am always looking for innovative ways to connect directly with the people in of the first Congressional District and across Colorado. I am impressed with the questions and comments that people have about issues facing Congress. I look forward to many more facebook chats in the future.” Facebook is just another form of new media U.S. Rep. DeGette uses to communicate with her constituents. U.S. Rep. DeGette releases an ENews letter every week when Congress is in session; holds frequent Telephone Town Halls with people in the first Congressional District; and post floor videos, television clips, and broadcast speeches on her YouTube page, www.youtube.com/repdianadegette. To sign up for the ENews, please visit www.house.gov/degette. U.S. Rep. DeGette encourages all of her constituents to join her in using new media to communicate. Her facebook page can be found by searching “Diana DeGette.”
02.18.2009	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (D-CO) offered the following comments on President Obama signing the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act into law in Denver, Colorado. U.S. Rep. DeGette attended the bill signing earlier today. “I applaud President Obama for signing into law the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act -- an important and historic piece of legislation that will get our economy moving again. In order to get our country back on track, we must make broad investments in health care, education, and infrastructure to create and save millions of jobs. By choosing Denver to sign this into law, President Obama recognizes Denver's leadership in promoting a new energy economy.”
02.13.2009	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (D-CO), Vice Chair of the Committee on Energy and Commerce, today hailed the passage of H.R. 1, the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, which passed on a vote of 246 to 183. “Since the recession began over a year ago, the United States has lost 3.6 million jobs. We are facing the worst economic crisis since the Great Depression,” said DeGette. “In order to get our economy back on track, not only do we need make the broad investments provided for under this legislation in health care, education, and infrastructure, we need to continue working with the Administration to address foreclosures and the troubled financial sector. The economic downturn has been crippling and these programs will help save and create jobs that will begin to fuel our economy. “Our economy is struggling and America needs us to act. Colorado is facing a $600 million budget shortfall that could result in thousands losing their jobs. We must blunt the economic downturn with an immediate recovery plan that will stabilize the economy.” What This Means for Colorado · 1,870,000 workers will receive a tax cut of up to $800 through a reduction in their federal tax withholding; · The Child Tax Credit was expanded for 13 million children in low-income working families, reaching 2.9 million new children -- 191,000 estimated in Colorado; · The bill creates or saves approximately 59,000 jobs in Colorado over the next two years, over 90% of which are in the private sector –7,500 in the First Congressional District; · 173,000 workers will receive an additional $100 per month in unemployment insurance benefits; · An estimated 99 schools in Colorado will receive some funding for modernization – labs, classrooms, libraries. U.S. Rep. DeGette also secured a $500 million increase in funding allocations for Disproportionate Share Hospitals (DSH) in the final compromise package. The DSH program provides the predominant funding mechanism for states to directly reimburse care provided to the uninsured. “As the economy worsens and the number of jobless claims increases, hospitals are being confronted with a growing number of individuals walking through their doors who have lost their health insurance. The uninsured often rely on hospitals, such as Denver Health, to provide care; however, hospitals are not always fully reimbursed for this care. With the current recession expected to last a year or more, the increase in uncompensated care will quickly be unsustainable. Hospitals cannot continue to absorb these increasing costs and keep their doors open,” concluded DeGette. Temporary Increase in Disproportionate Share Hospitals (DSH) Payments -- $500 million § Increases states’ FY2009 annual DSH allotments by 2.5%; § Increases states’ FY 2010 by 2.5% above FY2009 DSH allotment (with the adjustment); § After FY2010, states’ annual DSH allotments would return to 100% of the annual DSH allotments as determined under current law.
02.12.2009	WASHINGTON – As Congress prepares to vote on H.R. 1, the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (D-CO), Vice Chair of the Committee on Energy and Commerce Committee, is pleased that the increase in funding allocations she secured for Disproportionate Share Hospitals (DSH) is included in the final compromise package. The DSH program provides the predominant funding mechanism for states to directly reimburse care provided to the uninsured. “As the economy worsens and the number of jobless claims increases, hospitals are being confronted with a growing number of individuals walking through their doors who have lost their health insurance,” said DeGette. “The uninsured often rely on hospitals, such as Denver Health, to provide care; however, hospitals are not always fully reimbursed for this care. With the current recession expected to last a year or more, the increase in uncompensated care will quickly be unsustainable. Hospitals cannot continue to absorb these increasing costs and keep their doors open.” The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act Temporary Increase in Disproportionate Share Hospitals (DSH) Payments [$500 million] § Increases states’ FY2009 annual DSH allotments by 2.5% § Increases states’ FY 2010 by 2.5% above FY2009 DSH allotment (with the adjustment) § After FY2010, states’ annual DSH allotments would return to 100% of the annual DSH allotments as determined under current law “Many individuals have lost their jobs and their health insurance during this economic crisis,” said Dr. Patricia Gabow, CEO of Denver Health, a premiere safety-net hospital in the Rocky Mountain West region. “They are turning to safety-net hospitals for their health care in great numbers. At Denver Health, our uncompensated care has increased from $275 million in 2007 to over $310 million in 2008. Disproportionate Share Hospital funding is the main funding stream that helps us cover some of the cost of this care. We are grateful to Representative DeGette for once again being a champion for vulnerable patients and advocating for an increase in this funding stream in the Economic Recovery package.” The House is set to vote on the full package tomorrow, Friday, February 13th.
02.11.2009	WASHINGTON – As the investigation into the salmonella outbreak in peanuts and peanut butter continues, U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (D-CO), Vice Chair of the Committee on Energy and Commerce, today offered the following opening statement at the Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations hearing, “The Salmonella Outbreak: The Continued Failure to Protect the Food Supply.” Last week, Congresswoman DeGette reintroduced two major food safety priorities: the SAFER (Safe and Fair Enforcement & Recall) Food Act gives the FDA and the USDA the authority to force a recall of contaminated foods. Under current law, recalls are completely voluntary even when public health is at risk. The United States is one of the only industrialized countries in the world that lacks this basic recall power, despite having the ability to recall toys and many other products. The TRACE (Tracing and Recalling Agricultural Contamination Everywhere) Act requires the Secretaries of Agriculture and Health and Human Services to establish a product tracing system for all food products from their origin to the market, enabling faster recall in the event of contamination. Below are U.S. Rep. DeGette’s opening remarks as prepared for delivery: “We have spent a lot of time together in these food safety hearings. I have been a member of this subcommittee for 12 years now – and since I have been on this subcommittee, this is our 10th hearing on food safety, at which the members of this Oversight and Investigations subcommittee have spent quite a bit of time in a bipartisan way wringing our hands. “Now, the latest problem, over 500 people have been sickened – 15 of them are in my home state of Colorado, half of the sickened people are children, and 8 have died. This is the deadliest outbreak of food borne illness in decades – but we’ve seen jalapeno’s, peanut butter, meat, peanut butter again, dog food, and on. “My question to Congress, in general, is how many sick kids does it take for us to finally act? How many more workers need to get laid off before private industry and Congress put resources into protecting the integrity of our food distribution system? “I cannot think of a case that better demonstrates the need for the FDA and USDA to have mandatory recall authority than this case. “The Peanut Corporation of America sells in bulk to companies, and those companies manufacture and distribute other processed foods. Even though people started getting sick last summer, current federal law does not empower public health officials to issue a recall in response to an emergency like this. “My constituents are shocked when they hear this. Instead, companies are left to voluntarily decide for themselves if - and when - to recall their products. “I know this is not a legislative hearing, but I am sure the parents who are sitting here today would like to know that there are legislators working on these issues. I have reintroduced legislation again this Congress, which I have introduced many times in the past, that would finally give the government mandatory recall authority. The good news is that it is supported not only by the regulators, but also by industry. “I think when we pass comprehensive food safety legislation, finally, the FDA and USDA will have mandatory recall authority. “The second bill I have reintroduced this year, which I have introduced in the past as well, is the TRACE Act. What this bill does is creates a comprehensive traceability system so we can trace where the peanuts came from to where they end up – in those little peanut butter crackers our children eat – and we can recall it right away. That problem was a particular problem last year with the outbreak of salmonella in jalapenos. “I am happy to report that Mr. Dingell and Mr. Stupak have included my mandatory recall and traceability language in their comprehensive FDA Globalization Act. I am also happy to report that the regulators support traceability, and that the manufacturers are beginning to understand this situation. “I look forward to working with you Mr. Chairman, and Chairman Waxman on moving forward to develop comprehensive food safety legislation.” Earlier this month, Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Emeritus John Dingell (D-MI), introduced the Food and Drug Administration Globalization Act of 2009 along with Chairman Bart Stupak (D-MI) and Chairman Frank Pallone Jr. (D-NJ). The measure includes a mandatory recall provision and traceability language built upon U.S. Rep. DeGette’s legislation. U.S. Rep. DeGette’s food safety priorities have been endorsed by the Washington Post and the New York Times.
02.10.2009	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (D-CO), Vice Chair of the Committee on Energy and Commerce, today offered the following statement after Secretary of the Interior Ken Salazar announced details of a new comprehensive energy plan for the Outer Continental Shelf (OCS), including repealing the Bush Administration’s midnight timetable for its five-year offshore drilling plan: “President Obama and Secretary Salazar are taking the right approach to developing the appropriate balance between responsible energy development and environmental stewardship,” said DeGette. “Americans recognize that a rush to drill – whether in the Colorado mountains or off our nation’s coastlines – is not the solution to our energy problems. We clearly need to continue developing oil and gas while we transition to cleaner, renewable fuels, but we must make sure we’re doing it in a safe and environmentally sensitive manner.” U.S. Rep. DeGette is also a member of the House Committee on Natural Resources, which is holding three hearings over the next two weeks to examine the future of oil and gas development along the Outer Continental Shelf.
02.06.2009	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (D-CO), Vice Chair of the Committee on Energy and Commerce, today offered the following comments regarding reports that Colorado State health officials are investigating an outbreak of a serious strain of E. coli that may be linked to last month's National Western Stock Show. “It is alarming that there has been another E. Coli outbreak in Colorado that could harm the people of our state – particularly our children,” said DeGette. “Fresh off the heels of tainted peanut butter, this is just another reason we must strengthen our food safety system. First and foremost, we must learn from the past and prevent these outbreaks from occurring. But, public officials need to be armed with the tools necessary to deal with an emergency like this.” U.S. Rep. DeGette has championed food safety for years having introduced legislation that would give the federal government the authority to order a recall of tainted foods and direct the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) to establish a product tracing system to identify contaminated food. The Washington Post and the Denver Post editorialized earlier this week on the need for stronger food safety laws. Click here to read the Denver Post report on the outbreak.
02.04.2009	WASHINGTON – After years of delay in providing health care to America’s low-income children, U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (D-CO), Vice Chair of the Committee on Energy and Commerce, today supported The State Children’s Health Insurance Program (SCHIP) Reauthorization Act, which passed on a strong bipartisan vote of 290 to 135. U.S. Rep. DeGette will attend the White House signing ceremony with President Obama later today. Click here to watch Congresswoman DeGette deliver her floor statement on the children’s health program. This program will provide health care to 11 million children nationwide. It will preserve coverage for 84,649 children currently in the program and is expected to offer new health care coverage to 62,900 low-income children throughout Colorado. This bipartisan bill is fully paid for. Below are her remarks as prepared for delivery: “We will pass this bill today, and we will pass this bill for millions of women like Susan Molina, who are trying to work and support their children and do the right thing for them. “Susan is a single mother in my district. Her abusive husband left her and she has struggled to work and pay for health insurance for her two children as she worked tirelessly to move from a janitor to an apartment manager position. “In 2006 Susan’s two children lost the health insurance under CHIP because her new job paid just slightly more than 200% of poverty level. “Susan tried to work her way up to be a responsible member of society. Eventually she got her children in SCHIP and they had health care and she could work. But then, as she testified to Congress – to our committee, she lost her SCHIP coverage and felt like a failure as a mom. “She was working, she was in school trying to get her GED, but she still had to take her kids to the emergency room when they got an ear infection. “Frankly, madam speaker, it's about time that the most civilized country in the world gave health care coverage to all of its children.” On President Obama signing the bill: “I look forward to joining President Obama as he signs this important piece of legislation into law. For too long, millions of low-income children were denied the opportunity for health care. I am committed to finding ways to provide and improve access to health care for children in Colorado and nationwide.”
02.03.2009	WASHINGTON – As the salmonella outbreak in peanuts and peanut butter continues to raise concerns over the safety of our food supply, U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (D-CO), Vice Chair of the Committee on Energy and Commerce, today reintroduced two key food safety priorities. First, theSAFER Act gives the federal government the authority to order a recall of tainted foods. Second, the TRACE Act requires the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) to establish a product tracing system to identify contaminated food. The Washington Post editorialized yesterday on the need for stronger food safety laws, while the Denver Post opined today. “After last summer’s jalapeno scare and the recent outbreak of salmonella in peanut butter, we need to give the government the resources to ensure the safety of our food supply,” said DeGette. “The SAFER Act and TRACE Act work hand-in-hand to quickly remove tainted food products from our dinner tables and indentify the source of the contamination. We cannot afford to delay any longer in fixing our broken food safety system.” The SAFER (Safe and Fair Enforcement & Recall) Act gives the FDA and the USDA the authority to force a recall of contaminated foods. Under current law, recalls are completely voluntary even when public health is at risk. The United States is one of the only industrialized countries in the world that lacks this basic recall power, despite having the ability to recall toys and many other products. The TRACE (Tracing and Recalling Agricultural Contamination Everywhere) Act requires the Secretary of Agriculture to establish a product tracing system for all food products from their origin to the market, enabling faster recall in the event of contamination. Last week, Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Emeritus John Dingell (D-MI), introduced the Food and Drug Administration Globalization Act of 2009 along with Chairman Bart Stupak (D-MI) and Chairman Frank Pallone Jr. (D-NJ). The measure includes a mandatory recall provision built upon U.S. Rep. DeGette’s legislation. U.S. Rep. DeGette’s food safety priorities have been endorsed by the Washington Post and the New York Times. Summary of the SAFER Act · Gives the federal government the authority to issue a mandatory recall of contaminated food. Under current law, these recalls are voluntary. · All food would be covered by this recall authority, including that which is under the jurisdiction of the USDA and the FDA. · If the federal government determines food has been contaminated, it is required to notify all people who were involved in producing, manufacturing, transportation, storing, or distributing the food. · Once they have been notified, the government can provide the opportunity for a voluntary recall. · If the USDA or FDA determines that an article of food is a threat to public health, and the food is not recalled voluntarily, the agencies can order that the foods be immediately recalled and that distribution be ceased. · To promote awareness of the contamination, the federal government can notify consumers and well as state and local public health officials. · The bill sets forth civil penalties for individuals and other entities that violate its provisions, with an opportunity for a hearing to contest adverse findings if requested. Summary of the TRACE Act · One of the biggest questions with our food safety system is what to do when an outbreak of foodborne illness is discovered. There is no quick, reliable way to find out where the product came from or where other contaminated foods may have been shipped. · While we should focus our efforts on preventing contamination in the first place, we also need to have procedures in place to deal with the an outbreak. · Such a system would allow us to not only quickly identify the source, but also to inform businesses along the supply chain, cease distribution of other tainted products, and notify potential consumers and business owners who may have this food in their homes and restaurants. · Without a proper product tracing system, one person becoming sick from tainted food could potentially turn into a public health crisis. · This legislation requires the FDA and the USDA to establish a product tracing system to track food products from their origins to the grocery store, enabling faster recall in the event of contamination. · This proposal will assist consumers and retailers in identifying and removing tainted products from refrigerators and store shelves. · With meat and poultry products, which are under the USDA’s jurisdiction, animals would be identified in a way that enables them to be traced to any location at which they were held at any time before slaughter. · It would also require the labeling of meat products allowing them to be traced through processing and distribution to the ultimate consumer. · For other food products, under the jurisdiction of the FDA, this bill requires a similar traceability system that tracks food at all stages of manufacturing, processing, packaging, and distribution.
01.30.2009	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (D-CO), Vice Chair of the Committee on Energy and Commerce, today hailed the Food and Drug Administration Globalization Act of 2009 introduced by Chairman Emeritus John Dingell (D-MI), Chairman Bart Stupak (D-MI), and Chairman Frank Pallone Jr. (D-NJ). The measure includes a mandatory recall provision built upon legislation introduced by DeGette, H.R. 3484, the SAFER Act. “Congress is taking the critical step forward to restore public confidence in our nation’s food safety system. With a record number of food recalls over the last year, we must ensure the safety of our food products by giving government the tools to strengthen the system. While tainted foods have been recalled voluntarily, many should have happened quicker to avoid further distribution of the contaminated product and sickness. The recent outbreak of salmonella in peanut butter and last year’s jalapeno scare should be reason enough to move forward with this important legislation. Giving the government mandatory recall authority is imperative to ensure quick removal of contaminated products from our grocery stores before they reach our dinner tables. “As a sponsor of the Food and Drug Administration Globalization Act of 2009, I am confident that this ground-breaking food safety legislation will begin to strengthen our food safety system. I am pleased that it includes a mandatory recall provision that will allow the government to take swift action to ensure the safety of our food.” Signing on the Food and Drug Administration Globalization Act of 2009 today as a sponsor, U.S. Rep. DeGette also has championed H.R. 3485, the TRACE Act, which requires the Secretary of Agriculture to establish a product tracing system for all food products from their origin to the market, enabling faster and more complete recall in the event of contamination. U.S. Rep. DeGette plans on reintroducing both H.R. 3484 and 3485 soon during the 111th Congress. She will be working with her colleagues on the Energy and Commerce Committee to move these pieces of legislation forward.
01.28.2009	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (D-CO), Vice Chair of the Committee on Energy and Commerce Committee, today joined a majority in the House of Representatives in support of critical legislation to create and save 3 to 4 million American jobs. The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act was approved by a vote of 244 to 188. Developed with the Obama Administration, this job creation package will rebuild America, making us more globally competitive and energy independent, and transforming our economy for long-term growth; give 95 percent of American workers an immediate tax cut; and invest quickly in the economy. “The House has taken the first step in delivering a plan to implement President Obama’s vision to get the economy back on track. Action on this economic recovery package will create American jobs now, lay a foundation for long-term growth through clean energy, innovation and education, with strict accountability measures to ensure that taxpayers dollar are spent wisely and effectively,” said DeGette. “Passage of this economic package will mean real change by rebuilding America’s roads and bridges and providing a tax cut to 95 percent of American workers. Now Congress must come together to act and finish the job of sending this job creation and economic recovery package to President Obama.” This jobs and economic recovery plan contains targeted efforts in: · Transforming Our Economy With Clean, Efficient, American Energy and Innovation and Technology that will create more than 1 million jobs; · Lowering Health Care Costs by funding aggressive adoption of health information technology, which will create hundreds of thousands of jobs, and Broadening Coverage by helping those who cannot afford health care in these tough times.; · Modernizing Roads, Bridges, Transit and Waterways to create 1.5 million American jobs; · Education for the 21st Century, including an increased Pell Grant for over 108,000 students here in Colorado and a higher education tax credit for an additional 36,000 students in our state so that they can stay in college despite these tough times; · Tax Cuts of up to $1,000 to Make Work Pay for 1.7 million families here in Colorado and more than $20 billion for American businesses, large and small, to spur job creation; · Helping Workers Hurt by the Economy, including 167,000 of Coloradoans that are out of work, those who have lost their health care, and seniors; and · Saving the Jobs of Teachers and Police Officers. The Recovery Plan has unprecedented accountability measures built in—providing strong oversight, an historic degree of public transparency, and including no earmarks. “America is facing an economic crisis greater than any since the Great Depression, with a staggering 2.6 million American jobs lost in the last year and an unemployment rate in Colorado that has climbed to 6.1 percent,” concluded DeGette.
01.27.2009	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (D-CO) today released the following statement on receiving her subcommittee assignments on the House Energy and Commerce Committee and Natural Resources Committee: “During the 111th Congress, I am looking forward to serving on both of these important Committees to accomplish many of my priorities. From developing a comprehensive health care reform package and addressing the challenge of global climate change on the Energy and Commerce Committee, to preserving wilderness and reversing many of the Bush Administration’s misguided public lands policies on the Natural Resources Committee, this Congress will tackle issues that Coloradoans and the American public said during last year’s election demand attention,” said DeGette. House Energy and Commerce Committee, Vice Chair · Subcommittee on Health · Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations · Subcommittee on Commerce, Trade, and Consumer Protection · Subcommittee on Communications, Technology, and, the Internet For more information on the Committee, Subcommittee, and its jurisdiction, please click here. House Natural Resources Committee, Member · The Subcommittee on Public Lands · The Subcommittee on Insular Affairs For more information on the Committee, Subcommittee, and its jurisdiction, please click here.
01.23.2009	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (D-CO), Vice Chair of the Committee on Energy and Commerce and co-chair of the Congressional Pro-Choice Caucus, today offered the following statement on President Obama’s Executive Order repealing the Global Gag Rule, which prohibits organizations in other countries from receiving U.S. family planning assistance if they provide abortion information or services. “The Global Gag Rule impeded family planning organizations from reducing unsafe abortions, the spread of HIV/AIDS, and infant mortality. Today, President Obama put the United States back on the path of promoting public health and humanitarian aid around the world. I look forward to working together with the President to advance a common-sense agenda for advancing the health of women and families in the U.S. and worldwide,” said DeGette. President Bush reinstated the Global Gag Rule, or Mexico City Policy, in the first week of his presidency. The rule had previously been in effect from 1984 until 1993, until being rescinded by President Clinton. The Global Gag Rule prohibited organizations in other countries from receiving U.S. family planning assistances if they use funding from any other source to provide abortion information or services. Click here to read and listen to a recent NPR report with Congresswoman DeGette about this issue.
01.22.2009	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (D-CO) released the following statement regarding her support for the Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP) Reform and Accountability Act passed overwhelmingly by the House yesterday: “When I voted for the original disbursement of TARP funds, I fully expected the Bush Administration to comply with the tough accountability measures in the bill. Unfortunately, the Bush Administration’s Treasury Department mismanaged the funds, and has refused to explain how $350 billion of taxpayer money was spent. But, with the new Obama Administration, we begin a new era of accountability and transparency. That is why I voted yesterday to make clear that we will have tough standards to ensure that taxpayer money is spent responsibly. “The TARP Reform and Accountability Act will provide at least $100 billion to help homeowners avoid foreclosures, help ease the credit crunch for workers and small businesses, and end golden parachutes for executives whose banks receive TARP assistance.” In a letter to Congress, the Obama Administration set out similarly strict accountability and transparency plans for restructuring the use of the remaining TARP money.
01.21.2009	WASHINGTON – With tomorrow’s 36th anniversary of Roe v. Wade, U.S. Reps. Diana DeGette (D-CO) and Louise Slaughter (D-NY), co-chairs of the Congressional Pro Choice Caucus, celebrate this historic Supreme Court case by advancing an agenda to reduce the need for abortion through a comprehensive approach. U.S. Reps. DeGette and Slaughter recently introduced the Prevention First agenda – a comprehensive, bi-partisan approach to reducing unintended pregnancies. “On January 22nd, we mark the anniversary of the Supreme Court's Roe v. Wade decision - the landmark ruling that affirms women’s constitutional right to choose abortion,” said U.S. Rep. DeGette, Vice Chair of the Committee on Energy and Commerce. “On this historic anniversary, Prevention First represents a comprehensive, science-based approach to achieve a goal shared by so many Americans – to prevent unintended pregnancies and reduce the need for abortion.” “If we want to reduce the number of abortions in this country, the methodology is clear – empower women and men to prevent unintended pregnancies through education and access to contraception,” said U.S. Rep. Slaughter, Chair of the House Committee on Rules. “As we mark the anniversary of the historic Roe v. Wade Supreme Court decision, Americans with differing viewpoints can find common ground with the common sense approach offered by Prevention First.” The anniversary of Roe v. Wade highlights the important goal of Prevention First: to provide medically accurate, science-based information and services to prevent unintended pregnancies, and therefore, reduce the need for abortion. For decades, Americans of differing viewpoints have fought in the courts over access to legal abortion. Prevention First, however, offers a uniting approach that will reduce unintended pregnancies and promote public health. The Prevention First Agenda · Increase Funding for the National Family Planning Program (Title X). · Expand Medicaid Family Planning Services. · End Insurance Discrimination Against Women. · Improve Awareness about Emergency Contraception. · Provide Compassionate Assistance for Rape Victims. · Reduce Teen Pregnancy. · Ensure that All Federal Programs Provide Medically Accurate Information. Click here to read a memo on the anniversary of Roe v. Wade and the Prevention First agenda. # # # 9 08 Prevention First Memo( 01/21/09 10:16 AM PST )
01.20.2009	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (D-CO) released the following statement today after the swearing in of the 44th President of the United States, Barack Obama: “The inauguration of America’s 44th President of the United States, Barack Obama, is truly a proud event for our country. I congratulate President Obama on his historic path to the White House. He will lead our nation forward during a time that will require all of us to come together in forging a new era of bipartisanship. I am proud to welcome President Barack Obama, First Lady Michelle Obama, and their two children, Malia and Sasha, to their new home in our nation’s capital. I look forward to working with our new president in moving our country forward and tackling the serious challenges we face.”
01.15.2009	WASHINGTON – U.S. Reps. Diana DeGette (D-CO), Vice Chair of the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and Louise M. Slaughter (D-NY), Chairwoman of the Committee on Rules, co-chairs of the Congressional Pro-Choice Caucus, were joined by a coalition of Members of Congress today to reintroduce legislation to stop the Bush Administration’s last-minute attempt to put ideology before science with the HHS “Refusal Rule.” This rule would permit healthcare workers to refuse to perform or assist in any healthcare service they find morally objectionable, regardless of patients’ healthcare rights and needs. The Protecting Patients and Health Care Act would block the “Refusal Rule” from taking effect. The rule was finalized by the Bush Administration on December 19, 2008 and is scheduled to go into effect on January 20, 2009. “Even in its final days, the Bush Administration continues to pursue its extreme ideology over sound public health policies,” said Rep. DeGette. “This dangerous and misguided rule would restrict access to vital health services and create chaos for health care providers. We look forward to working with the Obama administration and with our colleagues in Congress on stopping this rule­—whether by executive or Congressional action.” “Eight long years of trouncing on women’s reproductive rights and playing politics with science has obviously not been enough for this Administration,” said Rep. Slaughter. “As its parting gift to women across the country, the Administration has pushed this midnight regulation through the approval process. This sweeping rule goes beyond a woman’s right to choose, beyond a woman’s right to contraception and puts every American’s access to health care at risk.” Under current law, employers are already required to reasonably accommodate employee and applicant religious beliefs and practices. In contrast, the Refusal Rule is written so broadly that it would allow any employee, volunteer, or trainee of a health care provider to refuse to perform or "assist in the performance" of any health care service to any individual if doing so would violate his or her religious beliefs or moral convictions—without any mention of the needs of the patient. The Bush Administration’s own Equal Employment Opportunity Commission opposed the rule, calling it "unnecessary for protection of employees and applicants," "potentially confusing" to the health care community, and "a burden on covered employers, particularly small employers U.S. Reps. DeGette and Slaughter have held a hard line against this regulation beginning with a letter signed by 124 other Members of Congress to the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) in late September opposing the Refusal Clause. DeGette and Slaughter first introduced legislation at the end of the 110th Congress to prohibit HHS from implementing the rule. Click here to read U.S. Rep. DeGette’s op-ed on this issue in the HuffingtonPost.
01.15.2009	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (D-CO) today was selected by Speaker Nancy Pelosi to the serve on the Natural Resources Committee. “Being selected to serve on the Natural Resources Committee is a great honor,” said DeGette. “Important issues such as preserving wilderness, crafting a balanced energy policy, reversing many of the Bush Administration’s misguided public lands policies, and protecting our wild places will be at the top of the agenda of the 111th Congress. As a Member from the Rocky Mountain West, I hope to bring a unique perspective to the Committee. I look forward to working with my fellow committee members to ensure that our water and land resources are used responsibly, while protecting our remaining special places.” Natural Resources Committee Chairman Nick J. Rahall (D-WV) said, “I am pleased to welcome my friend and colleague, Diana DeGette, to the House Natural Resources Committee for the 111th Congress. As a lifelong Coloradoan with strong Western values, I know that she will bring much enthusiasm to the Committee as we work together to promote a positive resource conservation agenda.” As today’s U.S. Senate passage of a bill designating millions of acres of wilderness illustrates, public lands and wilderness issues are going to be high on the agenda during this session of Congress. U.S. Rep. DeGette will also continue to serve as the Vice Chair of the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
01.14.2009	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (D-CO), Vice Chair of the Committee on Energy and Commerce, spoke on the House floor today in support of H.R. 2, the Children’s Health Insurance Program Reauthorization Act of 2009 (CHIPRA), which would provide new health care coverage for 4.1 million low-income children, covering a total of over 11 million children nationwide. Nearly 85,000 children in Colorado are currently enrolled in the children’s health program, and under this measure, additional kids who are eligible will have access to the program. The measure passed with strong bipartisan support on a vote of 289 to 139, and now moves to the Senate for its consideration. The children’s health care program is expected to be one of President-elect Obama’s first pieces of legislation signed into law. Click here to watch Congresswoman DeGette deliver her floor statement.Below are her remarks on the House floor as prepared for delivery: “Six million children in this country who are eligible for SCHIP and Medicaid do not have health insurance. These children's parents work but they cannot afford to ensure that their children have well child care and have to resort to the emergency room for the most basic services like treatment like an ear infection – this is wrong. “Today's bill will help these families, but with a number of changes that will vastly improve the legislation. It allows states to give coverage to pregnant women and people who are here legally and preserves simplified outreach and enrollment procedures. Madam Speaker, in the face of the current economic downturn, it is even more vital that we enact this bill. Sharp increases in unemployment are adding to the ranks of the uninsured, while at the same time, state budgets are shrinking and the safety-net is struggling to meet this increased demand. “We need to provide this care for our kids because in the most civilized country in the world, no child should go without health care.” For a summary of the bill, please click here.
01.09.2009	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (D-CO), Vice Chair of the Committee on Energy and Commerce, today supported two measures that have been stalled under the Republican Administration. The 111th Congress today passed the Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act, legislation that would restore the long-standing interpretation of civil rights laws to allow employees to file pay discrimination claims within 180 days of each discriminatory paycheck they receive, and the Paycheck Fairness Act, legislation that would help end the discriminatory practice of paying men and women unequally for performing the same job. “The Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act is a necessary measure to ensure the end of gender discrimination,” said DeGette. “This legislation is long overdue and I am pleased the 111th Congress will make this one of the first bills passed this session.” The Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act would apply to workers who file claims of discrimination on the basis of race, sex, color, national origin, religion, age, or disability. The House-passed bill is the same as the bill approved in 2007. President-Elect Obama has indicated his strong support for the measure. “The Paycheck Fairness Act will strengthen the Equal Pay Act and close loopholes that have allowed many employers to avoid responsibility for discriminatory pay,” concluded DeGette. Although the wage gap between men and women has narrowed since the passage of the landmark Equal Pay Act in 1963, gender-based wage discrimination remains a significant problem for women in the U.S. workforce. According to the U.S. Census Bureau, women only make 78 cents for every dollar earned by a man.
01.09.2009	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (D-CO), Vice Chair of the Committee on Energy and Commerce, today praised the selection of Colorado lawmakers, Reps. Ed Perlmutter and Jared Polis, to the House Rules Committee. “I congratulate both Ed and Jared for being selected to serve on the House Rules Committee, an important House committee that will help set the agenda for the 111th Congress. The Speaker of the House clearly recognizes the talent in Colorado and values the contributions of the West. I look forward to working with my colleagues Ed and Jared in the 111th Congress to pass a robust agenda for Coloradoans and Americans nationwide.”
01.08.2009	WASHINGTON – The Colorado Congressional Delegation released the following information regarding applying for positions with the Obama Administration: “For all Coloradoans interested in applying for positions in the Obama Administration, please direct application materials to the Members of the Democratic Congressional Delegation. We will collect applications for Administration jobs not requiring U.S. Senate confirmation. For Administration positions requiring U.S. Senate confirmation, please direct application materials to Members of the U.S. Senate from Colorado.”
01.06.2009	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (D-CO), Vice Chair of the Committee on Energy and Commerce, today was sworn into the 111th Congress for her 7th term representing the people of the First Congressional District of Colorado. As the Dean of the Colorado Delegation, Congresswoman DeGette offered the following comments: “I am thrilled to be sworn into the 111th Congress representing the people of Colorado’s First Congressional District. I am looking forward to a strong, bipartisan partnership between the new Congress and the incoming Obama Administration. I plan to reach across the aisle working with my colleagues from Colorado and Congress to stabilize the economy, reestablish cutting-edge research, ensure health care for all Americans, and develop a comprehensive energy plan. We have a lot of work to accomplish and I am confident that we will be able to achieve great things for the people of Colorado and Americans nationwide. Now, let’s get to work.” With the opening of the 111th Congress, Rep. DeGette authored an on op-ed for the Colorado blog, ColoradoPols.com, outlining her agenda and priorities for the 111th Congress. You can read it by clicking here.
12.30.2008	Cites Leadership Position in the House as Chief Deputy Whip and Vice Chair of Energy and Commerce Best Serving the People of Colorado WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (D-CO) today officially withdrew her name from consideration for the U.S. Senate seat vacancy created upon the confirmation of Senator Ken Salazar as the Secretary of the Interior: "Today I informed Governor Bill Ritter that I am withdrawing my name from consideration for the United States Senate vacancy created upon Senator Ken Salazar’s confirmation as Secretary of the Interior. “After serious deliberation and consultation with my family, supporters, and colleagues in Congress, I have concluded I can best serve the citizens of the First Congressional District and Colorado from my current leadership positions in the House of Representatives. As a Chief Deputy Whip and Vice Chair of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, I will play a significant role in formulating critical legislation, including measures addressing health care reform, global climate change, energy policy, and public lands, in the 111th Congress. Moreover, I can be more effective in ensuring that the upcoming stimulus package and highway bill benefit our state in my capacity as the most senior member of the Colorado Congressional delegation than as the most junior Senator. “I want to thank the many people who contacted me and my staff to share their views about the course I should take. I value all of their thoughts and am gratified to receive their support. Governor Ritter has a talented pool of leaders from which he will select Senator Salazar’s successor. I look forward to serving with our new Senator and the rest of the Colorado delegation to ensure a bright future for this state and this great country."
12.22.2008	WASHINGTON – U.S. Reps. Diana DeGette (D-CO) and Michael Castle (R-DE), chief architects of legislation expanding stem cell research, led a bipartisan group of legislators today in sending a letter to President-Elect Barack Obama urging him to immediately remove existing federal barriers to embryonic stem cell research by Executive Order upon taking office. Reps. DeGette and Castle recently introduced new stem cell legislation overturning President Bush’s Executive Order, updating previous legislation to ensure that it is current with the ever-expanding field of stem cell research, and bringing the National Institutes of Health (NIH) back into the forefront of stem cell research worldwide. “I am excited that we are on the brink of expanding stem cell research under a responsible, pro-science Administration,” said DeGette, Vice Chair of the Committee on Energy and Commerce. “After two vetoes of strong bipartisan legislation that would have overturned President Bush’s restrictions, millions of patients and their families can now finally have hope again. I look forward to working with the Obama Administration to develop a robust research agenda in America.” “For the first time in many years the U.S. is poised to reaffirm its commitment to funding a pro-science biomedical research agenda by removing the current restrictions on embryonic stem cell research, which continues to hold so much promise,” said Castle. “We have lost valuable time and I look forward to working with President-Elect Obama and Congressional leaders in 2009 to swiftly nullify the current restrictions and finally allow science to flourish.”
12.17.2008	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (D-CO) today offered the following comments on the selection of Colorado Senator Ken Salazar to head the Department of Interior: “I want to congratulate my friend and colleague Senator Ken Salazar on his nomination as the next Secretary of Interior. President-elect Obama has made another excellent choice in selecting a preeminent legislator, attorney, and policy maker with extensive experience in natural resources, water rights, energy development, and wildlife issues. Our nation needs a strong Western voice like Ken’s when it comes to the most pressing issues facing the Department of Interior such as conserving our natural resources, enforcing a balanced energy policy, protecting our wild places, and ensuring the safety of our endangered species.”
12.12.2008	WASHINGTON – U.S Rep. Diana DeGette (D-CO), Vice Chair of the Committee on Energy and Commerce, today responded to the Vatican’s release of a bioethics document condemning reproductive rights and embryonic stem cell research: “The Vatican’s bioethics document is an extremist agenda for rejecting personal reproductive choices. Most Americans strongly oppose the idea that individuals should not be able to have choices about having children. As stated, the Vatican’s position would even deny infertile couples the joy of having a child through assisted reproduction. While I respect the Vatican’s right to its opinion, I assert that ethical embryonic stem cell research has the potential to protect the life of millions of patients who suffer from many debilitating diseases.” DeGette is the co-chair of the Congressional Pro-Choice Caucus and the chief architect of legislation overturning President Bush’s August 2001 directive restricting embryonic stem cell research. The legislation has been passed twice with strong bipartisan support in both a Republican and a Democratic Congress only to meet the President’s veto twice.
12.11.2008	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (D-CO), Vice Chair of the Committee on Energy and Commerce, today offered the following statement on President-elect Obama’s selection of former Senator Majority Leader Tom Daschle as the next Secretary of Health and Human Services: “I applaud the selection of Tom Daschle as our nation’s top health care official. A leading voice in health care in this country, Tom has a strong record of fighting for affordable health care for all Americans. During his tenure as the Senate Majority Leader, he worked tirelessly advocating for equality in our healthcare system and since leaving office has continued to promote a new approach to healthcare focusing on prevention and affordable services for Americans nationwide. With 47 million Americans living without health care – including 9 million children – Tom will face the enormous task of fixing our broken health care system. “The Obama Administration’s commitment to health care reform will be guided by a true leader with Tom Daschle at the helm. I look forward to working with him as the 111th Congress and Administration move forward with universal health care reform.”
12.10.2008	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (D-CO) today offered the following statement on H.R. 7321, Auto Industry Financing and Restructuring Act, which she supported: “While it is not a perfect deal, this short term loan is necessary to protect the jobs of nearly 5 million Americans nationwide helping to avoid another devastating blow to the economy. Essential to this package are the protections given the American taxpayer if the companies go into bankruptcy. In addition, the agreement will force all parties, including labor and management, to come to the table under the supervision of the White House to restructure the industry.”
12.08.2008	Washington – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (D-CO) released the following statement with the news of the Presidential Inaugural Committee’s selection of two Colorado groups participation in the 2009 inaugural parade: “I’m extremely pleased the Presidential Inaugural Committee has selected two fine organizations from our great state of Colorado to participate in the 2009 inaugural parade. The spirit of the Rocky Mountain West will definitely be showcased among the world come this January. I commend both the Freedom Riders and the Windsor High School Marching Band on their selection.” Today, the Presidential Inauguration Committee (PIC) released its first wave of acts for the inaugural parade. The Freedom Riders from Kersey, CO and the Windsor High School Marching Band from Windsor, CO were among the organizations selected to participate.
12.08.2008	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (D-CO) today was reappointed as the Vice Chair of the Committee on Energy and Commerce, which has vast jurisdiction over health care, energy, environment, food and consumer protection, and telecommunications. DeGette also served as the Vice Chair during the 110th Congress. “I am pleased that Chairman Henry Waxman has reappointed me to serve as the Vice Chair of the Energy and Commerce Committee. Our Committee has an opportunity to accomplish great things ranging from reforming our health care system to developing a comprehensive energy plan this Congress. I plan to continue working in a bipartisan fashion bringing our Committee together to achieve strong legislative goals for the American people.” “In the last Congress under Chairman Dingell, the Committee had a superb vice-chairman in Diana DeGette, and I have asked her to continue in this important role. I am delighted that she has agreed, and I look forward to working with her the important issues facing the Congress and the new Administration,” said Chairman Henry Waxman. In addition to serving as the Vice Chair of the Committee on Energy and Commerce, U.S. Rep. DeGette serves as Chief Deputy Whip in the Democratic Leadership.
11.20.2008	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (D-CO), Vice Chair of the Committee on Energy and Commerce, today offered the following statement on the outcome of the Energy and Commerce Committee Chairmanship election: "The winds of change have blown through Congress today. I congratulate Chairman Waxman on his selection as Chairman of the Committee on Energy and Commerce. I have worked closely with him on issues including the environment and consumer protection and look forward to serving with him to move our nation’s agenda forward. I also pledge to do everything I can to heal any rifts in the Committee and the Democratic Caucus."
11.14.2008	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (D-CO), Vice Chair of the Committee on Energy and Commerce, applauded Colorado’s performance in a new American Lung Association report, Helping Smokers Quit: State Cessation Coverage, released yesterday. Colorado is a leader in requiring all basic employer health plans to cover preventive services. “This timely report by the American Lung Association provides a blueprint for how to save lives by helping people quit tobacco—the leading cause of preventable death in the U.S.,” said DeGette. “Tobacco cessation treatments are highly cost-effective, but many motivated individuals who are struggling to quit cannot get access to them. I applaud Colorado for its leadership on tobacco cessation. We are one of just eight states that require all basic employer health plans to cover preventive services, including cessation services.” Rep. DeGette introduced legislation during the 110th Congress, the Quit Smoking for Life Act of 2008, that would save lives by providing coverage for tobacco cessation treatments under our nation’s major public health insurance programs, Medicare and Medicaid. “The Federal Government should be supporting state efforts by covering tobacco cessation treatment under our public health insurance programs. And that is my goal with the legislation I have introduced and will continue to move forward in the next Congress,” concluded DeGette. The American Lung Association report assesses what the states are currently doing to help smokers quit. # # # ALA Smoking Report ( 11/14/08 08:40 AM PST )
11.13.2008	WASHIGNTON – The office of U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (D-CO) today released the following update regarding tickets to President-elect Obama’s inauguration: Due to the unprecedented demand for tickets to President-elect Obama’s swearing in ceremony, requests for tickets on our website, www.house.gov/degette will close tomorrow, Friday, November 14th, at 7:00PM EST. For those who have requested tickets, there will be a lottery to determine the allocation due to a limited number of tickets. However, Coloradoans interested in attending inauguration activities will not need a ticket to view the swearing in ceremony or parade in January. There will be public viewing sections along the National Mall and parade route in Washington, DC.
11.12.2008	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (D-CO), Vice Chair of the Committee on Energy and Commerce, today released the following statement regarding the chairmanship of the Energy and Commerce Committee: “I have been blessed to serve on the Energy and Commerce Committee with two great leaders, Chairman John Dingell and Oversight and Government Reform Chairman, Henry Waxman. “Chairman Dingell has led efforts to expand health care to children, invest in alternative sources of energy, and develop common-sense reform of our nation’s consumer product and food safety system. In the 111th Congress, he will lead the fight for national health care reform and has made a commitment to enacting far-reaching legislation to combat global climate change and moving to a new energy policy. “Chairman Waxman has been an exceptional leader of the Oversight and Government Reform Committee, helping to expose the failures and abuses of the Bush Administration. In the 111th Congress, I also expect to see him unravel the wrongdoings of the financial industry, which led to the necessity of the recent rescue package. On Energy and Commerce, Chairman Waxman has also been visionary in his leadership on health care, consumer and environmental legislation. "In the 111th Congress, we need steady leadership at the helm of both these important committees, and that guidance can be given by both men. Given the critical work ahead, now is not the time for a change in the chairmanship of the Energy and Commerce Committee. Therefore, I support Mr. Dingell’s continued chairmanship of the Energy and Commerce Committee and look forward to working closely with both him and Chairman Waxman in the new Congress as we work to enact legislation that will move this country forward.”
10.20.2008	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (D-CO), Vice Chair of the Energy and Commerce Committee, today applauded the White House for signing the Stephanie Tubbs Jones Organ Transplant Authorization Act of 2008 into law. President George W. Bush signed H.R. 6469, which increases authorization for the Organ Procurement and Transplantation Network (OPTN) to $7 million, the first increase to the OPTN since 1984. The bipartisan legislation was sponsored by U.S Senator Byron Dorgan (D-ND), and U.S. Reps. Diana DeGette (D-CO), Jim Costa (D-CA) and Dave Camp (R-MI). “I am proud to have championed this invaluable and life-saving piece of legislation that gives hope to thousands of patients,” DeGette said. “Not only am I happy this measure will provide a modest increase in funding for the Organ Procurement and Transplantation Network, but I am thrilled that we could honor the late Congresswoman Stephanie Tubbs Jones by naming it after her. The generous donation of her organs and tissues upon her untimely passing will be remembered.” The National Organ Transplant Act (NOTA) of 1984 authorized the creation and operation of the Organ Procurement and Transplantation Network (OPTN), which facilitates the matching of deceased donor organs with individuals waiting for an organ transplant. Currently, NOTA limits federal support for the OPTN to no more than $2 million annually. This is approximately 8 percent of the current cost of operation of the OPTN. The remaining 92 percent of operating costs are paid with revenues generated by feeds the OPTN assesses transplant programs to register patients on the national donor waiting list. The authorization for funding has not been increased since the enactment of NOTA in 1984, when the total operating costs for the OPTN were approximately $5 million. Right now, the projected cost of operating the OPTN in FY 2008 is approximately $27 million. The legislation is named after the late Congresswoman Stephanie Tubbs Jones who donated her organs and tissues upon her death on August 20, 2008.
10.14.2008	WASHINGTON -- U.S. Reps. Diana DeGette (D-CO), Vice Chair of the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and Michael Castle (R-DE), both chief architects of the recently introduced Stem Cell Research Enhancement Act of 2008 (HR 7141), sent the following letter to both presidential candidates, Senator Barack Obama and Senator John McCain, applauding their past support for overturning President Bush’s August 2001 directive, and urging their support, from either the Senate or the White House, for removing existing federal barriers to funding and expansion of embryonic stem cell research, and working to put in place an overarching ethical federal framework to guide all stem cell research. Text of the letter is as follows: “It has been several years since the Stem Cell Research Enhancement Act (H.R. 810 in the 109th Congress and H.R. 3 in the 110th Congress) was initially written, passed, and vetoed and science has progressed at a faster pace than we in Congress could ever have imagined. We appreciate your support of S. 5 and are encouraged by continued progress both in the fields of embryonic stem cell research and adult stem cell research. In the face of fragmented state and private research that is currently being undertaken, we also recognize the need for strong federal leadership by the National Institutes of Health (NIH) in carrying out a continued ethical stem cell research program in order to realize the full potential for stem cell therapies. We are writing to emphasize the importance of your consistent support, from either the Senate or the White House, for removing existing federal barriers to funding and expansion of embryonic stem cell research, and working to put in place an overarching ethical federal framework to guide all stem cell research. “Looking to 2009, we recently reworked S.5 / H.R. 3 to ensure it is current with the ever-expanding field of stem cell research and to bring the NIH back to the forefront of stem cell research worldwide. Our goal in introducing H.R. 7141, the “Stem Cell Research Enhancement Act of 2008,” is to help guide the discussion over the next several months, as we prepare for a new Congress and Administration. “The top priority in this new legislation was to retain the integrity and language of H.R. 3 – specifically, to expand the federal policy on embryonic stem cell research and set forth ethical requirements. The goal was to expand the scope of H.R. 3 to allow for NIH to establish guidelines for carrying out all stem cell research (not just embryonic) as scientifically warranted. With this change, the NIH will be able to establish guidelines for the research based on scientific needs and advances. Although numerous entities have published guidelines for stem cell research, there is currently no overarching set of federal guidelines to serve as the gold standard. As a result, scientists must constantly worry about meeting a patchwork of ethical requirements. Recognizing the link between beginning basic scientific research and the potential for eventual clinical trials using stem cell applications, this new legislation encourages the NIH and Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to communicate on this important area of research. “We have lost valuable time since the President's Directive in 2001. With the many recent advances in stem cell techniques, it is imperative we allow all forms to flourish; scientists, not politicians, should decide which techniques have the best potential for progress in developing therapies. “Medical and scientific research, including embryonic stem cell research, holds great promise for alleviating the suffering of the 100 million American patients who are living with devastating diseases -- from Parkinson’s disease to spinal cord injuries to diabetes -- for which there are no good treatments or cures. A strong federal role in carrying out such research is critical. We remain committed to driving this issue in the next Congress and with the new Administration to form an expanded and comprehensive federal policy for all stem cell research.” # # # McCain Letter ( 10/14/08 10:16 AM PST ) Obama letter ( 10/14/08 10:15 AM PST )
10.03.2008	WASHINGTON – After unanimous agreement by both the U.S. Senate and House, the Stephanie Tubbs Jones Organ Transplant Act of 2008, heads to President George W. Bush for his signature. The bipartisan legislation was sponsored by U.S Senator Byron Dorgan (D-ND), and U.S. Reps. Diana DeGette (D-CO), Jim Costa (D-CA) and Dave Camp (R-MI). It increases authorization for the Organ Procurement and Transplantation Network (OPTN) to $7 million, the first increase to the OPTN since 1984. “The Organ Procurement and Transplantation Network is an excellent organization that provides the framework for hospitals and public and private organizations across the country to work together to save lives,” said Sen. Dorgan. “Over the years the private partners have contributed far more than the federal government, and I am glad that we are finally fulfilling the commitment we made when we created the network by increasing our share of the funding.” “This much-needed piece of legislation will boost the critical services provided by the Organ Procurement and Transplantation Network (OPTN) to thousands of patients,” said Rep. DeGette, Vice Chair of the Committee on Energy and Commerce. “With a modest increase in funds, the services provided by the OPTN can serve as a lifeline to many. And I am happy to say that the work of the late Congresswoman Stephanie Tubbs Jones lives on in this legislation as it does with her generous donation of her organs and tissues.” “This legislation reaffirms our nation’s commitment to providing life saving health care through transplantation and at the same time, honors our late colleague, Congresswoman Stephanie Tubbs Jones, who gave the gift of life by becoming an organ donor,” said Costa. “Whether it is a kidney transplant that ends a patient’s need for dialysis or a liver transplant that gives a person the strength to play catch with their son or daughter, the impact of these life-saving procedures cannot be understated.” “It is a fitting tribute to name this bill in honor of our late colleague Stephanie Tubbs Jones. A dedicated public servant to the end, she too gave the Gift of Life that this bill supports. In expanding access to organ donation and transplant services we help thousands of Americans who are desperately awaiting life saving procedures,” stated Rep. Camp. The National Organ Transplant Act (NOTA) of 1984 authorized the creation and operation of the Organ Procurement and Transplantation Network (OPTN), which facilitates the matching of deceased donor organs with individuals waiting for an organ transplant. Currently, NOTA limits federal support for the OPTN to no more than $2 million annually. This is approximately 8 percent of the current cost of operation of the OPTN. The remaining 92 percent of operating costs are paid with revenues generated by feeds the OPTN assesses transplant programs to register patients on the national donor waiting list. The authorization for funding has not been increased since the enactment of NOTA in 1984, when the total operating costs for the OPTN were approximately $5 million. Right now, the projected cost of operating the OPTN in FY 2008 is approximately $27 million. The legislation is named after former Congresswoman Stephanie Tubbs Jones who donated her organs and tissues upon her death on August 20, 2008. Costa co-founded the Congressional Organ and Tissue Donation Awareness Caucus along with Representatives Camp (R-Michigan), Clay (D-Missouri) and Ros-Lehtinen (R-Florida). Both the U.S. Senate and House approved this legislation unanimously. It now heads the President for his signature.
10.03.2008	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette, Vice Chair of the Committee on Energy and Commerce, today offered the following statement on the bipartisan Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008, which passed the House of Representatives on a vote of 263 to 171: “I am not happy that the Senate loaded this bill up with pork, but I supported it because it is necessary to put our financial markets back on track and restore consumer confidence in the American economy. It is imperative that we stabilize the market so consumers can get credit to buy homes and cars, small businesses can make payroll, students can get their student loans, and senior citizens will not see their retirement accounts evaporate. “We were able to ensure that the plan will work for taxpayers by creating four layers of oversight over the spending of the money, eliminating golden parachutes and excessive compensation for executives who caused this problem, giving the government the ability to buy and hold the troubled loans and later sell them for a profit to the taxpayer, and help to homeowners in negotiating troubled mortgages. "During my entire career in Congress, I have always been on the side of consumers and taxpayers. Whether it is ensuring the protection of our consumer products and food supply, protecting consumers from predatory credit card companies, helping patients with mounting medical bills, or standing up for workers by voting to increase the minimum wage. My top priority has always been to put the consumer first. This recovery bill is aimed at protecting the American public during this economic crisis." “Oversight hearings into the crisis will start next week, and I will continue to work with my colleagues in Congress to stabilize the American economy, restore confidence in the global financial system, and create new, tough standards for the financial industry so we will never see another repeat of this economic debacle.”
09.30.2008	Denver - US Representative Diana DeGette (D-CO) released the following statement regarding the opening of the new Cherry Creek Post at 201 Columbine Street in Cherry Creek North in East Denver. “I am extremely pleased the United States Postal Service is opening its new full service location in Cherry Creek starting October 1, right next to the existing Post Office, preserving their long term presence in Cherry Creek. “I applaud the United States Postal Service for their tenacity in finding a location in Cherry Creek and the commitment of Denver City Council President Jeanne Robb, the Cherry Creek North Business Improvement District, surrounding neighborhood associations, and the many citizens who have worked hard to maintain a Post Office in one of Denver’s premiere commercial and residential neighborhoods.” Rep. DeGette worked closely with the Cherry Creek community and the United States Postal Service in retaining a facility in the area for residents and the community.
09.29.2008	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette, Vice Chair of the Committee on Energy and Commerce, today offered the following statement on the bipartisan Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008, which failed to pass the House of Representatives on a vote of 205-228: “Despite my hesitations, I supported this bill -- not because I wanted to, not because it was the politically easy thing to do, but because it was the right thing to do. Sadly, only one-third of my Republican colleagues supported the bill despite the urging of the President, Senator McCain, and their Congressional leadership. “Our nation faces serious economic challenges that require serious action. Doing nothing risks a freeze in our financial markets, further exacerbating the economic meltdown while everyday Americans suffer. After the vote today, about a trillion dollars of wealth in our economy evaporated in just a few hours. “But this is not an abstract concept about Wall Street. Without this legislation, it will be harder for consumers to get basic car or home loans, small businesses will have trouble making payroll, pensions could deteriorate, and credit card rates will soar. “I will work with the leadership of Congress on both sides of the aisle to bring a new bill to the floor as soon as possible to inject liquidity into the market, allow small businesses and consumers to continue to obtain credit, and begin the long process of restoring confidence in the American financial system.”
09.26.2008	DeGette and Castle Drop New Bill Expanding Stem Cell Research; Directs Overarching Ethical Framework WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (D-CO), Vice Chair of the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and Michael Castle (R-DE), both chief architects of the Stem Cell Research Enhancement Act, today introduced new bipartisan stem cell research legislation that builds upon the original bill – H.R. 3 – in preparation for the new Administration and 111th Congress. “The Stem Cell Research Enhancement Act of 2008 builds upon the original legislation,” said DeGette. “This new legislation is comprehensive – it not only reverses President Bush’s draconian restrictions, but it also puts in place an overarching ethical framework for all stem cell research, adult and embryonic, to move forward. Embryonic stem cell research holds the promise of unlocking the cures to many diseases – from Parkinson’s disease to spinal cord injuries to diabetes.” H.R. 3 has been reworked to ensure it is current with the ever-expanding field of stem cell research and to bring the NIH back to the forefront of stem cell research worldwide. The top priority in this new legislation was to retain the integrity and language of H.R. 3 – specifically, to expand the federal policy on embryonic stem cell research and set forth the ethical requirements. The goal was to expand the scope of H.R. 3 to allow for NIH to establish guidelines for carrying out all stem cell research (not just embryonic) as scientifically warranted. With this change, the NIH will be able to establish guidelines for the research based on scientific needs and advances. Recognizing the link between beginning basic scientific research and the potential for eventual clinical trials using stem cell applications, this new legislation encourages the NIH and Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to communicate on this important area of research. “As the world's premier biomedical research institution, the NIH should have a robust stem cell research program,” said Rep. Castle. “I continue to share in the view of so many scientists that stem cell research holds great promise for alleviating the suffering of the 100 million American patients who are living with devastating diseases for which there are no good treatments or cures. We have lost valuable time since the President's Directive in 2001, but Rep. DeGette and I are committed to driving this issue in Congress and with the Presidential nominees to form an expanded and comprehensive federal policy for all stem cell research.” The Stem Cell Research Enhancement Act of 2008 delegates to the National Institutes of Health (NIH) the development of guidelines for human stem cell research—both for embryonic and adult—within ninety days of enactment and provides for periodic updates to the guidelines as scientifically warranted, but at least every three years. Although numerous entities have published guidelines for stem cell research, there is currently no overarching set of federal guidelines to serve as the gold standard. As a result, scientists must constantly worry about meeting a patchwork of ethical requirements. The reporting requirements section from H.R. 3 has also been updated to comply with the biennial reporting requirements set out in the NIH Reform Act of 2006. “Despite strong bipartisan support in both the House and Senate and the American public, President Bush laid down the political marker by vetoing common-sense stem cell research legislation twice. However, our allies in Congress and among the public remain undeterred – Rep. Castle and I look forward to a new Administration and a pro-stem cell Congress to realize the great potential of this research. With all the recent advances in stem cell techniques, it is imperative we allow all forms to flourish; scientists, not politicians, should decide which techniques have the best potential for progress in developing therapies,” concluded DeGette. The legislation further expresses that it is the sense of Congress that the NIH should consult with the FDA in developing and implementing the guidelines, as well as to facilitate research at NIH that can help the FDA evaluate the safety and efficacy of stem cell related therapies. Finally, the bill expresses that it is the sense of Congress that all research using human stem cells should comply with the NIH gold-standard guidelines, regardless of funding source. # # # Stem Cell Bill ( 09/26/08 03:49 PM PST )
09.26.2008	Over 125 Members of Congress Send Message to Bush Administration that Proposed New Rule Jeopardizes Health Care Services and Information WASHINGTON – As the Bush Administration continues to take action challenging reproductive rights in this country, 126 Members of Congress joined together in sending a letter late yesterday to the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) opposing a proposed rule that would significantly undermine patients’ access to vital health services and information. The letter, organized by U.S. Reps. Diana DeGette (D-CO), Henry A. Waxman (D-CA), Louise Slaughter (D-NY), and Nita M. Lowey (D-NY), argues that the “ill-conceived and unnecessary proposed rule puts politics and ideology before quality health care.” “The Bush Administration continues to pursue its extreme ideology over sound public health care policies,” said Rep. DeGette, Vice Chair of the Committee on Energy and Commerce and Co-Chair of the Congressional Pro-Choice Caucus. “This is just the latest example in a series of attempts by this Administration to thwart commonsense health care services in this country. This proposed rule could have a drastic impact on the health of the American public.” “The HHS regulations threaten public health because they categorically put specific individual beliefs above all other important interests. The Constitution protects the free exercise of religion, but the Constitution also requires appropriate separation of church and state. By prioritizing refusal rights above all other considerations – including patient health - the HHS regulations eviscerate any idea of balancing these constitutional obligations,” said Rep. Waxman, Chairman of the House Government Reform and Oversight Committee. “Eight continuous years of trouncing on women's reproductive rights and playing politics with science has obviously not been enough for this Administration,” said Rep. Slaughter, Chairwoman of the House Committee on Rules. “As its parting gift to women across this country, the Administration has proposed a sweeping rule that goes beyond a woman’s right to choose, beyond a woman’s right to contraception and puts everyone’s access to health care at risk. The Administration’s unconscionable actions really show you just how out of touch they are with women and their families.” “Providing access to contraception is one of the most effective ways that we can reduce unintended pregnancies and abortion,” said Rep. Lowey. “This proposed regulation would give hospitals, HMOs, pharmacies, and doctors a green light to refuse to provide services or even referrals for basic contraception. This proposal is outrageous, illogical, and counterproductive in our efforts to reduce unintended pregnancies and abortion.” Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 already prohibits employers from discriminating based on employees’ or applicants’ religious beliefs or practices. The Administration's own Equal Employment Opportunity Commission sent HHS comments yesterday calling the proposed rule "unnecessary for protection of employees and applicants," "potentially confusing" to the health care community, and "a burden on covered employers, particularly small employers." Members collectively wrote: “We are writing to strongly object to a rule proposed on August 26, 2008 by the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) that will significantly undermine patients’ access to vital health services and information. The ill-conceived and unnecessary proposed rule puts politics and ideology before quality health care: It would expand the ability of health care providers to withhold treatment, counseling, or medical information based on their religious or moral beliefs without regard for the needs of the patient. The proposed rule broadens the scope and reach of existing federal refusal laws beyond Congressional intent, while creating confusion and uncertainty about the rights and obligations of patients, doctors, and health care institutions—not merely in the area of reproductive health but throughout the U.S. health care system. Because the proposed rule is a threat to the health care of women, their families, and all Americans, we urge you to halt all efforts to move it forward.” # # # HHS Rule ( 09/26/08 06:31 AM PST ) Congressional Letter to HHS
09.25.2008	WASHINGTON – Today, the United States House of Representatives passed HR 6469, the Stephanie Tubbs Jones Organ Transplant Act of 2008. The bipartisan legislation was sponsored by U.S. Reps. Diana DeGette (D-CO), Jim Costa (D-CA) and Dave Camp (R-MI). It increases authorization for the Organ Procurement and Transplantation Network (OPTN) to $7 million, the first increase to the OPTN since 1984. “This much-needed piece of legislation will boost the critical services provided by the Organ Procurement and Transplantation Network (OPTN) to thousands of patients,” said Rep. DeGette, Vice Chair of the Committee on Energy and Commerce. “With a modest increase in funds, the services provided by the OPTN can serve as a lifeline to many. And I am happy to say that the work of the late Congresswoman Stephanie Tubbs Jones lives on in this legislation as it does with her generous donation of her organs and tissues.” “This legislation reaffirms our nation’s commitment to providing life saving health care through transplantation and at the same time, honors our late colleague, Congresswoman Stephanie Tubbs Jones, who gave the gift of life by becoming an organ donor,” said Costa. “Whether it is a kidney transplant that ends a patient’s need for dialysis or a liver transplant that gives a person the strength to play catch with their son or daughter, the impact of these life-saving procedures cannot be understated.” “It is a fitting tribute to name this bill in honor of our late colleague Stephanie Tubbs Jones. A dedicated public servant to the end, she too gave the Gift of Life that this bill supports. In expanding access to organ donation and transplant services we help thousands of Americans who are desperately awaiting life saving procedures,” stated Rep. Camp. The National Organ Transplant Act (NOTA) of 1984 authorized the creation and operation of the Organ Procurement and Transplantation Network (OPTN), which facilitates the matching of deceased donor organs with individuals waiting for an organ transplant. Currently, NOTA limits federal support for the OPTN to no more than $2 million annually. This is approximately 8 percent of the current cost of operation of the OPTN. The remaining 92 percent of operating costs are paid with revenues generated by feeds the OPTN assesses transplant programs to register patients on the national donor waiting list. The authorization for funding has not been increased since the enactment of NOTA in 1984, when the total operating costs for the OPTN were approximately $5 million. Right now, the projected cost of operating the OPTN in FY 2008 is approximately $27 million. The legislation is named after former Congresswoman Stephanie Tubbs Jones who donated her organs and tissues upon her death on August 20, 2008. Costa co-founded the Congressional Organ and Tissue Donation Awareness Caucus along with Representatives Camp (R-Michigan), Clay (D-Missouri) and Ros-Lehtinen (R-Florida). Bill Increases Funding For The Organ Procurement and Transplantation Network For First Time Since 1984
09.25.2008	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (D-CO), Vice Chair of the Committee on Energy and Commerce, today praised the passage of H.R. 1343, The Health Centers Renewal Act of 2008. “The reauthorization of the Health Centers Renewal Act is much needed legislation that supports a vital component of our health care safety-net,” said Rep. DeGette. “Community health centers provide comprehensive care to the low-income uninsured, and are the most efficient and cost-effective models of health care.” Included in the final bill was language drafted by Reps. DeGette and the late Paul Gilmore (R-OH) that facilitates the ability of Community Health Center providers to volunteer outside their service areas in the case of a public emergency and/or national disaster. “Our provision facilitates coordination between community health centers and emergency medical response programs to enable rapid and efficient action of emergency health services when a public health emergency or natural disaster occurs,” concluded DeGette. This provision is intended to address concerns that arose in the wake of Hurricanes Katrina and Rita, during which gaps in health care services occurred because licensed, but out-of-area, health care professionals were not afforded the same federal liability protections for their services as local community health center workers and were unable to provide their services.
09.24.2008	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (D-Co), Vice Chair of the Committee on Energy and Commerce and the chief architect of the Stem Cell Research Enhancement Act, today offered the following statement on the resignation of Dr. Elias Zerhouni, Director of the National Institutes of Health (NIH): “Dr. Zerhouni should be commended for his extraordinary leadership of the NIH in not only directing our nation’s premiere research facility, but also for his commitment to keeping the United States at the helm of cutting-edge research. He led the charge in restructuring the NIH and coordinating interdisciplinary research across the NIH’s many institutes, which has allowed the advancement of cross-cutting, translational research. “Dr. Zerhouni’s courage in advocating for embryonic stem cell research, despite President Bush’s opposition, has kept the focus on evidence-based science, while many continue to play politics in this debate. His leadership in supporting all ethical science has led way to new and innovative research. The scientific community has been well represented with Dr. Zerhouni leading the National Institutes of Health. I will miss his leadership and thank him for all he has done.”
09.24.2008	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (D-CO), Vice Chair of the Committee on Energy and Commerce, today commented on the recent salmonella outbreak in peanuts and peanut butter. “Last summer’s outbreak of salmonella in jalapenos and the recent outbreak in peanut butter, are sobering reminders that our nation’s food safety system is broken,” said DeGette. “Because of our 21st Century food distribution system, if even one facility fails to maintain adequate safety standards, consumers all over the country are at risk. We need strong food safety laws that will not only allow the government to issue a mandatory recall, but also give it the ability to track the contamination along the supply chain. U.S. Rep. DeGette will be reintroducing key food safety legislation that grants the federal government that ability to quickly force a recall of unsafe food and track products from farm to the fork. Both pieces of legislation have been endorsed by the Washington Post and the New York Times.
09.23.2008	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (D-Co), Vice Chair of the Committee on Energy and Commerce, today voted in support of H.R. 5244, the Credit Cardholders’ Bill of Rights, which passed the House on a vote of 312-112. “Credit card companies prey on consumers by encouraging them to enter into a cycle of debt that is exceedingly difficult to escape,” said DeGette. “Today, Congress took a critical step towards protecting consumers from these abusive practices. Americans are being pinched from all sides whether it’s record energy and gas bills, soaring health care costs, increasing unemployment, or the fallout from the mortgage crisis. This important piece of legislation will ensure that consumers don’t get stung by the fine print on their credit card agreement.” H.R. 5244, Credit Cardholders’ Bill of Rights, to provide crucial protections against unfair, but all too common, credit card practices, including:Ending unfair, arbitrary interest rate increases, by requiring ample notice before rate hikes and permitting lenders to raise rates on existing balances only if minimum payments are more than 30 days late (except for increases caused by changes in stated variable and introductory offers).Ending penalties on cardholders who pay on time, like charging interest on already repaid debt.Protecting consumers from due date gimmicks by requiring credit card companies to mail bills 25 days (instead of 14) before the due date.Ending the credit card practice of applying consumer payments to lower interest debt first.
09.19.2008	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (D-Co), Vice Chair of the Committee on Energy and Commerce, today offered the following statement on the state of the economy: “Like all Americans, I am deeply concerned about the recent turmoil in the financial markets. Over the weekend, I will review the relief package requested by the Bush Administration, and as Chief Deputy Whip, I will work with my colleagues in Congress to ensure that whatever we adopt will stabilize the economy and provide relief for consumers and homeowners, as they are feeling the rising gas and energy prices, soaring health care costs, and the fallout of the mortgage crisis.”
09.17.2008	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette, Vice Chair of the Committee on Energy and Commerce, today supported the Comprehensive American Energy Security & Consumer Protection Act that combines expanded oil drilling with a comprehensive, clean renewable energy and efficiency approach. The bill passed on a vote of 236 to 189: “The Comprehensive American Energy Security & Consumer Protection Act is a forward-thinking piece of legislation that begins to lower prices for consumers, creates good-paying jobs here in America, and protects taxpayers. By ending unnecessary subsidies to Big Oil companies earning record profits, this bill will reinvest them in clean, renewable energy. This compromise energy bill will continue to put America on a path towards energy independence while bringing prices down at the pump. “Congress took an important step down a path of freeing our dependence on foreign oil by passing a comprehensive energy bill that provides for expanded responsible oil drilling, while continuing to invest in renewable sources of energy. This important piece of legislation builds upon a historic energy bill passed last year that not only made crucial investments in alternative energy, but also raised CAFÉ standards for the first time in decades.”
09.15.2008	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette, Vice Chair of the Committee on Energy and Commerce, today offered the following comments on the troubling news in the financial markets: “The recent turmoil in the financial markets further illustrates the failure of the Republican’s economic policies. Americans across the nation – and throughout Colorado – are feeling the strain of rising health care costs, record energy and gas prices, and the fallout from the mortgage crisis. “The Republican Party’s policies are out-of-touch with mainstream America and the challenges that lie ahead. President Bush mischaracterized today’s events as simply an ‘adjustment,’ while Senator McCain turns his head the other way saying the ‘fundamentals of our economy our strong.’ “The Democratic Congress has taken steps to strengthen our economy by passing a bipartisan economic stimulus package and efforts to shore up the nation’s housing finance system. I look forward to working with my colleagues on another economic recovery package that will help our economy -- which continues to suffer as a result of the last eight years of Republican fiscal mismanagement. ” Republican Policies Out-of-Touch With Mainstream America
09.08.2008	WASHINGTON – Energy and Commerce Committee Vice Chair Diana DeGette (D-CO), chief architect of the Stem Cell Research Enhancement Act, today offered the following comments on the recent findings that embryonic stem cells are still necessary by a U.S. National Academy of Sciences panel: "Embryonic stem cell research holds much promise to unlocking the cures for many diseases. I could not agree more with the recent findings of the Human Embryonic Stem Cell Research Advisory Committee that the use of embryonic stem cells is still necessary. "Recent advances in cell–based research have been very encouraging, but we must support all forms of cell-based research by allowing all types, including embryonic stem cell research, to move forward. It is clear to me that we need a comprehensive, ethical oversight framework for all cell-based research, as well as a national commitment to a robust research program in the United States. "I look forward to introducing new legislation with my colleague Rep. Michael Castle (R-DE) that will lift the ban on federal funding for research on embryonic stem cell lines developed after August 2001 and will direct the National Institutes of Health (NIH) to construct a framework for ethical oversight of all cell-based research. In order for the United States to retain its cutting-edge scientific status, we must make a national commitment to a robust research program." Echoing the panel's statement that some regulation of stem cell research is needed, DeGette intends to launch a new legislative effort by introducing new stem cell legislation that will not only overturn President Bush's 2001 directive, but will also mandate the development of a national ethical oversight framework for all cell-based research. Reuters reported that the Human Embryonic Stem Cell Research Committee, a U.S. National Academy of Sciences panel, revised a 2005 report on stem cells because of the recent advances and also found that the use of embryonic stem cells in cell-based research is still necessary.
08.09.2008	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette, Vice Chair of the Committee on Energy and Commerce, today offered the following comments with the news that another outbreak of E. Coli in beef has occurred: “The first order of business is to determine where these products have been distributed in order to get them off store shelves quickly,” said DeGette. “Unfortunately, our ability to react to food emergencies have been compromised by a lack of investment in food safety by both the private and public sectors. We need a robust system that will quickly identify the source of the contamination and remove it from our stores. How many outbreaks and how many sick people will it take until we finally reform our outdated food safety laws?”
07.17.2008	Lack of a Food Traceability System Results in More Consumers Sick and Still FDA Cannot Determine Source of Contamination WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (D-CO), Vice Chair of the Committee on Energy and Commerce, today reacted to the ongoing salmonella outbreak and the continued lack of identification of the source of the contamination. The outbreak in salmonella first indicated tomatoes were the source, but now the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) indicates that peppers are also likely. “It is absolutely outrageous that we are 90 days into the salmonella outbreak and the FDA and CDC still cannot determine the source of contamination,” DeGette said. “Currently, over 1200 cases of salmonella have been reported, hundreds have been hospitalized, while the outbreak has affected 42 states, including Washington, DC and even Canada. The salmonella outbreak continues to spread, with nearly 30 cases a day, because we do not have a national, comprehensive food traceability system that would quickly track our foods from the field to the fork. An effective traceback system would allow us to quickly identify the source of the contamination, while protecting our producers, growers, and distributers whose industries are being devastated. Now the FDA is saying that tomatoes are safe, but only because they have a short shelf life. We still don’t know the source of the contamination, and that is inexcusable.” U.S. Rep. DeGette has championed and advocated for both mandatory recall and traceability since 2002. The mandatory recall authority has been included in the Energy and Commerce Committee’s discussion draft, the Food and Drug Administration Globalization Act of 2008. DeGette is also working with the Committee to include traceability, H.R. 3485 as well.
07.16.2008	WASHINGTON – With the recent outbreaks of salmonella and E. coli, U.S. Senator Sherrod Brown (D-OH) and U.S. Representative Diana DeGette (D-CO), Vice Chair of the Committee on Energy and Commerce, today sent a letter to both the Senate and House Leadership and Agricultural Committee Leadership requesting the expedited consideration of legislation giving the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) and the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) mandatory recall authority. Brown and DeGette write: “We are writing to ask for your expedited consideration of the Safe And Fair Enforcement and Recall for (SAFER) Meat, Poultry, and Food Act of 2007 (H.R. 3484 and S. 3267), bills that would fix a glaring deficiency in our food safety system. These bills would provide our two chief food safety oversight agencies, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA), with the authority to mandate food recalls when necessary. “We think most Americans would be alarmed to learn that the federal government doesn’t already have this reasonable power in their regulatory arsenal. The top priority for both the FDA and the USDA should be to protect the public’s health, a mission that will sometimes require swift and decisive action that will not be to industry’s liking. Mandatory recall authority will ensure that these agencies have the necessary leverage to demand that those private companies responsible for feeding our nation follow strict safety standards and that when mistakes are made the public’s safety is not compromised.” Brown and DeGette’s legislation, The Safe and Fair Enforcement and Recall for (SAFER) Meat, Poultry, and Food Act of 2007 (S. 3267 and H.R. 3484), gives the USDA and the FDA the authority to mandate recalls of the foods under their respective jurisdictions. USDA has jurisdiction over meat and poultry while the FDA has jurisdiction over fruits and vegetables. DeGette’s legislation has been included in a discussion draft that is currently being considered by the Energy and Commerce Committee food safety proposal, the Food and Drug Administration Globalization Act of 2008. Brown and DeGette introduced the SAFER Act to expedite passage of mandatory recall authority. “The FDA has asked Congress to provide it with mandatory recall power, and we are heartened by the inclusion of FDA recall authority in various drafts of food safety legislation pending in both chambers. However, it is imperative that both USDA and FDA be given this authority, and we cannot afford to continue to put the public’s health at risk by delaying any further. Please consider pushing for the passage of both H.R. 3484 and S. 3267 as soon as possible,” the letter concludes. While recalls are currently voluntary at both agencies, the FDA has requested recall authority be mandatory. Mandatory recall authority would ensure that these agencies have the necessary leverage to demand that private companies follow strict safety standards and do not compromise the public’s safety in the event of contamination. The SAFER Act is one provision of Brown’s Food and Product Responsibility Act, sweeping legislation authored by Brown in the Senate to give the FDA and USDA more resources to protect American consumers. In addition to DeGette’s SAFER Act, she has also introduced H.R. 3485, the TRACE (Tracing and Recalling Agricultural Contamination Everywhere) Act, giving the FDA and USDA the authority to develop a comprehensive food traceability system that tracks foods from the farm to the fork. She is currently working to include this bill in the Energy and Commerce Committee’s legislation as well. # # # BrownDeGette Food Safety Letter 7.16 ( 07/16/08 01:15 PM PST )Letter Sent to Senate and House Leadership and Agriculture Committee Leadership Urging Mandatory Recall Authority for USDA and FDA
07.16.2008	DeGette Advances Resolution for East High School in Denver WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (D-CO) today announced that the House of Representatives passed a resolution congratulating East High School in Denver for winning the 2008 “We the People” National Civics Competition for the second year in a row. “I want to congratulate East High School for winning this highly competitive nationwide competition,” said DeGette. “As a former volunteer coach of the East High School We the People program, I know first-hand the skill and expertise needed to be competitive, let alone take home back-to-back championships. The students at East certainly made the Mile High City proud once again.” This program is sponsored by the non-profit, non-partisan Center for Civic Education, whose mission is to help develop and foster a well-informed citizenry through civics education. Its flagship program, “We the People,” is funded in part through the U.S. Department of Education under the Education for Democracy Act. Each year, thousands of students from across the country participate in “We the People,” and begin a rigorous program studying the foundations of our constitutional democracy. By studying an advanced textbook and reading a number of primary source documents, these students become experts in the U.S. Constitution, its foundations and controversies over two centuries ago, and its complexities in today’s legislative and legal system. The program culminates with national finalists participating in simulated congressional hearings in Washington, DC.
07.15.2008	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (D-CO), Vice Chair of the Committee on Energy and Commerce, today made the following statement in support of overriding President Bush’s veto of H.R. 6331, the Medicare Improvements for Patients and Providers Act of 2008. The House supported this measure on a vote of 383 to 41. “I am proud to override the President’s veto of this measure today, which not only will eliminate the scheduled ten percent cut to Medicare physicians, but it will also provide a 1.1 percent update for 2009. A rate update is desperately needed to maintain quality care for Medicare patients. Ignoring this problem any longer would be devastating to patient care across Colorado and the nation. “This measure also includes a two-year reauthorization of the Special Diabetes Programs for Type 1 Diabetes. I have been working to support and reauthorize these programs for many years, and thanks to over a decade of investment in the Special Diabetes Programs, which were created in 1997, we can point to tangible and significant progress—such as the creation of an artificial pancreas—that is improving the lives of many people.” U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette is also the co-chair of the House Diabetes Caucus.
07.15.2008	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (D-CO), Vice Chair of the Committee on Energy and Commerce, today offered the following statement regarding a proposed regulation making federal aid conditional upon new reproductive health criteria proposed by the Bush Administration: “This proposed rule is not only ludicrous, but entirely unnecessary – it is just the latest example of how the Bush Administration continues to meddle in women’s reproductive health. Federal law already protects individuals who prefer not to participate in reproductive health care, and many states have refusal clauses for either individuals or institutions that object to providing or participating in such services. “Furthermore, this proposed rule could have grave implications for women’s access to health services, including birth control because it goes significantly farther than current law by defining abortion so broadly that it would include many types of birth control, including oral contraception and emergency contraception.” U.S. Rep. DeGette is also co-chair of the House Pro-Choice Caucus. Proposed Rule by the Bush Administration is Ludicrous and Unnecessary
07.14.2008	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (D-CO), Vice Chair of the Committee on Energy and Commerce, today released the following statement on President Bush's announcement lifting the executive ban on drilling in protected coastal areas: “President Bush’s plan is flawed and misguided. It will neither reduce gas prices nor increase energy independence – two things our country and the American consumer desperately need. “If he really wants to provide relief from high gas prices in the short term, the President must release a portion of the more than 700 million barrels of oil we have put in the Strategic Petroleum Reserve. It is the first step in bringing prices down quickly. Longer term, we need to work hard to wean ourselves from our dependence on foreign oil.”
07.11.2008	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (D-CO), Vice Chair of the House Committee on Energy and Commerce, released the following statement regarding the lawsuit introduced today requesting an injunction on oil and gas leasing on Colorado’s Roan Plateau: “It is important to have environmentally responsible oil and gas drilling to power our economy while we push for the speedy development of clean, renewable energy resources,” said DeGette. “However, I believe we can all agree that there are certain places that are spectacular enough to warrant protection from drilling. The Roan Plateau is one of those places, one of Colorado’s crown jewels in fact, and I hope the court grants an injunction before the drill rigs start rolling in.” Rep. DeGette is the author of H.R. 3756, the Colorado Wilderness Act, legislation she has introduced every year since 1999 that would designate the Roan Plateau as federally protected wilderness. Under her bill, the Roan Plateau and 61 other areas in the state would be permanently safeguarded from oil and gas drilling. In September, Rep. DeGette will tour the Roan Plateau with members of Congress from the Natural Resources Committee where her bill is pending, including Chairman Nick Rahall (D-WV).
06.30.2008	DENVER – U.S. Representative Diana DeGette (D-CO) announced today, along with the Regional Transportation District (RTD) and the Colorado Department of Transportation (CDOT), $36 million in federal funds have been awarded by Federal Highway Administration to jump start Denver’s Union Station’s (DUS) into a regional intermodal transportation hub as envisioned by Denver Metropolitan voters. "I am extremely pleased to help bring these vital federal funds to assist in transforming Denver Union’s Station into the region-wide intermodal transportation hub as passed by Colorado voters through the FasTrack initiative in 2004," said DeGette. "With rising oil and gas prices, the need to fully build out our regional rapid transit system is now greater than ever. The redevelopment of Denver Union Station is the central core of FasTracks and will be key in quickly moving people around the metro region and beyond. The significant commitment of federal funding is proof of the regional and national importance of this 21st Century transportation project." The $36 million in federal funds from the U.S. Department of Transportation Federal Highway Administration is part of a total of $50 million federal funds secured by U.S. Rep. DeGette through the Projects of National and Regional Significance which was part of the Safe, Accountable, Flexible, Efficient Transportation Equity Act: A Legacy for Users (SAFETEA-LU) of 2005. The federal funds were secured with the help and support of CDOT and RTD. The remaining $14 million is expected to be released in future fiscal years. "We truly appreciate the hard work by Congresswoman Diana DeGette in getting this critical funding for Denver Union Station included in the federal budget," said RTD Chairman Lee Kemp. "We all recognize the importance of DUS as the cornerstone of the multi-modal transportation system for the entire metro area, and this funding will help secure its future." "We are appreciative of Congresswoman DeGette's efforts and support to secure federal funding for this key multi-modal hub," said CDOT Executive Director Russ George. "The partnership between our federal, state, regional and local agencies is stronger than ever and working together we will be able to build this remarkable project." The specific projects the federal funds will be appropriated to DUS include; preliminary engineering, design work, site preparation, relocation of the 16th Street Mall shuttle turnaround, track work, and construction of the temporary light rail station that will be required while the permanent station is being built. DUS is scheduled to be completed and open to the public in 2012 with the full build out of FasTracks scheduled to be running by 2016.
06.26.2008	WASHINGTON – Energy and Commerce Committee Vice Chair Diana DeGette (D-CO) supported three key pieces of energy legislation today, joining a strong majority in the House who are taking action to bring down gas prices and meet our national goal of becoming energy independent. The bills sought to affect three aspects of the problem: spurring domestic energy production, encouraging energy efficiency and conservation, and directing regulators to hold Wall Street accountable for any excessive price speculation that may have occurred, inflating the price of oil in commodities markets. “There are no easy solutions to the current energy crisis in America,” said DeGette. “A gross failure of Republican leadership over the past decade has resulted in record prices for people and record profits for Big Oil. As gas prices continue to rise, the House is taking swift action to help consumers at the gas pump.” The Energy Markets Emergency Act directs the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) to curb immediately the role of excessive oil speculation in any contract market within its jurisdiction and control. It also directs the CFTC to use its authority to eliminate excessive speculation, price distortion, sudden or unreasonable fluctuations or unwarranted changes in prices. While H.R. 6251, the Responsible Federal Oil and Gas Lease Act, received the support of a majority in the House, it fell short of the 2/3rds required for passage. The bill would have established a ‘use it or lose it’ policy for existing oil and gas leases. Oil companies currently have 86 million acres of land for oil production - an estimated 81 percent of America’s oil reserves – but they have not developed this land. H.R. 6251 would have directed oil companies to drill these lands and increase domestic production, or risk losing their leases to a company that will. None of the Republicans in the Colorado Delegation voted for the bill. If Americans could transition just ten percent of their automobile use to public transportation, it would save the equivalent of every drop of oil we import from Saudi Arabia. The Saving Energy through Public Transportation Act, H.R. 6052, provides critical support to the nation’s systems of public transportation particularly in encouraging such systems to use alternative fuels. “The combination of increased domestic energy production and gains in efficiency and conservation are the way not only out of our current crisis, but to long-term energy sustainability as well,” Congresswoman DeGette argued. “The Bush-McCain energy plan may be good for oilmen, but there is a new Sherriff in town and we intend to put the needs of the American people first.” Comprehensive Approach would put America on Track for Energy Independence and Provide Relief for Consumers at the Gas Pump
06.26.2008	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Richard Durbin (D-IL) and U.S. Representatives Diana DeGette (D-CO) and Todd Platts (R-PA) today introduced companion pieces of legislation in the U.S. Senate and U.S. House that provide Medicare and Medicaid coverage for tobacco cessation treatments for senior citizens, people with disabilities and low-income adults. Each year, tobacco use kills an estimated 438,000 Americans—about 1 in 5 of all deaths in the United States. Tobacco use costs our nation $96 billion annually in health care expenditures, including an estimated 14 percent of all Medicaid costs. Tobacco use is a leading cause of pregnancy complications, premature birth, and low birth weight. “Cigarette smoking is the leading preventable cause of death in the United States,” said Senator Durbin. “While nicotine is a highly addictive drug, research has confirmed that smoking cessation strategies that include counseling and FDA-approved therapies are extremely effective. And with 70% of current smokers in the US reporting that they want to quit, there is no excuse for not providing them with the resources to do so.” “Tobacco cessation medications and counseling have been proven effective at saving lives and at saving money in health costs,” said Congresswoman DeGette. “Public health experts recommend that all health insurance plans should cover smoking cessation programs with proven effectiveness. This bipartisan legislation leads the way by providing coverage for tobacco cessation through our two major public health insurance programs, Medicare and Medicaid.” “Reducing tobacco use will eventually save taxpayers millions of dollars in Medicaid and Medicare expenditures for smoking-related health conditions,” said Congressman Platts. “Addressing this issue head-on will save lives, reduce the public health risks related to second-hand smoking and alleviate a major burden on our health care system.” Tobacco cessation medications and evidence-based counseling greatly increase the odds of quitting smoking successfully. Moreover, evidence from rigorous research shows that tobacco cessation treatment is highly cost-effective. Accordingly, the Institute of Medicine recommends that all health insurance plans should cover effective smoking cessation programs. However, these treatments are not currently available to many tobacco users who are struggling to quit. The companion bills provide Medicare and Medicaid coverage for tobacco cessation treatments with proven effectiveness. They also define tobacco cessation treatments and anti-tobacco health promotion messages as part of quality services under the Maternal and Child Health Program—a step that is crucial for reducing tobacco use among pregnant women. The American Cancer Society, the American Heart Association, the American Lung Association, the Campaign for Tobacco-Free Kids, and the Partnership for Prevention support the bills. Highlights of the bills include Medicare Coverage: • Extends coverage to include counseling for cessation of tobacco use. Approved counselors include state-licensed practitioners, physicians and other Medicare providers (such as clinical social workers, nurse practitioners and psychologists). • Defines non-prescription tobacco cessation agents as covered drugs, if those drugs are prescribed by a doctor or other authorized medical professional. • Requires all prescription drug plan sponsors to provide coverage for tobacco cessation drugs approved by the FDA under Medicare’s prescription drug coverage. Medicaid Coverage: • Extends Medicaid coverage to include tobacco cessation counseling. • Enables states to cover prescription drugs for tobacco cessation under Medicaid by eliminating the exclusion that exists for tobacco cessation drugs that currently exists. Maternal and Child Health Services Block Grant: • Enables states to provide and to assure mothers and children (in particular those with low income or with limited availability of health services) access to tobacco cessation counseling, recommendations regarding drugs and devices that can aid tobacco cessation and programs to stop tobacco use before it starts.
06.20.2008	WASHINGTON – Chief Deputy Whip Diana DeGette (D-CO) today opposed H.R. 6304, the FISA Amendments Act of 2008, which passed on a vote of 293 to 129. Below is Congresswoman DeGette’s statement: “While H.R. 6304 is an improvement over our previous efforts, it still prevents the American public’s ability to hold telecommunications companies accountable for participating in the Federal Government's domestic warrantless surveillance program. Courts still have no real power to review the Administration's prior orders for surveillance activities. We may never learn the extent of the violations of Americans' privacy which may have occurred or companies which may have participated. “Additionally, the strong protections against reverse targeting contained in prior House measures, which I supported, are absent from this bill. Reverse targeting, which refers to spying on Americans by targeting those abroad with whom they are believed to be communicating, opens a loophole for the Federal Government to violate the privacy of American citizens.”
06.19.2008	WASHINGTON – Chief Deputy Whip Diana DeGette (D-CO) today opposed an amendment to provide additional funding for the war in Iraq and voted to pass another amendment that would to meet our nation’s obligation to those who bravely serve, address the economic insecurity of those here at home and delay harmful Medicaid regulations proposed by the Bush Administration. “The war in Iraq must come to an end – too many lives have been lost, too much money has been spent, and too much time has been wasted on the President’s failed war,” said DeGette. “As a staunch opponent of this war who opposed its original authorization, I cannot support any measure that does not contain strict timelines to end this war safely and responsibly.” While DeGette opposed the first amendment providing additional funds for the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, DeGette supported key domestic spending priorities: postpones six Medicaid regulations proposed by the Bush Administration, provides $2.65 billion for the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) disaster relief fund, Army Corps of Engineers, and Small Business Administration to address the recent flooding in the Midwest, and extends unemployment insurance for 13 weeks for Americans struggling in today’s economy. “The Bush Administration’s draconian Medicaid regulations would have had a devastating effect on our nation’s health-care safety-net. Denver Health, a premiere health care institution in Colorado, is using cutting-edge and innovative ways to cut costs and provide service. We need to support these institutions in the work they do and I applaud the House for standing up for the health care safety-net in this country.” As Vice Chair of the Committee on Energy and Commerce, Congresswoman DeGette has been aggressive in pursuing a delay in the implementation of the regulations. Not only was she a cosponsor of H.R. 5613, the Protecting the Medicaid Safety Net Act of 2008, she also organized and sent a letter from Members of the Committee on Energy and Commerce to the House leadership and leadership of the House Appropriations Committee strongly urging them to include a moratorium in the Supplemental Appropriations Bill. The Six Postponed Medicaid Regulations (effect on Colorado) • Cost limits for public providers (CMS 2258-FC) Loss of federal funds in 2008: $142.2 million Over 5 years: $711 million • Payment for graduate medical education (CMS 2279-P) Loss of federal funds in 2008: $12 million Over 5 years: $60 million • Provider taxes (CMS 2275-P) Loss of federal funds in 2008: None Over 5 years: None • Coverage of rehabilitative services (CMS 2261-P) Loss of federal funds in 2008: Not specified Over 5 years: Not specified • Payments for costs of school administrative and transportation services (CMS 2287-P) Loss of federal funds in 2008: $1.4 million Over 5 years: $7 million • Targeted case management (CMS-2237-IFC) Loss of federal funds in 2008: $1.8 million Over 5 years: $9.2 million # # # Letter to Approps ( 06/19/08 01:04 PM PST ) House Letter ( 06/19/08 01:03 PM PST )Supports Key Domestic Priorities Including Delaying Six Medicaid Regulations that would Hurt Colorado’s Health Care Safety-Net
06.18.2008	WASHINGTON – During last week’s Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations hearing on food safety, the Bush Administration’s “food safety czar” Dr. David W.K. Acheson, MD, Assistant Commissioner for Food Protection, testified that he supported the idea of traceability. Energy and Commerce Committee Vice Chair Diana DeGette (D-CO) has proposed developing a food product traceability system, H.R. 3485. Click here to watch the clip Below is a transcript of the testimony:Dr. Acheson: Well, let me ask you, if I may, if you’ve eaten a tomato in the last week, do you know where it came from?Chairman Stupak: No, because you won’t implement country of origin labeling. If you had country of origin labeling, I would know where the tomato came from, and you could focus resources on Mexico if that’s where we believe the salmonella is coming from, as opposed to New Mexico and Texas and the other states you’re sort of spinning the wheels on.Congresswoman DeGette: Will the Chairman yield? Or if we had traceability.Chairman Stupak: Right.Dr. Acheson: I would support that. Absolutely. I think traceability is a far more powerful tool than country of origin labeling in terms of food safety.
06.12.2008	Mandatory Recall and Traceability Key to Ensuring Safe Foods WASHINGTON – As the nation’s food safety system is rocked by an outbreak of salmonella in tomatoes, Energy and Commerce Committee Vice Chair Diana DeGette (D-CO) pressed for comprehensive reform of our food safety system by granting the government mandatory recall authority supported by a traceability system during the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations hearing entitled, “American Lives Still at Risk: When Will FDA’s Food Protection Plan Be Fully Funded and Implemented?” DeGette’s mandatory recall authority is included in the Committee’s discussion draft, the Food and Drug Administration Globalization Act of 2008. The Washington Post editorialized today in support of DeGette’s mandatory recall authority and traceability proposals. Below is Congresswoman DeGette’s opening statement as prepared for delivery: “Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I appreciate your continuing efforts to investigate the obviously broken food safety system in this country. “Little did we know when you scheduled this hearing several weeks ago that it would occur in the middle of yet another nationwide outbreak of foodborne illness. “The salmonella outbreak in raw tomatoes has now expanded to at least 17 states, with 167 people sick and dozens hospitalized. Businesses nationwide have pulled tomatoes from their shelves, leaving tons of food to rot and an entire industry of farmers, employees and small businesses in trouble. “But the FDA, hobbled by dwindling resources, conflicting missions, cuts in staffing and low morale, has not been able to identify the source of the contamination. “Sadly, we’ve been here before. “This salmonella outbreak is just the latest in a steady stream of incidents over the past year. I look forward to hearing from the FDA what it has done since it released its “Food Protection Plan” in November. While there is much desirable language in that document about what needs to be done in the abstract, I hope this hearing will help us clarify the specifics about what the FDA will do, how much it will cost, and give us an update on the tomato outbreak. “I’d also like to know if the agency has learned anything from previous outbreaks that it is putting to use in the tomato incident. To be frank, it doesn’t sound like it, because we still can’t trace the source of the salmonella contamination in tomatoes. “I am encouraged that the FDA submitted to Congress this week a supplemental budget request for the agency. I know many members of this subcommittee were dumbfounded when this administration originally denied a need for additional resources, but I’m glad we’re all on the same page now. “And I hate to sound like a broken record in this subcommittee, but there is common-sense legislation pending that would create a comprehensive food traceability system so we wouldn’t experience delays like we are seeing in the tomato market at this very moment. “The events over the past few days have shown once again that the FDA is incapable of quickly identifying the source of contamination when it occurs. What exists today is a complicated system of going through records of individual companies to locate their suppliers, their suppliers’ suppliers, wholesalers, distribution centers, processing facilities, gathering warehouses and farms. This process began in the tomato outbreak back in April. “Given the advanced technology of today, this information should be easily accessible in an instant. That’s what my bill, H.R. 3485, the TRACE Act, would do. “In fact, traceability is already being done by certain individual companies and I want to build upon their successes to form a comprehensive, national system. For example, we all know that UPS and FedEx can instantaneously locate a package anywhere in the world and access its status at every stage along its route. In the food industry, Dole Foods and many beer distributers can trace their products throughout the supply chain. “Many small and large businesses have developed high-tech tracing systems, from bar coding, to GPS, to laser technology. In fact, a Colorado company has pioneered a process to laser numerical codes onto individual eggs and even food produce like tomatoes, allowing consumers to trace the “farm to fork” distribution from their home computer. “IBM Consulting is advising its clients that food traceability is a sound business investment, given the importance of brand preservation and risk management. “Exciting things are happening in this field, but sadly the federal government has not gotten on board. Instead, once again, we have a salmonella outbreak in tomatoes, with people getting sick in my home state of Colorado and across the country, yet the FDA is in its third month of attempting to trace the source of contamination. “Obviously it would be best to focus our resources to build quality into our food system to make sure contamination never occurs in the first place. But we absolutely must have better procedures in place to deal with an emergency of this scale. “I look forward to hearing from our witnesses this morning. Given the salmonella outbreak in the news, I would particularly like them all to address how we can improve food product traceability in this country. “Thank you, Mr. Chairman.”
06.10.2008	DENVER– U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (D-CO) today announced the departure of her long serving District Director, Gregory Diamond. “Greg has been a fixture in both Colorado and Denver politics and government for many years,” said DeGette. “His keen intellect, energy, and total dedication to the constituents of the First Congressional District will be missed. Greg brought passion and intimate knowledge of the needs of the residents of Denver, Englewood, Sheridan and Cherry Hills Village and was an ubiquitous presence at community events and forums throughout the First District. I wish Greg the best of luck and continued success in his next endeavor.” DeGette also announced that Christopher Arend, the current Deputy District Director, has been promoted to District Director and will assume the position effective August 1st. “I am extremely pleased to have Chris take on the position of District Director. Anticipating a seamless transition, Chris is ideal as he has been on my staff for eight years handling a number of responsibilities in my Denver office. Chris has experience handling veterans and immigration casework, District communications, and outreach on environment and transportation issues, including work on the Colorado Wilderness Act. He is well positioned to continue the comprehensive constituent services and outreach my office provides for our diverse Congressional District.” Chris, a graduate of Denver East High School, holds a B.A. in History/Political Science from Colorado College and a Master’s of Science in Environmental Policy from the University of Michigan. Terry Brown, the current Scheduler, and longtime aide in the Congresswoman’s District Office, has been promoted to Deputy District Director, while retaining her scheduling duties. Terry’s professionalism and experience will continue to be a valuable asset as she takes on her expanded position.
06.10.2008	WASHINGTON – Energy and Commerce Committee Vice Chair Diana DeGette (D-CO) today entered the following statement – as prepared for delivery – into the record at today’s Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Commerce, Trade, and Consumer Protection hearing entitled, “Safety of Phthalates and Bisphenol-A in Everyday Consumer Products.” DeGette is a member of the Conference Committee reconciling the House and Senate consumer product safety bills. Below is Congresswoman DeGette’s opening statement as prepared for delivery: “Thank you, Madame Chair, and thank you for holding this hearing on phthalates (pronounced THAL-ates) and bisphenol-A (pronounced bis-FEEN-ol-A) (BPA). Today’s discussion will help us take another step forward in improving the health of Americans, and particularly kids, across the country. “We started this journey last year, when I’m sure everyone remembers hearing about toy after toy contaminated with excessive lead. Parents were rightfully scared that toys, seemingly harmless play-things, could actually be deadly. “Parents should take heart, though, because Congress is taking action. The House and Senate passed bipartisan legislation to address this problem of dangerous toys and strengthen the relevant regulatory agency, the Consumer Product Safety Commission (CPSC). I’m pleased to be a member of the Conference Committee working out the differences between the two bills, and we hope to see a bill enacted into law quickly. “Unfortunately, our work is not done. Lead is not the only harmful substance found in consumer products, particularly dangerous to infants and children. Phthalates and BPA pose distinct health risks and ones which the Federal Government needs to address. “Phthalates constitute a variety of compounds and are used in a diverse range of products, from toys to cosmetics. They are most often used in plastics to keep them both sturdy and flexible. They are ubiquitous, so everyone is exposed, including children. “The concern is that some phthalates act as endocrine disruptors, interfering with normal development. For example, in numerous animal studies exposure to some phthalates in the womb has been found to affect the development and function of male reproductive organs. One of the developmental abnormalities found is a risk factor for testicular cancer. “There is also scary evidence from human studies. Some phthalates have been associated with premature female breast development, higher rates of pre-term birth, low male sperm count, and poor male sperm quality. One human study even showed a link between some phthalate metabolites and insulin resistance, a precursor to diabetes. “It’s clear that exposure to some phthalates for infants and young children is harmful and detrimental to their development. I’m proud to cosponsor legislation sponsored by Representative Hooley, H.R. 4030, to either ban or better regulate six dangerous phthalates. It mirrors steps taken already by the European Union (EU) and California. “BPA, the other topic for discussion today, is also used in plastics and as part of certain resins. Most relevant here, these plastics and resins appear in things like baby bottles, cans which have food or liquids, and food storage containers. “Is BPA leaching out of these items and into our bodies? The answer is yes. Of the people examined by the Centers for Disease Control (CDC), 92 percent had evidence of BPA in their urine. “Is this exposure harmful? While entities in Europe and Japan have found current expected exposure levels to BPA are safe, Canada recently came to the opposite conclusion. It has banned use in baby bottles and is working to otherwise reduce BPA exposure. “As for domestic agencies, the FDA concluded in November of last year that the current use of BPA was safe. Thanks to the ongoing investigation by the Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee into BPA and its uses, we have learned that it appears the two studies the FDA relied upon were industry-sponsored. That would make the FDA’s conclusion suspect. I know the Subcommittee has followed-up with the FDA to understand how it reached its conclusion, and we await the FDA’s substantive response. “Most significantly, the National Toxicology Program (NTP) at the National Institutes of Health (NIH) released a draft brief in April on BPA. Based on numerous and up-to-date scientific studies it found “some concern for neural and behavioral effects in fetuses, infants, and children at current human exposures [and] some concern for [BPA] exposure in these populations based on effects in the prostate gland, mammary gland, and an earlier age for puberty in females.” While its conclusions are based on animal studies, the NTP writes that “the possibility that [BPA] may alter human development cannot be dismissed.” “It’s our job in Government to protect the public health by removing from use even potentially dangerous products. The findings of the NTP should be a wake-up call. The possibility that BPA could be having such negative effects on the health of our children means we need to seriously consider taking some kind of action. I expect our witnesses today will help elucidate what actions we should take. “Protecting our kids’ health and safety is our most solemn responsibility, and if they are being exposed to dangerous compounds the Federal Government needs to get them out of the marketplace right away. We showed last year with respect to lead that Congress can act quickly, and I’m sure we will show the same alacrity with respect to phthalates and BPA.”
06.09.2008	Tomato Salmonella Outbreak Could Have Been Identified and Contained Earlier with Mandatory Recall and Traceability Systems WASHINGTON – With a rare strain of salmonella sickening 145 people in the United States since mid-April due to contaminated tomatoes, Energy and Commerce Committee Vice Chair Diana DeGette (D-CO) today called on the federal government to adopt and implement a common-sense mandatory recall and traceability system for food products. While responsible companies have pulled tomatoes from their stores, a full recall has still not been issued. “This situation is another chilling example of the flaws in our nation’s food safety system,” said DeGette. “The government must have the authority not only to issue a mandatory recall, but also trace food products throughout the supply chain. A mandatory recall system works hand-in-hand with a traceability network – first, the government could quickly identify where contamination is occurring and second, identify - from farm to fork - where the products have been shipped so we can pull them off store shelves. This targeted approach also would make recalls more efficient, as it protects the vast majority of businesses which produce and serve safe food.” Earlier this year, the Energy and Commerce Committee released a food safety discussion draft, the Food and Drug Administration Globalization Act of 2008, which includes DeGette’s mandatory recall authority. Since then, the Committee has held hearings on the discussion draft for input. Meanwhile, the Energy and Commerce Committee is poised to hold another hearing Thursday. “While I am grateful that this legislation contains mandatory recall authority, a traceability system would enable the recall authority to work more efficiently. If a mandatory recall and traceability system had been in place during this latest outbreak, we could have identified and contained it much more quickly.” DeGette has introduced two major pieces of food safety legislation, H.R. 3484 and 3485, that would give the federal government mandatory recall authority and direct the Secretary of Agriculture to establish a product traceability system. H.R. 3484 has been incorporated into the Energy and Commerce Committee’s food safety legislation.
06.04.2008	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (D-CO) has been appointed Vice Chair of the newly formed House LGBT Equality Caucus. The new bipartisan caucus represents different races, genders, sexual orientations, geographic regions, different generations, and parties, but shares a common mission: to promote lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender (LGBT) equality. “We now have both the opportunity and the responsibility to move towards legal equality for people who are lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender,” said DeGette. “This caucus will play a central role in helping shape the strategy in achieving equality for all. For too long, members of the LGBT community have been sidelined and their rights ignored, but the time for that to change has come. I look forward to working closely with my colleagues to continue to promote important legislation and initiatives guaranteeing the rights for all Americans.” The LGBT Equality Caucus is chaired by both Congressman Barney Frank (D-MA) and Congresswoman Tammy Baldwin (D-WI). “I’m honored to have Congresswoman DeGette as a vice-chair of the LGBT Equality Caucus. We’ve worked closely together on several important issues. She is not only a strong ally, but a supportive friend, whose expertise and influence in the House will be a great asset to our mission,” said Caucus Co-Chair, Rep. Tammy Baldwin (D-WI). The mission of the LGBT Equality Caucus is to achieve the extension of equal rights, the repeal of discriminatory laws, the elimination of hate-motivated violence, and the improved health and well being for all, regardless of sexual orientation or gender identity or expression. The Caucus will serve as a resource for Members of Congress, their staffs, and the public on LGBT issues. Congressional action this session on legislation combating hate crimes and employment discrimination based highlighted the need, and the desire people had, for more information on LGBT issues. The LGBT Equality Caucus is one result of those successful efforts. The Caucus will address not only U.S. domestic policies, but our nation’s foreign policy to safeguard the human rights of LGBT people in all parts of the world. Goal is Equality for Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender (LGBT) Americans
05.22.2008	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette, Vice Chair of the Committee on Energy and Commerce, today reacted to the news that the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) is temporarily extending the Moratoria on two of the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) rules, Public Provider and Graduate Medical Education (GME). Moratoria on these two rules will now be extended until August 1, 2008. “While this allows more time to resolve the impasse, we must still find a long-term solution,” DeGette said. “The seven draconian regulations proposed by the Administration will not only have a devastating effect on our entire country’s safety-net system, but also on the financial stability of the safety-net provider community in Colorado. Just these two regulations alone would have a drastic impact on Colorado at a loss of over $150 million in federal funds in 2008.” IMPACT OF ALL SEVEN REGULATIONS ON COLORADO Two Regulations with new August 1 Moratoria • Cost limits for public providers (CMS 2258-FC) Loss of federal funds in 2008: $142.2 million Over 5 years: $711 million • Payment for graduate medical education (CMS 2279-P) Loss of federal funds in 2008: $12 million Over 5 years: $60 million Other Regulations • Payment for outpatient hospital services (CMS 2213-P) Loss of federal funds in 2008: Not specified Over 5 years: Not specified • Provider taxes (CMS 2275-P) Loss of federal funds in 2008: None Over 5 years: None • Coverage of rehabilitative services (CMS 2261-P) Loss of federal funds in 2008: Not specified Over 5 years: Not specified • Payments for costs of school administrative and transportation services (CMS 2287-P) Loss of federal funds in 2008: $1.4 million Over 5 years: $7 million • Targeted case management (CMS-2237-IFC) Loss of federal funds in 2008: $1.8 million Over 5 years: $9.2 million “Denver Health, one of our nation’s premiere safety-net hospitals, takes an innovative approach to cutting costs and waste. We need to find a permanent solution to addressing abuse in the system without harming our entire health care safety-net system,” concluded DeGette. Below is the news from the Department of Health and Human Services: “Facing a looming adverse court decision and pending action by Congress to extend the moratorium, HHS Secretary Leavitt indicated yesterday that the Administration would "voluntarily refrain from making these rules [the public provider cost limit and graduate medical education (GME) rules] effective until August 1, 2008, more than 60 days after the moratorium expires.” Click here to read a Congressional Report on the impact of the seven regulations on the country, including Colorado. DeGette Cautions We Must Find Permanent Fix Without Harming Safety-Net System; Two Regs will Costs Colorado Over $150 Million
05.21.2008	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (D-CO), Vice Chair of the Energy and Commerce Committee, today reacted to a comprehensive report by the Energy and Commerce Committee on the Medicare Advantage (MA) program. The report, which was prepared by the Committee’s majority staff, analyzes the current regulatory framework and common marketing practices of MA plans. It also assesses recent proposals by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid (CMS) to curb the egregious and abusive marketing tactics. “The fraud and abuse within the Medicare Advantage plans is unacceptable,” said DeGette. “While the rule promulgated by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) attempts to address some of the marketing concerns within the program, it fails to address the underlying problems of overpayment associated with the Medicare Advantage plans. These plans fall short when it comes to protecting seniors’ health and access to quality health care. They also result in overpayments by taxpayers and cost more to administer than traditional Medicare.” Democratic Committee leaders requested the report following a Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations hearing, entitled, "Predatory Sales Practices in Medicare Advantage," held on June 26, 2007. The hearing examined the aggressive, and often fraudulent, sales practices that have emerged since the passage of the Medicare Modernization Act of 2003. The hearing exposed the abusive, high-pressure sales tactics, including unsolicited calling, cross-selling, and outright fraud, commonly used to sell MA plans to seniors. It also explored the broad array of concerns associated with the current design, oversight, and cost of the MA program. “The new Congress tried to address the abuse through the CHAMP Act, which would have corrected some of the imbalances by reducing overpayments to the Medicare Advantage program. We must continue strong oversight and implement needed reforms that protect our seniors in the program. This report concludes that CMS must place the protection of vulnerable beneficiaries ahead of the powerful insurance companies – and I cannot agree with that more.” On May 8, 2008, CMS released new regulations for MA plans. However, the staff report illustrates that the proposed rule changes will do little to address the underlying problems with MA plans and proposes recommendations to adequately protect patients and consumers. To view the full report, please click here. DeGette Comments on New Report that Concludes “Insurance Industry Abuses are Abound in Medicare Advantage”
05.21.2008	WASHINGTON – As gas prices continue to rise and the economy worsens, Chief Deputy Whip Diana DeGette helped put our nation on a path towards energy independence and provide needed tax relief to American families by supporting The Renewable Energy and Job Creation Act of 2008, which passed on a vote of 253 to 160. The Act provides $18 billion in tax incentives for investment in renewable energy, carbon capture and sequestration demonstration projects, energy efficiency and conservation and gives targeted tax relief to American families and businesses. "If Americans want lower gas prices and to reduce our reliance on foreign oil, we need to invest in clean renewable energy and fuels we can produce at home," said DeGette. "The Renewable Energy and Job Creation Act of 2008 renews vital tax incentives to encourage the use of solar, wind, and other renewable energy and fuels bolstering our energy production and saving over 100,000 renewable energy jobs." The legislation also extends the research and development tax credit to spur American innovation and business investment, and cuts taxes for millions of Americans, including teachers, college students and families in states with no income tax. "Our weak economy has left many families and businesses across Colorado struggling to make ends meet. Providing targeted tax cuts to small businesses and to those who need it most will create jobs and give some needed tax relief for hard working American families," concluded DeGette.
05.20.2008	DeGette-King Bipartisan Measure Could Lead to Improvements in Health During Early Stages of Development WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (D-CO), Vice Chair of the Committee on Energy and Commerce, today joined with U.S. Rep. Peter King (R-NY), to introduce the “National Pediatric Research Consortia Establishment Act of 2008.” This important bipartisan health care legislation will create a network of pediatric centers that will maximize the potential for prevention and intervention by providing enabling infrastructure to support basic and translational research. The bill will create up to 20 “hub-and-spoke” pediatric research consortia, modeled after the National Cancer Institute’s Comprehensive Cancer Centers, in which each lead institution will work with various satellite centers, allowing many more pediatric research institutions and children’s hospitals to benefit from cross-cutting pediatric research and expertise. “It is astonishing that only five percent of the National Institute of Health’s (NIH) budget is directed at pediatric-specific research at children’s hospitals – the best qualified place for such vital research – when children represent roughly one-quarter of the U.S. population,” said DeGette. “That fact, combined with the impact that prevention and quality health care during childhood can have on long-term health outcomes, further underscores the importance of our pediatric research consortia legislation. In order to best support the health of future generations, we need to truly understand disease pathways during childhood – and the National Pediatric Research Consortia Act will enable us to take a step closer to that goal.” “There is an increasing need for more research on pediatric illnesses as we seek to find ways to improve the lives of our children, both in their early years and through their adulthood,” said King. “This legislation will establish a coordinated federal effort in research so that we may better understand, treat, and prevent childhood disorders. The consortia will be invaluable in the fight to advance children’s health across the country and I am fully supportive of its formation.” The DeGette-King bipartisan legislation creating pediatric research centers will empower outstanding peer-reviewed researchers and research projects by developing interdisciplinary collaborations and multi-institutional networks with state-of-the-art technologies. This approach will lead to new understanding of the biological and genetic bases of major disorders that afflict children, and translate such understanding into prevention and intervention strategies and improved outcomes that have both immediate and lifelong impact. Its Senate companion bill was introduced in April by Senators Sherrod Brown (D-OH) and Christopher Bond (R-MS).
05.13.2008	WASHINGTON – As gas prices continue to soar, U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (D-CO), Vice Chair of the Committee on Energy and Commerce, will take action today by supporting legislation to suspend the filling of the Strategic Petroleum Reserve (SPR) through the end of the year. The House of Representatives will vote on this bipartisan legislation tonight under suspension of the rules. “Congress is taking immediate action to address the gas crisis in our country,” said DeGette. “Suspending shipments to the Strategic Petroleum Reserve will increase supply to the marketplace, bring down the price of oil, and provide relief for consumers at the gas pump. With our economy facing uncertain times, this is a critical first step in restoring consumer confidence. I encourage President George W. Bush to stand up for the American consumer by signing this legislation into law.” Temporary suspension of the SPR could reduce gas prices from 5 to 24 cents per gallon. The U.S. Senate approved this measure on an overwhelming bipartisan vote of 97 to 1 earlier today.
05.08.2008	WASHINGTON – As the first hearing on stem cell research in the House of Representatives since the enactment of the President’s restrictive 2001 policy commences, Energy and Commerce Committee Vice Chair Diana DeGette, chief architect of the Stem Cell Research Enhancement Act, unveiled a new legislative effort on stem cell research. Attending today today’s hearing was U.S. Rep. John D. Dingell (D-MI), Chairman of the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and U.S. Rep. Michael Castle (R-DE), the cosponsor of DeGette’s new stem cell legislation. “Rep. DeGette’s leadership on stem cell research has won her the respect of colleagues on both sides of the aisle,” said U.S. Rep. John D. Dingell, Chairman of the Committee on Energy and Commerce. “I commend her dedication and commitment to this issue and I look forward to working together to protect and improve the health of millions of Americans.” “Over the last few years, we have seen breakthroughs that couldn’t have been predicted ranging from insulin producing islet cells created from embryonic stem cells to primate embryonic stem cells generated through somatic cell nuclear transfer (SCNT),” said U.S. Rep. DeGette. “In light of all the research coming down the pipeline, I am developing new legislation with Mr. Castle that will lift the ban on federal funding for research on embryonic stem cell lines developed after August 2001, direct the National Institutes of Health (NIH) to construct a framework for ethical oversight of all cell-based research, and ban certain unethical activities in cell research. In order for the United States to retain it cutting-edge scientific status, we must make a national commitment to a robust research program.” “I have been deeply involved in working to expand the federal policy on stem cell research over the last several years with my good friend Diana DeGette, and I am encouraged to see the House Energy and Commerce Committee hold the first House hearing on stem cell research and the foundation for future cures. Today we heard from leading scientists about the great advances in stem cell technology since it was last debated in Congress," said U.S. Rep. Castle. “I cannot stress enough the promise of stem cell research for alleviating the suffering of the 100 million American patients who are living with devastating diseases for which there are no good treatments or cures. I am hopeful that federal support for all forms of stem cell research will move forward with a new president. Stem cell research has been quieted since the President's Directive in 2001 and I look forward to working with Rep. DeGette on legislation to promote a federal framework at the National Institutes of Health for all forms of ethical science that could advance human health, and to laying the groundwork for a more comprehensive national stem cell research effort." “As a mother of a diabetic child, I don’t care where a cure comes from – adult or embryonic or induced pluripotent stem cells – as long as a cure is developed. The difference between embryonic and adult stem cell research is like the difference between the forest and the trees. Adult stem cell research is teaching us much about a few trees, but the potential that lies within embryonic stem cell research might allow us to see the whole forest of earth shattering medical advancement,” concluded DeGette.
05.08.2008	WASHINGTON – Energy and Commerce Committee Vice Chair Diana DeGette (D-CO), the chief architect of the Stem Cell Research Enhancement Act, today unveiled her new legislative strategy aimed at reversing President George W. Bush’s 2001 restrictive stem cell research policy. Despite two Presidential vetoes, DeGette highlighted the need to pursue embryonic stem cell research under a strict ethical framework in the United States during the Energy and Commerce Health Subcommittee’s first hearing on stem cell research entitled, “Stem Cell Science: The Foundation for Future Cures.” This is the first hearing on stem cell research in the House of Representatives since the enactment of the President’s 2001 restrictive policy. Below is Ms. DeGette’s opening statement as prepared for delivery: “Mr. Chairman, I want to thank you for holding today’s hearing on the future of stem cell research. Over the past year there have been many important developments in the field of cell-based scientific research. We saw breakthroughs and accomplishments that couldn’t have been predicted even months before they happened—insulin producing islet cells created from embryonic stem cells, induced pluripotent stem cells (IPS) developed from adult skin cells, and monkey embryonic stem cells generated through somatic cell nuclear transfer (SCNT). All of which proves that one can rarely predict the outcomes of scientific research and underscores why it is crucial to make the investment in all ethical forms of research to begin with. This is what we are going to explore during this hearing: where we are now and we are going with stem cell research. “Every time there has been a new discovery in some type of research besides embryonic stem cells, the Bush Administration says that that it is a substitute for embryonic stem cell research. Yet, in actuality the numerous types of cell-based research are all complementary—they aide future developments or provide the background necessary for some yet-to-be-discovered breakthrough. It simply does not make sense to remove one avenue of research from the equation—we should continue pursuing all forms of ethical research and see where the science takes us. “It is important that we still pursue embryonic stem cell research, for example, since it remains the most promising avenue of research for certain debilitating diseases like diabetes, Parkinson’s and Multiple Sclerosis. However, there is still plenty to learn about both embryonic and induced pluripotent stem cells. Embryonic stem cells, as the vast majority of scientists agree, are currently the gold-standard for stem-cell research, and are the basis upon which to measure the success of IPS cells. The goal of IPS cell research is to make them mimic embryonic stem cells. But, how are we ever going to know whether the IPS cells are acting like embryonic stem cells if we haven’t done enough research on embryonic cells to even know what we are looking for? “None of the recent progress in the adult stem cell field would have even been possible without the original embryonic stem cell research. Looking forward, we simply do not know where the advances will come from for each of the many diseases that we need to address—we do not know which will come from embryonic stem cell research and which will come from IPS research. We need to support both embryonic stem cell research and IPS research and let the science decide which is more promising over the long-run. “We do not yet fully know what the recent IPS stem cell breakthrough means in terms of application. It seems as though it will likely prove to be a significant scientific advance. However, we do not yet know whether it will prove to be a significant medical advance. For example, IPS cells currently remain far too dangerous for actual treatment, and we do not know whether they will ever be safe for humans. Cutting-off funding for other promising avenues of research in the meantime, would be about the most short-sighted things we can do. When we develop new tools, we don’t throw out the old ones that still serve a valuable and unique purpose. Why should it be any different when it comes to medical research? “Although we are making great progress in the field of stem cell research, it has not progressed as far as it might have had the Administration instituted a cohesive federal policy for ethical oversight of stem cell research, rather than simply banning the use of federal funding for research on embryonic stem cell lines developed after August 9, 2001. Progress has been even further hindered because of inadequate resources for all research at NIH. “With all the new research coming down the pipeline, much of which we have yet to even imagine, it is clear to me that we need a comprehensive, ethical oversight framework for all cell-based research, as well as a national commitment to a robust research program in the United States. “So, in light of these issues, I have been working to develop new stem cell legislation with my dear friend Mr. Castle, who was kind enough to join us here today. We know that NIH is best-suited to overseeing and coordinating all forms of ethical stem cell research. It is best positioned to ensure that all research meets high ethical standards, as it has long experience overseeing cutting edge research and establishing regulations that ensure the research is done ethically. So, the new legislation will: • Construct a framework for ethical oversight of all cell-based research, with NIH as a key player • Ban certain unethical activities • Lift the ban on federal funding for research on embryonic stem cell lines developed after August, 2001. “Input from the experts in the fields is key to crafting quality legislation, which is also part of the reason we are holding this hearing. I look forward to a vigorous discussion here today with our witnesses about where the science is currently, where the science is likely to go in the future, and what we, as federal lawmakers, should do in order to best support and promote all the promising new research that our scientists are working on. “Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I yield back the balance of my time.” DeGette Unveils New Legislative Effort on Stem Cell Research; Directs NIH to Establish Federal Ethical Oversight Framework
05.07.2008	WASHINGTON – As home foreclosure rates increase across the nation and American working families continue to suffer under a poor economy and high gas prices, Chief Deputy Whip Diana DeGette (D-CO) joined her colleagues in the House to pass the American Housing Rescue and Foreclosure Prevention Act of 2008 and the Neighborhood Stabilization Act of 2008. These measures are the most comprehensive pieces of legislation to date providing immediate relief to Americans struggling to hang on to their most prized asset – their homes - and to assist communities with the increasing number of foreclosed homes in their neighborhoods. "Our nation and Colorado are in a housing and credit crisis. What we need is real help for struggling American families. Colorado already has 32,000 homes in foreclosure and approximately 50,000 more are expected in the next two years. Today, I supported bold comprehensive steps to help end this crisis and provide government mortgage refinancing assistance to help keep families in their homes and protect home values," said DeGette. The American Housing Rescue and Foreclosure Prevention Act of 2008 will provide mortgage refinancing assistance and expand programs run by the Federal Housing Administration (FHA) that will allow borrowers in danger of losing their home to refinance into lower-cost government-insured mortgages they can afford to repay. "I also supported legislation that will provide $15 billion in loans and grants to states to allow local communities to rehabilitate foreclosed properties, which currently drive down surrounding home properties, and place these homes back on the market. These comprehensive measures will keep more families in their homes, provide relief to local communities to address foreclosed properties, and help put our nation on a path to ending the home foreclosure crisis." House Passes Comprehensive Mortgage Finance Relief and Assistance to Rehabilitate Foreclosed Properties
05.05.2008	WASHINGTON – Energy and Commerce Committee Vice Chair Diana DeGette (D-CO), the chief architect of the Stem Cell Research Enhancement Act, today applauded the Energy and Commerce Health Subcommittee for scheduling the first-ever Congressional hearing in the House of Representatives on stem cell research. The hearing entitled, “Stem Cell Science: The Foundation for Future Cures,” will be held on Thursday, May 8th. “I am extremely pleased that my Committee is holding the first-ever Congressional hearing in the House on stem cell research,” said DeGette. “There have been tremendous scientific advances since the last Congress debated the state of stem cell research. I look forward to discussing with our witnesses now where we should go next with this potentially life-saving research. This hearing will help to lay the ground work going forward.” DeGette’s stem cell bill, vetoed twice by President George W. Bush, achieved broad, bipartisan support in both the House and Senate during the 109th and 110th Congresses. It was President Bush’s very first Presidential veto in 2006. Click here to view the advisory from the Subcommittee on Health.
05.01.2008	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (D-CO), Vice Chair of the Committee on Energy and Commerce, today offered the following opening statement during the Energy and Commerce Health Subcommittee hearing, Discussion Draft of the “Food and Drug Administration Globalization Act’ Legislation: Drug Safety Provisions.” Last month, the Committee released its discussion draft on the Food and Drug Administration Globalization Act of 2008. The discussion draft includes a mandatory recall provision built upon legislation introduced by DeGette, H.R. 3484, the SAFER Act. Below is Ms. DeGette’s opening statement as prepared for delivery – entered into the record: “Mr. Chairman, let me first thank you for holding today’s hearing on the drug safety provisions included in the Food and Drug Administration Globalization Act discussion draft. It is high time we are moving forward with new legislation to protect the millions of individuals that take pharmaceutical products. “Late last year the Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee, on which I also sit, held a hearing that looked at the foreign drug inspection program. I remember being stuck by the complete dearth of resources that the FDA has to put towards foreign drug inspections, as well as inherent differences between the inspection process for foreign and domestic facilities. For example, I was shocked to learn that for each overseas facility that exports drugs to the United States, FDA is able to complete an inspection only once every 8 to 12 years. Yet, Good Manufacturing Practices govern that on-site inspections should occur every two years. FDA must inspect domestic facilities every two years—why should the standard be so much lower for foreign drugs than domestic drugs when they are consumed by the same population? “I am glad that we are taking the first steps towards remedying the current situation and that we are developing legislation that will protect the safety of our pharmaceutical supply. The bill that we are discussing today will require that foreign drug and device facilities be inspected every two years—finally on par with the requirements for domestic facilities. This requirement is long overdue and I commend my colleagues on including this provision in the FDA Globalization Act. However, I would like to reiterate that we will need to make sure to provide adequate resources to enable FDA to complete timely and thorough inspections of foreign facilities. “The FDA currently has authority to refuse admission of products that appear to violate the Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act. However, it is my understanding that FDA does not currently have the authority to destroy these shipments, and instead must simply send them back to wherever they came from. This is worrisome in regards to tainted products, but even more worrisome in regards to counterfeit products, as we have no guarantee that the manufacturer won’t simply try masquerading them a second time. “Accordingly, I am extremely pleased that the legislation we are looking at today takes a first step at remedying this potentially disastrous situation, as it grants the Secretary the authority to destroy any product that appears to pose a risk of injury or death or had a value of less than $2,000. “I think this is a very strong step towards protecting our citizens from counterfeit and adulterated drugs. I do however want to make sure that there will be sufficient technology and resources available to the Secretary and border officials, that they are able to adequately determine whether the drug in question poses a risk of injury or death. I also want to make sure that any provisions included in the final legislation are strong enough to ensure the safety of high-risk and high-cost drugs that are most likely to be counterfeited. The current system of returning adulterated pharmaceuticals that are refused entry simply does not ensure continued safety of our drug supply. It is vital that we put additional protections into place, such as the authority to destroy adulterated pharmaceuticals. “The current discussion draft also includes a number of other important provisions, such as improved testing and verification requirements for drug purity and identity, as well as civil monetary penalties for violators. I look forward to hearing from today’s panelists about their perspectives on this draft of the ‘FDA Globalization Act.’ “Thank you.”
04.24.2008	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (D-CO), Vice Chair of the Committee on Energy and Commerce, today highlighted the importance of giving the government mandatory recall authority during today’s Energy and Commerce Health Subcommittee hearing entitled, Discussion Draft of the ‘Food and Drug Administration Globalization Act’ Legislation: Food Provisions. Last week, the Committee released its discussion draft on the Food and Drug Administration Globalization Act of 2008. The discussion draft includes a mandatory recall provision built upon legislation introduced by DeGette, H.R. 3484, the SAFER Act. Click here to watch Ms. DeGette deliver her opening remarks Below is the text of Ms. DeGette’s opening remarks as prepared for delivery: “I want to commend you Chairman Pallone, and Chairman Dingell, as well as Chairman Stupak and Ranking Member Barton, on how the Committee has conducted itself in regards to food safety over the last year. “This is a really complex issue and one that demands a thoughtful and reasoned response and that is why we have had the number of hearings we have had in the Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee. Now, we have the draft legislation and the hearing today. I think it’s wonderful the process we are using. “I also want to thank Chairman Dingell and his staff for incorporating the provisions of my legislation granting the FDA mandatory recall authority in case of an outbreak. I often talk to my constituents about the fact that when there are tainted foods on the shelves, the FDA has absolutely no authority to order a mandatory recall. I think that a mandatory recall can give us two good results: “First, if you have a recalcitrant producer who will not voluntarily recall products, then you can mandatorily recall it. But, in addition, the threat of a potential mandatory recall actually will put pressure on food manufacturers and distributors to make the food safe in the first place. In truth, while mandatory recall is important, we want to ensure the safety of our food before it is recalled. I think this is an important provision of this bill. It was an edgy leap to put it in this bill, but I think it is important that it be part of any strong food safety legislation. “I would also like to discuss, which is not in the draft legislation, but I think also would be effective, is legislation I have introduced, H.R. 3485, the TRACE Act – which sets up a food traceability system. We all remember the outbreak of E. Coli in spinach a couple of years ago. While there was a voluntary recall, it took weeks and weeks to discover the source of the problem. In the meantime, spinach producers all around the country with perfectly fine facilities and good produce, lost tremendous profits. What we learned in our hearings in the Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee is that we have the ability to trace food. In fact, some of the organic food producers and other small family producers do have traceability systems. If consumers could walk into a store and see a lot number, we could trace that food back to the source, we would have the ability then ensure the safety of our food products – we can find where the problem was, identify it, and then order the recall right away. “I am hoping to work with you, Mr. Chairman, and the rest of the Committee, to include the provisions of that legislation as well in any final bill we introduce. Thank you very much.” Recall System Stronger When Complemented by Traceability System
04.23.2008	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (D-CO), Vice Chair of the Committee on Energy and Commerce, today praised the passage of key health care bills during today’s Energy and Commerce Health Subcommittee mark-up session. One particular bill, H.R.1343, theHealth Centers Renewal Act of 2007, included H.R. 870, a measure championed by Ms. DeGette and the late Rep. Paul Gillmor (R-OH) that provides liability protections for employees and contractors who provide services in designated emergency areas. “This DeGette/Gillmor provision is a great public health initiative – it will help coordinate and facilitate rapid and efficient action of emergency health services by out-of-area practitioners when a public health emergency or natural disaster occurs,” said DeGette. “While I am grateful this important provision is moving forward, I am also saddened that my friend Mr. Gillmor is not here today to witness it.” The DeGette/Gillmor provision is intended to address concerns that arose in the wake of Hurricanes Katrina and Rita, in which gaps in health care services occurred because licensed, but out-of-area, health care professionals were not afforded the same federal liability protections for their services as local community health center workers. “The Community Health Centers Renewal Act is a much needed bill that supports a vital component of our health care safety-net in this country. Community health centers provide comprehensive care to the low-income uninsured, and are the most efficient and cost-effective models of health care,” concluded DeGette.
04.23.2008	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (D-CO), Vice Chair of the Committee on Energy and Commerce, today praised the passage of H.R. 5613, the Protecting the Medicaid Safety Net Act of 2008, on a strong, bipartisan vote of 349 to 62. DeGette supported today’s measure saying “it is a win for America’s public hospitals and those desperately in need of health care.” “The Bush Administration’s draconian changes proposed to the Medicaid system threaten the viability of our nation’s safety-net hospitals. Institutions across the country, including those in Colorado, face the real possibility of closing their doors to people in need. The House took aggressive action today by passing strong, bipartisan legislation that will stand up to President Bush’s veto threat. “The President used a meat cleaver in making ill-conceived cuts to the Medicaid program, when he should have used a scalpel if he felt changes were needed. Cutting-edge public hospitals, like Denver Health in my district, are employing innovative, cost-effective ways to provide quality health care. I look forward to working with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle in assuring the continued viability of Medicaid.” The measure was passed under suspension of the rules requiring a 2/3 vote approval for passage – the necessary number for a veto proof majority. The measure now moves to the U.S. Senate for its consideration. Vice Chair DeGette Says “It’s a Win for America’s Public Hospitals and Those Desperately in Need of Health Care”
04.22.2008	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (D-CO), Vice Chair of the Committee on Energy and Commerce, offered the following statement on the Families USA report entitled, “Bad Medicine: The President’s Medicaid Regulations Will Weaken Colorado’s Economy.” “The Bush Administration’s ill-conceived alterations of the Medicaid system will have a drastic affect on Colorado’s entire safety-net," said U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette, Vice Chair of the Committee on Energy and Commerce, which has jurisdiction over health care policy. "The Families USA report offers another chilling perspective that these regulations would severely harm our state. With our economy stumbling and health care costs rising, we cannot afford another blow to our local economy as hospitals face the real threat of closing their doors. “Congress is working aggressively to halt the implementation of these draconian regulations. It is a top priority to pass bipartisan legislation, placing a temporary, one-year moratorium on the rules, expected in the House soon.”
04.21.2008	WASHINGTON – In recognition of Earth Day tomorrow, U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (D-CO), Vice Chair of the Committee on Energy and Commerce, released the following on the state of our environment and our stewardship of Planet Earth: "In the 38 years since Earth Day was founded, the need to protect our planet has never been more widely recognized. While we have made great strides in cleaning our air, water, and creating more livable communities, much work still needs to be done. Our planet still faces increased challenges through global climate change, the loss of important wildlife habitat, and increased threats to our wilderness areas from runaway natural gas drilling in the West. "The U.S. Congress has sounded the alarm and passed legislation to invest in renewable energy and efficiency programs, and raise the vehicle fuel efficiency standards to 35 mpg, as well as conducted important hearings on climate change. I have also introduced the Colorado Wilderness Act that aims to balance energy development with protecting Colorado’s wild areas. Together we can honor and celebrate Earth Day as we work to create a clean energy economy that can be sustained by our fragile planet."
04.17.2008	Mandatory Recall Provision will Ensure Quick Removal of Tainted Foods WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (D-CO), Vice Chair of the Committee on Energy and Commerce, today hailed the Food and Drug Administration Globalization Act of 2008 released by the committee. The discussion draft includes a mandatory recall provision built upon legislation introduced by DeGette, H.R. 3484, the SAFER Act. “Congress is taking the necessary action to restore public confidence in our nation’s food safety system. With a record number of food recalls over the last year, we must ensure the safety of our food products by giving government the tools to strengthen the system. While tainted foods have been recalled voluntarily, many should have happened quicker to avoid further distribution of the contaminated product and sickness. Giving the government mandatory recall authority is imperative to ensure quick removal of contaminated products from our grocery stores before they reach our dinner tables. “The Food and Drug Administration Globalization Act of 2008 is ground-breaking food safety legislation and is the first step in strengthening our food safety system. I am pleased that it includes a mandatory recall provision that will allow the government to take swift action to ensure the safety of our food. I look forward to working with the committee on moving this legislation forward.” DeGette has also introduced H.R. 3485, the TRACE Act, which requires the Secretary of Agriculture to establish a product tracing system for all food products from their origin to the market, enabling faster and more complete recall in the event of contamination. Click here to read the Energy and Commerce Committee memo on the legislation.
04.09.2008	WASHINGTON – With the health of our safety-net in jeopardy, Energy and Commerce Committee Vice Chair Diana DeGette (D-CO) today highlighted the need to halt the Bush Administration’s draconian Medicaid regulations. During the Energy and Commerce Health Subcommittee mark-up of the Protecting the Medicaid Safety Net Act of 2008, [H.R. 5613], DeGette supported legislation that places a temporary one-year moratorium on seven Administration-imposed Medicaid regulations that would make significant cuts to the program over the next five years. These regulations would have a have a crippling affect on our health care safety-net. Below is the text of DeGette’s opening statement as prepared for delivery: “I can’t tell you enough how my providers in Colorado thank you [Health Subcommittee Chairman Pallone] and Mr. Dingell, and also the minority, for working together on this important piece of legislation. I’ve said from day one that these Medicaid rule changes are really a meat axe approach to solving perceived problems rather than a scalpel approach. That’s because, it seems to me that the Administration decided they needed to have some savings to Medicaid so they just changed the rules rather than letting a reflective, comprehensive process take effect. “The regulations we are talking about today will be potentially devastating in many ways as we heard in the hearing last week. They are going to: limit target case management services to vulnerable populations, such as pregnant women and disabled children; restrict school-based rehabilitation, transportation, and administrative services for low-income children; limit important outpatient services, such as dental and vision care, which help to keep children out of emergency rooms; and limit public hospitals’ ability to draw down federal matching funding, and thereby threatening the viability of the entire safety net. “I want to talk for just a moment about this last regulation, which limits states’ ability to use intergovernmental transfers as a means to pay for their share of Medicaid expenditures. Historically, there have been some abuses of this financing mechanism, in which states used intergovernmental transfers to draw down a greater share of federal matching funds than they should have. However, as we heard from James Cosgrove of Government Accountability Office (GAO) during last week, the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) has already fixed these problems and as a result, 29 states have ended one or more inappropriate financing agreements. “Since these abuses have already been identified and resolved, the burden of the new public provider rule will fall on states that are not doing anything wrong. “Like my state which has to find legitimate, but creative ways of funding their safety net hospitals – nobody is saying all states are abusing this mechanism. My state of Colorado will lose upwards of $145 million. Nationwide hospitals will lose billions of dollars. There are over 2,000 governmental hospitals nationwide, and although not all of these hospitals are necessarily impacted (or impacted in the same way). States like California, New York, and Florida, will be impacted, as well as others simply because of the way they finance their hospitals, not because they are doing anything wrong. “This is the number one issue for Denver Health, which is my primary safety-net provider and is one of the most recognized innovators in cost savings and efficiency in the whole country. So needless to say, we’ve all been apoplectic about these rules changes and we think this bill goes a long way and I also think some of the changes the minority worked with on the manager’s amendment – particularly increased funding to weed out waste, fraud and abuse – are really helpful to the bill. “I was heartened to hear Ranking Member Barton say he believed that with the manager’s amendment changes, the bill would be signed into law by the President. This is something that is desperately needed all over the country.”
04.08.2008	WASHINGTON – As 47 million Americans go without quality health care, Energy and Commerce Committee Vice Chair Diana DeGette (D-CO) today released the following statement in observance of National Public Health Week, which runs April 7th through the 13th: “As millions of Americans struggle everyday without access to quality health care, we pause this week to recognize the value of quality health care programs. Initiatives, ranging from effective childhood vaccination, to early screening for diseases, to ensuring Americans have access to critical treatment, all contribute to a healthy society. “Access to quality health care should be a basic right for all Americans, from the very young to our seniors. Investing in preventive care isn’t merely the right thing to do, it also makes financial sense. Emergency room care will only increase the strain on our broken health care system. National Public Health Week should serve as a reminder for all of us to redouble our efforts to fix our nation’s health care system.”
04.08.2008	DeGette Reaffirms Commitment to Ending War in Iraq WASHINGTON – With the Iraq war in its sixth year, Chief Deputy Whip Diana DeGette (D-CO) today released the following statement on General David Petraeus and Ambassador Ryan Crocker testimony before Congress. Petraeus and Crocker will testify before the House of Representatives tomorrow. “The recent flare-up in violence in Iraq is further evidence that President Bush’s ‘surge’ has failed. The Iraqi government has not taken the necessary steps toward political reconciliation that will help secure their own country. Now, General Petraeus and Ambassador Crocker ask for more money, more troops, and more time. Their ‘no-end-in-sight’ strategy is unacceptable. “The Bush Administration’s war in Iraq has not only failed, but is fatally misguided. With over 4,000 U.S. casualties and tens of thousands injured, the Bush Administration’s war has cost us billions of dollars, pushing our nation deeper into debt, and hurt our fragile economy. “I voted against giving the President his original authorization to go to war in 2002. I have consistently opposed this war. And, I will continue to uphold my commitment opposing any legislation that does not contain firm withdrawal timelines and political benchmarks. It is time to bring a responsible end to this irresponsible war.”
04.07.2008	Advocates for Health and Food Safety with Millions of Consumer Members Back DeGette’s Approach WASHINGTON – Energy and Commerce Committee Vice Chair Diana DeGette (D-CO) welcomed the support of her food safety legislation, the SAFER and TRACE Acts [H.R. 3484 and 3485], by two well-respected, independent consumer groups. The non-profit Center for Science in the Public Interest (CSPI) and the Consumer Federation of America (CFA) laud DeGette’s approach to food safety. “The safety of our food supply is as important to our national security as securing our borders,” said DeGette. “I am proud that both the Center for Science in the Public Interest and the Consumer Federation of America recognize that giving the government mandatory recall and trace-back authority is not only good public policy, but boosts consumer confidence as well. The record amount of tainted products that have entered our food supply over the last year highlights the urgent need for a comprehensive food safety bill in Congress.” CSPI’s letter of support states that DeGette’s legislation “puts teeth into a recall order by providing the authority to assess civil penalties for failure to comply...” It goes on to say that “[r]ecordkeeping required by H.R. 3485 is the key to assuring the FDA has [the ability to] quickly identify the source, inform companies along the supply chain, and alert consumers.” CFA support letter says that DeGette’s recall legislation “would provide the agency with necessary leverage during a recall” and her trace-back legislation is an “important element of a functional recall system that can help protect consumers.” # # # CSPI Letter( 04/06/08 03:37 PM PST ) CSPI endorsement letter of DeGette's food safety legislation CFA Letter( 04/06/08 03:37 PM PST ) CFA endorsement letter of DeGette's food safety legislation
04.02.2008	DeGette Raises Concerns over Tobacco Age, Gets Study Written in Bill to Better Inform Congress of Public Health Implications of Legal Age WASHINGTON – Energy and Commerce Committee Vice Chair Diana DeGette (D-CO) highlighted the urgent need to pass the Family Smoking Prevention and Tobacco Control Act [H.R. 1108] that regulates tobacco during today’s full Committee on Energy and Commerce mark-up of the bill. DeGette inserted a provision into the legislation that calls for a study that will better inform Congress about public health implications of the tobacco purchase age. "This legislation serves a vital public health interest by regulating one of the deadliest products sold legally. But one concern is that it ties the hands of the Secretary of Health and Human Services from increasing the tobacco purchase age, even if scientific evidence demonstrates the public health benefits of raising the age," said DeGette. "Given what we already know, and what we are still learning about the vulnerability of young people to tobacco addiction, locking in the tobacco purchase age is unwise." Emerging research suggests that younger individuals may be more biologically vulnerable to tobacco addiction. Most smokers begin smoking when they are young. Among current smokers, one in four became a daily smoker at the age of 18, 19, or 20. Moreover, thirty percent of 18-year-olds, who are legally permitted to buy tobacco under the current federal minimum age, are still in high school." The motive for locking in the legal tobacco age at 18 can be further evidenced by what a Philip Morris tobacco strategist wrote in 1986: …raising the legal minimum age for cigarette purchaser to 21 could gut our key young adult market (17-20) where we sell about 25 billion cigarettes and enjoy a 70 percent market share. "We must put public health above the interest of the bottom-line. Therefore, I am delighted to have worked with the Committee on an additional provision included in the bill – requiring a study to keep Congress better informed about the public health implications of the tobacco purchase age. This will be key to addressing the implications of the legal tobacco age and developing sound public policy." Changes in the alcohol purchase age provide a parallel. The federal government acted on evidence that states with a minimum age of 21 to purchase alcohol achieved significantly lower rates of alcohol-related injuries than states with a lower drinking age. Because of evidence-based federal action, all of the states had raised their legal drinking age to 21. According to the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, this policy prevents more than a thousand deaths annually. Under this bill, states can still choose to raise the age to purchase tobacco. If this proves to reduce smoking in teenagers, Congress may want to revisit this issue in the future.
03.25.2008	WASHINGTON – With health insurance premiums and health care costs on the rise, Energy and Commerce Committee Vice Chair Diana DeGette (D-CO) today released the following statement regarding a new report by Families USA highlighting the importance of health care: “Access to quality health care should be a basic right for everyone,” said U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (D-CO), Vice Chair of the Committee on Energy and Commerce that has jurisdiction over health care policy. “The report by Families USA illustrates the importance of investing in preventative health care. Not only is it our moral obligation to provide care, but preventative care is more cost-effective. Without it, our emergency rooms would be overflowing with patients seeking basic health care, thereby resulting in increased costs for our already strained health care system.” Click here to read the Families USA press release. DeGette Comments on New Report Highlighting Importance of Health Care
03.24.2008	WASHINGTON – Chief Deputy Whip Diana DeGette (D-CO) today offered the following statement in response to news that the number of U.S. casualties in Iraq has reached 4,000: “As we mourn the thousands of U.S. servicemen and women who have lost their lives serving our country as well as those who have been injured, we also honor their sacrifice. The tragedy of this war is growing – the burden on the families of those who have fallen, the strain on our military forces, and the pain we all feel waiting for our troops to come home. “President George W. Bush’s failed war in Iraq has put our national security at risk, jeopardized our economy, and damaged our reputation around the world. We must reject the President’s misguided plan to continue this war – I am committed to ending it quickly and bringing our troops home safely.”
03.19.2008	DeGette Continues to Oppose Iraq War As We Mark its Fifth Year WASHINGTON – With today marking the fifth year of the war in Iraq, Chief Deputy Whip Diana DeGette (D-CO) offered the following statement: "Over the course of five years, we have spent billions of dollars, endured the loss of countless lives, and put our national security at risk. The Bush Administration’s War in Iraq has failed and Congress must not continue to support this misadventure. "I opposed giving President Bush authorization to go to war in 2002, and I remain committed to ending this failed war and bringing our troops home quickly and safely. I will continue to oppose any measure that does not include withdrawal timelines and political benchmarks to bring a responsible end to this irresponsible war."
03.13.2008	WASHINGTON – Chief Deputy Whip Diana DeGette (D-CO) today released the following statement regarding the Department of Interior’s Roan Plateau decision: “I strongly oppose the decision by the Department of Interior to move forward with their plan of drilling the top of the Roan Plateau. The Roan Plateau represents the best of Colorado – it is a prominent site with unique wildlife, recreation, and wilderness resources. “The imminent drilling of the Roan Plateau should sound the alarm for all Coloradoans who care about our few remaining special and wild places. The Bush Administration has been solely focused on drilling while refusing to protect wilderness areas on our public land. “The Colorado Wilderness Act, which I reintroduced last year, would not only protect the Roan Plateau, but would also provide federal protection for over 60 separate wild places throughout Colorado safeguarding them from oil and gas development. It is possible to cherish and protect these special places while spurring economic development.”
03.12.2008	WASHINGTON – Energy and Commerce Committee Vice Chair Diana DeGette (D-CO) released the following statement today criticizing the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) for failing to adequately lower the nations ozone air quality standard to protect human health and the environment. "Once again the Bush Administration has chosen polluters over people and the environment in minimally lowering the ozone air quality standard. In a disturbing continual pattern, the Bush Administration chose to listen to a litany of interest groups and polluters rather than EPA scientists and public health groups who argued for even more stringent standards. Even experts at the EPA believed that the standards should be lower." "In Colorado, we have all seen the summer ozone haze which brings increased health and air quality alerts and diminishes our mountain views. As Vice Chair of the Energy and Commerce Committee, I will not let this Administration continue to make the false choice of favoring pollution over public health and Colorado’s blue skies. I will work aggressively with my colleagues in Congress to ensure that our nation and Colorado has the strongest air quality standards that will protect our public health and improve the quality of life of all Americans."
03.12.2008	WASHINGTON – As questions remain about the safety of our food supply, Energy and Commerce Committee Vice Chair Diana DeGette (D-CO) submitted the following opening statement into the record at today’s Energy and Commerce Oversight and Investigations subcommittee hearing entitled, ““Regulatory Failure: Must America Live with Unsafe Food?” Below are Ms. DeGette’s opening remarks submitted into the record: “I want to applaud you, Mr. Chairman, for holding this hearing today, and for the comprehensive investigation into food safety throughout your tenure as Chair of this subcommittee. Nothing is more important than the safety of our food. “Today we continue our efforts to see what the private sector can do to help ensure that the food we put on our tables each day is as safe as it can possibly be. I think we all understand that restoring the confidence of the American consumer is simply not something the government can do alone. “Two weeks ago we heard from the CEOs of some of the largest food processors in the country, some of whom were involved in outbreaks of foodborne illnesses. “Many of us were dismayed that these CEOs, as they often do, came before us and simply apologized for the outbreaks. But our intent on this committee is not to receive apologies but to find out exactly what happened, why it happened, and what is being done to make sure it doesn’t happen again. “Several witnesses updated us on their plans to improve their internal processes for this or that product. But that’s not good enough. Some of these companies have cleaned up the mess and implemented best practices following a recall, only to have yet another outbreak in a completely different product line a few months later. And then another, and then another. “Ladies and gentlemen what we need on food safety is dramatic overhaul, not tinkering around the edges, in both the public and private sector. “But while the testimony of these CEOs was far from adequate, I do want to applaud them for testifying in the first place. Our witness today has not been as cooperative. “One of the fundamental roles of Congress is to conduct oversight. That oversight hinges on the ability to gather information on behalf of the American people, shine light on problems, and if necessary develop policy-based solutions. “But, we cannot perform this function when information is being withheld. Mr. Mendell, you were contacted by this committee on numerous occasions to request that you appear before us. “Just last month, your company was involved in the biggest meat recall in the history of this nation, after shocking undercover video footage at your plant was released. “Your company acted responsibly and ordered a recall, but that is not the end of the story. The American people have the right to know what happened. “As you know, this committee has been looking into cracks in the food safety system for quite some time now. I would think that the biggest recall in history is something that we should investigate further. “But when this committee tried to invite you to testify, we did not hear back. In fact after 15 phone calls, we did not get a response from you, your counsel, or your company. “We were forced to issue a subpoena to compel your testimony this morning. I hope you will be more cooperative with us today so we can get to the bottom of this. “One of the things I hope you are forthcoming about is your company’s system of tracing the meat products you sold. We have all heard the media reports that some of the recalled meat was sent to schools around the country, including to Jefferson County Schools near my district in Colorado. There are also reports that meat was sent to large wholesalers and retailers, who presumably distribute across the country. “The fact is, we can never really know where all of the meat was sent because there is no effective traceability system in place in the United States. “For years I have introduced legislation, H.R. 3485, to set up a system to trace food products from the farm to the fork. Right now there is no quick, reliable way to find out where food was produced and to where it has been sent. “In the event of an outbreak of illness, or in this case, the introduction of sick cattle into the food supply, a traceability system would allow us to quickly identify the source, inform businesses along the supply chain, cease distribution of other tainted products, and notify potential consumers and business owners who may have this food in their homes, restaurants, and on their store shelves. “Some companies already have an effective tracing system; indeed advances in technology make it achievable and cost effective nationwide. “In addition to traceback, I’d like to ask the USDA and FDA about another piece of legislation I’ve sponsored, that would give them each the ability to recall tainted food, an authority they lack right now. “In this case, it seems that Westland/Hallmark issued a recall immediately upon seeing the video we witnessed today, showing irrefutable and sickening evidence of its employees not only mistreating sick animals, but putting them into the nation’s food supply. “Would a voluntary recall have occurred without such convincing evidence? I think the government should have the authority to act in the case that a company does not act quickly enough. “Obviously we should focus our efforts on preventing contamination in the first place, but we also need to have better procedures in place to deal with an outbreak, especially with regards to recalling and tracing food products.”
03.07.2008	DeGette Comments on Jobs Report Showing Another Month of Decline DENVER - Chief Deputy Whip Diana DeGette (D-CO) issued the following statement today on the disturbing jobs report from the US Labor Department, which showed that the US economy lost 63,000 jobs in February, the largest monthly job decline in nearly five years. "I am deeply disturbed by the steep job loss reported yesterday -- the second straight month of reported job losses. It is clear the American economy is struggling because of the Bush Administration’s failed economic policies. A mere 41,000 jobs were created in December – far less than the 82,000 originally reported and well below the monthly increase of 150,000 that is necessary just to keep pace with population growth. As for January, even more jobs were lost – 22,000. "Coloradoans and Americans nationwide struggle every day as they watch health care costs skyrocket, college tuition explode, and oil and gas prices hit record highs. This Administration continues to turn a blind eye to the needs of every day Americans. "The Democratic Congress recently passed a strong stimulus package that will help jumpstart and strengthen our economy putting us on a road to recovery."
03.04.2008	WASHINGTON — Energy and Commerce Committee Vice Chair Diana DeGette (D-CO) today commented on a report released by the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform on the impact of the Bush Administration’s proposed Medicaid Regulations. The new report, The Administration’s Medicaid Regulations: State-by-State Impacts, includes an analysis of the impact on Colorado. “With the economy worsening, the last thing we should be doing is taking federal funds from states, especially funds that help people with their health expenses,” said DeGette, who is the Vice Chair of the Committee on Energy and Commerce, which has jurisdiction over Medicaid. “The Bush Administration has proposed drastic changes in the Medicaid program that will have a devastating financial impact on Colorado and the health of our residents.” The report details the state-by-state impacts of seven regulations issued by the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Service (CMS) that would make major, wide-ranging changes in Medicaid, the nation’s largest low-income health care program. “I am committed to reversing these draconian regulations that put the health of Coloradoans at risk. Denver has some of the premiere safety-net institutions in the Rocky Mountain West – these regulations may force many of them to close their doors to those who cannot afford care. Congress is considering a variety of actions, including a legislative fix, that would not allow the federal government from taking these vital funds away from the states,” concluded DeGette. The report finds that the state estimates of the fiscal impact of the CMS regulations are significantly higher than the $15 billion impact projected by the Administration for next five years. States estimated that the regulations would reduce federal payments to them by nearly $50 billion over the next five years, more than three times the Administration’s estimate. The report also finds: • The combined effect of the reductions in federal funds from all seven regulations represents a major fiscal blow for many states; • The regulations will reduce federal spending by shifting costs, not through greater efficiencies; • The regulations will disrupt existing systems of care for fragile populations; and • The regulations threaten the financial stability of the hospitals, emergency rooms, and clinics that treat Americans without health insurance.
03.03.2008	Chief Deputy Whip and Vice Chair DeGette leads Colorado House Delegation WASHINGTON – With the release of the 2008 Congressional Power Rankings by Knowlegis, Congresswoman Diana DeGette (D-CO) ranked 65th among the entire House of Representatives and led the House Delegation in Colorado. The rankings are formulated based on Congressional position, influence, legislation, and for the first time, earmark data was included in legislators’ Power Score. “I am very proud to work on important issues such as stem cell research, children’s health, and consumer product and food safety,” said DeGette, who is Chief Deputy Whip and Vice Chair of the powerful Committee on Energy and Commerce. “I will continue to use my position in Congress to advocate for the interests of my constituents and the public at-large. I look forward to advancing the agenda of the American people.” The 2008 Power Rankings by Knowlegis tracked Members of Congress’ power from Jan. 1, 2007 to Dec. 31, 2007. On the website, the public and the media can search and organize lists to view rankings by state, committee membership, tenure (class in Congress), or Power Category. RECAP OF DEGETTE’S RANKING Rank in State: 1 Rank in Committee: 20 Rank in Party: 61 Rank in House: 65Click here to review ranking The Power Rankings project was led by Brad Fitch, CEO of Knowlegis. “Power Rankings is a tool of government transparency for citizens,” Fitch said. “We take data available on the Internet and compile it to help people assess the performance of their legislators. There are a lot of information sources available to voters to assess how their Members of Congress are doing, including daily newspapers, television news stories, and from the legislators themselves. Power Rankings is just another transparency tool for citizens to judge their elected official,” he said. You can read the rankings by clicking here.
02.28.2008	President’s 2009 Budget Slashes Effective Programs While Increasing Funding for Programs Deemed ‘Ineffective’ by Own Administration WASHINGTON – With the cost of health care continuing to skyrocket, Energy and Commerce Committee Vice Chair Diana DeGette (D-CO) today pressed Health and Human Services Secretary, Michael O. Leavitt, about the hypocrisy inherent in the President’s 2009 budget proposal for the Department of Health and Human Services. While chairing the full Committee on Energy and Commerce Hearing, DeGette made the point that despite the Administration’s claim that they don’t want to waste money by funding duplicitous programs or programs that no longer serve their purpose, the Administration continues to fund programs that are not ‘evidence-based’ and are ineffective. “The President’s budget slashes funding for many important health programs, such as the Prevention Block Grant and Health Professions programs,” said DeGette. “As justification, President Bush states that the programs are ‘not based on evidence-based practices’ and ‘evaluations have found that these activities do not have a demonstrated impact.’ However, the President fails to apply these same effectiveness standards to the ‘abstinence-only’ programs, which are slated for another huge increase of $28 million. Study after study, including a 10-year study commissioned by the President’s own Administration, has shown these programs to be ineffective at best, and in some cases actually counterproductive.” An April 2007 report commissioned by the Department of Health and Human Services found that there is no evidence that abstinence programs implemented in upper elementary and middle schools are effective in reducing teen sexual activity. Furthermore, the study found that ‘the main objective of Title V, Section 510 abstinence education programs is to teach abstinence from sexual activity outside of marriage… The impact results from the four selected programs show no impact on rates of sexual abstinence.’ “The rationale of the Bush Administration to cut programs that the Administration has determined ‘do not have a demonstrated impact’ while simultaneously increasing funding for abstinence-only programs is absolutely hypocritical.” Click here and here to read further comments by DeGette about the Administration’s health care policy. # # #
02.27.2008	WASHINGTON – As energy prices continue to rise, oil approaching $102 per barrel and gasoline costing $3.15 at the pump, Energy and Commerce Committee Vice Chair Diana DeGette (D-CO) today supported the Renewable Energy and Energy Conservation Tax Act, which ends unnecessary subsidies to big oil companies and invests in clean, renewable energy and energy efficiency. The measure passed on a vote of 236 to 182. "American families are currently suffering under high energy prices while big oil companies are raking in record profits. It is time to invest in renewable energy technologies that will reduce our dependence on foreign oil, create more green collar jobs for Americans, increase renewable electricity production, and encourage greater energy efficiency," said DeGette. The Renewable Energy and Energy Conservation Act extends and expands tax incentives for renewable electricity, energy and fuel, as well as for plug-in hybrid cars, and energy efficient homes, buildings, and appliances. It is fiscally responsible by offsetting renewable energy incentives with repeal of unnecessary tax subsidies and loopholes only for the large integrated oil companies. "Colorado is at the forefront of creating a new energy economy utilizing our boundless sun, wind, and diverse energy resources. This legislation will ensure that Colorado’s investments in renewable technology will continue to thrive by putting our nation on a path toward energy independence—to lower energy costs, grow our economy and create new jobs, strengthen national security, and reduce global warming."
02.26.2008	DeGette Highlights Administration Actions that Restrict States’ ability to Provide Health Care to Low-Income Children WASHINGTON, D.C. – As many states struggle to secure affordable coverage for uninsured children, Energy and Commerce Committee Vice Chair Diana DeGette (D-CO) highlighted the restrictions placed on states during a Subcommittee on Health hearing entitled, “Covering Uninsured Kids: Reversing Progress Already Made.” DeGette focused on the Administration’s stubborn refusal to expand health care coverage for millions of low-income children despite the bipartisan work of Congress and the previous Administration to provide state-based solutions. “The children’s health insurance program was created in 1997 in a bipartisan effort, under a Democratic President and Republican-controlled Congress, to find state-based solutions to the problem of providing health care for low-income children,” said DeGette. “Our goal was to provide additional resources for states to cover more kids who needed health care coverage. Unfortunately, the Bush Administration has used it as a political football to score points at the expense of millions of low-income children.” Despite two bipartisan compromise State Children Health Insurance Program (SCHIP) bills passing Congress, President George W. Bush has blocked progress by vetoing both of them. If the current trends continue of increasing premiums for employer-based coverage, more children will join the ranks of the uninsured while the Bush Administration places additional barriers to health care for low-income children in valuable programs such as SCHIP and Medicaid. “The whole reason we give states flexibility in SCHIP and Medicaid is because they craft programs that best meet the needs of their own populations. However, the Bush Administration continues to hand down directives tying the hands of our states – a number of recent Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) regulations hinder state flexibility. For example, an August 17th directive limits states’ ability to cover children in families above 250% of the federal poverty level. Although my state of Colorado does not currently cover children above this level, we have set the goal of covering all uninsured children by the end of 2010. Without the flexibility to cover children above 250% of the poverty level, it is unlikely that we can make this a reality.” The August 2007 directive mandates that in order to expand coverage levels above 250% of the federal poverty level, states must meet a 95% participation rate for children below 250% of the federal poverty level. This standard is completely unattainable and unrealistic. CMS does not provide guidance for states on to how to meet such standards or even what data will be used to calculate a 95% compliance rate. The CMS rule is expected to go into effect in May 2008. Click here to read additional comments by DeGette on the Bush Administration’s missed opportunities when it comes to health care.
02.26.2008	DeGette Presses Food Company Chiefs; Giving Government Mandatory Recall Authority is the Way Forward WASHINGTON, D.C. – With news of another outbreak of contamination in our food supply, Energy and Commerce Committee Vice Chair Diana DeGette (D-CO) today delivered the following opening statement during a Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations Hearing entitled, “Contaminated Food: Private Sector Accountability,” with the Chief Executive Officers (CEOs) of major food producing companies testifying. The following are Ms. DeGette’s opening remarks as prepared for delivery: “I want to welcome our witnesses today to talk about an issue of the utmost importance to the American people. “Over the last year, this subcommittee has held five hearings examining the safety of our nation’s food supply. I am glad we are continuing this investigation, which has brought to light serious inadequacies in our system both in the public and private sectors. “But sadly these hearings have often turned up more questions than answers. And even more sadly, like the recall last week, after each hearing there have been more outbreaks. “But what is absolutely maddening is that these incidents are preventable. In almost every case, we can trace serious threats to public health back to an agency that has been starved for funding, or to a corporation with substandard agricultural or industrial practices. “Today we continue this investigation by taking testimony from the CEOs of some of the biggest food producers in the world, all of whom have been involved in serious outbreaks of foodborne illnesses. Unfortunately, some of them have been before us before. And Mr. Chairman, it seems that we keep hearing the same things over and over. “I will focus for a minute on ConAgra, a major food producer nationwide with operations in Colorado. Six years ago it was ConAgra that appeared before us to talk about one of the biggest recalls in history after E.Coli was found in its beef and so many people got sick. “Last year they were before this committee talking about peanut butter tainted with salmonella. Then it was revealed that its popcorn contained chemicals that could get workers and consumers sick. And then, this past fall, citizens around the country were poisoned by ConAgra-made pot pies with salmonella. “You can see how frustrating this is for us, representatives of the consumer. These companies come before us, apologize profusely – then tell us all about the new facilities they are installing or money they are spending to make sure something like this never happens again. “For example, today ConAgra will report fantastic progress in ensuring the safety of Peter Pan Peanut Butter. This is great news, but what about the pot pies? I am sure the company has taken great pains at great expense to ensure the safety of this product going forward but what about the next outbreak? With an organization this large, that touches so many segments of the marketplace, what are they doing company-wide to ensure food safety? Obviously we may never be able to eliminate risk entirely, but this is happening far too often. “Many of the companies before us today have been involved in massive recalls of tainted products. The members of this committee know that for years I have introduced legislation, H.R. 3484 that would grant the USDA and FDA mandatory recall authority. “My constituents are shocked to learn that these agencies do not have this authority. All of the recalls we will hear about today, when they finally occurred were issued voluntarily. It is my contention that waiting on the company to make the decision is like the fox guarding the hen-house. “ConAgra, for example, did not order a recall immediately upon learning of illnesses related to their pot pies. They issued a “consumer advisory” instead. It was only after days had passed and even more people got sick that the company decided that it was in their financial interest, in addition to the public interest, to recall the products. “My legislation would correct this conflict of interest by allowing the USDA or FDA to order recalls as soon as it becomes clear that an outbreak has occurred, and it provides for the immediate notification of consumers and public health officials. “I want to thank Chairman Dingell for continuing to work with me on my food safety legislation, and thank you Chairman Stupak for your continued diligence in continuing this investigation.”
02.20.2008	WASHINGTON, D.C. – With the news of another stem cell advancement, Energy and Commerce Committee Vice Chair Diana DeGette (D-CO), the chief architect of the Embryonic Stem Cell Research Act, today released the following comments: "This new discovery represents another exciting advancement in embryonic stem cell research. "It highlights the urgency to reverse the federal restrictions and the need to fund a robust and ethical research program for all types of stem cell research."
02.19.2008	WASHINGTON, D.C. – With an environmental emergency situation mounting in Lake County, Colorado, the House Energy and Commerce Committee Leadership, Chairman John Dingell (D-MI) and Vice Chair Diana DeGette (D-CO), joined together in sending the following letter Monday to Stephen Johnson, Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), requesting immediate action. The House Energy and Commerce Committee has jurisdiction over the EPA, the Superfund program, and relevant water issues.Below is the text of the letter: February 18, 2008 The Honorable Stephen Johnson Administrator Environmental Protection Agency 1200 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, DC 20460 Dear Administrator Johnson: We write to request immediate action by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) under the authority vested by the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (CERCLA), 42 U.S.C. § 9601 et. seq., to avert a potential catastrophe that poses threats to human health and the environment, as well as the drinking water supplies in and around the Leadville Colorado Mine Drainage Tunnel, which is part of the California Gulch Superfund Site located in Leadville, Lake County, Colorado. The United States Bureau of Reclamation (BOR) purchased the mine in 1959. According to Resolution No. 08-05 passed by the Board of County Commissioners of Lake County, Colorado, on February 13, 2008, declaring an “emergency disaster situation” under Colorado law, there is estimated to be more than 1 billion gallons of contaminated mine pool water in the drainage tunnel that could overflow from the tunnel into the Arkansas River. CNN reports that officials have indicated that situated just outside of the tunnel’s portal is a mobile home park with 300 residents. This threat of release of contaminated water is further exacerbated by the above normal snowpack that is accumulating in Colorado’s high country that, according to the Lake County Resolution, is estimated to be 168 percent above normal. Colorado Governor Bill Ritter, in a letter to President Bush dated February 15, 2008, stated that “When spring arrives, large quantities of additional water will infiltrate into the mine, increasing the underground lake’s elevation and head and raising the risk of a catastrophic event.” In addition to the human health and environmental impacts, Governor Ritter also indicates his concern that the release of billions of gallons of contaminated water will “threaten the drinking water supplies for a half million people.” Unfortunately for the 2,700 people of Leadville, Colorado, this appears to be yet another glaring example of the consequences that result from this Administration’s roll back of the Superfund program and the Federal agencies’ complete abdication of their delegated duties to clean up these sites. The California Gulch Superfund Site was placed on the National Priorities List (NPL) more than 20 years ago, in 1983. In 1994, EPA began the process of cleaning up the Site by dividing it into 12 Operable Units with the Leadville Mine Drainage Tunnel designated as part of Operable Unit 6. Tests have shown that the water in and around the area of the mine contains high levels of heavy metals, including lead, zinc, arsenic, nickel, mercury, chromium, and cadmium. EPA has publicly acknowledged the potential threat that this Leadville Mine Drainage Tunnel poses. According to EPA’s Third Five-Year Review Report for the Site, published on September, 28, 2007, clean up of this Operable Unit is still not complete. EPA states that there has been a “delay in establishing control of the Mine Pool” and further concludes that this will result in the current and future protectiveness of the remedy being potentially threatened. In a letter dated November 8, 2007, to BOR, EPA expressed its concern about the unknown condition of the tunnel blockages and large volume of contaminated water that was present in the mine pool. In addition, to the risk of sudden water release into the Arkansas River and contaminated water seeping into the groundwater, EPA indicated that all of these releases would adversely affect the remedial work. Given the apparent urgency of the situation, the lack of action by all of the Federal Agencies involved, we respectfully request that EPA take immediate and appropriate action under CERCLA. Additionally, please provide us with the following information: 1. The nature and extent of the potential blockage in the Leadville Mine Drainage Tunnel; 2. The likely impacts of a sudden release of contaminated water from the drainage tunnel on the California Gulch Superfund Site, its surrounding area, and the Arkansas River; 3. The impact of drinking water supplies in the affected area; 4. The status of implementation of the Record of Decision (ROD) for Operable Unit 6; 5. An explanation of why BOR and EPA have failed to implement the ROD; and 6. What future actions EPA will take to address the remediation of Operable Unit 6. We respectfully request your response to the Committee’s request for information within one week of receipt of this letter. If you have any questions or need further information regarding this request, please contact us or have your staff contact Karen E. Torrent with the Committee on Energy and Commerce at (202) 225-2927 or Steve Plevniak with the office of Representative DeGette at (202) 225-4431. Sincerely, John D. Dingell Diana DeGette Chairman Vice Chairman Dingell DeGette EPA Letter ( 02/19/08 07:56 AM PST )
02.13.2008	WASHINGTON, DC – Chief Deputy Whip Diana DeGette (D-CO) today released the following statement as she voted in favor of a 21-day extension of the Protect America Act, which addresses the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act (FISA): “We need to reform the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act in a way that strikes the proper balance between protecting Americans from terrorists and protecting our civil liberties. In November of last year, I supported a strong House bill – the RESTORE Act – that improved the current law. “However, the Senate took a different approach. In particular, the Senate bill provides blanket retroactive immunity to telecommunications companies who allegedly cooperated with the Bush Administration’s warrantless wiretapping program. I strenuously oppose this provision. “The three-week extension would have allowed Congress to work out the differences between the House and Senate versions.” The bill that provided for this three week extension failed to pass the House of Representatives on a vote of 191 to 229.
02.07.2008	WASHINGTON, D.C. – With the release of the Bush Administration’s 2009 budget proposal for the Department of Energy, Energy and Commerce Committee Vice Chair Diana DeGette (D-CO) chaired today’s Energy and Commerce Committee hearing examining the Department of Energy’s Fiscal Year 2009 budget proposal with Samuel W. Bodman, the Secretary of Energy, testifying. With renewable energy at the forefront of the new economy, DeGette pressed the Secretary on budget cuts to the National Renewable Energy Laboratory (NREL) located in Colorado.Below are DeGette’s opening remarks as prepared for delivery: “Mr. Secretary, thank you so much for being here today, and for your service to the country. “I’d like to spend my limited time today focusing on funding for the National Renewable Energy Laboratory (NREL), located in Colorado. “As I’m sure everyone here realizes, NREL is the world’s preeminent renewable energy and energy efficiency research facility. At a time with oil prices approaching $100 a barrel, toxic greenhouse gas emissions increasing, and a mounting trade deficit exacerbated by our reliance on unstable and even dangerous regimes for our energy, one would think that the federal government would make it a priority to bolster its primary green energy research lab. “Sadly, the budget before us proposes to slash funding for NREL. “Mr. Secretary, when you appeared before this committee a year ago, you assured me that what appeared to be an NREL funding cut was indeed not a cut, so I’ll be interested in hearing what you have to say later today. “Last year you gave me a very general response about other funds potentially being available at a later date. But what was clear then is clear now: this administration has decided that a major investment in this laboratory is just not worth it. “Luckily, in one of its first acts, the new Congress injected about 100 million dollars into NREL February of 2007. And later that year we passed the FY08 budget that had further investments in NREL. “We are doing our best to repair the damage caused by years of insufficient funding. But I must admit, Mr. Secretary, our job is made much more difficult when your budget proposes to slash funding by 22%. “Rhetoric about clean energy is all well and good, but it’s time we put up the money to back it up. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.” Click here for more information on the hearing.
02.04.2008	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Chief Deputy Whip Diana DeGette (D-CO) today offered the following comments on President Bush’s 2009 Budget Proposal: “The priorities reflected in President Bush’s 2009 budget proposal do not reflect the priorities of the American people. Americans deserve a budget that helps them meet real life needs -- a budget based on reality. “The President’s budget is misguided -- with prices rising and our economy slowing, the President slashes health care for seniors and working families, freezes potentially-lifesaving medical research, raises health care costs for veterans, and cuts energy assistance. Once again, the President calls for an increase in military funding to conduct his failed war in Iraq. “With renewable energy technology at the forefront of our new economy, the President makes critical cuts to the National Renewable Energy Laboratory (NREL) budget. This not only hurts Coloradoans, but Americans nationwide who want to achieve energy independence. “The Democratic Majority will restore the priorities of the American people by making critical investments to strengthen our economy and create jobs, helping Americans struggling with the skyrocketing costs of health care, energy, and groceries, while holding the President accountable for his disastrous war in Iraq.”
01.31.2008	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Stemming from mounting Congressional pressure, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has decided to reverse its earlier decision of closing up to 13 of its field laboratories, including the Federal Center lab located in Lakewood. Energy and Commerce Committee Vice Chair Diana DeGette (D-CO), who first called for hearings into the Bush Administration’s proposal of consolidating field and district labs in July 2007, today applauded the FDA’s decision saying this is the “right decision for the American consumer.” “It is time the FDA realized the value and expertise these labs have in protecting the health of Americans,” said DeGette. “With the record-breaking outbreaks of foodborne illnesses and product recalls over the last year, these labs are needed more than ever. It was mind-boggling the Bush Administration would even think of shutting these labs down in the first place. Closing these labs would have had a dramatic affect on our national security jeopardizing the confidence of the American consumer.” Since this plan was proposed, DeGette and her colleagues on the Energy and Commerce Committee continued to find ways to prevent these closures, including adding a provision to the House Agricultural Appropriations Bill blocking the closure of the FDA field and district labs, including the Lakewood facility. DeGette’s subcommittee, the Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee, also held hearings into the Bush Administration’s FDA lab consolidation proposal; following these hearings, the FDA temporarily halted their consolidation plans for 90 days to further evaluate concerns about the safety of imported foods. “The FDA failed to provide our committee or the American people with any analysis showing that closing these labs would result in increased cost savings, efficiencies, or better public health. Under the Democratic Majority, Congressional oversight has finally returned, and it is paying off. I want to applaud the work of the dedicated public servants in Denver’s lab who work every day to ensure that our food and drugs are safe.”
01.29.2008	DeGette Assails Bush Administration for Barriers to Health Care that Keep the Number of Uninsured American’s at 47 Million WASHINGTON, D.C. – With the number of uninsured American’s hovering at 47 million – including almost 10 million children, Energy and Commerce Committee Vice Chair Diana DeGette (D-CO) today assailed the Bush Administration for its failure to tear down barriers to health care. During an Energy and Commerce Health Subcommittee Hearing entitled, “Covering Uninsured Kids: Missed Opportunities for Moving Forward,” DeGette focused on the Centers for Medicaid and Medicare Services (CMS) regulations that limit both the eligibility levels of the State Children’s Health Insurance Program (SCHIP) and states’ ability to access Medicaid disproportionate share funding, which further block access to quality health care. “The chance to reform health care is a major missed opportunity by the Bush Administration,” said DeGette. “With the number of uninsured Americans growing, this Administration continues to put up roadblocks to health care coverage. For instance, a new directive aimed at the children’s health program limits states’ longstanding flexibility in setting eligibility levels; this only blocks health care coverage from our nation’s poor kids. The Administration imposes an unattainable and unrealistic standard not only making it difficult for states to comply, but tying their hands and preventing them from making decisions that are best for their own populations.” The August 2007 directive mandates that in order to expand coverage levels above 250% of the federal poverty level, states must meet a 95% participation rate for children below 200% of the federal poverty level. This standard is completely unattainable and unrealistic. CMS does not provide guidance for states on to how to meet such standards or even what data will be used to calculate a 95% compliance rate. “Another draconian CMS rule limits hospitals’ ability to access Medicaid Disproportionate Share funding by changing the definition of ‘public’ hospitals. The impact of this rule will be devastating to both individuals in the state and to safety net providers – Colorado alone will see a funding cut of approximately $140 million. We must do something soon or hospitals across the country will have to start cutting budgets – which only hurts patient care,” concluded DeGette. The CMS rule is expected to go into effect in May 2008.
01.28.2008	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Energy and Commerce Committee Vice Chair Diana DeGette (D-CO), chief architect of the Stem Cell Research Enhancement Act, today offered the following response to President George W. Bush’s State of the Union address: “I am glad that President Bush has recognized the recent advances in stem cell research. This again highlights the need for a new, national initiative supporting all types of ethical cell based research, including embryonic stem cell research. We must establish a robust national stem cell research program with a strict ethical framework. “I find it cynical that the President would call on Congress to ban reproductive cloning when it was his Republican colleagues that defeated my bill last year that did just that.”
01.28.2008	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Diana DeGette (D-CO) today released the following statement on Private First Class Duncan C. Crookston, who died late last week from complications resulting from injuries sustained in Iraq: “Private First Class Duncan C. Crookston served his country with great honor and distinction. It is a tragedy when someone with such a bright future loses their life so young. His service to our country is greatly appreciated by Coloradoans and Americans nationwide. “I want to personally thank his family and extend my heartfelt condolences to them for their loss.”
01.24.2008	DeGette Says We Must Focus on Prevention and Disease Management WASHINGTON, D.C. – Co-Chair of the House Diabetes Caucus Congresswoman Diana DeGette (D-CO) issued the following comments today on newly released figures from the American Diabetes Association (ADA) showing an increase in economic costs of diabetes in 2007. At an estimated $174 billion annually, costs associated with diabetes have risen 32% since last evaluated in 2002. The per capita annual health care cost for people with diabetes was $11,744, of which $6,649 (57%) can be attributed directly to diabetes. “For the first time in five years we have new information about the devastating toll diabetes is taking on our country. Direct medical costs are a staggering $116 billion and indirect costs account for another $58 billion. Diabetes is quickly becoming a public health crisis illustrating the importance of focusing on prevention as well as aggressive disease management. “The skyrocketing costs reinforce the importance of investing resources in primary prevention and research efforts, such as the Special Diabetes Programs for Indians and Type 1 Research. The fact that one in five health care dollars is spent caring for individuals with diabetes, and that one in ten health care dollars is directly attributed to diabetes, means that continued investment in cutting edge research and treatment, such as the Special Diabetes Programs, is vital to reducing the economic toll of diabetes both on individuals and the economy.” Representative DeGette is co-chair of the Congressional Diabetes Caucus along with Representative Michael Castle (R-DE). Formed in 1996, the caucus currently consists of almost 250 Members, making it one of the largest and most powerful caucuses in Congress. The Diabetes Caucus serves to educate Members and staff about diabetes as well as to support legislative activities that would improve diabetes research, education, and treatment. Legislative priorities for the Diabetes Caucus include: • The “Diabetes Prevention Access and Care Act of 2007.” The Diabetes Prevention Access and Care Act is designed to promote research, treatment, and education regarding diabetes in minority populations. This specific focus will help address the unique challenges faced by minority populations and provide more effective treatment and education. • The “Medicare Diabetes Self-Management Training Act of 2007,” which would recognize certified diabetes educators as providers for Medicare diabetes outpatient self-management training services.
01.23.2008	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Energy and Commerce Committee Vice Chair Diana DeGette (D-CO) today voted to support the State Children’s Health Insurance Program (SCHIP) and override the President’s veto of bipartisan legislation to provide health care to over 10 million low-income children nationwide. Unfortunately, 152 House Republicans voted lock-step with President Bush to sustain the veto on a vote of 260 to 152 blocking nearly 4 million additional low-income children from receiving health care coverage. DeGette assailed Congressional Republicans for “sustaining the President’s veto denying millions of low-income children health care during these tough economic times.” “Our economic outlook has deteriorated since President Bush vetoed this bipartisan, compromise bill for the second time last year. By sustaining his veto, Congressional Republicans continue to stand between millions of children and the health care they need. “As our economy weakens, more and more parents are having difficulty finding affordable health insurance for their children. By playing politics, President Bush and his Republican allies are denying millions of low-income children access to quality health care, including 60,000 kids in Colorado. Funding the enrollment of children already eligible, but not enrolled in SCHIP, is more critical than ever as the Joint Economic Committee projects that 12,000 low-income children in Colorado will become eligible each year for SCHIP and Medicaid during this economic downturn.” The bipartisan SCHIP bill is supported by 81 percent of the American people; 64 Senators (including 17 Republicans); 43 Governors (including 16 Republicans); and more than 270 organizations, including AARP, AMA, Catholic Health Association, and Families USA.
01.22.2008	Interest Rate Cut Step in Right Direction as Consumers Face Tough Economic Times WASHINGTON, D.C. – Chief Deputy Whip Diana DeGette (D-C0) today issued the following statement today after the Federal Reserve Board issued an emergency rate cut of a key interest rate by 3/4 of a percentage point: “As our economic outlook worsens, consumers are struggling with skyrocketing gas and home heating costs, increases in college tuition, and rising health care costs. The emergency interest rate cut was a necessary step in the right direction to restore public confidence in the market and revitalize our economy. “The Democratic Congress is working in a bipartisan way with the Bush Administration to develop a timely, targeted, and temporary fiscal stimulus plan that will provide relief to the American consumer by putting more money into their hands. This stimulus package will help strengthen our economy by encouraging low to middle-class families to reinvest in the economy providing a much needed boost.”
01.17.2008	Stem Cell Research Advancement Represents Progress WASHINGTON, D.C. – With today’s announcement of another stem cell research advancement, Energy and Commerce Committee Vice Chair Diana DeGette (D-CO), chief architect of the Stem Cell Research Enhancement Act, offered the following statement today: “I applaud the most recent advance in stem cell research. Somatic cell nuclear transfer (SCNT) is not reproductive cloning. As this research shows, the use of SCNT will help to fulfill the promise of embryonic stem cell research. “All of the recent research advances represent the vast promise of stem cell research. Given the national commitment to ethical stem cell research, we need a robust national stem cell research policy and strong ethical oversight. “The federal government must support all methods of ethical stem cell research. Allowing politics to trump science is a disservice to scientific progress and hinders the potential development of numerous cures that will most likely result from the greatest variety of methods, including embryonic stem cell research.”
01.15.2008	With FDA’s Lack of Recall Authority and Tracing System, Consumers Must Be Confident in Foods Derived from Cloned Animals in U.S. Market Place WASHINGTON, D.C. – As the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) prepares to release its risk assessment report on foods derived from cloned animals, Energy and Commerce Committee Vice Chair Diana DeGette (D-CO) called on her subcommittee, the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations, to hold hearings into the potential risks and challenges of foods derived from cloned animals offered to American consumers in the market place. “Confidence in the Food and Drug Administration’s (FDA) ability to ensure the safety of our food supply has seriously eroded. Its failure to react effectively to tainted foreign and domestic food products entering our food supply resulted in skepticism and nervousness by consumers in the FDA’s ability to protect them. It is absolutely necessary that consumers are confident with this new technology before these foods arrive on our store shelves,” said DeGette. “The FDA currently does not have the authority to recall tainted foods and lacks a product tracing system for contamination in foods. It is not only important that the FDA assure Congress that they have the ability to deal with the potential risks of genetically-altered foods in the U.S. market place, but also develop a robust oversight program for consumers. “My subcommittee in Congress, the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations, should conduct hearings into the risks and challenges associated with foods derived from cloned animals allowed in to our food supply. I would like to invite the FDA and relevant third-parties to present their data and findings before Congress as we move forward. With the confidence in the FDA already shaken, vigorous oversight is needed -- whether these foods will require special labeling, further third-party testing, or additional inspection, all remains to be seen in order to ensure consumer confidence.”
01.10.2008	WASHINGTON, DC – Energy and Commerce Committee Vice Chair Diana DeGette (D-CO), chief architect of the Stem Cell Research Enhancement Act, released the following statement regarding the news of an additional method of stem cell research: “I continue to be encouraged by the development of new methods for stem cell research. Because the research announced today destroys about twenty-percent of the embryos used in this technique, it will not solve the ethical concerns raised by those who oppose embryonic stem cell research. “The vast promise of ethical stem cell research is underscored by the recent announcements of new research techniques. The federal government needs to support all types of ethical stem cell research including embryonic stem cell research. “We need to develop a robust research program and strong national ethical guidelines for stem cell research. “Although the recent breakthroughs in stem cell research are exciting, they are not a substitute for embryonic stem cell research, which has shown the most promise. The broad, bipartisan coalition in Congress who supports embryonic stem cell research remain committed to all forms of ethical stem cell research. “Politicians should not let the moral judgment of a very few dictate ethical scientific progress. There is a national concern that embryonic stem cell research and these other methods should progress forward under a strict ethical framework.”
01.09.2008	Denver – Chief Deputy Whip Diana DeGette made the following tribute today for her close personal friend United States District Court Judge Philip Figa, which will be entered into the Congressional Record when Congress reconvenes for the second session of the 110th Congress: TRIBUTE TO PHILLIP S. FIGA UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT JUDGE HON. DIANA DeGETTE OF COLORADO IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES Ms. DeGETTE. Madame Speaker. I rise to honor the extraordinary life and exceptional accomplishments of United States District Court Judge Phillip S. Figa. This exceptional jurist merits both our recognition and esteem as his impressive record of civic leadership and invaluable service has improved the lives of many Coloradoans. Sadly, Judge Figa was taken from us by a brain tumor at the young age of fifty-six and he will be greatly missed. His passion for the law and justice and his capacity for community service were beyond measure. He molded a life of genuine accomplishment and served our nation with distinction. His passing is a great loss to the federal bench and our entire community. Judge Figa was born in 1951 in Skokie, Illinois, the son of Holocaust survivors from Poland. He earned a scholarship to Northwestern University and graduated with a degree in economics. While at Northwestern, he met and married Candace Cole Figa. He went on to graduate from Cornell Law School and started his law practice in Colorado at Sherman & Howard in 1976. Four years later, Judge Figa became a founding partner of Burns, Figa & Will, P.C. and became the firm’s President. For over twenty-six years, Judge Figa maintained a broad litigation-oriented practice and established a national reputation as an expert in the field of legal ethics. He was actively involved in the Colorado legal community and served as President of the Colorado Bar Association and as Chair of the Ethics Committee. He served on the Civil Justice Reform Act Advisory Committee and on the Colorado Commission on Judicial Discipline. He served as an instructor at the University of Denver College of Law and the National Institute of Trial Advocacy. Judge Figa was also one of the founding members of the Faculty of Federal Advocates and is credited with the development of the very successful Pro Bono Mentoring Program. As a former Chair of the Mountain States Region of the Anti-Defamation League, Judge Figa was deeply committed to fighting bigotry, extremism, anti-Semitism and supporting Holocaust awareness. President Bush nominated Judge Figa to the United States District Court and he was confirmed by the United States Senate on October 2, 2003. During the confirmation process, Senators of both parties viewed him as highly intelligent and a fair prospective jurist. Many friends, family and associates have praised Judge Figa as “even handed” . . . “smart, caring and authentic” . . . “a great jurist” . . . “a true humanitarian” . . . “one who brought passion and integrity to the field of law “ . . . “ a humble and gracious man who genuinely cared about helping other people.” I was honored to give the highest recommendation to the Senate Judiciary Committee. On a personal note, Judge Figa was a good friend of both me and my husband. He was loved and respected across the legal community. Judge Figa was a mensch – an upright, honorable and decent human being. Judge Figa has been recognized with several accolades and honors including nomination to the International Society of Barristers, the American Bar Foundation and the Colorado Bar Foundation. He was honored by the Colorado Supreme Court for “outstanding leadership of the Coalition for the Independence of the Colorado Judiciary” and in January of 2006, he was named one of the Leading Judges in America by The Lawdragon. On February 4th, 2008, the Anti-Defamation League will present the late Judge Figa with the Distinguished Community Service Award “for his commitment to human rights and dignity, and his dedicated service to his community, state and nation.” Judge Figa lived a life that is rich in consequence and our country is a better place because of his labors. Truly, we are all diminished by the all too early passing of this remarkable gentleman and our thoughts are with Candace Figa and their two children, Ben and Elizabeth. Please join me in paying tribute to the life of United States District Court Judge Phillip S. Figa, a distinguished jurist. It is the values, leadership and dedication he exhibited during his life that serves to build a better future for all of us.
12.20.2007	Vice Chair DeGette Comments on Democratic Progress and Republican Obstructionism WASHINGTON, D.C. – As the House of Representatives recessed for the holiday season, Energy and Commerce Committee Vice Chair Diana DeGette (D-CO) today released the following comments on the end of the Congressional session: “As the first session of the 110th Congress comes to a close, we are moving to fulfill our promise of a New Direction for America. “The agenda of the new Democratic Congress reflects the priorities of the American people. We have been fighting to provide access to quality health care, ensure the safety of our consumer products and toys, reduce our nation’s dependence on foreign oil, and end the President’s failed war in Iraq. Despite the stubbornness and political rhetoric of President Bush and his Republican colleagues, we will continue to fight alongside the American people to deliver a robust agenda focused on their priorities. “While I am proud of the accomplishments of the 110th Congress, I continue to be mystified by House and Senate Republicans who have tried to thwart our progress for America. Continuing to play political games with the priorities of the American people will only hinder progress – it will not help Americans save at the gas pump, provide critical health care coverage, or make America more secure. From blocking our efforts to enroll more eligible kids in the children’s health insurance program to a fully-paid for Alternative Minimum Tax (AMT) patch to ending the war in Iraq, Republicans time and again have chosen to side with President Bush’s upside-down priorities.”
12.19.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C. – With the health care of millions hanging in the balance, Congress today passed an extension of the Children’s Health Care Insurance Program (SCHIP), S. 2499, the Medicare, Medicaid and SCHIP Extension Act, on a vote of 411 to 3. Energy and Commerce Committee Vice Chair Diana DeGette (D-CO) supported the measure. “The State Children’s Health Care Insurance Program has been tremendously beneficial for millions of low-income families over the past ten years. While I am happy we passed an extension preserving health care coverage for the six million low-income children currently in the program, I am extremely disappointed that House and Senate Republicans callously blocked our efforts by voting lock-step with President Bush and caving to his demands for a health care program would leave millions of low-income children without health care. “Furthermore, six million children were denied health care coverage because President Bush stubbornly refused to negotiate with Congress merely to score political points. The bipartisan compromise bill passed by Congress earlier this year would have provided coverage for an additional four million kids who are eligible for the program, but not enrolled. I remain committed to working toward covering all low-income kids in America who are eligible for this wildly successful and effective program; it is the best way to ensure the poorest children in our nation are healthy and happy.” # # #
12.19.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Chief Deputy Whip Diana DeGette (D-CO) today reaffirmed her commitment to ending the war in Iraq by opposing a Senate change to the Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2007 that provides a blank check for the war in Iraq. The House agreed to the Senate change on a vote of 272 to 142. “I remain committed to ending the war in Iraq, and will stand by my pledge to oppose any measure that provides funds to continue the war. It is unfortunate that President Bush would hold a bill funding the government hostage by threatening a veto if it lacked funds for his failed war in Iraq.” “It is shameful that Senate Republicans would vote in lock-step with the President over this issue despite overwhelming public opinion against this war. I am proud to stand up against the President’s misguided war in Iraq. We need to end this war quickly and safety and bring our troops home.” The Consolidated Appropriations Act passed in the House consisted of two amendments; the first funds domestic spending for 11 federal agencies, including $100 million in security funding for the Democratic and Republican National Conventions; the second provides $31 billion for operations in Afghanistan and prohibits these funds from being used for operations in Iraq. The first amendment remained unchanged during Senate consideration. The House had to vote on the Senate’s change to the second amendment providing funds for the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq.Click here to read Congresswoman DeGette’s statement on securing security funding for both the Democratic and Republican National Conventions in Denver and St. Pau
12.19.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C. – As Congress prepares to recess for the holidays, the House of Representatives today passed comprehensive consumer product safety legislation – H.R. 4040, the Consumer Product Modernization Act of 2007 – unanimously on a vote of 407 to 0. Energy and Commerce Committee Vice Chair Diana DeGette, an original cosponsor of the legislation, supported the measure and applauded its passage. “Congress scored a win for the American people today by passing comprehensive consumer product safety legislation aimed at protecting consumers from harmful products. This legislation beefs up the Consumer Product Safety Commission (CPSC) by giving it the tools and resources to carry out the mission of ensuring the safety of the products we bring into our homes. With countless toys recalled because of excessive amounts of lead, this measure not only imposes the toughest lead standard in the world for children’s toys, but also requires independent, third-party testing of consumer products. “Protecting people from harmful products has been a top priority for me and this Congress. I am proud to have worked as part of the Energy and Commerce Committee and House leadership to pass this legislation.” # # #
12.18.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C. – With gas and oil prices skyrocketing, Energy and Commerce Committee Vice Chair Diana DeGette (D-CO) today hailed the passage of the Energy Independence and Security Act [vote of 314-100], landmark energy legislation that will make America more energy independent, cut energy costs for families, reduce global warming, and grow our economy. President Bush is expected to sign the legislation into law. “Congress has finally started to address the mounting energy challenges facing our country – reducing global warming, increasing the use of alternative fuels and renewable energy, to cutting energy prices for the American consumer,” said DeGette. “This energy legislation is a win for the American people – for the first time in over 30 years, consumers will see an increase in the Corporate Average Fuel Efficiency (CAFÉ) standards which will put more fuel efficient cars on the road, reducing our dependence on foreign oil and saving consumers thousands of dollars every year.” The Energy Independence and Security Act will increase vehicle fuel efficiency to 35 miles per gallon in 2020—the first congressional increase in 32 years – and slash U.S. oil consumption by more than 4 million barrels per day by 2030. The legislation also expands the use of American-grown biofuels to 36 billion gallons in 2022 increases the efficiency of buildings, homes, appliances, and lighting. All totaled it cuts greenhouse gas emissions by 2030 by up to 24 percent of what the U.S. needs to do to help save the planet. “While I am disappointed that a national Renewable Electricity Standard (RES) was not included in the final bill, I am confident that we will move toward a national renewable energy program during the 110th Congress. This historic energy legislation is not only the most forward-thinking in decades, but puts us on a path towards energy independence.” DeGette led efforts in the House to pass a Renewable Electricity Standard in the original House bill approved in August.
12.18.2007	DeGette Praises Energy and Commerce Committee Approval Clearing Way for Full House Consideration WASHINGTON, D.C. – With Holiday shopping at full throttle, the House Committee on Energy and Commerce today approved comprehensive consumer product safety legislation – H.R. 4040, the Consumer Product Modernization Act of 2007. Energy and Commerce Committee Vice Chair Diana DeGette, an original cosponsor of the legislation, applauded its approval saying, “Congress is taking critical steps in ensuring the safety of the American consumer.” “As American consumers rush to finish their Holiday shopping, today Congress made a strong start towards protecting Americans from defective products we bring into our homes. As public confidence eroded in our federal agencies tasked with the mission of ensuring the safety of our products, the Majority responded promptly by developing comprehensive consumer product safety legislation that beefs up the Consumer Product Safety Commission (CPSC), bans lead in toys, and requires independent, third-party testing of consumer products. “While it is imperative the CPSC have the tools and resources to carry out its mission, Congress is moving quickly to strengthen its authority and restore public confidence. Having introduced my own legislation in September, H.R. 3691, the SAFE Consumer Product Act, that addressed the failures of the CPSC, I am proud to have worked with the Committee to adopt many of the provisions I outlined. “The consumer product safety legislation approved unanimously today by my Committee is a move in the right direction for both the American consumer and the products they purchase.” The measure must now be considered by the full House of Representatives.
12.17.2007	WASHIGNTON, D.C. – As the Congressional session winds down for the Holiday season, Chief Deputy Whip Diana DeGette (D-CO) today issued the following statement regarding the Consolidated Appropriations Act that includes $100 million in security funding for the 2008 Democratic and Republican National Conventions; Denver and St. Paul will be allocated $50 million each. “From the minute Denver was awarded the 2008 Democratic National Convention, I have worked hard to secure the necessary security funds from the federal government. Having spoken with Speaker Pelosi and other House Democratic Leaders regularly, I have stressed how important these funds will be for the security and safety of the Denver-metro area. Today I am proud that my efforts have paid off. “The security money included in this Act is critical to meet the security needs of both the Democratic and Republican conventions. As Denver and St. Paul are relatively small cities hosting such large events, getting enough funds early will help defray security costs so convention planners can secure important contracts. I am confident the House will pass this Act with bipartisan support.” The House of Representatives will consider the Consolidated Appropriations Act this evening. These funds will be used to reimburse state and local law enforcement for the costs associated with providing security at the 2008 National Conventions. Congresswomen DeGette and McCollum recently sent a letter to House and Appropriations Committee leadership requesting these funds.
12.12.2007	Washington, D.C. – Chief Deputy Whip Diana DeGette (D-CO) today joined an overwhelming bipartisan majority in Congress to pass H.R. 1585, the "National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008,"which will strengthen our military, support our troops and improve military readiness. "The Bush Administration’s misguided policies in Iraq have depleted our military and put a tremendous strain on our troops." said Rep. DeGette. "This bill protects our troops and their families and helps ensure that our fighting men and women have all the resources they need and deserve." H.R. 1585 authorizes new resources for additional mine resistant vehicles and body armor to help counter the Improvised Explosive Devices (IEDs) that have proven to be a threat to American troops in Iraq. The legislation also includes critical support for troops and their families by providing a pay raise that goes above the President’s request and blocking fee increases in the military health care program (TRICARE). Additionally, the bill includes provisions from the Wounded Warrior Act, which responds to the Walter Reed Army Medical Center scandal by improving the care of injured soldiers returning from Iraq and Afghanistan. "The highest honor we can pay to the men and woman who serve in our military and risk their lives is to ensure they have the best equipment on the ground and the best medical care and our nations full support when they come home." said Rep. DeGette. "This legislation gives additional resources to protect our troops in the field, it helps to restore our military readiness and it provides increased oversight over military contracting including the hiring and conduct of private security firms abroad."
12.06.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Energy and Commerce Committee Vice Chair Diana DeGette (D-CO) today praised the passage of the Energy Independence and Security Act on a vote of 235 to 181. DeGette, who led efforts to pass a national Renewable Electricity Standard (RES) in the original House bill, said the energy bill is "forward-thinking addressing many of our nation’s energy challenges." ‘The passage of this historic energy bill puts our country on a path toward energy independence and securing a stronger economy," said DeGette. "With oil and gas prices skyrocketing and the effects of global warming mounting, this measure makes critical investments in reducing our dependence on foreign oil, saves consumers billions of dollars through new energy efficiency standards, and for the first time, makes a firm commitment to renewable fuels. "This legislation also includes two crucial elements that will take the first step in addressing the concerns of the American people – raising fuel standards for the first time since 1985 and investing in renewable energy. Raising the Corporate Average Fuel Standard (CAFÉ) and developing a national Renewable Electricity Standard will not only save money for consumers, but begins to transform our economy from one that was environmentally-costly to one that is more environmentally-friendly."
12.05.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C. – As negotiations continue in Congress regarding the Energy Bill, Energy and Commerce Committee Vice Chair Diana DeGette (D-CO) encouraged her colleagues in the United States Senate to follow the House of Representatives in adopting an energy bill that includes a national Renewable Electricity Standard (RES). “A national Renewable Electricity Standard is a major advance for renewable energy in this country,” said DeGette. “This standard is not only beneficial for consumers and businesses, but is also good for the environment. The tremendous success of Colorado’s RES program is just another reason why we should expand this program nationwide. Colorado and other states have led the clean and renewable energy revolution in the absence of federal action.” A national Renewable Electricity Standard (RES) requires electric utilities to derive 15 percent of their energy from renewable sources, 4 percent of which can come from efficiency, by 2020. DeGette was part of a broad, bipartisan group of House Members who led the passage of a national RES program in the House Energy Bill approved in August. “We have built a strong bipartisan coalition in support of a national standard. I strongly encourage my Senate colleagues to join us in taking a critical step forward in addressing the challenge of global climate change,” concluded DeGette.
12.01.2007	WASHINGTON, DC – The Colorado Congressional Delegation joined U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette (D-CO) today in sending a letter to the Administrator of the Transportation Security Administration (TSA), Edmund S. “Kip” Hawley, pressing the Administration to take immediate steps improving the security situation at Denver International Airport (DIA). The letter, signed by all members of the Delegation, outlined the long security wait times and screening processes at DIA, highlighted the benefit to increasing the number of screeners, and identified the risks associated with the continued delay of security screening. The Colorado Delegation writes: “From our perspective, which is shared by DIA, the airlines serving Denver, and our constituents, this situation is unacceptable. Passengers risk missing flights, and airlines suffer increased costs when holding flights to permit the boarding of passengers who checked in on time but were delayed going through security screening. Denver airport officials are justifiably concerned that the passenger screening delays will cause vacation travelers to choose another destination where they do not have to experience these delays. This is particularly important to our state as we approach Colorado’s busy holiday and ski season. “…. We appreciate that TSA bolstered staffing for the long weekend when the World Series was held in Denver, and understand that TSA now has under consideration a request for 58 additional screeners. We urge TSA promptly to approve this request, and to take whatever additional steps as necessary to reduce passenger wait times to 10 minutes as originally promised when TSA took over passenger screening,” the Delegation continues. Below and linked here is a copy of the Colorado Delegation letter to TSA: October 31, 2007 Honorable Edmund S. “Kip” Hawley Administrator Transportation Security Administration Department of Homeland Security 601 South 12th Street, East Building Arlington, Virginia 22202-4220 Dear Administrator Hawley: As members of the Colorado congressional delegation, we have personally witnessed the protracted passenger wait times at Denver International Airport (DIA). In recent weeks, the peak period wait times have been the worst in the country, by TSA’s own accounting, with averages over 25 minutes and passengers facing routine waits of 35-55 minutes. As you may know, DIA’s origin and destination (O&D) passenger traffic was up 7% in the first six months of 2007, and traffic levels are expected to continue to rise. DIA is now the fourth busiest airport and one of the fastest growing large hub airports in the United States. Yet, we have been informed that the TSA’s Screening Allocation Model (SAM) provides for only one additional Fulltime Equivalent (FTE) screener for Fiscal Year 2008. From our perspective, which is shared by DIA, the airlines serving Denver, and our constituents, this situation is unacceptable. Passengers risk missing flights, and airlines suffer increased costs when holding flights to permit the boarding of passengers who checked in on time but were delayed going through security screening. Denver airport officials are justifiably concerned that the passenger screening delays will cause vacation travelers to choose another destination where they do not have to experience these delays. This is particularly important to our state as we approach Colorado’s busy holiday and ski season. We understand that DIA airport officials have been working to assist TSA in reducing identified inefficiencies in the screening process, and that Denver is now spending over one million dollars annually in personnel and technology to support the TSA screening process. However, with TSA’s recent assumption of document checking responsibilities, delays were predictable as TSA screeners gained experience with this new task. Moreover, it appears that TSA has made no accommodation for the expansion of TSA responsibilities at airport security checkpoints, thereby guaranteeing longer processing times. On our recent travels to and from Colorado, we continue to see security lanes unstaffed during peak periods. We have been advised that TSA has suggested that DIA add additional lanes, which DIA is willing to do, provided that TSA commits to staff the new lanes adequately. We share DIA’s concern over whether the TSA will fully staff the new lanes if they are added. We appreciate that TSA bolstered staffing for the long weekend when the World Series was held in Denver, and understand that TSA now has under consideration a request for 58 additional screeners. We urge TSA promptly to approve this request, and to take whatever additional steps as necessary to reduce passenger wait times to 10 minutes as originally promised when TSA took over passenger screening. Please let us know as soon as possible what steps the TSA has taken and will take immediately to improve the situation at Denver International Airport. Sincerely, Wayne Allard, U.S. Senator Ken Salazar, U.S. Senator Diana DeGette, Member of Congress Mark Udall, Member of Congress John Salazar. Member of Congress Marilyn Musgrave, Member of Congress Doug Lamborn, Member of Congress Tom Tancredo, Member of Congress Ed Perlmutter, Member of Congress Colorado Delegation TSA DIA letter ( 10/31/07 10:59 AM PST )
12.01.2007	Food Safety Report Endorses DeGette’s Food Bills WASHINGTON, DC – Energy and Commerce Committee Vice Chair Diana DeGette (D-CO) made the following statement regarding a white paper released yesterday by the Center for Science in the Public Interest (CSPI) entitled, Building a Modern Food Safety System: For FDA Regulated Foods: “The white paper released by CSPI is a comprehensive document not only laying out the problems associated with our food safety system, but also potential solutions for putting our system back on track. “I strongly agree with the report’s conclusion that ‘mandatory recall authority would ensure that recalled foods are removed from the market more quickly and effectively’. The report further states that ‘the ability to trace a contaminated product back to the source of production would allow the agency to conduct more rapid and thorough investigations’. As the lead sponsor of legislation that would accomplish both of these goals, I believe CSPI’s analysis bolsters the need for giving the federal government the authority to protect the health of the American consumer.” CSPI’s white paper endorses DeGette’s food safety legislation as measures that incorporate aspects of CPSI’s reform principles. Vice Chair DeGette has introducedtwo major pieces of food safety legislation, the SAFER Act [H.R. 3484], giving the government mandatory recall authority, and the TRACE Act [H.R. 3485], establishing a product tracing system for foods. The mandatory recall provisions encompassed in the SAFER Act have been included in the Energy and Commerce Committee’s food safety legislation, H.R. 3610, the Food and Drug Import Safety Act of 2007.
11.21.2007	WASHINGTON, DC -- As Department of Health and Human Services Secretary Mike Leavitt touts the Bush Administration’s latest food import safety plan at the Seattle Fish Company in Denver, Energy and Commerce Committee Vice Chair Diana DeGette (D-CO) today issued the following statement calling on the Secretary to “get serious when it comes to protecting consumers”: “If the Bush Administration really wants to get serious about protecting consumers, it would consolidate the over 12 federal agencies that currently have oversight of our food supply. A unified food safety system would greatly enhance the safety of our nation’s food supply. “The Administration should also grant the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) real, mandatory recall authority immediately. The Action Plan hailed earlier this month by the Administration was all talk but no action – while recommending a weak form of recall authority for the FDA, it fails to suggest any recall power for the USDA when it comes to tainted meat. Given the numerous outbreaks of contaminated meat, the USDA must have this power to protect consumers.” DeGette has also introduced two major pieces of food safety legislation, the SAFER Act [H.R. 3484], giving the government mandatory recall authority, and the TRACE Act [H.R. 3485], establishing a product tracing system for foods. The mandatory recall provisions encompassed in the SAFER Act have been included in the Energy and Commerce Committee’s food import safety legislation, H.R. 3610, the Food and Drug Import Safety Act of 2007. DeGette is also a cosponsor of the Food Safety Act of 2007 that would create a single food agency charged with overseeing the nation’s food supply.
11.20.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Energy and Commerce Committee Vice Chair Diana DeGette (D-CO), chief architect of the Stem Cell Research Enhancement Act, released the following statement today addressing the news of alternative methods for stem cell research: “While today’s scientific breakthroughs are exciting, this research is still in its early stages. It is not a substitute for embryonic stem cell research, which is the most promising research to date. The broad, bipartisan majority of Congress that supports embryonic stem cell research remains committed to supporting all forms of ethical stem cell research. “These scientific breakthroughs also highlight the need for the creation of a strict ethical framework – including firm guidelines and strong oversight by the National Institutes of Health (NIH). “Politicians should not be cherry-picking the preferred method of stem cell research; the soundness of the science should be dictating the form of research under strict ethical guidelines.”
11.19.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Bipartisan members of the Colorado and Minnesota House Delegations today urged the leadership of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Appropriations to include the necessary security funds in the 2008 Appropriations bills for both the 2008 Democratic and Republican Conventions. Congresswomen Diana DeGette of Denver, home of the 2008 Democratic National Convention, and Betty McCollum of St. Paul, home to the Republican National Convention, spearheaded a joint delegation letter sent today to both the House and Appropriations Committee leadership. “It is extremely important the 2008 convention cities of Denver and St. Paul get the necessary security funds upfront and early enough,” said DeGette. “We are working aggressively to ensure that some of the money is part of the 2008 Appropriations bills. We need at least some of the money upfront in order to start formulating plans and signing security contracts. We need to get enough, early enough.” The funds requested will be used to reimburse state and local law enforcement for the costs associated with providing security at the 2008 National Conventions. MN-CO Del Convention Letter( 11/19/07 01:33 PM PST )
11.18.2007	DENVER, CO – As the Secretary of Transportation, Mary Peters, visits Denver International Airport (DIA) to highlight the Bush Administration’s plan to ease holiday travel, Chief Deputy Whip Diana DeGette (D-CO) today released the following statement: “In advance of the holiday season, the Bush Administration should immediately direct the Transportation Security Administration (TSA) to expedite Denver International Airport’s request for an additional 58 screeners. It is my belief that once Secretary Peters sees first-hand the challenges faced by TSA agents, Coloradoans, and visitors from across the country traveling through Denver International, she will act to alleviate this problem. As the country’s fifth busiest airport, the prolonged security wait-times are unacceptable, especially during the holiday season.” DeGette recently organized a letter by the entire Colorado Delegation to the Transportation Security Agency requesting TSA fulfill DIA’s request for more screeners.
11.12.2007	Touts Democratic Congress’ Accomplishments for Veterans; Sends Letter to U.S. Senate Pressing for Swift Action on Remaining Veterans’ Priorities DENVER, CO – To commemorate Veterans Day, Chief Deputy Whip Diana DeGette (D-CO) stood shoulder to shoulder with Colorado veterans during a press conference today to celebrate their service and to highlight the accomplishments of Democratic Congress regarding veterans’ priorities. Despite the Bush Administration’s commitment to sending our troops to war, the Administration has failed to adequately provide for our troops when they return home. Democrats in Congress are fulfilling their commitment to honor our troops and veterans’ service to our nation. DeGette also organized and released a letter, signed by Democrats in the Colorado House Delegation, to the U.S. Senate Leadership pressing for swift action on remaining veterans’ priorities already passed by the House. “Democrats in Congress are working to keep our promise to our courageous men and women in uniform when they return home,” said DeGette. “We are strengthening the American military by rebuilding its readiness, improving military health care and key benefits for our troops and their families, and investing in our veterans by making the largest-ever increase in the Department of Veterans Affairs budget. President Bush’s budget for our veterans fails to take into account the needs of so many of our troops returning home from the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq.” The Democratically-controlled Congress is making an investment in our veterans by providing the resources and tools for our troops not only during times of war, but also when they return home. By providing the necessary equipment, increasing access to health care, and treating them with the respect they deserve, Democrats have made honoring our veterans a top priority. However, much work still must be done. There are still over 15 bills the House has passed that include additional funding for veterans’ health care, help for veterans’ small business owners, and improve programs to assist veterans returning from abroad. DeGette organized a letter, signed by the Democrats in the Colorado House Delegation, to the U.S. Senate Leadership, including Majority Leader Harry Reid and Minority Leader Mitch McConnell, requesting prompt action. “This is how Democrats show in actions that they ‘really support the troops’ – by ensuring that our nation’s veterans, who have served in the armed forces or have returned from the wars, are provided the benefits and care they so deserve,” said Bob Moser, President of Colorado Veterans for America. “Some among us have experienced the waking nightmare of combat – a horror others of us are lucky not to know,” said Shannon Sharrock, a West Point graduate and former helicopter pilot. “Some among us have suffered injuries from the often relentless demands of service – a burden others of us are again lucky not to know. Most of us have at one point or another been lost in an endless sea of paperwork and bureaucratic red tape – our claims for assistance or benefits lost, found, and then lost again.” Va House Delegation Letter to Senate( 11/12/07 11:04 AM PST )
11.08.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Energy and Commerce Committee Vice Chair Diana DeGette (D-CO) today issued the following statement regarding the recent consumer product recall of the children’s toy, Aqua Dots: “Today’s recall is just another glowing example of the need for comprehensive reform of our consumer protection system. While I commend the Consumer Product Safety Commission (CPSC) for recalling these toys promptly, recalls alone do not solve the problem. Only a small percentage of the products recalled are actually returned, leaving many sitting in our homes just waiting to harm our children. “We need to insist that foreign and domestic consumer product manufacturers effectively inspect and certify the safety of their products before they are put on our store shelves. This requires a fully efficient Consumer Product Safety Commission with beefed up authority, resources, and funding to carry out the mission of ensuring the safety of our products. My legislation will accomplish this and assure American consumers that our oversight agencies are doing their job.” Congressional leaders recently proposed a comprehensive plan to protect consumers including both food imports and consumer products. The Consumer Product Safety Modernization Act [H.R. 4040] will go a long way in protecting consumers from harmful products. DeGette, along with Congresswoman Rosa DeLauro (D-CT), have also introduced the SAFE Consumer Product Act [H.R. 3691], legislation that takes critical steps to ensure the toys our children play with are safe by strengthening the authority and staff of the Consumer Product Safety Commission (CPSC).
11.08.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C. – As Congress handed President Bush his first veto override, Chief Deputy Whip Diana DeGette (D-CO) today applauded the successful override of the Water Resources Development Act (WRDA). The President vetoed WRDA despite overwhelming support in the House and Senate. “Congress’ successful override of President Bush’s misguided veto of the Water Resources Development Act is a win for America’s waterways and infrastructure. This Act is critical to the health of our people, economic development and the safety of our communities. “This Act also addresses important Colorado water infrastructure needs. Provisions I secured in WRDA will restore riparian habitat, enhance recreational opportunities, and improve water flow along the South Platte River. As we have seen in downtown Denver, the restoration of the South Platter has reinvigorated the economy while preserving the environment. I look forward to seeing the fruits of this Act take shape across the metro area.” Rep. DeGette secured $13,065,000 for environmental restoration of the Denver County Reach of the South Platte River. DeGette also included language in WRDA to allow increased water storage at Chatfield reservoir for environmental restoration. This will improve water flow along the Platte and enhance the redevelopment efforts, as well as help meet municipal and agricultural water supply needs. The House of Representatives voted to override the President’s veto earlier this week, and the Senate followed suit today.
11.07.2007	Disappointed Gender Identity Not Included WASHINGTON, D.C. – Chief Deputy Whip Diana DeGette (D-CO) today voted to support H.R. 3685, the Employment Non-Discrimination Act (ENDA), which passed on a vote of 235 to 184. This bipartisan bill makes it illegal to fire, refuse to hire, or otherwise discriminate against employees simply based on their sexual orientation. “I am a proud co-sponsor of the original Employment Non-Discrimination Act that included gender identity,” said DeGette. “I supported this bill since no one should be discriminated against because of who they are. However, I cast my vote today with deep regret the transgendered community has been denied these protections. While I am committed to extending equality in employment to gay, lesbian and bisexual individuals, I will not rest until we also include transgendered Americans.” ENDA prohibits employers, employment agencies and labor unions from using an individual’s sexual orientation as the basis for employment decisions, such as hiring, firing, promotion or compensation. In 30 states, it is legal to fire someone simply because of his or her sexual orientation. A May 2007 Gallup poll found that nearly 90 percent of Americans support equal treatment for gays and lesbians when it comes to employment opportunities.
11.05.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Energy and Commerce Committee Vice Chair Diana DeGette (D-CO) today applauded Governor Ritter for Colorado’s first Climate Action Plan: “Colorado has been a leader when it comes to increasing our use of renewable energy. I applaud Governor Ritter’s bold, realistic plan that reduces Colorado’s carbon dioxide emissions by the year 2020. I hope Colorado’s efforts to reduce emissions, increase fuel savings, and promote advanced technologies will jumpstart federal action. “The U.S. House recently passed monumental Energy legislation that included a national Renewable Energy Standard (RES) illustrating our commitment to clean energy. I am proud to have worked with my colleagues in Congress to ensure the passage of a national RES plan. The federal government has an historic opportunity to follow Colorado’s example by transforming to a new energy economy and reducing our dependence on fossil fuels. I look forward to working with Governor Ritter at the federal level to support our state’s efforts to address the challenges of global warming.” During the consideration of the House Energy Bill, DeGette led the passage of a renewable energy standard creating a national plan. The national RES requires electric utilities to derive 15 percent of their energy from renewable sources, 4 percent of which can come from efficiency, by 2020.
11.02.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Chief Deputy Whip Diana DeGette (D-CO) today issued the following statement after President George W. Bush vetoed the Water Resources Development Act (WRDA) 2007 conference report: “President Bush’s veto of the Water Resources Development Act (WRDA) is foolish – WRDA not only ensures the continued viability of America’s water resources and infrastructure, but it has also achieved overwhelming bipartisan support in Congress. This is just the latest example of the President trying to score political points despite the bipartisan work on this Congress. “This Act is critical to Colorado’s water infrastructure needs such as the restoration of our waterways. The provisions I secured will restore the riparian habitat, enhance recreational opportunities, and improve water flow along the South Platte River. I am confident Congress will override the President’s veto.” U.S. Rep. DeGette secured two major financial and language provisions in the WRDA bill. DeGette secured $13,065,000 for further environmental restoration for the Denver County Reach of the South Platte River. It provides for $13,065,000 million in federal funding, along with $7,035,000 million in local funding. This ongoing cleanup project will restore the riparian habitat, enhance recreational opportunities, and improve the scenery around the Platte. In terms of language, DeGette was also able to secure language important to Coloradans relating to the Platte River and Chatfield Reservoir. This language change would allow increased water storage at Chatfield reservoir to be used for environmental restoration. This will improve water flow along the Platte, which would enhance the Platte redevelopment efforts and help to meet municipal and agricultural water supply needs. The House of Representatives has scheduled a veto override vote on Tuesday.
11.02.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C. – As news reports surface that the current and former head of the Consumer Product Safety Commission (CPSC) have accepted over $60,000 in industry-sponsored travel, Energy and Commerce Committee Vice Chair Diana DeGette (D-CO) today assailed the Commission and announced she intends to amend the Consumer Product Safety Modernization Act prohibiting these practices as it moves through Committee next week. “It is outrageous that those in charge of ensuring the safety of our products are accepting free travel from the very same industry they are responsible for overseeing. This conflict of interest puts the objectivity of our nation’s oversight agency at risk. “While the Commissioners are off globe-trotting with industry, children across the country are being exposed to harmful toys. I intend to outlaw this abusive practice.” The Washington Post today reported that the current and former head of the Consumer Product Safety Commission have taken dozens of trips at the expense of the toy, appliance and children's furniture industries and others they regulate. Just yesterday, DeGette joined senior Energy and Commerce Committee members in introducing “The Consumer Product Safety Modernization Act” [H.R. 4040] . DeGette has also introduced the “SAFE Consumer Product Act” [H.R. 2691] legislation that takes critical steps to ensure the toys our children play with are safe by strengthening the authority and staff of the Consumer Product Safety Commission (CPSC), including new requirements that all children's products be certified as having met rigorous product safety standards by independent third party laboratories. It also gives the CPSC enhanced authority to recall tainted toys and bans lead in children’s toys.
11.01.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C – Energy and Commerce Committee Vice Chair Diana DeGette (D-CO) today joined Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman John D. Dingell (D-MI) and Commerce, Trade, and Consumer Protection Subcommittee Chairman Bobby Rush (D-IL) in introducing comprehensive consumer protection legislation, the Consumer Protection Modernization Act of 2007, and applauded their efforts. “I am very pleased to join Chairmen Dingell and Rush in introducing this important piece of legislation aimed at protecting the health of the American consumer,” said DeGette. “The children of this country are being assaulted with tainted products entering their home. This legislation takes the first of many steps in reforming our out-dated system by beefing up the authority and resources of the Federal agency charged with ensuring the safety of our products. “This vital legislation compliments legislation I have already introduced, the SAFE Consumer Product Act, which also makes critical investments in the Consumer Product Safety Commission (CSPC) and outlines measures needed to protect the products our children play with. I look forward to working with Chairman Dingell to enact legislation that best protects our children and families.” DeGette and Congresswoman Rosa DeLauro (D-CT) have introduced the SAFE Consumer Product Act [H.R. 3691], legislation that takes critical steps to ensure the toys our children play with are safe by strengthening the authority and staff of the Consumer Product Safety Commission (CPSC), including new requirements that all children's products be certified as having met rigorous product safety standards by independent third party laboratories. It also gives the CPSC enhanced authority to recall tainted toys and bans lead in children’s toys.
10.22.2007	Children’s Health Takes Back Seat to President’s Failed War in Iraq WASHINGTON, DC – Energy and Commerce Committee Vice Chair Diana DeGette (D-CO) today made the following statement after President George W. Bush requested an additional $42.3 billion from Congress for the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, raising the total amount requested to $184 billion: “President Bush’s priorities are wrong and misguided. While he continues to request billions of dollars for his failed war in Iraq, he can’t seem to find it in his heart to spend any money on health care for America’s poorest kids. The President turns his back when it comes to supporting the children’s health program – which is fully paid for – and instead wants to drive our nation further into debt with this war. “Since 2003, the United States has spent over $880 million dollars on Iraqi health care – much of it spent on health care for the children of Iraq. It is appalling that the poorest children in America have to take a back seat to the President’s disastrous war. What was missing in President Bush’s request was a concrete plan to end this war and bring our troops home. Until then, I cannot support any plan that weakens our commitment to timelines and political benchmarks.”
10.19.2007	Senators Clinton and Murray, Congresswomen Slaughter and DeGette, Join Planned Parenthood to Denounce Orr’s Appointment WASHINGTON, DC — On a conference call with reporters today, Senators Hillary Clinton (D-NY) and Patty Murray (D-WA), along with Congresswomen Louise Slaughter (D-NY) and Diana DeGette (D-CO), joined Planned Parenthood Federation of America (PPFA) President Cecile Richards and Mary Jane Gallagher from the National Family Planning and Reproductive Health Association (NFPRHA) to denounce the appointment of anti-family planning, anti-sex education hardliner Susan Orr to the position of acting deputy assistant secretary for population affairs (DASPA). They called on President Bush to replace Orr with someone qualified and committed to family planning. The DASPA oversees Title X, the nation's family planning program, which provides high-quality family planning and preventive health care services to more than five million low-income individuals annually, helping prevent more than one million unintended pregnancies each year. On the call with reporters, Cecile Richards said, “Appointing Susan Orr to head the nation’s family planning program is like choosing a police chief who doesn’t believe in fighting crime. This appointment is a nightmare for the 98 percent of women who use birth control at some point in their lives, as well as for their families.” Orr was formerly a senior director for marriage and family care at the Family Research Council, a political organization that opposes family planning. While in this role, Orr cheered the Bush administration’s proposed elimination of the contraceptive coverage requirement from federal employees’ health insurance. Said Orr of the proposal, “We're quite pleased because fertility is not a disease. It's not a medical necessity that you have [contraception].” "This appointment sends a message to women across this country: ideology trumps women's health in the Bush Administration. That's why I am calling on the Bush Administration to withdraw this nomination. The American people deserve a qualified public health expert who will serve women's health instead of serving an ideological and political agenda," said Senator Clinton. Senator Patty Murray said, “This is a position with serious responsibilities and we need a candidate with a serious commitment to women's health. What we don't need is another administration appointee that has a healthier respect for the president than for sound science.” Congresswoman Louise Slaughter remarked, “We are offended and affronted time after time by the Bush Administration in their treatment of women. We need to put a stop to this appointment.” “This is an Alice in Wonderland moment where everything is topsy-turvy. You have an individual appointed to a position who oversees birth control who opposes federal involvement in birth control. This is a critical position that could influence pregnancy prevention and contraception. The appointment of Susan Orr does not move us forward in this effort, it takes us back centuries,” said Congresswoman Diana DeGette. Mary Jane Gallagher (NFPRHA) said, “We need family planning services like comprehensive sex education, counseling, std and cancer screenings as well as access to contraception. Low-income and uninsured men and women deserve to have Title X administered by someone who agrees that all these things are important to ensure that families are well prepared to have children.” Earlier this year, Bush appointed Eric Keroack, another anti-birth control extremist, for the same post. Keroack served as head of an organization called “A Woman’s Concern,” which boasted an anti-contraception policy on its website that declared birth control is “demeaning to women.” Planned Parenthood, along with 126 members of Congress, nearly 30 media outlets and 111,000 activists demanded Keroack be removed from this position. Keroack stepped down earlier this year amid Medicaid fraud allegations. The Office of Population Affairs advises the secretary and the assistant secretary for health on "a wide range of reproductive health topics, including adolescent pregnancy, family planning, and sterilization, as well as other population issues," according to its website.
10.18.2007	DeGette Assails Republicans for Not Standing Up for America’s Poor Children – Denying 116,000 Kids in Colorado Health Care WASHINGTON, DC – As the House of Representatives unsuccessfully attempted to override President Bush’s veto of the State Children’s Health Insurance Program (SCHIP), Energy and Commerce Committee Vice Chair Diana DeGette (D-CO) assailed House Republicans who voted to sustain President Bush’s veto saying they “failed to stand up for America’s children.” “I stand with the 81 percent of Americans who support this bipartisan, compromise bill that gives health care to 10 million poor children in this country. It builds upon the strong foundation of SCHIP, and covers almost four million additional children. “The Republicans have tried to distort the language of this bill, but here are the real facts: The bill does not cover adults. The bill does not cover people who are here illegally, and it does not cover the wealthy. It is fully paid for. Who does it cover? It covers over 10 million low-income children nationwide. We should put the working families of this nation above a politically motivated veto that denies health care to America’s children. “We in Congress should hang our heads in shame if the wealthiest country in the world refuses to provide basic health care to the children of our land. While we fell short of the votes needed to override the President’s veto, we will not let the health care for these children lapse. However, we will not negotiate against ourselves – and we will not compromise on any proposal that provides health care to any fewer than 10 million children.” Click here to watch U.S. Rep. DeGette speak on the floor of the House encouraging her colleagues to vote to override the President’s veto of SCHIP [by clicking you will be taken to a non-House website]. A CBS News poll released just yesterday highlighted the American people’s overwhelming support for the bipartisan children’s health insurance bill passed by the House and Senate and vetoed by the President. More than eight in 10 Americans favor expanding the program and a majority would even pay higher taxes to do so. The poll found that 81 percent of Americans favor expanding SCHIP. Of those that support the bill, 74 percent would be willing to pay higher taxes to cover the measure. Read details of the bipartisan compromise bill reauthorizing SCHIP.
10.04.2007	WASHINGTON, DC – As Colorado State University (CSU) announced the opening of an additional BSL-III lab and given our nation’s high security climate, Energy and Commerce Committee Diana DeGette (D-CO) today pressed federal officials about the risks involved in expanding these labs before the Energy and Commerce Oversight and Investigations subcommittee hearing, Germs, Viruses and Secrets: The Silent Proliferation of Bio-Laboratories in the United States. The purpose of the hearing is to examine the risks associated with the recent rapid proliferation of high-containment biological research labs, known as BSL-III and IV, in the United States. “While there is some oversight of Federal labs, there is virtually none for non-Federally supported labs conducting this hazardous research,” said DeGette. “It is scary that labs can pop-up overnight without any approval or oversight by any government entity. Even for Federal labs, there are multiple agencies regulating these activities. We need to consider having one federal agency regulating this dangerous research under one umbrella regardless of how it is funded or who’s conducting it. The advantage of a single Federal agency for oversight of these labs is a uniform system of regulations and guidelines to safeguard the public from any harm.” No single Federal agency has overall responsibility for the regulation of lab biological research, including assessing the risks of expanding these labs. While BSL-IV labs study lethal agents that have no treatments or vaccines available, BSL-III labs are used to study and handle dangerous biological agents and toxins for which there is a treatment and vaccine. The number of BSL-III labs is unknown. The recent rapid growth in the number of high-containment labs is directly attributable to a surge in Federal funding for new construction and massive increases in bio-defense research, principally funded by the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases (NIAID), an institute within NIH. The accidental or deliberate release of biological pathogens from a high-containment lab can have disastrous consequences, making safety and security at these facilities particularly important. The pathogens, such as anthrax, plague, and smallpox, handled in BSL-III and IV labs present unique difficulties compared to other hazardous substances in that they are often highly contagious, can be transmitted through aerosolization, and can result in serious adverse consequences if released. Colorado State University recently unveiled a new high-tech BSL-III lab. CSU currently hosts a number of labs on its campus, with the Centers for Disease Control (CDC) and the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) each operating a lab. Performing research on some of the world’s deadliest diseases, all of the CSU labs are funded mainly by the National Institutes of Health (NIH). The new facility at CSU is one of 13 new bio labs being built across the country. Click here complete list of those testifying at this hearing.
10.03.2007	While 72 Percent of Americans Support the Bipartisan Compromise Children’s Health Bill, Bush Callously Vetoes Bill WASHINGTON, DC – As President Bush’s veto threat of the bipartisan, compromise bill reauthorizing the State Children’s Health Insurance Program (SCHIP) became a grim reality, Energy and Commerce Committee Vice Chair Diana DeGette (D-CO) today issued the following statement:“It is shameful that President Bush would play politics with our children’s health. Showing his true colors when it comes to America’s low-income children, the President’s cynical political rhetoric trumpeted the healthy future of over 10 million kids nationwide. His actions today will jeopardize health care for over 10 million children of the working poor. “The President is making a grave mistake by putting politics above kids’ health. Despite the falsehoods in his rhetoric, this compromise bill targets the lowest-income uninsured American children whose parents can’t afford health insurance. Our goal is to provide coverage to as many children eligible for the program currently not enrolled. “President Bush sent a clear message to 116,000 kids in Colorado that their health is not a priority. Children in Colorado and across the country are relying on this vital program for their health care. Congress will not let the coverage lapse for those currently receiving health care. We will take the necessary steps to continue and enhance this program.” Under the bipartisan, compromise children’s health care bill, the health care of 6.6 million children would have been preserved while providing 3.8 million additional children with health care coverage. In Colorado, 60,000 uninsured kids would have gained access to health care raising the total number of kids covered to 116,000. An ABC News/Washington Post recently-released poll highlights overwhelming support among the American people of the children’s health insurance program. In fact, 72 percent of Americans support a $35 billion increase in the program. Support for the bipartisan children’s health insurance bill includes overwhelming majorities regardless of political party - including 81 percent of Democrats, 69 percent of Independents, and 61 percent of Republicans. # # #
10.02.2007	WASHINGTONTON, DC - With record recalls of lead-tainted toys this year, Congresswoman Rosa L. DeLauro (D-CT) and Energy and Commerce Committee Vice Chair Diana DeGette (D-CO) announce the introduction of legislation to strengthen consumer product safety laws in the United States – The Safety Assurance for Every (SAFE) Consumer Product Act. The legislation takes critical steps to ensure the toys our children play with are safe by strengthening the authority and staff of the Consumer Product Safety Commission (CPSC), including new requirements that all children's products be certified as having met rigorous product safety standards by independent third party laboratories.“As consumers, we want to know that the products we purchase are safe, particularly when it comes to toys for our children, but with 50 lead-based toy recalls already this year – more than double any previous year – it is clear that we need to act urgently to strengthen consumer protection safety laws. With this legislation, we will enhance our ability to catch defects and keep defective products out of the marketplace in the first place. Our children should be able to play with lead-free toys,” said DeLauro“From children’s toys to play jewelry, the record number of lead-tainted product recalls this year is seriously frightening,” said DeGette. “It is an outrage that in this day and age our children are still playing with dangerous toys. The federal government has an important role to play in ensuring the safety of the products we bring into our homes. This bill will go a long way in making sure the government has the tools and resources to carry out this critical mission.” Already this year the CPSC has raised the total lead-based recalls in 2007 to 50 – almost one-third of the 154 recalls the commission has issued in the 30 years since it began monitoring lead levels in consumer items. Throughout 2007, the CPSC has recalled a record number of hazardous imported products from China including a wide variety of toys and children’s jewelry. According to the CPSC, in 2006 there were 471 recalls involving approximately 124 million consumer products that either violated mandatory standards or presented a substantial risk to the public. Over two-thirds of these recalls involved imported products, primarily from China. The problem of dangerous imported toys is growing.The SAFE Consumer Product Act would strengthen and improve the mandate of the Consumer Product Safety Act in regulating consumer products. Specifically it will:Require children’s products to undergo independent third-party testing; Expand civil and criminal penalties; Ban lead in children’s products; Enhance CPSC recall and inspection authority; Expedite recall disclosure to the public; and Provide additional resources to the CPSC. ###SUMMARY - The SAFE Consumer Product ActReps. Rosa DeLauro and Diana DeGette 1. Require Children’s Products to Undergo Independent Third-Party Testing (Section 4) Currently, manufacturer testing certifications can be performed by any entity, without regulation or restriction. The SAFE Consumer Product Act would require all child safety certifications to be carried out by independent third-party entities. This would give consumers at least a minimal level of assurance that the children’s products they buy are safe. The bill would also allow the CPSC, at its discretion, to require other products to undergo third-party testing. The CPSC would create an entity to accredit what non-governmental independent third-parties qualify to perform such tests or testing programs. The Toy Industry Association (TIA) during recent congressional testimony has encouraged the Federal government to adopt a requirement that all toys sold in the U.S. undergo inspection to assure that they conform to our standards. (Click here to view TIA’s House testimony) 2. Enhance CPSC Recall and Inspection Authority (Section 5) Currently, the CPSC has to convene a formal hearing before manufacturers can be forced to recall a product— this time delay means that unsafe products may continue to be used by children and sold by retailers despite an acknowledgement of their potential hazards.The SAFE Consumer Product Act would provide the CPSC with strengthened recall authority to ensure defective and hazardous consumer products are taken off store shelves expeditiously before they get in the hands of children. Once a recall need is identified by the CPSC, manufacturers could be ordered to cease distribution, provide notice to consumers and distributors, and recall the product. Manufacturers would have an opportunity for a hearing shortly after any order from the CPSC.The bill would make it clear that it is illegal to knowingly sell any consumer product subject to a recall. It would require manufacturers to choose a recall remedy that is acceptable to the CPSC. Tracking labels for children’s products would also be required. This information would facilitate future recalls by making it easier to distinguish defective products. Finally, it provides the CPSC with the explicit authority to inspect retailers. Currently, the commission only has the authority to inspect any factory, warehouse, or establishment in which consumer products are manufactured or held. 3. Expand Civil and Criminal Penalties (Section 6) Civil Penalties - Currently, the limit on civil penalties that can be levied by the CPSC is only $1.825 million. This amount is inadequate to serve as an effective deterrent for large manufacturers and retailers.The SAFE Consumer Product Act would eliminate the cap on civil penalties. The CPSC would consider the nature of the product defect, the severity of the risk of injury, the occurrence of absence of injury, the number of defective products distributed, and the appropriateness of such penalty in relation to the size of the business of the person charged. Criminal Penalties – Currently, the CPSC has to issue a notice of noncompliance to individuals, officers, or agents who engage in prohibited actions. The SAFE Consumer Product Act would eliminate this requirement to streamline the timeliness and efficiency of the criminal penalty process. 4. Expedite Recall Disclosure to the Public (Section 7) The SAFE Consumer Product Act would reduce the period of notice to manufacturers and private labelers prior to public disclosure from 30 days to 10 days. This will help facilitate the timely public announcement of recalls. The bill would require manufacturers and retailers to post recall notices on their Internet website. 5. Ban Lead in Children’s Products (Section 8) Although the CPSC issued a ban on lead-containing paint (600 parts per million) and on toys and furniture coated with such paint in 1977, it has yet to explicitly ban lead in children’s toys. The SAFE Consumer Product Act would require the CPSC to prescribe regulations classifying any children's product containing lead (more than 40 parts per million) as a banned substance under the Hazardous Substances Act. This would include products marketed or used by children under age 12. The American Academy of Pediatrics supports both of these thresholds to ensure the safety of our children. (Click here to view AAP’s House testimony) 6. Require Consumer Product Registration Forms for Children’s Toys (Section 9) The SAFE Consumer Product Act would require manufactures of children’s products to include a product registration form (not later than 270 days) for products subject to a consumer product safety standard or a voluntary standard. This recordkeeping will help to ensure consumer who purchase recalled products can be properly informed of defects etc.7. Enhance Internet Advertising of Children’s Toys (Section 10) The SAFE Consumer Product Act would require warning labels in a clear location on any Internet advertisements for a children’s product. 8. Allow the CPSC to Continue Regulatory Activities (Section 11) The CPSC has been without a third commissioner since July 2006. The two remaining commissioner were able to continue their regulatory activities for 6 months after the vacancy—so from January 15, 2007 until last month the panel was unable to vote on civil penalties or take regulatory action—only in August did Senator Pryor insert a one-sentence provision into a recently approved homeland security bill that allows the two remaining commission members to comprise a quorum, at least until January 2008. The SAFE Consumer Product Act urges the president to nominate members to fill any vacancy in the membership of the Commission as expeditiously as practicable so that the CPSC can function effectively. Upon expiration of the temporary quorum, the CPSC may take an action if it is necessary in the public interest and the Commission transmits its reasons to Congress. 9. Ensure States are Not Preempted by the CPSC (Section 12) The SAFE Consumer Product Act makes it clear that consumer product safety standards issued by the CPSC do not preempt State or local laws. There are several States, including California and Vermont, which have taken the lead on strengthening consumer protection laws. 10. Provide Additional Resources to the CPSC (Section 13) The CPSC shrinking budget is just $62 million this year, even though the agency regulates an industry that sells $1.4 trillion annually. The FY08 Financial Services Appropriations bill includes $66.8 million, which is $4.11 above last year’s allocation and $3.588 more than the president’s budget request—nearly 7 percent increase in funding.The SAFE Consumer Product Act would authorize additional funds for the CPSC: $75,600,000 for fiscal year 2008. $87,950,000 for fiscal year 2009. $100,300,000 for fiscal year 2010. $112,650,000 for fiscal year 2011. $125,000,000 for fiscal year 2012. Acting CPSC Chairman Nord acknowledges that the agency has had to limit its focus; it investigates only 10 percent to 15 percent of the reported injuries or deaths linked to co
09.25.2007	WASHINGTON, DC – As the September 30th deadline to reauthorize the State Children’s Health Insurance Program (SCHIP) quickly approaches, the Democratically-controlled House of Representatives today reauthorized the program for another 5 years on a broad, bipartisan vote of 265 to 159. Energy and Commerce Committee Vice Chair Diana DeGette (D-CO), who voted in support, hailed the passage of the legislation that preserves health care coverage for 6.6 million children and provides new health care coverage for 3.8 million additional low-income kids nationwide. “This is a victory for millions of low-income kids nationwide who lack basic health care,” said DeGette. “This bill builds upon the tremendous success of the children’s health program over the last ten years. Our reauthorization of SCHIP not only preserves coverage for 6.6 million children currently in the program, but will also provide new health care coverage for nearly 4 million additional kids nationwide. Our ultimate goal is to insure all children eligible for the program who are not currently enrolled. “Enrolling children in the program will be more efficient because the enrollment formula targets low-income children who don’t have other options for health care. The provisions, including dental coverage, mental health parity, and coverage for pregnant women – an issue I have worked to include in SCHIP for years – will make the children’s health program strong and more comprehensive. “President Bush holds a healthy future for over 10 million children in his hands. If he follows through on his misguided veto threat, millions of kids will be dropped from the health care rolls. The President must stand with America’s children – now is the time to compromise, not fall back on cynical political rhetoric.” Reauthorization of SCHIP Invests $35 Billion in New Funding for SCHIP. The agreement reauthorizes the Children’s Health Insurance Program, investing an additional $35 billion over five years to strengthen SCHIP’s financing, increase health insurance coverage for low-income children, and improve the quality of health care children receive. Lowering the rate of uninsured low-income children. The agreement will provide health coverage to millions of low-income children who are currently uninsured. The bill also ensures that the 6.6 million children who currently participate in SCHIP continue to receive health coverage, and provide new coverage for 3.8 million additional children. Improving Access to Benefits for Children (Dental Coverage/Mental Health Parity/EPSDT). Under the agreement, quality dental coverage will be provided to all children enrolled in SCHIP. The agreement also ensures states will offer mental health services on par with medical and surgical benefits covered under CHIP, and protects medically necessary benefits (EPSDT) for low-income children. Prioritizing children’s coverage. The agreement makes several modifications as it relates to populations eligible for CHIP. Pregnant Women: The agreement provides coverage to pregnant women as a new state option as well as preserving the options to cover them through a state waiver or through regulation. Parents: The agreement prohibits any new waivers to cover parents in the CHIP program. States that have received waivers to cover low-income parents under CHIP will be allowed to transition parents into a separate block grant. The federal match for services to parents covered through CHIP will be reduced. Childless Adults: The agreement retains the current law prohibition of waivers to allow coverage of childless adults. Currently covered childless adults will transition off SCHIP. For states that have received SCHIP waivers to cover childless adults, the agreement terminates those waivers after a one-year period, provides temporary Medicaid funding for already-enrolled adults, and allows states to apply for a Medicaid waiver for coverage. Providing states with incentives to lower the rate of uninsured low income children. Under the financing structure, states will receive state-based allotments that are responsive to state demographic and national spending trends and allow additional up-front funding for states planning improvements. States that face a funding shortfall and meet enrollment goals will receive an adjustment payment to ensure that no child who is eligible for Medicaid or SCHIP is denied coverage or placed on a waiting list. The formula also sets in place new overall caps on federal funding to ensure the program’s expenditures do not exceed the amounts authorized. The agreement provides incentives for states to lower the rate uninsured children by enrolling eligible children in SCHIP or Medicaid. Agreement Replaces CMS August 17th Letter to States. The Congress agrees with the President on the importance of covering low-income children have health coverage while taking steps to address crowd-out and prioritize coverage of lower income children. The agreement replaces the flawed CMS August 17th letter to states with a more thoughtful and appropriate approach. In place of the CMS letter, the agreement gives states time and assistance in developing and implementing best practices to address crowd out. The agreement also puts the lowest income children first in line by phasing in a new requirement for coverage of low-income children as a condition of receiving SCHIP funding for coverage of children above 300 percent of the poverty level. Improving Outreach Tools to Simplify and Streamline Enrollment of Eligible Children. The agreement provides $100 million in grants for new outreach activities to states, local governments, schools, community-based organizations, safety-net providers and others. Improving the Quality of Health Care for Low-Income Children. The agreement establishes a new quality child health initiative to develop and implement quality measures and improve state reporting of quality data. Improving Access to Private Coverage Options. The agreement expands on current premium assistance options for states. The agreement allows states to offer a premium assistance subsidy for qualified, cost-effective employer-sponsored coverage to children eligible for SCHIP and who have access to such coverage. It also changes the federal rules governing employer-sponsored insurance to make it easier for states and employers to offer premium assistance programs.
09.21.2007	Energy and Commerce Committee Vice Chair Diana DeGette (D-CO) issued the following statement regarding the bipartisan, Congressional proposal announced today on the State Children's Health Insurance Program (SCHIP): "House and Senate leaders joined together today agreeing to a bipartisan compromise measure reauthorizing the State Children’s Health Insurance Program (SCHIP). I am confident that the proposal will pass both the House and Senate next week. “It’s now up to President Bush to put politics aside and sign this bill. Following through with his veto threat would simply show a willingness to deny health coverage to millions of low-income children throughout the country for mere political gain.”
09.20.2007	Energy and Commerce Committee Vice Chair Responds to President Bush on Children’s Health WASHINGTON, DC – Energy and Commerce Committee Vice Chair Diana DeGette (D-CO) today chided President George W. Bush over his comments about the State Children’s Health Insurance Program (SCHIP) during his press conference: “President Bush’s political rhetoric matches his cynical policy. We have a choice – we can either pay for the health care of low-income children through SCHIP or through the emergency room. President Bush’s reckless and irresponsible proposal will force millions of kids to line up at the front door of America’s hospitals. “While the President tries to paint bipartisan Congressional efforts to insure children as politics, the fact remains that the President’s proposal harms kids. Despite the President’s rhetoric, our proposal simply ensures that millions of low-income kids will gain access to health care.”
09.19.2007	DeGette Requests EPA to Hold Public Hearing in Denver Metro Area WASHINGTON, DC – Chief Deputy Whip Diana DeGette (D-CO) today requested the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) give the Denver metro area a voice in the upcoming debate over proposed ozone standards. In a letter to EPA Administrator Stephen Johnson, DeGette requested the EPA schedule a public hearing regarding the proposed ozone standards. The EPA recently proposed changes to ambient air quality standards for ground-level ozone, changes that will have a profound impact on the health of Americans. “A public hearing in the Denver metro area will help ensure the EPA crafts a proposal with broad-based input,” DeGette writes. “Citizens in the Denver metro area have unique concerns, ideas, and comments and deserve a forum with the EPA on this important issue.”The EPA has already scheduled hearings in Los Angeles, Houston, Chicago, Philadelphia and Atlanta. Not a single hearing has been proposed anywhere near the Denver metro area, or anywhere in the Western United States. “While I am concerned that my constituents have been shut out of such an important public process, I am also very concerned that the entire Western United States has been put at a disadvantage. Those in the West deserve to have a public forum with the EPA on the proposed ozone standards without having to travel over 1,000 miles,” DeGette writes. Below is the text of DeGette’s letter to the EPA:September 19, 2007The Honorable Stephen Johnson Administrator U.S. Environmental Protection Agency 1200 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W. Washington, D.C. 20460Dear Administrator Johnson:Air quality is an issue of significant concern in my Congressional District. My constituents in the Denver metro area continue to suffer from unhealthy ground-level ozone. At the same time, the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) is proposing changes to ambient air quality standards for ground-level ozone, changes that will have a profound impact on the health of my constituents.I am therefore writing to request the EPA schedule a public hearing in the Denver metro area to seek input on the proposed ozone standards. A public hearing for the Denver metro area will help ensure the EPA crafts a proposal with broad-based input. Citizens within the Denver metro area have unique concerns, ideas, and comments and deserve a forum with the EPA on this important issue.I understand the EPA has already scheduled five public hearings regarding the proposed ozone standards. These hearings will be held in Los Angeles, Houston, Chicago, Philadelphia, and Atlanta. Not a single hearing has been proposed anywhere near the Denver metro area, or anywhere in the Western United States, for that matter.And while I am concerned that my constituents have been shut out of such an important public process, I am also very concerned that the entire Western United States has been put at a disadvantage. Those in the West deserve to have a public forum with the EPA on the proposed ozone standards without having to travel over 1,000 miles. Further, the proposed changes promise a new way of assessing air quality in the western United States, promising to impact the health of more western communities than ever before. The west needs a voice on this important process.Again, I request that you schedule a public hearing for the Denver metro area to ensure broad-based citizen input on the proposed ozone standards. The EPA has given the public until October 9th to submit comments, leaving ample time for the agency to schedule an additional hearing by that date. I look forward to hearing from you on this important matter. Thank you. Sincerely,Diana DeGette Member of Congress
09.19.2007	WASHINGTON, DC – Chief Deputy Whip Diana DeGette (D-CO), the architect of the Stem Cell Research Enhancement Act, today issued the following statement as the National Institutes of Health (NIH) announced it will begin implementing President George W. Bush's Executive Order to explore methods to expand the number of approved pluripotent stem cell lines. “President Bush can try to muddy the waters about stem cell research, but the fact remains that his Executive Order is not a substitute for the promise of embryonic stem cell research. While my colleagues and I support all forms of ethical stem cell research, the consensus among the scientific community is that embryonic stem cell research holds the greatest potential. The methods outlined in the President’s Executive Order are not nearly advanced as embryonic stem cell research. “A broad, bipartisan Majority of Congress twice passed stem cell research legislation to fund embryonic stem cell research because of its potential to unlock doors to treatments and cures for numerous diseases and conditions. Unfortunately, the President vetoed it twice. “Despite the overwhelming support among both the American people and Congress, the President continues to put politics above science at the risk of millions of patients and their families.”
09.18.2007	Vice Chair DeGette Welcomes Input, Encourages Industry to Support Her Proposals WASHINGTON, DC – On the heels of yet another E. Coli outbreak in bagged lettuce, Energy and Commerce Committee Vice Chair Diana DeGette (D-CO) today welcomed the food industry’s support of additional oversight for our nation’s food supply as outlined in the Grocery Manufacturers Association’s (GMA) action plan, Commitment to Consumers: The Four Pillars of Food Safety. “The Grocery Manufacturers Association’s report demonstrates an acknowledgment by industry that strong federal oversight of our nation’s food supply is needed,” DeGette said. “While our approaches may differ on strengthening the system, I hope industry will be a valued partner in reforming the system. I want to thank GMA for their commitment to food safety and coming to the table with their ideas to strengthen the system. “The lack of uniformity in oversight of our food supply reinforces the overwhelming need for a single food agency. The establishment of such an agency will streamline a process that is currently disjointed with 15 different federal agencies responsible for food oversight. To further protect American consumers, my proposal giving the federal government mandatory recall authority will also encourage industry to establish more rigorous oversight of their processing and packaging operations. This authority, supported by an effective national food tracking system, will not only safeguard our food, but also provide greater consumer confidence in responding quickly and efficiently to outbreaks of contamination in food.“I encourage GMA to support my proposals with the hope we can form a partnership in reforming our nation’s food system.”Earlier this month, DeGette introduced two new food safety bills. The SAFER (Safe and Fair Enforcement & Recall) Act gives the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) and the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) the authority to force a recall of contaminated foods. Under current law, recalls are completely voluntary even when public health is at risk. The United States is one of the only industrialized countries in the world that lacks this basic recall power, despite having the ability to recall toys and many other products. The TRACE (Tracing and Recalling Agricultural Contamination Everywhere) Act requires the Secretary of Agriculture to establish a product tracing system for all food products from their origin to the market, enabling faster recall in the event of contamination. DeGette is also a leading cosponsor of The Food Safety Act of 2007, which would create a single food safety agency to oversee our nation’s food supply.
09.13.2007	WASHINGTON, DC – Chief Deputy Whip Diana DeGette (D-CO) issued the following statement in response to President Bush’s address to the nation on the war in Iraq: “While I am encouraged that President Bush will redeploy a limited number of U.S. troops from Iraq, the President continues to ignore the need to establish concrete timelines and benchmarks to successfully withdraw all of our troops and end this misguided war. The President’s redeployment plan merely reduces our troops to pre-surge levels – troop levels that were unacceptable at the end of 2006, and are again unacceptable now. “General David Petraeus’ progress report illustrates that the ‘surge’ has produced unbalanced results. While the U.S. military continues to do the heavy lifting, the Iraqi Government has not made any significant political progress. General Petraeus conceded that violence remains too high and an independent report found that the Iraqi Government is far from taking over security responsibilities. “The clock is running out on the President’s failed war strategy. Having opposed giving the President the original authorization to go to war in 2002, I cannot support any plan that weakens our commitment to timelines and benchmarks that will bring our troops home and end this war quickly and responsibly.” Last week, a Government Accountability Office (GAO) Report found that the Iraqi Government has met only 3 of the 18 Congressionally mandated political and military benchmarks. Also, the Jones Report [Independent Commission on the Security Forces of Iraq] concluded that the Iraqi Government is still far from being able to take over security responsibilities.
09.12.2007	Proposal protects 62 Areas designating 1.65 million acres of Colorado public land as Wilderness DENVER - As Colorado's remaining wild lands continue to be threatened by oil and gas drilling and encroaching development, Chief Deputy Whip Diana DeGette (D- CO) today reintroduced the Colorado Wilderness Act of 2007. Joining Rep. DeGette at her press conference was Tresi Houpt, Garfield County Commissioner and member of the State Oil and Gas Commission, David Getches, Dean of the University of Colorado School of Law, Paul D’Elia from Patagonia Denver, and representatives and citizens from the Colorado conservation community.Below are U.S. Rep. DeGette’s remarks as prepared for delivery:“I am proud to be before you today to announce the reintroduction of the Colorado Wilderness Act of 2007. Since 1999 I have had the privilege of introducing legislation to protect wilderness quality public land across Colorado. However, since that time, our state has seen many of our states special places and wilderness areas put under pressure and in threat of being lost forever. “That is why I am proud to announce my intention today to reintroduce an updated, revamped, and sweeping proposal to protect 62 separate areas across Colorado making up nearly 1.65 million acres of Coloradans’ public land as wilderness. “I am pleased to be here with many advocates of wilderness in Colorado, including Garfield County Commissioner Tresi Houpt, David Getches, Dean of the University of Colorado School of Law and Raphael J. Moses Professor of Natural Resources Law, Paul D’Elia of the Patagonia Corporation, as well as a number of conservation groups from across Colorado under the umbrella of the Colorado Wilderness Network, who for years have been the backbone and on the frontlines of defending wilderness in Colorado. Thank you for joining me today.“We are gathered here to put protecting our public land literally back on the map. Colorado’s tremendous beauty and landscapes are always in the forefront of every Coloradan. It comes as no surprise then that in a recent poll 70 % of Coloradans supported more wilderness and wildlands in Colorado. Indeed Democrats, Republicans, Western Slope and Front Range residents alike support protecting our public lands. “The poll showed that Coloradans support balance in our public lands management but we also want to protect the special areas of this State. Most of all, we want to leave what is special about Colorado for future generations.“Colorado and our wilderness are at crossroads. In the last 7 years our State’s public lands have faced an onslaught like it has never seen from the Bush Administration, particularly on lands managed by the Bureau of Land Management. Over 85,000 acres of wilderness quality public lands have already been leased for oil and gas drilling in Colorado and more are offered up every day.“Drilling rigs, new roads, pipelines, more well pads, more noise, and more dust has tarnished our landscapes, impacted our communities, and disrupted sensitive wildlife. “While there is room for energy development and leasing on our public lands, with over 80% of land available for oil and gas leasing, I think some of our most beautiful and sensitive areas should be off limits. This development is being allowed to encroach into our wildlands - removing from consideration many areas deserving of wilderness protection.“I cannot stand by as a fourth generation Coloradan and let every last acre of our state be sold to the highest bidder in the latest lease sale.“It is time to stand up for what makes Colorado special, for what brings thousands of tourists here year round providing consistent and long term benefits to our economy and communities. It is time to protect the sanctuaries our wildlife and endangered species depend on and to preserve for our children the Colorado we see and love today for future generations. It is time to protect the wild places of our state once and for all.“I recognize the Colorado Wilderness Act is an ambitious proposal. However, it is my view that piece-mealing wilderness in this State, acre by acre, is a limited proposition and one which could delay the preservation of thousands of acres of public lands for an interminable amount of time.“While individual areas may be easier to pass in the short term, the Colorado Wilderness Act in its totality is not as formidable as may seem - at 1.65 million acres the Colorado Wilderness Act makes up 1/8 of total Bureau of Land Management public land and only seven percent of total public land in our State. It consists of over 800,000 acres already managed by the BLM as wilderness study areas. Furthermore, the Colorado Wilderness Act of 2007 is a carefully researched proposal with its wilderness qualities and boundaries established using sophisticated geographic information systems and double checked on the ground by dedicated citizen volunteers. “I also understand that wilderness and our public lands do not remain in an unchanging vacuum. I have made several changes to this legislation including adjusting boundaries for ongoing energy development and activities, but also adding several thousand acres of new areas which have been discovered and advocated by citizen volunteers since my original introduction in 1999.“I am also happy to announce a significant compromise in this legislation. In Colorado we have a saying, “Whisky is for drinking and water is for fighting.” For too long the issue of water rights has been an unnecessary impediment to wilderness preservation in Colorado. In recognition of the importance of water and water rights in our state and in light of our recent drought and increased demands on water supplies, I have rewritten the water language in this bill to ensure the federal government plays by the State of Colorado’s water laws and regulations. “Professor Getches will expound on this later. But this major change to my bill shows that I am committed to listening to all sides interested in public lands and wilderness issues in Colorado and open to reasonable changes and adjustments. As the wilderness debate moves forward, my promise to listen to all sides will stand and I look forward to an ongoing dialogue about wilderness in Colorado.“Preserving wilderness in Colorado has always been hard - it brings a clash of interests and different philosophical views to a head. However, as President Kennedy, in our quest to land on the moon stated we choose to do such things “not because they are easy, but because they are hard, because that goal will serve to organize and measure the best of our skills and talents.” “In our State’s history whenever we have chosen to preserve our limited special places, the process was always hard, but we rarely looked back in regret and often wondered why we did not do it sooner. More often then not it, establishing wilderness brought out the best in our leaders and the citizens of our great State.“In closing I would like to leave you with a quote from one of the true wilderness leaders, former Senator Frank Church of Idaho who in talking about the Wilderness Act stated:‘The great purpose is to set aside a reasonable part of the vanishing wilderness, to make certain that generations of Americans yet unborn will know what it is to experience life on undeveloped, unoccupied land in the same form and character as the Creator fashioned it... It is a great spiritual experience. I never knew a man who took a bedroll into an Idaho mountainside and slept there under a star-studded summer sky who felt self-important that next morning. Unless we preserve some opportunity for future generations to have the same experience, we shall have dishonored our trust.’“It is my goal and for those standing with me today, to preserve a small part of Colorado to honor the trust of future generations and to let our children’s children experience the Colorado we love and cherish today.”For maps and detailed descriptions of the Colorado Wilderness Act please link to: https://canyoncountrywilderness.orgBelow are the areas that would be protected under U.S. Rep. DeGette’s Wilderness Act: Proposed Wilderness Area Acreage Adobe Badlands 10,742 Badger Creek 25,229 Bangs Canyon 21,110 Beaver Creek 38,378 Big Ridge 24,887 Bitter Creek 3,021 Black Mountain - Windy Gulch 22,439 Browns Canyon 20,025 Bull Canyon 16,781 Bull Gulch 15,155 Castle Peak 16,263 Cold Spring Mountain 50,536 Cow Ridge 15,721 Cross Canyon 25,947 Cross Mountain 18,057 Deep Creek 20,843 Demaree Canyon 25,881 Diamond Breaks 34,009 Dinosaur Additions 63,469 Dolores River Canyon 41,133 Dominguez Canyons 84,410 Dominguez North 12,449 Dragon Canyon 6,748 Flat Tops Addition 16,427 Grand Hogback 11,701 Granite Creek 14,089 Grape Creek 44,372 Handies Peak 72,397 Hunter Canyon 32,126 Kings Canyon 9,398 Little Bookcliffs 30,557 Mares Tail 4,809 Maroon Bells 316 Maverick 20,585 McIntyre Hills 17,318 McKenna Peak 33,467 Norwood Canyon 13,288 Oil Spring Mountain 25,005 Pinyon Ridge 20,903 Pisgah Mountain 15,679 Platte River Addn 33 Powderhorn Addition 3,306 Prairie Canyon 18,687 Redcloud Peak 38,594 Rio Grande 10,863 Roan Plateau 40,494 Roubideau 22,604 S Shale Ridge 27,569 Sagebrush Pillows 5,143 San Luis Hills 23,536 Sewemup Mesa 65,448 Skull Creek 30,735 Snaggletooth 32,050 Table Mountain 27,888 The Palisade 26,914 Thompson Creek 25,285 Troublesome 119,676 Unaweep 39,392 Vermillion Basin 86,569 Weber-Menefee Mountain 14,598 West Elk Addition 6,878 Yampa River 12,436 Totals 1,674,368
09.10.2007	Energy and Commerce Vice Chair DeGette Responds to Bush Administration Report on Food Imports WASHINGTON, DC – Energy and Commerce Committee Vice Chair Diana DeGette (D-CO) made the following statement as the Interagency Working Group on Import Safety released its initial report, Protecting American Consumers Every Step of the Way: A strategic framework for continual improvement in import safety. “The Working Group’s report has failed to produce even a single recommendation on how to make our food import system more secure,” said DeGette. “The twelve different agencies involved in drafting this report illustrate why the system is broken. We need one single federal agency to oversee our nation’s food supply. “We already know what is wrong with our food safety system in the United States. Domestically, giving the federal government mandatory recall authority supported by a national food tracking system will further protect American consumers from harmful contamination of their foods,” said DeGette. DeGette introduced two pieces of food safety legislation last week. The SAFER (Safe and Fair Enforcement & Recall) Act gives the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) and Food and Drug Administration (FDA) the authority to force a recall of contaminated foods. Under current law, recalls are completely voluntary even when public health is at risk. The United States is one of the only industrialized countries in the world that lacks this basic recall power, despite having the ability to recall toys and many other products. The TRACE (Tracing and Recalling Agricultural Contamination Everywhere) Act requires the Secretary of Agriculture to establish a product tracing system for all food products from their origin to the market, enabling faster recall in the event of contamination. DeGette is also a leading cosponsor of The Food Safety Act of 2007, which creates a single food safety agency to oversee our nation’s food supply.
09.10.2007	Chief Deputy Whip DeGette Renews Commitment for Timelines and Benchmarks to End the War in Iraq WASHINGTON, DC – As General David H. Petraeus testifies before Congress on the progress of the war in Iraq, Chief Deputy Whip Diana DeGette (D-CO) today made the following statement in favor of a new direction in Iraq. Eight months into the Bush Administration’s surge, DeGette renewed her strong support for troop withdrawal timelines and political benchmarks for a quick and responsible end to the war saying “the clock is running out on the President’s failed war.” “General Petraeus’ progress report confirms that President Bush’s war strategy has failed,” said DeGette. “While General Petraeus argues that progress has been made in reducing sectarian violence, he concedes that both the high level of civilian casualties and high profile violence throughout Iraqi neighborhoods are still too high.“Progress in Iraq is dangerously unbalanced. The Iraqi Government has squandered the opportunity to make significant political progress despite the heavy lifting by the U.S. military. Two independent reports released last week found that the Bush Administration’s escalation of troops has failed. Not only has the Iraqi Government not achieved the political and military progress necessary for success, but is far from ready to take over security responsibilities.” Last week, a Government Accountability Office (GAO) Report found that the Iraqi Government has met only 3 of the 18 Congressionally mandated political and military benchmarks. Also, the Jones Report [Independent Commission on the Security Forces of Iraq] concluded that the Iraqi Government is still far from being able to take over security responsibilities. “This unbalanced progress report on the war combined with these two independent reports reaffirms my commitment to ending the war in Iraq. I cannot support any plan that weakens our commitment to timelines and benchmarks intended to bring the war in Iraq to an end. “I will continue to stand with the majority of Americans by strongly supporting timelines and benchmarks to bring our troops home and end this war quickly and responsibly.” A New York Times/CBS poll released today found that 64 percent of Americans indicated that a “timetable should be established for a 2008 withdrawal.” Furthermore, the poll found an overwhelming majority of the American people – 63 percent – said the “war was a mistake,” and 59 percent indicated the war in Iraq “was not worth the loss of American lives.” Finally, 78 percent of Americans believe the U.S. should withdraw some or all of our troops from Iraq. DeGette has consistently voted to end the war in Iraq beginning with her opposition to giving President Bush the original authorization to go to war in 2002.
09.07.2007	WASHINGTON, DC – In advance of General David Petraeus’ Iraq progress report expected September 15th, Chief Deputy Whip Diana DeGette (D-CO) today renewed her strong support for a new direction in Iraq, including troop withdrawal timelines and political benchmarks for a quick and responsible end to the war. “While I am looking forward to hearing General Petraeus’ testimony, two independent reports released this week demonstrate that the Iraqi Government has failed to make progress,” said DeGette. “In light of these reports, I cannot support any plan that weakens our commitment to timelines and benchmarks intended to bring the war in Iraq to an end. “The evidence is mounting that the Administration’s escalation of troops in Iraq has failed. I strongly support timelines and benchmarks to bring our troops home and end this war quickly and responsibly.” A Government Accountability Office (GAO) Report found that the Iraqi Government has met only 3 of the 18 Congressionally mandated political and military benchmarks. Also this week, the Jones Report [Independent Commission on the Security Forces of Iraq] concluded that the Iraqi Government is still far from being able to take over security responsibilities. DeGette has consistently voted to end the war in Iraq beginning with her opposition to giving President Bush the original authorization to go to war in 2002.
09.06.2007	Energy and Commerce Vice Chair DeGette Introduces Key Food Safety Legislation as Tainted Food Continues to Enter Nation’s Food Supply WASHINGTON, DC – As concerns about the safety of our nation’s food supply continue to grow, Energy and Commerce Committee Vice Chair Diana DeGette (D-CO) today introduced two key pieces of food safety legislation to protect our nation’s food supply. First, the SAFER Act gives the federal government the authority to order a recall of tainted foods. Second, the TRACE Act requires the Secretary of Agriculture to establish a product tracing system to identify contaminated food. “The safety of our nation’s food supply is a growing national security concern,” said DeGette. “Protecting our food supply must be as high a priority as securing our borders. The increase in tainted food and foodborne illnesses highlights the need for comprehensive reform of the food safety system in the United States. Mandatory recall authority is critical to assuring the removal of tainted foods from the marketplace and significantly reducing the risk of foodborne illness. The establishment of a product tracing system will enable consumers and retailers to quickly identify and remove contaminated products from their refrigerators and store shelves.”The SAFER (Safe and Fair Enforcement & Recall) Act gives the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) and Food and Drug Administration (FDA) the authority to force a recall of contaminated foods. Under current law, recalls are completely voluntary even when public health is at risk. The United States is one of the only industrialized countries in the world that lacks this basic recall power, despite having the ability to recall toys and many other products. The TRACE (Tracing and Recalling Agricultural Contamination Everywhere) Act requires the Secretary of Agriculture to establish a product tracing system for all food products from their origin to the market, enabling faster recall in the event of contamination. DeGette is also a leading cosponsor of The Food Safety Act of 2007, which creates a single food safety agency to oversee our nation’s food supply. “Many of the problems with our food safety system stem from the fact there are fifteen different federal agencies with some responsibility for food safety. The monitoring failures of this disjointed system illustrate the need for creating a single food safety oversight agency,” concluded DeGette. Summary of the SAFER ActGives the federal government the authority to issue a mandatory recall of contaminated food. Under current law, these recalls are voluntary. All food would be covered by this recall authority, including that which is under the jurisdiction of the USDA and the FDA. If the federal government determines food has been contaminated, it is required to notify all people who were involved in producing, manufacturing, transportation, storing, or distributing the food. Once they have been notified, the government can provide the opportunity for a voluntary recall. If the USDA or FDA determines that an article of food is a threat to public health, and the food is not recalled voluntarily, the agencies can order that the foods be immediately recalled and that distribution be ceased. To promote awareness of the contamination, the federal government can notify consumers and well as state and local public health officials. The bill sets forth civil penalties for individuals and other entities that violate its provisions, with an opportunity for a hearing to contest adverse findings if requested.Summary of the TRACE ActOne of the biggest questions with our food safety system is what to do when an outbreak of foodborne illness is discovered. There is no quick, reliable way to find out where the product came from or where other contaminated foods may have been shipped. While we should focus our efforts on preventing contamination in the first place, we also need to have procedures in place to deal with the an outbreak. Such a system would allow us to not only quickly identify the source, but also to inform businesses along the supply chain, cease distribution of other tainted products, and notify potential consumers and business owners who may have this food in their homes and restaurants. Without a proper product tracing system, one person becoming sick from tainted food could potentially turn into a public health crisis. This legislation requires the FDA and the USDA to establish a product tracing system to track food products from their origins to the grocery store, enabling faster recall in the event of contamination. This proposal will assist consumers and retailers in identifying and removing tainted products from refrigerators and store shelves. With meat and poultry products, which are under the USDA’s jurisdiction, animals would be identified in a way that enables them to be traced to any location at which they were held at any time before slaughter. It would also require the labeling of meat products allowing them to be traced through processing and distribution to the ultimate consumer. For other food products, under the jurisdiction of the FDA, this bill requires a similar traceability system that tracks food at all stages of manufacturing, processing, packaging, and distribution.
08.28.2007	WASHINGTON, DC - Energy and Commerce Committee Vice Chair Diana DeGette (D-CO) offered the following remarks on the release of today’s U.S. Census Bureau’s annual report on Income, Poverty, and Health Insurance Coverage. The report showed the number American’s uninsured has increased from 44.8 million in 2005 to 47 million in 2006, including an increase in the number of uninsured children from 8 million to 8.7 million.“The growing number of uninsured Americans illustrates the importance of the State Children’s Health Insurance Program (SCHIP),” said DeGette. “The improved and enhanced SCHIP bill approved by the House will provide quality health care to children across the country. The sharp increase of 700,000 children living without health care should serve as a wake up call to the Bush Administration.“I strongly encourage President Bush to put politics aside and stand up for America’s children.”
08.27.2007	WASHINGTON, DC - Chief Deputy Whip Diana DeGette (D-CO) today offered the following statement on the resignation of Attorney General Alberto Gonzales:“The resignation of Attorney General Alberto Gonzales is long overdue,” said DeGette. “The political games the Bush Administration has played with our justice system have put its credibility into doubt. The Attorney General has not only lost the confidence of Congress, but has also abused the trust of the American people.“It is crucial that President Bush use this opportunity to nominate a candidate who will restore the public’s trust in our judicial system.”
08.22.2007	Pledges to Fight Bush Administration for Adequate Funding of SCHIP WASHINGTON, DC – As Congress prepares to reconvene to continue work on the State Children’s Health Insurance Program (SCHIP), Energy and Commerce Committee Vice Chair Diana DeGette (D-CO) today applauded Colorado’s commitment to children’s health care while pledging to fight in Congress for the adequate funding for SCHIP. “While our state is committed to providing health care coverage to thousands of kids, Colorado’s partnership with the federal government will become ever stronger with an improved Children’s Health Insurance Program, which will cover nearly 100,000 children statewide,” said DeGette. “I applaud Governor Ritter’s dedication at the state level to ensure that every child eligible for the program participates. Along with state government leaders, children’s health care advocates statewide have put needed pressure on Congress to support this wildly successful program. “I am committed to working in Congress to ensure that the State Children’s Health Insurance Program receives the adequate funding to cover the kids eligible for the program nationwide, yet not currently enrolled.”
08.21.2007	WASHINGTON, DC – Energy and Commerce Committee Vice Chair Diana DeGette (D-CO) today blasted the Bush Administration for adopting new standards that would make it much more difficult for states to extend health coverage to children in middle-income families under the State Children’s Health Insurance Program (SCHIP). “The Bush Administration’s new policy continues to jeopardize the health care of millions of American children,” said DeGette. “This risky and irresponsible proposal by the Administration will not only close the door on states providing health coverage to children, but will result in kids being kicked off the current health care coverage rolls. A highly restrictive state-federal government partnership on children’s health does not achieve our goal of providing health care to those children eligible yet not currently enrolled in the program. “Congress is moving in a new direction by making kid’s health care a priority. Bracing for a fight with Congress, the Bush Administration has responded by picking a fight with America’s kids.”
08.17.2007	Denver FDA District Lab Will Remain Open WASHINGTON, DC – Due to mounting pressure from Congress, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) today announced it will not proceed with reorganization plans that include the closing of seven FDA labs across the country, including the Denver Federal Center in Lakewood. Energy and Commerce Committee Vice Chair Diana DeGette (D-CO) welcomed the Administration’s decision to keep these labs open saying “these labs are vital to our national security.”“These labs play an essential role in protecting our nation’s food supply,” said DeGette. “It is about time the Administration recognized the importance of these labs and the unique role they serve in our national security. I was shocked when the Administration announced that these labs were to be eliminated while we read daily news stories about outbreaks of foodborne illnesses”Stemming from the Energy and Commerce Committee’s Investigation of the Bush Administration’s proposal to consolidate Food and Drug Administration (FDA) labs, a provision was included in H.R. 3161, The FY08 Agriculture Appropriations Bill, blocking the closure of FDA field and district labs, including the facility at the Denver Federal Center in Lakewood. Prior to this, the Bush Administration recently announced that it would temporarily halt consolidating FDA labs for 90 days in order to further evaluate concerns about the safety of imported foods.
08.04.2007	Energy and Commerce Vice Chair Praises Passage of National RES WASHINGTON, DC – To combat the effects of global warming and climate change, the House of Representatives today approved the Udall Amendment to the House Energy Bill on a vote of 220 to 190. The Amendment creates a national Renewable Energy Standard (RES) that requires electric suppliers to produce 15 percent of their energy from renewable sources, 4 percent of which can come from efficiency, by the year 2020. Energy and Commerce Committee Vice Chair Diana DeGette (D-CO), a leading cosponsor of the Amendment and lead whip, praised its passage calling it a “commitment to clean energy.” “The House today made it clear that inaction is no longer an option when it comes to clean and renewable energy,” DeGette said. “The federal government now follows the lead of 23 other states in enacting a national RES program. Over objections from industry, programs across the country have been wildly successful resulting in increased benefits to both consumers and the environment. A national RES program will arm us with a great resource as we accept the challenge of minimizing the impact of global warming.”The Udall Amendment requires electric utilities to derive 15 percent of their energy from renewable sources, 4 percent of which can come from efficiency, by 2020. During the House Energy bill mark-up in the Committee on Energy and Commerce, DeGette initiated and led a discussion among Committee Members about the value and potential energy efficiency of creating a national standard. “Under a Republican-controlled Congress, a national RES could not even be debated. The Democratic Congress has made clean energy a priority by offering the American people a New Direction when it comes to energy efficiency in the United States,” concluded DeGette.
08.02.2007	WASHINGTON, DC – Stemming from the Energy and Commerce Committee’s Investigation of the Bush Administration’s proposal to consolidate Food and Drug Administration (FDA) labs, a provision was included in H.R. 3161, The FY08 Agriculture Appropriations Bill, blocking the closure of FDA field and district labs, including the facility at the Denver Federal Center in Lakewood. Vice Chair Diana DeGette (D-CO) today applauded the plan to keep these vital labs open. “The Bush Administration’s proposal to consolidate our food and drug safety labs puts our food supply at risk,” said DeGette. “The FDA provided no evidence to our committee that closing these labs would result in increased efficiencies. With outbreaks of food borne illnesses almost daily, we cannot afford to lose the expertise of the scientists in the Denver lab or elsewhere. Closing these labs would be disastrous for not only the people of Colorado, but the entire United States.” The provision included in H.R. 3161, which will be voted on later today, prevents the FDA from closing the 13 field labs or 20 district labs proposed by the Administration. The Bush Administration’s proposal to change FDA’s structure and management will only exacerbate the current food safety situation. A recent Energy and Commerce Oversight and Investigation Subcommittee hearing found that FDA has failed to adequately respond to increased imports of foreign food products. Less than 1 percent of imports are examined. Recent accounts of tainted imports from China provide additional evidence that FDA lacks sufficient resources and authority to ensure food safety. The laboratory closings and removal of functions and personnel from the field is counterproductive to FDA’s mission of protecting Americans from unsafe food. The Bush Administration recently announced that it would temporarily halt consolidating FDA labs for 90 days in order to further evaluate concerns about the safety of imported foods. “Halting these lab closures for 90 days simply does not go far enough. These labs are critical to not only the safety of our food supply, but our national security as well,” warned DeGette. The announcement by the Bush Administration comes on the heels of last month’s Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations hearing, “Diminished Capacity: Can the FDA Assure the Safety and Security of the Nation's Food Supply?” DeGette questioned federal officials about the impact of FDA lab closings on our nation’s food supply. Also testifying at the hearing was Belinda Collins, the Denver District Lab Director.
08.01.2007	A Priority for the Democratic Congress, DeGette Hails Passage of CHAMP Act that Reauthorizes and Enhances SCHIP WASHINGTON, DC – As the deadline to reauthorize the State Children’s Health Insurance Program (SCHIP) quickly approaches, Energy and Commerce Committee Vice Chair Diana DeGette (D-CO) today applauded the House of Representatives’ passage of H.R. 3162, the Children’s Health and Medicare Protection Act (CHAMP Act) on a vote of 225 to 204. The CHAMP Act reauthorizes and enhances SCHIP. DeGette hailed the bill’s passage calling it a “win for America’s poor children and working families.” Click here to watch U.S. Rep. DeGette floor speech on SCHIP [re-directing you to a non-House website] “The real winners of the CHAMP Act today are America’s poor children,” said DeGette. “By reauthorizing and enhancing SCHIP, we will ensure health care coverage for nearly 12 million children nationwide, including almost 100,000 kids in Colorado. This bill will allow 5 million children, who are eligible for the program yet not currently enrolled, to receive access to preventative health care coverage they need.” The Democratic Majority has made children’s health a priority in the 110th Congress. The CHAMP bill provides states with new tools for outreach and enrollment to find these children, and helps states that are particularly successful with enrollment by providing additional funding. Finally, to ensure that children get the best start in life, the measure gives states the ability to provide health coverage to pregnant women. Some States have been able to insure as many as 60 percent of their children who previously had no health insurance. “Under SCHIP, more children will have access to preventative health care, which is more cost-effective as preventative care is far less expensive than emergency care,” concluded DeGette. The current SCHIP program expires on September 30, 2007. A Conference Committee will soon convene to reconcile the House and Senate versions of SCHIP reauthorization.
07.27.2007	DeGette Assails Republicans for Playing Partisan Politics with the Health of Millions of America's Poor Children WASHINGTON, DC - As Energy and Commerce Committee Republicans today played political games to stall the mark-up of H.R. 3162, the Children's Health and Medicare Protection Act (CHAMP Act), Vice Chair Diana DeGette (D-CO) decried their tactics saying they "put the health care of millions of America's poor children at risk." "It is inconceivable that Republicans would put parliamentary roadblocks in front of children's health care," said DeGette. "Millions of kids throughout the United States rely on SCHIP to provide them with access to quality, preventative care - and millions more would benefit with the CHAMP Act. "By blocking this bill, Republicans are picking a fight with America's children. Republicans are quickly becoming the Party that opposes kids' health care. They are simply wrong. "Democrats have and will continue to make children's health care a top priority in the Democratic Congress," concluded DeGette. Throughout the two-day mark-up session, Republicans continually used parliamentary procedures to stall and force numerous delays. The Children's Health and Medicare Protection Act of 2007 (CHAMP Act) will reauthorize the State Children's Health Insurance Program (SCHIP). Earlier this week, the Committee on Energy and Commerce unveiled the CHAMP Act that provides health care to millions of kids, and ensures that our seniors can continue to see their own doctors. # # #
07.26.2007	WASHINGTON, DC - As the Committee on Energy and Commerce considers H.R. 3162, the Children's Health and Medicare Protection Act of 2007 (CHAMP Act) reauthorizing the State Children's Health Insurance Program (SCHIP), Vice-Chairman Diana DeGette (D-CO) praised the success of SCHIP and encouraged her colleagues to support a program that will provide access to quality, affordable health care to 12 million children across the country. The following is U.S. Rep. DeGette's opening statement as prepared for delivery: "I want to thank the Chairman, staff and everyone else who has been a part of putting together this extraordinary piece of legislation. I have no doubt that passing this bill will be a highlight of my career and undoubtedly many of you feel the same. "This is a bipartisan program. It has been so since it was first conceived a decade ago and there is not a reason in the world why support should break down on partisan lines today. "It would be a shame if we here in Congress, starting with this esteemed committee, let partisan bickering prevent us from reauthorizing the SCHIP program. "Americans overwhelmingly support this program and this bill. Have no doubt that our constituents will hold us accountable if we falter in our quest to reauthorize this program. "The fact that the wealthiest, most powerful country in the world is home to millions of children who don't have health insurance is something that should cause us to hang our collective head in shame. "The death of Deamonte Driver was a travesty. What's worse is that he isn't the only kid to have died from a simple ailment because he did not have access to health care. "Over the course of this mark-up we are going to be having many vigorous debates about many things. This is a good thing and I look forward to it. "However, I caution my colleagues about getting sidetracked on issues that are not relevant to the topic at hand. At the end of the day, it is all going to boil down to one question that every Member is going to have to ask themselves. Do you believe that we have an obligation to provide health care coverage to poor kids? "Ten years ago the answer was a resounding yes. I hope that answer remains the same today. "Any Member who opposes this bill today, is not just voting against pulling 6 millions kid aboard the life raft. It is a vote to dump those who are already there. "To those who oppose this bill due to cost, I ask them to consider the cost of 12 million children growing up without health care. There is no question that this investment will save our government untold millions, perhaps billions, in the future. "Mr. Chairman, I again thank you for the heroic effort you and your staff made to get this bill in front of us today. I urge the committee to vote promptly to approve this bill. "If we don't we are turning our collective backs on poor kids in this country. We are better than that, as individuals, as Members of Congress, as a country. "I urge all my esteemed colleagues on this Committee to stay the course on SCHIP and vote to approve this bill today." The Children's Health and Medicare Protection Act of 2007 (CHAMP Act) will reauthorize the State Children's Health Insurance Program (SCHIP). Earlier this week, the Energy and Commerce Committee unveiled the CHAMP Act that provides health care to millions of kids, and ensures that our seniors can continue to see their own doctors. This important legislation commits $50 billion to reauthorize and improve SCHIP and makes critical investments in Medicare to protect the health of senior citizens.
07.26.2007	POLITICIZING KIDS HEALTH CAREWASHINGTON, DC - Energy and Commerce Vice Chair Diana DeGette (D-CO) released the following statement as Committee Republicans continue to put the health care of millions of children at risk by delaying today's mark-up of H.R. 3162, the Children's Health and Medicare Protection Act (CHAMP Act):"I remain mystified by the games Republicans are willing to play with the health care of millions of poor children," said Vice Chair DeGette. "In over ten years on this Committee, most spent in the minority, I have never heard the clerk forced to read an entire bill."Today's antics by the Republicans show their true colors when it comes to providing health care to kids. It is disgraceful that the Republicans would politicize children's health for short term political gain," concluded DeGette.The Children's Health and Medicare Protection Act of 2007 (CHAMP Act) will reauthorize the State Children's Health Insurance Program (SCHIP). Earlier this week, the Committee on Energy and Commerce unveiled the CHAMP Act that provides health care to millions of kids, and ensures that our seniors can continue to see their own doctors. # # #
07.17.2007	WASHINGTON, DC - As more contaminated food continues to be imported into the United States raising food safety concerns, Energy and Commerce Vice-Chairman Diana DeGette (D-CO) today questioned the Bush Administration's proposal to consolidate FDA labs amidst fears the oversight of our food supply will be at risk and vital jobs in the region will be eliminated. DeGette made the following opening remarks at the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee hearing, "Diminished Capacity: Can the FDA Assure the Safety and Security of the Nation's Food Supply?"The Bush Administration has proposed consolidating FDA food and drug safety labs including the facility at the Denver Federal Center in Lakewood. Belinda Collins, the Director of the Denver District office, testified at today's hearing.Below are Ms. DeGette's remarks as prepared for delivery:"Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I appreciate your continued diligence in conducting this committee's investigation of recent food safety scares. This is a topic of the utmost concern for the American people."At this subcommittee's first hearing on this topic in April, we heard gut-wrenching stories from victims of these contaminations. Their testimony went beyond the headlines and gave us a look at the devastation brought upon families by the negligence of companies and public officials alike. We also heard from the companies that transmitted contaminated food to consumers and learned more about what went wrong."Today our focus is on the FDA itself, where serious concerns have surfaced with regards to the recent spate of food-borne illnesses. It has become clear that the FDA's efforts to anticipate, prevent, and respond to these outbreaks is far from adequate."The agency has also been far from forthcoming with this subcommittee in our attempt to investigate its actions leading up to and following these incidents. I expect to find out today why there has not been more cooperation with our investigation, but more importantly, why the FDA has not been more proactive in its efforts to safeguard the nation's food and drug supply."I want to focus my comments and questions this morning on one particularly disturbing aspect of this subcommittee's investigation. "The FDA, in its proposed reorganization of the Office of Regulatory Affairs, has slated for closure over half of its food and drug safety field laboratories."One of the seven labs targeted is the Denver laboratory, located just outside of my congressional district in Lakewood, Colorado. Closing this lab would affect approximately 50 chemists, microbiologists, and analysts. These dedicated employees perform highly specialized analysis of BSE, also known as Mad Cow Disease, food pathogens like E. Coli and Salmonella, food additives, and human and veterinary drugs. "Today I would like to find out how the FDA can justify closing one of the nation's preeminent food and drug safety research laboratories- especially at a time when there are almost daily revelations about contaminated food. "This morning I have the pleasure of welcoming Ms. Belinda Collins, the Director of the Denver District of the FDA, who will testify today about the important work currently being done at the Denver lab, as well as the risks to public health of shuttering the facility. Thank you so much for being here."Though I have met these talented scientists at the Denver lab and know the value they create for the FDA, my interest is not simply parochial. I am sensitive to the budgetary pressures facing federal agencies and would be willing to consider meaningful agency changes if there was demonstrated evidence that these changes would eliminate waste and duplications, appropriately trim costs, and increase efficiency while improving public health. However in this case, such evidence does not exist."In fact, just the opposite is true. The FDA itself rated the Denver lab as in "good condition," while the Atlanta lab, which will remain open under the current plan, was rated "fair to poor." The GAO has determined that mid-sized regional labs, like in Denver, are more appropriate than the "mega-labs" FDA wants to create. Additionally, the director of the Denver district will tell us this morning that food safety and indeed homeland security in the Rocky Mountain region and nationwide will be compromised if this plan is carried out."Despite this overwhelming evidence of the Denver lab's effectiveness, the FDA is holding its position and moving forward with the closure. It has cited nebulous future cost concerns, without providing this committee or the American people with evidence to back it up. There are claims about increased efficiencies, again, without analysis or documentation. Some officials have said that facilities and equipment are falling apart, but this runs entirely counter to what employees tell us and what committee staff have found on site visits."And with all of this talk of economic costs, it is disturbing that the FDA has given no thought to the cost of decommissioning these labs, the cost of not catching the next foodborne outbreak as quickly, or the cost of losing employees with decades of scientific expertise. "We, in Congress, are not without blame in this fiasco. I have no doubt that FDA needs additional resources to adapt to emerging threats like increased imports and bioterrorism. But this administration, instead of doing quantifiable and verifiable analyses of agency needs and requesting funding accordingly, is simply cutting corners to make political statements about size of government while, we've learned, political appointees in Washington take home huge bonuses."It is also disconcerting that the U.S. Food and Drug Administration does not feel compelled to answer questions put to it by the legislative branch. The FDA has not responded to my inquiries about the lab closures. It has not responded to my questions from previous hearings on medical devices and other issues in our health subcommittee. And requests for documents by this subcommittee, charged with oversight of the FDA, have been met with needless delay in some cases and silence in others. "I would like to mention one more thing, Mr. Chairman. As I have noted before, these investigatory hearings almost inevitably result in strange coincidences, like positive industry and agency developments, the night before the hearing. For example, today we will also dive into the continuing problem of companies packaging spoiled meat and seafood with carbon monoxide to create the appearance of freshness."Well, just by chance, today Safeway announced that it will no longer package food with carbon monoxide. "Mr. Chairman, I would also like to request unanimous consent to enter into the record a statement by Congressman Ed Perlmutter, who represents the suburbs of Denver and sits on the Homeland Security Committee, and whose district includes the Denver lab slated for closure. "Thank you Mr. Chairman."DeGette will soon be reintroducing soon two key food safety bills. The first, The SAFER (Safe and Fair Enforcement & Recall) Act for all foods, would give the USDA and FDA the authority to force a recall of all contaminated foods. Under current law, recalls are completely voluntary even when public health is at risk. The United States is one of the only industrialized countries in the world that lacks this basic recall power, despite having the ability to recall toys and many other products. Giving these agencies this critical authority would speed the removal of tainted meat from circulation and significantly reduce the risk of food-borne illness. The second, The TRACE (Tracing and Recalling Agricultural Contamination) Act, would authorize the Secretary of Agriculture to establish a product tracing system to track meat products from their animal origins to the grocery store, enabling faster recall in the event of contamination. This proposal will assist consumers and retailers in identifying and removing tainted products from refrigerators and store shelves. # # #
07.16.2007	WASHINGTON, DC - As the deadline to reauthorize the State Children's Health Insurance Program (SCHIP) approaches, the Bush Administration continues to play fast and loose with the facts on kids health despite the overwhelming success of the program. Energy and Commerce Committee Vice-Chairman Diana DeGette (D-CO) today challenged the Bush Administration to adequately fund this program and start putting the facts before politics on the issue of kids' health. "President Bush uses his own twisted version of fiction by playing fast and loose with the facts when he talks about the state of the children's health care program," said U.S. Rep. DeGette. "The Bush Administration's rhetoric doesn't match its current policy. The facts speak for themselves: SCHIP has reduced the number of uninsured children since its creation 10 years ago. We must build upon its success, not simply put up a roadblock. "I am mystified that the Bush Administration would oppose an expansion to this time-tested program created with bipartisan support - the Administration itself has repeatedly granted state SCHIP waivers to allow adult coverage. If President Bush chooses to veto the expansion of this program - a program his own Administration has supported - it is a terrible misjudgment," concluded DeGette. Bush Fiction v. Fact: Setting the Record Straight on Children's Health Democratic SCHIP Proposal Seeks to Cover Eligible Children who are currently Un-enrolled FACT: The SCHIP program is currently designed to include children up to 200 percent of poverty. The Democratic proposal would not make any changes to this policy. It would simply provide the funds necessary to cover the 6 million children who are eligible, but not enrolled in the program. Since coming into office, the Bush Administration has approved at least 15 waivers to allow coverage expansions for pregnant women, children above 200 percent of poverty, and parents [Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, May 31, 2007]. The only "expansions" of SCHIP possible under the House proposal would be through that same waiver process.BUSH FICTION: "The proposal would dramatically expand the Children's Health Insurance Program, adding nonpoor children to the program..." [Tony Fratto, New York Times, 7/15/07].Democrats Help Families who Cannot Afford Individual Health Insurance Get Access to CareFACT: Private insurance options are becoming increasingly less affordable as health care costs continue to skyrocket at higher rates than wages and employer -sponsored coverage program are declining. In, 2006, the average premium for family coverage in an employer-based plan was $11,480 per year, and the average family's share of the premium was $2,973 - about 11 percent of total income. The President's argument that SCHIP encourages families to drop employer-sponsored insurance is false, according to study conducted by the Bush Administration's Department of Health and Human Services [TRIM3 Simulations of Full Year Uninsured Children and their Eligibility for Medicaid and SCHIP, June 2007]. In fact, most children covered under SCHIP did not have access to coverage prior to joining the program; of the small minority who did most lost coverage due to a cost increase or parent's job change.BUSH FICTION: "It's a way to encourage people to transfer from the private sector to government health-care plan ..." [President Bush, Washington Post, 7/15/07].Bush Administration Risky Tax Proposal Jeopardizes the Health of Millions of ChildrenFACT: President Bush's SCHIP proposal would result in a reduction of 1.4 million children and pregnant women in the program over the next five years. States would face an SCHIP budget shortfall of over $4.5 billion over that same period [Center for Budget and Policy Priorities, March 13, 2007]. In contrast, President Bush's risky health care tax proposal would increase the federal deficit in 2009 by $61.8 billion, cause over 12 million workers and their dependents to lose employer-based coverage, and give most of the benefit to those making over $50,000 per year [The Lewin Group, Spring 2007]. Even Bush loyalists Senate Finance Ranking member Senators Chuck Grassley (R-IA) and Orrin Hatch (R-Utah) called Bush's tax proposals "not realistic" [Washington Post and New York Times, 7/15/07].BUSH FICTION: "The President has sought to revive his idea of replacing the long-standing tax break for job-based health insurance with a new deduction that would help people pay for insurance regardless of whether they get it through their jobs or on their own" [Washington Post, 7/15/07].
07.12.2007	WASHINGTON, DC - Continuing to put pressure on the Bush Administration to end the war in Iraq, Chief Deputy Whip Diana DeGette (D-CO) today voted for H.R. 2956, the Responsible Redeployment from Iraq Act, which passed on a vote of 223 to 201. U.S. Rep. DeGette has consistently voted to bring a quick and safe end to our military involvement in Iraq, saying "President Bush's failed policy in Iraq has put both our troops and nation in grave danger." "President George W. Bush's plan is not working and the evidence of failure is mounting," said U.S. Rep. DeGette. "President Bush announced his troop 'surge' six months ago. During that time about 600 troops have been killed, 3,000 have been wounded, and $60 billion has been spent. The recently-released White House interim report shows there to have been unsatisfactory progress by the Iraqi government in meeting many of the benchmarks laid out by President Bush back in January." H.R. 2956, the Responsible Redeployment from Iraq Act requires the Secretary of Defense to begin the reduction of the number of United States Armed Forces in Iraq to a limited presence by April 1, 2008. DeGette has also cosponsored two pieces of legislation - the Tauscher and Obey Bills - aimed at ending our military involvement in Iraq. "With respect to President Bush's political benchmarks, the Iraqi government has made unsatisfactory progress on all of them. What this Iraqi civil war requires is an Iraqi political compromise, but the available evidence suggests that no one within the government is willing to make the sacrifices needed to make that happen. Why should American soldiers continue to sacrifice under such circumstances? Not one more drop of American blood should be shed in pursuit of President Bush's failed Iraq policy. "Despite the views of the American public and the clear evidence on the ground that our continued military presence in Iraq is not the solution, President Bush stubbornly refuses to change course and bring our troops home. Congress has the power and obligation to do what is right and force a new policy. Passing H.R. 2956 is the first step on that road, and I encourage all of my colleagues to vote in favor of this reasoned legislation," concluded DeGette. The July 15th Iraqi Benchmarks report released today shows the Iraqi government has failed to meet the political and economic benchmarks to achieve success. In the fifth year of the war, and after $450 billion spent, 3,600 American lives lost and more than 26,000 wounded, the country is demanding a new direction in Iraq. In this report, the Administration concedes that while violence continues in Iraq, the Iraqi government has failed to meet key benchmarks endorsed by the President in January and political reconciliation is non-existent.
06.28.2007	WASHINGTON, DC - Energy and Commerce Committee Vice-Chairman Diana DeGette (D-CO) presided over today's opening of the Committee's mark-up of the House Energy Bill. In addition, Chief Deputy Whip DeGette offered and withdrew an amendment for the creation of a Renewable Portfolio Standard (RPS), initiating and leading a discussion among Committee Members about the value and potential energy efficiency of creating a standard that requires electric utilities to generate a percentage of their power from renewable sources. Rep. DeGette made the following opening remarks as prepared for delivery: "Mr. Chairman, I have an amendment at the desk. "I want to be clear from the outset that I intend to offer and withdraw this amendment today. From the way this energy legislation has been drafted, my amendment, which I believe has strong support from many of my colleagues, does not appear to be germane. "But given that this committee and this Congress intend to pass comprehensive energy legislation this year, we would be remiss not to at least begin debate on the amendment I am putting forth. "My amendment would create a renewable portfolio standard, also known as a renewable energy standard. "Were this amendment to become law, it would commit America to taking a critical step towards ending our dependence on fossil fuels. "It requires our nation's electric utilities to produce 20% of our power from clean, renewable resources such as wind, biomass, solar, and geothermal. "My amendment also sets up a flexible, market-based trading system that allows utilities to choose whether to develop renewable generation themselves or purchase credits from firms that have lower costs. "The concept of an RPS is not new, but recently it has been gaining support like never before. This committee has considered it in previous energy debates, and the Senate has passed a version of it three times. "The real action, however, on renewable electricity has been at the state and local level. Twenty-three states, including my home state of Colorado, plus the District of Columbia, have passed versions of the RPS. "In every single one of these instances, opponents have claimed that such a transition to renewable power couldn't be done. Or that the timeline wasn't reasonable. Or there weren't sufficient renewables. Or that it would cost too much money. "Mr. Chairman, I would like to report that by any measure, these state programs have been wildly successful and indeed cost effective. "In Colorado, voters passed an initiative requiring a 10% RPS. Implementation of this program was so successful, our forward-looking state legislature and governor doubled the requirement to 20% just a few months ago. "Indeed the effort in my state, and in states across the country, is exceeding all expectations. "This success at the local level has built momentum for a national consensus on clean electricity generation. "We have finally moved past the debate about whether climate change is happening and have begun a national conversation on what to do about it. "We know that electricity production is responsible for a large portion of the toxic greenhouse gases we emit. We have the technology and the fuels to replace much of this carbon-based pollution. "All we need now is the political will to move ahead. "There are added benefits besides a reduction in emissions. A study by the Union of Concerned Scientists has concluded that in Colorado alone, my amendment would: Save consumers over 1.2 billion dollars in lower electricity and natural gas bills Generate 1.7 billion dollars in new capital investment Provide 79 million dollars in additional income to ranchers and farmers, and Create more than 5,800 new high-paying jobs. "Those are just the effects in my state. Nationwide the effects of this amendment are only amplified. "Some of the opponents of this amendment will claim that certain regions of the nation simply don't have renewable energy. That simply is not the case. "My amendment is source neutral. Utilities could also choose to develop whatever source of renewable energy best fits the region. "For example, in the West, we have an enormous amount of wind and solar potential. The Southeastern United States enjoys tremendous biomass, landfill gas, and other renewable energy resources. "The renewable portfolio goes a step further by introducing a market-based trading scheme that has worked so well under the Clean Air Act. This would allow utilities to buy and sell credits rather than developing renewables directly, which will ensure that the renewable power is promoted at the absolute lowest costs. "Furthermore, benefits of this amendment outweigh its relatively minor costs because consumers all over the nation will benefit from lower natural gas bills. Several recent studies have shown that, under this amendment, renewables will displace natural gas in the generation of electricity which will free up natural gas to heat our homes, lowering the cost. "So there are benefits under this amendment to all regions of the country, and overall consumers will greatly benefit. Add to that the benefits of reduced greenhouse gas emissions, job creation, and a home-grown source of clean power, I think this amendment is a win-win-win. "While I am forced to withdraw this important amendment today on a technicality, I can't think of a more relevant issue to the energy debate than the development of clean, renewable electricity. "I look forward to working with my colleagues to finally enact an RPS. "Thank you, Mr. Chairman."
06.28.2007	WASHINGTON, DC - House Energy and Commerce Committee Vice-Chairman Diana DeGette (D-CO) today expressed disappointment over President George W. Bush's comments made yesterday regarding the State Children's Health Insurance Program (SCHIP): "President Bush's comments on children's health care are simply reckless - jeopardizing the future of the State Children's Health Insurance Program by pursuing a controversial health care tax proposal not only puts the health of millions of kids at risk, but once again illustrates the misguided priorities of this Administration. "Created with bipartisan support, SCHIP is a proven, successful program that has reduced the number of uninsured children by one-third since its creation 10 years ago. This debate today is about the health of our nation's children, not unproven and irresponsible tax proposals. "The President's plan of offering a tax deduction for purchasing private health care is unrealistic in delivering quality health care coverage to low-income children. The individual health insurance market is much more expensive, which is why these kids are uninsured in the first place. President Bush's proposal is not a substitute for a time-tested, invaluable program that has provided millions of low-income children with health care coverage. "The clock is quickly running out on reauthorizing the SCHIP program. Now is the time to build upon its success to reach the goal of expanding health coverage to all children throughout the country."
06.20.2007	WASHINGTON, DC - Chief Deputy Whip Diana DeGette (D-CO) today will make the following statement at a press conference in reaction to President Bush's second veto of the Stem Cell Research Enhancement Act - as prepared for delivery: "President Bush remains stubbornly defiant by once again vetoing potentially life-saving legislation that would give millions of patients and their families hope. Congress gave President Bush another opportunity to do the right thing, but once again he put politics before science. "The President has become a roadblock to allowing this research to unlock doors to treatments and cures for numerous diseases and conditions - including diabetes, Parkinson's, and multiple sclerosis. "I can understand why President Bush is hiding from the public to veto this legislation in private - he refuses to meet with us, he refuses to give ground, and he continues to turn his head to the promise of embryonic stem cell research. "Today's Executive Order by President Bush is not a substitute for the promise of embryonic stem cell research. "I support all forms of ethical stem cell research. However, the vast majority of scientists agree that embryonic stem cell research offers the greatest promise for developing treatments and cures for countless diseases and conditions. That is why I and a bipartisan Majority of Congress feel strongly that we must allow federal funding for embryonic stem cell research. "While I support these other methods of research, the consensus among the scientific community is that these methods are years behind the progress of embryonic stem cell research. "An example of this progress was the recent announcement by British scientists that embryonic stem cells may be used to cure a form of macular degeneration within five years. This research was made possible by an anonymous donation from a U.S. donor, who has become frustrated by curbs on stem cell work in this country. "A recent Gallup Poll [5/07] found growing support among the American public; nearly 65 percent of the American people support embryonic stem cell research. "Despite passing both Houses of Congress with broad, bipartisan Majorities, the President again turns his back on Congress and the American people. "The Senate gets it. The House gets it. The American people get it. Why doesn't the President? "Every time the Congress overwhelmingly passes the Stem Cell Bill, the President calls for additional research that is already under way. He can try to change the debate about stem cell research, but the facts remain: embryonic stem cell research shows the most promise, and is supported by a solid majority of the American public. "I will not let one stubborn man stand in our way - I am committed to making this bill become law. With every new vote in the House and Senate, we come closer to a veto proof majority. "The 2006 Election was largely a referendum on President Bush's policies and the results make clear that his first veto was a mistake. "As one of the major legislative agenda items of the newly-elected Democratic Congress, the House again passed this with an even greater majority in January - of the 16 new Democratic votes in support, 14 were cast by Members who defeated or replaced Republicans who opposed this research. "With the House passage earlier this month, we picked up two more votes. We are making progress towards overriding the President's veto. "The President can do this the hard way, or the easy way - unfortunately he has chosen the hard way. I will continue to give the President the opportunity to do the right thing."
06.06.2007	WASHINGTON, DC - Chief Deputy Whip Diana DeGette (D-CO) today made the following statement in support of H.R. 2560 - the DeGette-Murphy "Human Cloning Prohibition Act of 2007":"I rise today in strong support for H.R. 2560, the "Human Cloning Prohibition Act of 2007." "Tomorrow, the House will debate S. 5, the "Stem Cell Research Enhancement Act," to expand the number of stem cell lines that are eligible for federally funded research. Similar to legislation passed in the House earlier this year (H.R. 3) with overwhelming bipartisan support, the goal of S. 5 is to accelerate scientific progress toward cures and treatments for a wide range of diseases and debilitating health conditions. When we debated the bill in January, opponents of the bill chose to muddle the debate by offering a motion to recommit involving cloning - a topic unrelated to H.R. 3. After the debate, a number of my colleagues asked me if we could address the issue of human reproductive cloning. So, as we prepare to debate embryonic stem cell research tomorrow, I have introduced H.R. 2560 so that we can discuss this important issue."Since scientists in Scotland were able to create a cloned sheep named "Dolly" some have speculated about the possibility of one day cloning human beings. However, we can all agree that there is universal opposition to conducting human reproductive cloning and it should be banned. Unfortunately, at this time there is no federal law preventing irresponsible individuals from conducting research in an attempt to achieve human reproductive cloning."The most effective way to prevent human reproductive cloning in the United States is to pass a federal prohibition on this practice and impose severe penalties for doing so. That is why I have introduced the "Human Cloning Prohibition Act of 2007" with my colleague Congressman Chris Murphy. Our bill would make it illegal to use cloning technology to initiate a pregnancy and thereby create a cloned human being. The penalties for such an act could include severe criminal sanctions, in addition to as much as $10,000,000 in civil fines. These strict penalties are necessary to ensure that such an act is prevented from occurring. "Opponents of our bill to ban human reproductive cloning have sought to characterize it as a much broader bill. While they make many false claims, the fact of the matter is that our bill is solely a ban on human reproductive cloning - something that all Members of Congress, as well as the vast majority of the American public, support. The accusations that this bill expressly allows something new are false. "I also find it ironic that those who oppose our bill argue that one of its flaws is that it would force all cloned embryos to be killed. The bill bans human reproductive cloning. Nothing more, nothing less. So, the argument of those who say they are against cloning is that we should defeat our bill to prevent cloned embryos from being killed. It defies logic - just like it defies logic why anyone would vote against this bill."Mr. Speaker, I hope today that we can focus on what this bill does - prevent reproductive cloning. We all agree that the practice should be banned. Let's pass our bill and make this happen."The "Human Cloning Prohibition Act of 2007" would make it illegal to use cloning technology to initiate a pregnancy and thereby create a cloned human being. The penalties for such an act could include severe criminal sanctions, in addition to $10,000,000 in civil fines. These strict penalties are necessary to ensure that such an act is prevented from occurring. Section 1 Short Title: "Human Cloning Prohibition Act of 2007"Section 2 Prohibition Against Human CloningIt shall be unlawful for any person, including a governmental entity, from performing human cloning. In addition, it shall also be unlawful for any person to ship, mail, transport, or receive the product of human somatic cell nuclear transfer technology knowing that the purpose is for human cloning.Human cloning is defined as implanting the product of human somatic cell nuclear transfer technology into a uterus or functional equivalent of a uterus. Somatic cell nuclear transfer means transferring the nuclear material of a human somatic cell into an egg cell from which the nuclear material has been removed or rendered inert.Those who engage in human cloning will face strict criminal and civil penalties. Specifically, individuals who violate this law shall be imprisoned for as many as ten years and/or fined in accordance with title 18, U.S. Code. In addition, individuals who violate the law are liable for civil penalties not to exceed the greater of $10 million or an amount equal to the amount of any gross pecuniary gain derived from such a violation multiplied by two. # # #
04.17.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Each year, the Mountain West region is threatened by wildfires that scorch thousands of acres of National Forests and grasslands. However, earlier this year, under the authority granted in the Continuing Resolution signed into law by the President to fund the government for the remainder of 2007, the U.S. Forest Service (USFS) cut funding to Colorado’s Region Two by $4.3 million. The result could reduce on-the-ground management of bark beetles, hazardous fuels and forest health needs. In a letter yesterday to U.S. Forest Service Chief Gail Kimbell, United States Senators Ken Salazar and Wayne Allard and U.S. Representatives Diana DeGette, Doug Lamborn, Marilyn Musgrave, Ed Perlmutter, John Salazar, Tom Tancredo and Mark Udall asked USFS to prevent this short sighted management move by immediately restoring the funds by drawing from the Chief’s Reserve Fund or excess Northwest Forest Plan funding. “The fact is that not enough is being done,” the bipartisan group noted in their letter to Kimbell. “The need for increased funding is apparent.” The full text of their letter can be viewed by clicking here.“USFS shouldn’t balance its books by putting Colorado at risk,” said Senator Salazar. “Last year, barely one-in-five NEPA approved acres in Colorado received treatments. Bark beetles and persistent drought are increasing the need to conduct hazardous fuels projects to protect our local communities and watersheds. Cutting corners is not acceptable.”“Many folks rightfully call Colorado the ‘Headwaters State’ because we are the headwaters for four regional watersheds,” said Allard. “Water that runs out of Colorado eventually supplies most of the West; the Forest Service needs to recognize that when they short change forests in Colorado they put the entire Western United States at risk. If the Forest Service restores funding to Colorado they can take a step toward averting the potentially dangerous fire season that is approaching.”“We simply cannot wait for fire season to begin again before Colorado receives these critical funds,” said Chief Deputy Whip Diana DeGette (D-CO). “In recent years Colorado has seen terrible drought, insect infestation, higher temperatures, and drying soils. To protect our communities from wildfire, we need more resources on the ground and we need them now.” “Colorado faces a tremendous risk during the summer because of forest fires,” said Rep. Lamborn. “This existing funding is necessary to effectively manage the serious problem our state faces with regards to proper forest management and the critically important protection of Colorado families and land.”“The threat of forest fires in Colorado is very real. It has been exasperated by the bark beetle infestation, which shows no signs of slowing down,” said U.S. Rep Marilyn Musgrave (CO-04). “This is not the time to cut funding for programs that aim to cut down the threat that forest fires pose to our state.”“The reality is that a dry summer and fall would be devastating to our state and region because any damage from wildfires could be made worse by the bark beetle problem. It is critical for the Administration to act responsibly and restore funding to Colorado to mitigate these damages,” said U.S. Rep. Ed Perlmutter.“To fully understand how vitally important this forest funding is, all one has to do is drive through the mountains on I-70 to see masses of trees turn from green to brown as they die from the bark beetle epidemic that is destroying our forests and threatening our rural communities,” U.S. Rep. John Salazar (CO-3) said. “Because there is no easy cure for the bark beetle epidemic, prevention and management of the disease is imperative at this point. This funding will help that cause.” “As demonstrated by the Hayman fire that took place in my district, it is clear that there are some unresolved forest management issues in Colorado. It would be horrible policy for the United States Forest Service to cut funding in Colorado when the bark beetle problem continues to be a threat as the dangerous fire season approaches,” said Rep. Tom Tancredo (R-Littleton) “Colorado and the rest of the Rocky Mountain region face serious forest-management problems, including the beetle epidemic, and it’s vital that the Administration not short-change our region as it allocates Forest Service funds,” said U.S. Rep. Mark Udall (D-Eldorado Springs). In 2006 approximately 74,000 acres of USFS land received hazardous fuels treatment. However, as of 2006, Colorado had over 280,000 acres of treatments that are approved under the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA), with another 235,000 acres of treatments in NEPA analysis. In addition, there is another 12,000 acres ready for timber sales and forest health treatments, but lack of funding threatens to keep those projects shelved. These needs continue to grow as the bark beetle infestation spreads and outbreaks on Colorado’s Front Range create even more hazardous conditions and needs in this expansive wildland-urban interface area.# # #
