02.15.2019	Congressman Mike Turner (OH-10) released the following statement after President Donald J. Trump supported a funding deal and declared a national emergency at the southern border: “I supported this funding deal as a step towards securing our border, which we absolutely must do. However, I believe it is a dangerous precedent for the President to be forced to declare a national emergency because Congress refuses to provide necessary funding to protect our country. As I have voiced to this Administration repeatedly, I strongly believe securing our border should not be done at the expense of previously funded military construction projects.” Since the idea of declaring a national emergency to secure the southern border has been floated by the Administration, Turner has repeatedly opposed those funds coming from military construction projects. Last week, Turner joined a letter led by Congressman Richard Hudson (NC-8) to the Administration urging against use of funds to secure the southern border that have previously been allocated for military construction. ###
02.14.2019	Congressman Mike Turner (OH-10) released the following statement after the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) announced its Per- and Polyfluoroalkyl Substances (PFAS) action plan: “I strongly support the comprehensive action plan laid out by the EPA today to keep our water safe. I repeatedly pushed the Administration to publicly issue its report on water contaminants, including ones used in our community, because it is the most basic matter of public health and safety. Following the release of that study, I support the EPA starting the process to set a maximum contaminant level for these chemicals to keep our water safe. Additionally, I am pleased to see the EPA has begun its process of listing PFOA and PFOS, both found in our community’s water, as hazardous substances. By designating these as hazardous, it will allow for our community to have increased access to federal tools to clean up the groundwater sites where the chemicals have been found. This action plan is a strong step forward for our community to continue to ensure our water is safe.” Following reporting that the EPA was blocking the release of a Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) water contamination study in May of last year, Turner wrote to then-EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt and the White House calling for an immediate public release of the study. Turner said, “This is not an issue of public relations--this is an issue of public health and safety.” After hearing from Pruitt that it was in HHS’s authority to release the study, Turner called on HHS Secretary Alex Azar to release it. In June, a draft of the report was publicly released. Two of the most common types of PFAS chemicals are Perfluorooctane Sulfonate (PFOS) and Perfluorooctanoic Acid (PFOA), both of which have been found in the groundwater of Turner’s district. ###
02.14.2019	Congressman Mike Turner (OH-10) released the following statement after the Dayton Development Coalition released an economic impact analysis finding that Wright-Patterson Air Force Base, Springfield Ohio Air National Guard Base, and Dayton VA combined generate more than $16.68 billion in economic activity in the Dayton region annually, and generate a total employment of more than 88,000 jobs with payroll estimated at $5.87 billion: “This economic impact study proves the full value and importance of Wright-Patterson Air Force Base as an anchor of economic and job growth in our community. Since I was first elected to Congress, nearly 10,000 jobs have been added on the base and thousands of additional jobs have been added to support the important work being done there. The economic impact of these jobs in our community is undeniable and overwhelming. I will continue to advocate in Congress for increased jobs and missions at Wright-Patt to bring even more economic development and job growth to our community.” ###
02.05.2019	Turner and the Brigid’s Path staff, along with Ashley Evans (right of Turner), after passage of Turner’s CRIB Act in October 2018. Congressman Mike Turner (OH-10) released the following statement after the White House announced one of its guests is Ashley Evans: “I had the pleasure of meeting Ashley Evans and hearing her story of recovery a few months ago. After suffering a relapse during her pregnancy, Ashley has worked with Brigid’s Path to treat her child and herself. Brigid’s Path provides specialized, family-based treatment options for babies suffering from neonatal abstinence syndrome (NAS). In October, a bill I pushed for years was signed into law that will help facilities like Brigid’s Path to expand access. Now that it’s been passed, I hope Ohio will quickly opt into it to bring additional funding to Brigid’s Path and facilities like it in our state. I commend Ashley on her success in recovery. I am glad that more moms like Ashley and their children will be able to receive the specialized treatment they need as a result of this legislation.” Background on Ashley Evans, provided by the White House: Ashley Evans has struggled with opioid and substance abuse for much of her life. In 2017, she was pregnant and suffered a relapse. Her recovery began with the birth of her daughter along with the help of Brigid’s Path, a medical care facility in Kettering, Ohio. Ashley has persevered and overcome many obstacles to maintain her sobriety. She is passionate about sharing her story of hope. On February 9, 2019, Ashley will celebrate 1 year and 1 month in recovery and on February 15, 2019, she will be reunited with her daughter full-time. Background on the CRIB Act: Neonatal Abstinence Syndrome (NAS) is a withdrawal condition in newborns that can occur when opioids and other substances are used during the mother’s pregnancy. NAS-afflicted newborns need specialized medical care and treatment. Given the bright lights, loud noises, and proximity to other babies, the neonatal intensive care unit (NICU) is not always the most ideal place for opioid-exposed newborns in withdrawal with no additional complicating health conditions. Additionally, the costs of treating NAS – most of which are currently paid by Medicaid – can be more than five times the cost of treating other newborns. An alternative setting to the NICU, residential pediatric recovery facilities like Brigid’s Path offer specialized care and an environment conducive to treating newborns with NAS, as well as counseling for mothers and families that emphasizes family bonding. Before the CRIB Act, however, residential pediatric recovery facilities were often forced to navigate a sea of red tape and regulatory hurdles to be able to secure reimbursement from Medicaid when they treat infants suffering from NAS. The CRIB Act solved this problem by recognizing existing residential pediatric recovery facilities, and new ones that may arise in the future, as certified providers under Medicaid. It permits Medicaid-eligible mothers and babies to take advantage of the specialized recovery options available through residential pediatric recovery facilities in addition to more traditional hospital settings. This arrangement allows residential pediatric recovery facilities to bill Medicaid for the services they offer, giving State Medicaid programs the flexibility to partner with these facilities should they so choose. The CRIB Act also makes sure that vulnerable, disadvantaged families with lower- and moderate-incomes are not denied access to this crucial medical care. The CRIB Act is yet another resource in the ongoing fight against heroin and prescription opioid abuse across the country and throughout Montgomery, Greene, and Fayette counties in Ohio’s 10th Congressional district. CRIB Act Timeline: May 25, 2016: Turner introduced the CRIB Act during 114th Congress to help expand access to specialized treatment and recovery options for infants suffering from neonatal abstinence syndrome (NAS), a withdrawal condition in newborns often caused by use of opioids and other addictive substances in pregnant women. May 17, 2017: Turner re-introduced the CRIB Act with Congressman Evan Jenkins (WV-03) for the 115th Congress. January 10, 2018: TREAT Act and CRIB Act included in House of Representatives’ Bipartisan Heroin Task Force Legislative Agenda. March 2, 2018: Turner joined Health and Human Services Secretary Alex Azar in touring and participating in a roundtable discussion at Brigid’s Path. June 6, 2018: Turner re-introduced amended version of the CRIB Act, along with Rep. Jenkins, after collaboration with Senate colleagues. September 17, 2018: Turner’s modified CRIB Act passes the Senate as part of H.R. 6, the SUPPORT for Patients and Communities Act, a larger legislative package to combat the opioid epidemic. September 28, 2018: CRIB Act passes the House as part of H.R 6. October 24, 2018: CRIB Act signed into law as part of H.R. 6. ###
02.01.2019	Congressman Mike Turner (OH-10) released the following statement after Secretary of State Mike Pompeo announced the United States will withdraw from the 1987 Intermediate-Range Nuclear Forces (INF) Treaty: “I strongly support the decision to formally withdraw from this failed one-sided treaty. For years Russia has flagrantly and deliberately violated the INF Treaty by developing, testing, and fielding intermediate range cruise and ballistic missiles. The Obama Administration refused to recognize the reality of Russia’s actions, leaving us to comply with a treaty while our highly aggressive adversary violates it. Without verifiable compliance, the INF erodes global security and the goodwill it once signified. I look forward to working with the Administration to hold Russia accountable.” Congressman Turner serves as the Ranking Member of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Strategic Forces, was former president of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, and is a senior member on the House Intelligence Committee. ###
01.30.2019	Today Congressman Mike Turner (OH-10), whose district is home to over 15,000 federal civil service employees, voted in favor of passage of the Federal Civilian Workforce Pay Raise Fairness Act of 2019 to provide a pay increase in 2019 for civilian employees of the Federal Government. “As a consistent advocate of this, I strongly supported passage of the Federal Civilian Workforce Pay Raise Fairness Act of 2019 in the House today,” said Turner. "Civilian federal employees go above and beyond to serve our country and our community. They have earned our support.” Turner has been a consistent advocate of ensuring federal civilian employees receive a pay increase, expressing his strong opposition to the Administration’s decision to cancel the pay increase back in August 2018. Turner has also urged Congress to reinstate the increases for civilian federal workers before the end of the fiscal year. U.S. Office of Personnel Management figures show the Dayton region has 15,515 federal civilian employees, with more than 12,000 federal civilian employees working at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base alone. ###
01.23.2019	Today, Congressman Mike Turner (OH-10) was named the Ranking Member of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Strategic Forces. “As a previous chairman of this subcommittee, I am honored to be returning to a leadership role on Strategic Forces,” said Ranking Member Turner. “This subcommittee tackles vital assets to our national security including our nuclear arsenal, ballistic missile defense, our military’s assets in outer space, and Department of Energy’s national security programs. I look forward to working with my colleagues to ensure our national security interests in space and a nuclear deterrence that protects the homeland and assures our allies.” “Mike has been a champion of the strategic forces agenda and I am pleased to have him returning as the leading the Republican voice on the subcommittee,” said House Armed Services Committee Ranking Member Mac Thornberry (TX-13). “His experience in this area will be critical to this committee’s success.” ###
01.17.2019	Congressman Mike Turner (OH-10) released the following statement after attending the Missile Defense Review rollout at the Pentagon this morning: “The Missile Defense Review provides a timely and necessary response to our adversaries’ advancements in capabilities. This review rightly and strongly reaffirms the United States’ commitment to keeping the American people and our allies safe through maintaining and enhancing a robust deterrence. I look forward to continuing to work with the Administration on this critical national security issue.” ###
12.30.2018	Congressman Mike Turner (OH-10) released the following statement after President Trump signed an executive order cancelling the pay increase expected for civilian federal workers in 2019: “As I advocated in August, Congress must reject the President’s imprudent decision to cancel the pay increase for our valuable federal civilian employees. Congress still has the ability to override this executive order as we work to end the partial government shutdown. I will continue to fight to retain the federal civilian employee pay increase that was promised to our government’s dedicated public servants.” The Dayton region is home to over 15,000 federal civilian employees, including more than 12,000 at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base. When this executive order was first threatened, Congressman Turner strongly opposed it and advocated overriding it to Congressional leadership. ###
12.20.2018	Congressman Mike Turner (OH-10) issued the following statement regarding Secretary of Defense James Mattis: “Our military has been rebuilt under Secretary Mattis’s leadership. He has been a strong partner in working with Congress as a force of reason to robustly support our troops in grave and perilous times. I want to sincerely thank him for his service to our country and the important work he’s done to make the United States and the world safer.” Congressman Turner serves as the Chairman of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Tactical Air and Land Forces, Chairman of the U.S. Delegation to NATO Parliamentary Assembly, and a member of the House Intelligence Committee. ###
12.19.2018	Congressman Mike Turner (OH-10) issued the following statement regarding Wright-Patterson Air Force Base’s investigation into the active shooter incident from August: “I want to congratulate Commander Thomas Sherman of Wright-Patterson Air Force Base on his leadership on what was clearly a thorough investigation into the active shooter incident in August. As we expected, this investigation resulted in a number of recommendations that need to be implemented on the base. As this report shows, our community is very lucky that serious injury did not occur on the base that day. I look forward to continuing to work with the base and assist as needed as they implement these new changes to improve safety.”
12.17.2018	Congressman Mike Turner (OH-10)’s bill with Senators Sherrod Brown and Rob Portman to rename the federal building in downtown Dayton after United States District Court Senior Judge Walter H. Rice was signed into law today by the President. “I assembled a panel to recommend who to honor in naming the federal building in downtown Dayton, and they unanimously chose Judge Walter Rice,” said Congressman Turner. “With the help of Senators Brown and Portman, we were able to get this bill across the finish line. Judge Rice is one of our community’s most dedicated public servants and this is a fitting tribute and honor he wholly deserves.” “Judge Rice has spent his legal career in service to Montgomery County, and it is fitting that the Dayton Federal Building, where he has devoted nearly four decades of his life, bears his name,” said Sen. Brown. “I join Sen. Portman and Rep. Turner in gratitude for Judge Rice’s service to Dayton as we work together to honor his legacy.” “For more than four decades, Judge Rice has been a tireless advocate for justice, the people of Dayton, and the state of Ohio,” said Sen. Portman. “This is a fitting tribute to his life’s work, and I join Senator Brown and Rep. Turner in thanking him for his service.” ###
12.12.2018	Today the U.S. House of Representatives passed the Farm Bill conference report, including language Congressman Mike Turner (OH-10) pushed for to allow Central State University to receive equal federal funding. The language is the first step in ensuring a level playing field between all historically black 1890 land-grant institutions. Without this fix, Central State University was disadvantaged and unable to receive the same level of federal funding as other historically black colleges. “Central State was missing out on federal funding due to the inequality of how the university was being recognized in a funding formula,” said Congressman Turner. “Obviously, that was an injustice. Due to my advocacy, the Farm Bill now corrects that error and increases the amount of the formula funding Central State will be able to receive from the U.S. Department of Agriculture. I want to thank Senators Brown and Portman for our great teamwork to accomplish this. I’m proud this bill is going to the President’s desk, and now more federal dollars will be invested in our community.” ###
12.06.2018	Chairman Mike Turner (OH-10) of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Tactical Air and Land Forces is currently leading a letter to President Donald J. Trump strongly urging his administration to uphold its commitment of $733 billion to restore our nation’s military as they complete the fiscal year 2020 President’s Budget. The letter, which currently has 70 signatures of House members, will be sent to the President at the end of next week. “We are strongly urging the President to follow his original budget plan of $733 billion for the Department of Defense as he prepares his presidential budget for Fiscal Year 2020,” said Chairman Turner. “President Trump cannot claim he is rebuilding our military while cutting the funds necessary to do so. We’ve seen the devastating effects on readiness when our military is forced to make arbitrary cuts as our adversaries continue to aggressively invest in their national security operations.” The full text of the letter and a list of its current signers is below. President Donald J. Trump The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue NW Washington, DC 20500 Dear Mr. President, We, the undersigned, strongly urge you to uphold your commitment of $733 billion to restore our nation’s military as you complete the fiscal year 2020 President’s Budget. Cuts to defense spending will have disastrous consequences for our military readiness, as was proven by sequestration. Recently, the Congressionally-directed Commission on the National Defense Strategy warned: “America’s ability to defend its allies, its partners, and its own vital interests is increasingly in doubt. If the nation does not act promptly to remedy these circumstances, the consequences will be grave and lasting.” This erosion of American military strength is a direct result of the Obama Administration’s sequestration. Since sequestration went into effect, dwindling resources have negatively affected our servicemembers and military readiness. Our military has shouldered the burden of this harmful and failed political budgetary tactic, and it has had severe consequences for our national security. To remedy this, Congress authorized and appropriated $716 billion and $700 billion for the current and last fiscal years, respectively. We must continue to adequately fund the military and allow for responsible growth to protect our national interests at home and abroad. A core tenant of your agenda has been renewing American’s military strength. In August, you remarked: “The National Defense Authorization Act is the most significant investment in our military and our warfighters in modern history. We are going to strengthen our military like never ever before and that’s what we did.” Furthermore, the National Security Strategy states: “We are making historic investments in the United States military…The whole world is lifted by America’s renewal and the reemergence of American leadership.” Our nation and the world are safer when America’s military is preeminent. We cannot afford to repeat past mistakes. We encourage you to join with us and build a stable future for our armed forces. Current House members who have signed the letter: Chairman Mike Turner (OH-10) of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Tactical Air and Land Forces Rep. Ralph Abraham (LA-5) Rep. Mark Amodei (NV-2) Rep. Brian Babin (TX-36) Rep. Don Bacon (NE-2) Rep. Jim Banks (IN-3) Rep. Andy Barr (KY-6) Rep. Jack Bergman (MI-1) Rep. Rob Bishop (UT-1) Rep. Mike Bost (IL-12) Rep. Mo Brooks (AL-5) Rep. Larry Bucshon (IN-8) Rep. Bradley Byrne (AL-1) Rep. Liz Cheney (WY) Rep. Chris Collins (NY-27) Rep. Mike Conaway (TX-11) Rep. Paul Cook (CA-8) Rep. Rick Crawford (AK-1) Rep. Rodney Davis (IL-13) Rep. Scott DesJarlais (TN-4) Rep. Neal Dunn (FL-2) Rep. Brian Fitzpatrick (PA-8) Rep. Bill Flores (TX-17) Rep. Matt Gaetz (FL-1) Rep. Michael Gallagher (WI-8) Rep. Bob Gibbs (OH-7) Rep. Sam Graves (MO-6) Rep. Vicky Hartzler (MO-4) Rep. Jody Hice (GA-10) Rep. Clay Higgins (LA-3) Rep. Duncan Hunter (CA-50) Rep. Will Hurd (TX-23) Rep. Bill Johnson (OH-6) Rep. Mike Johnson (LA-4) Rep. John Katko (NY-24) Rep. Mike Kelly (PA-3) Rep. Trent Kelly (MS-1) Rep. Pete King (NY-2) Rep. Steve King (IA-4) Rep. Adam Kinzinger (IL-16) Rep. Steve Knight (CA-25) Rep. Doug Lamborn (CO-5) Rep. Debbie Lesko (AZ-8) Rep. Frank LoBiondo (NJ-2) Rep. Tom Marino (PA-10) Rep. Roger Marshall (KS-1) Rep. Brian Mast (FL-18) Rep. Martha McSally (AZ-2) Rep. Paul Mitchell (MI-10) Rep. John Moolenaar (MI-4) Rep. Dan Newhouse (WA-4) Rep. Tom O'Halleran (AZ-1) Rep. Pete Olson (TX-2) Rep. Bill Posey (FL-8) Rep. David Rouzer (NC-7) Rep. Steve Russell (OK-5) Rep. John Rutherford (FL-4) Rep. Austin Scott (GA-8) Rep. Bill Shuster (PA-9) Rep. Chris Smith (NJ-4) Rep. Elise Stefanik (NY-21) Rep. Chris Stewart (UT-2) Rep. Steve Stivers (OH-15) Rep. Jackie Walorski (IN-2) Rep. Brad Wenstrup (OH-2) Rep. Roger Williams (TX-25) Rep. Joe Wilson (SC-2) Rep. Rob Wittman (VA-1) Rep. Don Young (AK)
12.04.2018	Today, the Pentagon made public its decision to locate the F-35 Hybrid Product Support Integrator (HPSI) Organization at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base. The new mission will bring at least 400 jobs, with the potential for more to be located at the base over the next several years. In April, Congressman Mike Turner (OH-10) and Senators Sherrod Brown and Rob Portman led the entire Ohio congressional delegation in advocating to U.S. Secretary of the Air Force Heather Wilson for the mission to come to Wright-Patt because the base is uniquely qualified to handle the new mission. In a meeting Turner arranged in June, the Senators and other members of the Ohio delegation met with Secretary Wilson in Washington and made the case for Wright-Patt in person. “In numerous discussions with Secretary Wilson, I expressed that Wright-Patterson Air Force Base provides the best opportunity of success for this incredibly important mission for our national security,” said Congressman Turner. “With today’s decision to bring the F-35 HPSI Organization to Wright-Patt, at least 400 new jobs will be added to our community as a direct result of our strong bipartisan advocacy.” “The men and women at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base perform critical acquisition missions supporting our national defense,” said Senator Brown. “Secretary Wilson recognized that the base, and the greater Dayton area, provide a unique environment to enable our servicemembers and civilians to continue meeting our national security needs. This mission will continue to grow the critical acquisition and technical expertise in the Miami Valley.” “The Air Force’s decision to locate the F-35 Hybrid Product Support Integrator at Wright-Patt is great news for the Dayton region and more than 400 new jobs at the base,” said Senator Portman. “This decision is a testament to our incredible work force and reinforces the Miami Valley’s critical role in supporting our national defense. In addition to bringing high-paying jobs to Dayton, this Support Integrator will help contribute to the effectiveness of our F-35 program.” ###
12.04.2018	Congressman Mike Turner (OH-10) released the following statement after Secretary of State Mike Pompeo announced a two-month deadline for Russia to comply with Intermediate-range Nuclear Forces (INF) Treaty: “Russia has intentionally violated the INF by developing, testing, and fielding intermediate range cruise and ballistic missiles. As NATO’s foreign ministers said today, ‘Allies have emphasized that the situation whereby the United States and other parties fully abide by the Treaty and Russia does not, is not sustainable.’ We cannot continue to comply with this treaty while our highly aggressive adversary is violating it. A path to withdrawal is warranted at this juncture, and I support the action taken today.” Congressman Turner serves as the Chairman of the U.S. Delegation to the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, Chairman of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Tactical Air and Land Forces, and a member of the House Intelligence Committee. ###
11.30.2018	Congressman Mike Turner (OH-10) successfully pushed his bill with Senators Sherrod Brown and Rob Portman through the House of Representatives today to rename the federal building in downtown Dayton after Senior United States District Court Judge Walter H. Rice. The bill passed the Senate in June, and is now headed to the President’s desk to be signed into law. “I assembled a panel to recommend who to honor in naming the federal building in downtown Dayton, and they unanimously chose Judge Walter Rice,” said Congressman Turner. “With the help of Senators Brown and Portman, we were able to get this bill across the finish line and to the President’s desk. Judge Rice is one of our community’s most dedicated public servants and this is a fitting tribute and honor he wholly deserves.” “Judge Rice has spent his legal career in service to Montgomery County, and it is fitting that the Dayton Federal Building, where he has devoted nearly four decades of his life, bears his name,” said Sen. Brown. “I join Sen. Portman and Rep. Turner in gratitude for Judge Rice’s service to Dayton as we work together to honor his legacy.” “For more than four decades, Judge Rice has been a tireless advocate for justice, the people of Dayton, and the state of Ohio,” said Sen. Portman. “This is a fitting tribute to his life’s work, and I join Senator Brown and Rep. Turner in thanking him for his service.” ###
11.15.2018	Chairman Mike Turner (OH-10) of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Tactical Air and Land Forces issued the following statement regarding the Department of Defense’s audit: “The House Armed Services Committee required this audit knowing that the outcome would paint a bleak picture of the financial controls and information systems at the Department of Defense. These basic accounting failures have cost our taxpayers, our men and women in uniform, and ultimately our greater national security. Now that we have a clearer picture of the failures at the DoD, we can take action to fix them, hold leadership at DoD accountable, and save important resources for protecting our country.”
11.14.2018	Chairman Mike Turner (OH-10) of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Tactical Air and Land Forces released the following statement on the National Defense Strategy Commission report: “This report confirms what we already know: sequestration has been incredibly damaging to our military’s readiness. We are continuing to work to reverse that, but time cannot be bought back. I voted against sequestration and have been one of its strongest opponents for years. I helped lead the bipartisan effort in Congress that provided adequate and stable funding for the Department of Defense through 2019. We will have to work in the new Congress to ensure these resource levels are not undone. I will continue to work on Capitol Hill to rebuild our military and keep the United States the strongest country in the world.” ###
09.28.2018	Today, the House passed the SUPPORT for Patients and Communities Act, which included two of Congressman Mike Turner’s (OH-10) bills to combat the opioid epidemic, the CRIB Act and the Medicaid Reentry Act, in addition to numerous bills Congressman Turner cosponsored. “The opioid epidemic is unlike anything we’ve seen,” said Congressman Turner. “I’ve worked for 5 years to combat this epidemic. I am incredibly proud that today’s package addressing this issue includes two key provisions I’ve been pushing through Congress for years to help vulnerable victims of this drug crisis: the CRIB Act to fund specialized treatment for infants born addicted to opiates, and the Medicaid Reentry Act to better assess how we can provide substance abuse treatment to addicted incarcerated individuals. These bills came as a direct result from members of our community expressing to me the need for this legislation. We are now one step closer to solving these problems.” Congressman Turner’s Caring Recovery for Infants and Babies (CRIB) Act, included in the legislation, would expand access to specialized, family-based treatment options for babies suffering from neonatal abstinence syndrome (NAS). CRIB would permit residential pediatric recovery facilities that focus on providing medical care to infants with NAS, like Brigid’s Path in Kettering, to serve more lower- and moderate-income families. Through CRIB, states would be given the flexibility to partner with these residential pediatric recovery facilities by allowing them to bill Medicaid for the services they offer. The Medicaid Reentry Act, also sponsored by Congressman Turner, helps incarcerated individuals transition smoothly back into society after their release. Studies show that those recovering from a substance use disorder are over 100 times more likely to die of an overdose during the first two weeks of released as opposed to the general population. This bill requires the Department of Health and Human Services to develop, in collaboration with stakeholders and experts, guidance on how to expand and improve substance abuse treatment services for people exiting prison or jail. The bipartisan SUPPORT for Patients and Communities Act combats illicit and synthetic drugs coming across our borders, removes outdated barriers that hamper access to care, addresses the effects of the opioid crisis on children and families, and continues to provide funding to boost programs that fight, treat, and stop substance abuse. ###
09.28.2018	This week, the House of Representatives passed the Conference Report for the Department of Defense (DoD) and Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year 2019. This bill will now go to the President to be signed into law. Once signed, this will mark the first time in years Congress has ensured on time funding to our military. “After years of harmful sequestration and continuing resolutions, I am thrilled Congress has sent DoD appropriations to the President’s desk on time this year,” said Chairman Mike Turner (OH-10) of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Tactical Air and Land Forces. “Year after year, hearing after hearing, we are briefed on the potential devastating impact on our military when Congress doesn’t do its job. This bill ensures our men and women in uniform get the funding they need on time.” Chairman Turner included several key provisions in this legislation that impact Wright-Patterson Air Force Base and our community: Research Partnerships with Local Universities: Chairman Turner secured $49.5M for Air Force research projects that partner with local universities. Our scientists will have opportunities to partner with the Air Force Research Labs on cutting-edge research and development that will greatly help our men and women in service. Hypoxia Research: Chairman Turner worked to allocate $5M for research into physiological episodes experiences by our pilots. The experts at the 711th Human Performance Wing at Wright-Patt will oversee this work. Metals Affordability Initiative (MAI): Chairman Turner ensured that $10M for the MAI office at Wright-Patt’s Air Force Research Labs to partner with the defense industry to provide reliable sources and reduce costs of the metals used in our nation’s warplanes. Sexual Assault Victims Councils: Also, as co-chair of the Military Sexual Assault Prevention Caucus, Chairman Turner was instrumental in the creation of the Special Victims Counsel Program; this year $35M will be provided for the continued implementation and expansion of this program which provides survivors with an attorney to walk them through the complicated military justice system. Chairman Turner fought for critical defense programs in support of our national security within the Tactical Air and Land subcommittee’s jurisdiction: F-35 Joint Strike Fighter: The bill delivers funding for the Air Force, Navy, and Marine Corps to procure 93 5th generation aircraft securing air dominance for the warfighter. Light-Attack Aircraft Program: The USAF’s Light Attack Aircraft Program was also increased by $100M to provide a new platform to provide superior air support for our ground troops. A-10 Thunderbolt II Wings: As part of Chairman Turner’s maintenance and sustainment priorities to improve readiness, $144M was included to replace wings on the Air Force’s current close air support aircraft, the A-10. Gorgon Stare: The Airborne Reconnaissance Systems was increased by $10M for the Gorgon Stare Wide Area Motion Imagery program. This next generation program provides valuable imagery intelligence that changes the way our warfighter operates. ###
09.27.2018	Yesterday, the Department of Defense announced a $52,462,485 contract award to GE Aviation in Vandalia, Ohio. Chairman Mike Turner (OH-10) of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Tactical Air and Land Forces authorized these funds for electrical systems for the Navy’s F/A-18E/F Super Hornet and EA-18G Growler aircraft. “Southwest Ohio continues to be at the forefront of aviation innovation and the bedrock of national security,” said Chairman Turner. “This contract coming to our community will support about 300 high-tech manufacturing jobs for the next five years. These upgraded systems will provide increase electrical power performance, improved mission readiness, and reduced life-cycle costs for the Navy. I am proud to have authorized these funds to improve our Navy’s readiness and that these funds are being invested directly into our community.” “GE Vandalia is excited to continue our tradition of supporting the F/A-18 Super Hornet and Growler fleet with the G4 Greater Converter Unit upgrade,” said John Robertson, Vice President of GE Electrical Power Systems. “The G4 is already delivering improved mission readiness for the U.S. Navy Warfighter, and this contract also helps secure good manufacturing jobs for our Vandalia, Ohio, plant through 2024.” ###
09.21.2018	Today, the President signed into law the first installment of the $182 million building expansion project at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base that Congressman Mike Turner (OH-10) secured in the National Defense Authorization Act of Fiscal Year 2019 (FY19). Language was included in the military construction appropriations bill signed today to make a portion of $182 million “immediately available” for construction in 2019. “I fought to authorize $182 million for a new building for the National Air and Space Intelligence Center (NASIC), surpassing the President’s budget request. Today the President signed a bill officially making the first $61 million of that project available on October 1st. There is critical work being done at Wright-Patt and NASIC to keep our country safe and ensure we stay ahead of our adversaries in intelligence. I fought to make this incredible investment in our community a reality, and I am glad these funds will be immediately put to use at Wright-Patt.” ###
09.13.2018	Today, the House approved the first installment of the $182 million building expansion project at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base (WPAFB) that Congressman Mike Turner (OH-10) secured in the National Defense Authorization Act of Fiscal Year 2019 (FY19). Language was included in the military construction appropriations conference report passed today to make a portion of $61 million “immediately available” for construction in 2019—bypassing administrative burden. “Earlier this year, I fought to authorize $182 million for a new building for the National Air and Space Intelligence Center (NASIC), surpassing the President’s budget request. Today the House voted to make the first $61 million of that project available on October 1st. It was my priority for WPAFB to be able to access this money and start the project as quickly as possible. The work done at NASIC is not only vital to our local economy, but also critical to our national security. This project cannot afford to be delayed by burdensome red tape, and I am proud that today’s bill allows for swift availability of these funds.” ###
08.30.2018	This week, Representatives Mike Turner (R-OH-10) and Niki Tsongas (D-MA-3), co-chairs of the Military Sexual Assault Prevention Caucus, called on the Veterans Benefit Administration (VBA) to address a report from the Veterans Affairs Office of Inspector General (VA OIG) that identified the VBA mishandled hundreds of benefit claims submitted by military sexual assault survivors in 2017. In a letter to VA Under Secretary Dr. Paul R. Lawrence, Reps. Turner and Tsongas requested to immediately be provided with the VBA’s “action plan to correct the deficiencies identified in the report and begin the review of claims that were denied.” The VA OIG report, released earlier this month, estimates the VBA incorrectly processed approximately 1,300 of the 2,700 benefit claims that were denied between April and September 2017. This report comes after the VBA released updated guidance in 2011 stating it would take a “liberal approach” when examining evidence of military sexual trauma for veterans benefit Claims. “For the past decade, we have worked together in a bipartisan manner to prevent sexual assault in the military and provide resources to those who have been assaulted,” Turner and Tsongas said today. “There is an understanding that when someone serves our country, they will be taken care of. What the IG’s report shows is that the VBA is not fulfilling that obligation to our veterans who have endured military sexual trauma. The number of veterans potentially impacted by the VBA’s failure to provide benefits to these victims is staggering and unacceptable.” In their letter to Under Secretary Lawrence, Turner and Tsongas requested in writing the following from the VBA: ● A description of the military sexual trauma veterans’ benefit claims process and policies in effect, including the criteria for denial and process for appeal. ● A timeline for when and how the VBA became aware that claims were not being processed according to policy, including an answer as to whether the VBA was aware of any issues prior to the IG report. ● A description of the internal oversight mechanism that will be put in place to prevent this failure in the future. ● The VBA’s plan for reviewing military sexual assault trauma claims that were denied to ensure earlier cases since 2011 were reviewed appropriately. ● The VBA’s action plan to correct the deficiencies identified in the report and begin the review of claims that were denied.
08.30.2018	Congressman Mike Turner (OH-10) wrote today to House Speaker Paul Ryan and Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell expressing his strong opposition to President Trump’s decision to cancel the 2.1 percent pay increase and locality pay increases expected for civilian federal workers in 2019. Additionally, he urged Congress to reinstate the increases for civilian federal workers before the end of the fiscal year. Congressman Turner believes we must work together to balance the budget but not on the backs of federal civilian employees. Congressman Turner wrote: “I am writing in strong opposition to President Trump’s decision to cancel the 2.1 percent pay increase and locality pay increases for civilian federal workers in 2019. Congress must act to reinstate the increases for our civilian federal workers before the end of this fiscal year. The Dayton region is home to over 15,000 federal civilian employees. In fact, at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base alone, more than 12,000 federal civilian employees work every day to ensure our national security. Federal civilian employees are the foundation of our government’s day-to-day operations. Our country relies on these employees to carry out critical duties across all sectors of government, from national security and healthcare to economic expansion and infrastructure development. As I said when the Office of Personnel Management attempted to cut federal employee benefits earlier this year: in order to recruit, retain and honor an excellent workforce to serve the American people, Congress must ensure a competitive pay scale befitting the federal employee workforce, including civilians. The President says we cannot afford this pay raise. However, it is my firm belief that our country cannot afford to make the federal government a less attractive place to work and risk losing these often-undervalued employees to the often higher-paying private sector. As we return to Washington to debate how federal dollars will be appropriated this coming fiscal year, I strongly urge leaders of the House and Senate to reject the President’s shortsighted decision to cancel the 2.1 percent pay increase and locality pay increases for our valuable federal civilian employees. We must work together to balance the budget but not on the backs of federal civilian employees.”
08.03.2018	Today, Congressman Mike Turner (OH-10) asked Wright-Patterson Installation Commander Col. Thomas Sherman for a briefing to learn what led to the active shooter false alarm and an assessment of lessons learned from the response. “Our local first responders were tremendous yesterday,” said Congressman Turner. “They were on the scene immediately to assist when they were called. However, there are still a lot questions left unanswered and I would like to know how this happened and how we can better respond in the future. I look forward to Col. Sherman being able to brief me and the local responders who have mutual aid agreements with the base.” “As a community we had a presumed actual incident. We are now in a position to accurately evaluate our community’s and Wright-Patt’s response to determine lessons learned and ways to enhance our overall security response,” Turner added. Congressman Turner has been instrumental in directing federal dollars for security and safety enhancements at WPAFB—including over $10 million for a new gateway that is currently under construction. ###
07.27.2018	Chairman Mike Turner (OH-10) of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Tactical Air and Land Forces released the following statement after Gen. Ellen Pawlikowski, commander of Air Force Materiel Command at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base, announced her retirement: “Gen. Pawlikowski’s era of leadership greatly grew Wright-Patterson Air Force Base’s contributions to the Air Force’s missions and our national security. Her service at Materiel Command has been inspirational for all who have worked under and with her, and her exemplary performance in her role has increased the importance of that Command. Her historic service as a female four star general in the Air Force has paved the way for strong future female leadership in our armed services. I congratulate her on her well earned retirement and what will be a lasting legacy of outstanding leadership.” ###
07.26.2018	Chairman Mike Turner (OH-10) of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Tactical Air and Land Forces released the following statement about the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019’s passage of the House: “Throughout the entire process of crafting the final defense bill, I fought for key provisions to bolster our community, ensure the safety of our men and women in uniform, and keep our country secure. Most importantly, I was able to secure the full $182 million authorization for the new building at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base to expand our intelligence operations. This is a huge win for the Dayton community and underscores Wright-Patt’s importance to our overall national security.” Provisions included by Chairman Turner in the FY19 NDAA: Wright-Patterson Air Force Base (WPAFB) Chairman Turner surpassed the President’s budget and authorized the full $182 million for a new complex at the National Air and Space Intelligence Center at WPAFB. Chairman Turner included a provision to expedite hiring of civilian personnel into positions involving acquisition, science, technology, and engineering. These expanded authorities allow commands at WPAFB to more quickly hire personnel in high-tech fields. Chairman Turner also included an amendment to create flexibility and strengthen the utilization of the Small Business Innovation Research (SBIR) and Small Business Technology Transfer (STTR) programs. This will directly benefit the Air Force’s SBIR/STTR Program, headquartered at WPAFB, and the Air Force Research Laboratory (AFRL), also located at Wright-Patt. AFRL utilizes both SBIR and STTR. PERSIST Against MST Act Chairman Turner, co-chair of the Military Sexual Assault Prevention Caucus, included bipartisan legislation with his co-chair Niki Tsongas (D-MA-3) to continue to combat sexual assault in the military. The PERSIST Against MST Act: · Requires the Secretary of Defense to designate a single official or entity within the Office of the Secretary of Defense to take on the principal responsibility for providing oversight of the registered sex offender management program of the DoD and to provide a briefing to Congress on its efforts with an update no later than June 1, 2019; · Ensures that victims of sexual assault in the military, even if their case is handled by the Family Advocacy Program, have the choice to request an expedited transfer to a different location; · Mandates the government hand over any information requested by an independent panel, the Defense Advisory Committee on Investigation, Prosecution, and Defense of Sexual Assault in the Armed Forces, that the panel deems necessary to carry out its duties. Lance Corporal Maria Lauterbach, a victim of sexual assault who was murdered and was a constituent of Chairman Turner’s, was unable to transfer quickly. That failure by the DoD may have cost Maria her life. The inclusion of the PERSIST Against MST Act in the FY19 NDAA is a step towards ensuring this cannot happen again. SHIELDS Act Chairman Turner’s SHIELDS Act, introduced with Rep. Seth Moulton (D-MA-6), was included in the FY19 NDAA. This bill requires the DoD to report controlled substance prescription information to state prescription drug monitoring programs. This closes a dangerous gap and ensures health care providers have all the tools available to help safeguard our servicemembers, their families, and our veterans from opioid abuse. Evan’s Law Chairman Turner included provisions following up on his Evan’s Law to ensure DoD provided housing is safe for military families. This year’s provision allows DoD to establish a grant program that gives servicemembers living in DoD housing access to resources to emplace window fall prevention devices in their homes. Commander Jason English and his wife Ami lost their son Evan in an accidental fall from a window while living in military residential housing. Chairman Turner has worked to ensure that does not happen again. Tactical Air and Land Subcommittee Chairman Turner’s Tactical Air and Land Subcommittee mark, included in the full committee FY19 NDAA bill: · F/A-18E/F Super Hornet: Authorizes multiyear procurement authorities for F/A-18E/F Super Hornet aircraft to generate better cost savings for the taxpayer and provide needed capability to the Navy. · F-35 Joint Strike Fighters: The NDAA supports the President’s budget request for 77 F-35 Joint Strike Fighters and also authorizes the Department to procure additional F-35 aircraft, if additional funds become available, utilizing cost savings and program efficiencies. Congressman Turner continues to maintain oversight of the F-35 program by requiring quarterly updates on the program, and limits funding on the F-35 continuous capability development and delivery program until the Department provides a detailed cost estimate and baseline schedule for the program. · JSTARS: Holds the Secretary of the Air Force accountable for increasing current capacity and capabilities for the warfighter related to Battle-Management, Command and Control, and Ground‐Moving Target Indicator intelligence capabilities, and developing a plan to sustain legacy E-8C aircraft until the Advanced Battle-Management System concept reaches a level of acceptable maturity and capability. · Electronic Warfare: Requires the Department of Defense to synchronize and unify efforts related to the implementation of electronic warfare strategy and capabilities. A mission area in which our peer competitors outpacing U.S. capabilities, and for which the Department of Defense has struggled for years across the Services to implement capabilities coherently. · A-10 Warthog: Building on committee oversight and prior National Defense Authorization Act legislation, the conference report continues to stress the importance of modernizing the A-10 Warthog fleet. The NDAA also includes an increase of $65.0 million for the A-10 wing replacement program and through the HASC committee report directs the Air Force to consider using multi-year procurement contracts to generate better cost-savings. · Armor Brigade Combat Teams: The NDAA conference report supports the President’s budget request to modernize Army Armored Brigade Combat Team vehicles, including 135 M1 Abrams tanks, 60 Bradley fighting vehicles, 197 armored multipurpose vehicles, 38 Improved Recovery Vehicles, and 3,390 Joint Light Tactical Vehicles. · Strykers: Authorizes $225.3 million, an increase of $203.4 million, for Stryker A1 combat vehicles, the most survivable and advanced version of the Stryker combat vehicle. · Works to facilitate mitigation efforts to better address physiological episodes in tactical and training aircraft, and requires the Secretary of the Navy and the Secretary of the Air Force to certify that any new aircraft will all have the most recent technological advancements necessary to mitigate PEs. · Works to strengthen and improve ISR investment strategies in order to more efficiently and effectively meet combatant commander ISR requirements. · Advances the development and procurement of lighter, stronger and more advanced personal protective equipment systems for all warfighters. · Sets the conditions and encourages the Department to explore opportunities to accelerate the Future Vertical Lift program in order to meet national security challenges. ###
07.25.2018	Congressman Mike Turner’s (OH-10) Fostering Stable Housing Opportunities Act passed yesterday through the House Financial Services Committee. “Currently foster care youths age out of the system and into federally created homelessness,” said Congressman Turner. “With the passage through the Financial Services Committee, this foster care bill is closer than ever to becoming law. These foster care kids have few resources to find safe, stable housing. My bill is a commonsense fix with no additional cost to the federal government that will have a huge impact for the lives of these kids. Now that it’s passed committee, I look forward to this bill coming to the full House for passage.” ###
06.28.2018	Chairman Mike Turner (OH-10) of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Tactical Air and Land Forces released the following statement after being appointed as a member of the House delegation to negotiate the differences between the House and Senate versions of the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA): “I look forward to joining my colleagues on both sides of the aisle from both chambers of Congress to craft the final version of this year’s defense bill. I’ll be working to maintain the House’s $182 million for an expansion project at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base in the final version of the bill, expedite hiring at Wright-Patt, and help the Air Force Research Laboratory partner with small businesses. Additionally, I’ll work to include final language to combat sexual assault in the military, curb the opioid epidemic, make military housing safer for families, and support the needs of our tactical air and land forces.” ###
06.25.2018	Congressman Mike Turner (OH-10), Chairman of the US Delegation to the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) Parliamentary Assembly, released the following statement after Recep Tayyip Erdoğan won re-election in Turkey: “President Erdoğan’s re-election puts Turkey at a crossroads. My hope moving forward is that Turkey re-engages with the Western world and re-establishes its commitment to democracy. The President must heed the concerns from the international community and NATO to preserve freedom and protect human rights.” ###
06.21.2018	Congressman Mike Turner (OH-10) released the following statement after the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) issued a draft report examining the health effects of exposure to Perfluorooctane Sulfonate (PFOS) and Perfluorooctanoic Acid (PFOA): “Last month, I wrote to Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Scott Pruitt calling for the public release of this water contamination study after it was reported that he was blocking its release. After he responded that he would not block its release, I then called on HHS Secretary Alex Azar to publicly release this study. Today, the draft report of the study has been released to the public. As I said to both Administrator Pruitt and Secretary Azar, this is a matter of public health and safety. Based on this information, I encourage federal, state, and local environmental regulators to examine whether they are appropriately communicating the risks presented by and adequately addressing the presence of PFOS and PFOA in drinking water. We must ensure agencies at all levels are using the most reliable data and best available science to ensure our drinking water remains safe. These chemicals have been reported in the groundwater at least 126 military installations, including Wright-Patterson Air Force Base. Congress has now prohibited the Department of Defense from using these chemicals. This study will provide our federal, state, and local environmental regulators the information they need to make sure drinking our water remains safe, and I thank HHS for publicly releasing this draft report. I will continue to work with our community to keep Dayton’s water safe.” ###
06.21.2018	This week, the U.S. House of Representatives unanimously passed by voice-vote bipartisan legislation sponsored by Congressmen Mike Turner (OH-10) and Paul Tonko (NY-20) to give states flexibility to expand access to addiction treatment for individuals completing their time in jail or prison. The Medicaid Reentry Act (H.R. 4005) would develop best practices to help incarcerated individuals successfully transition back into society and remain drug free. Specifically, the legislation directs the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) to release guidance to State Medicaid directors, developed by a group of stakeholder experts, on policies to improve transitional substance use disorder care for incarcerated individuals who are reentering society. “The issue of incarcerated individuals losing their ability to access Medicaid funding for substance abuse treatment was brought to my attention by the Greene County sheriff,” said Congressman Turner. “Since then, I have introduced and fought tirelessly for legislation remedying this issue. House passage of the Medicaid Reentry Act is a huge step forward in helping these vulnerable individuals get the treatment they need.” Congressman Tonko outlined the bill’s purpose during debate on the House floor, noting that under the bill, “Individuals could better access mental health and addiction care and have an improved care transition back into the community. By passing this bill, we can allow states to expand innovative approaches to reentry that are already underway in places such as New York, Ohio, New Mexico, and Rhode Island. I’d like to thank our Energy and Commerce Chairman Greg Walden and Ranking Member Pallone and their staffs for the constructive collaboration on this bill, and I’d also like to thank my Republican co-lead, Rep. Mike Turner, for his efforts to help shine a light on this vulnerable population.” During Energy & Commerce debate, Committee Chairman Greg Walden (OR-2) expressed strong support for the bill, saying, “We will continue our discussions going forward but this is a really sound piece of legislation, the amendment improves upon the underlying bill with the substitute, and I am fully in support of it.” Individuals suffering from substance use disorder are roughly 129 times more likely to die of an overdose in the first two weeks after release from prison compared to the general population. The risk of overdose is elevated during this period due to reduced physiological tolerance for opioids among the incarcerated population, a lack of effective addiction treatment options while incarcerated, and poor care transitions back into the community. ###
06.20.2018	Congressman Mike Turner (OH-10) released the following statement after meeting with President Donald J. Trump, Vice President Mike Pence, members of the cabinet, and other Members of Congress today: “Today at the White House, I met with the President and other Members of Congress. We urged the President to end the separation of families at the border. I supported his announcement and subsequent signing of an executive order to that effect. I strongly support the Border Security and Immigration Reform Act, the immigration bill, that will be on the House floor tomorrow that keeps families together, strengthens border security, implements a merit-based immigration system, and allows DACA recipients stay in the U.S. Immigration is the heart of our country. Our system has been broken for too long, and I strongly support the changes in this bill to improve our laws.” ###
06.15.2018	This week, the House of Representatives passed 5 bills cosponsored by Congressman Mike Turner (OH-10) aimed at combating the opioid epidemic. “This week’s passage of these bills through the House will make meaningful impacts in Southwest Ohio to combat the opioid epidemic. Specifically, the bills I cosponsored will secure our postal system from being used to traffic opioids, make it more difficult for drugs like fentanyl to come into our country, improve treatment courts for our veterans, create a loan repayment program to encourage medical professionals to provide substance abuse treatment services in areas with greatest need, and help recovering low-income individuals find transitional housing in environments conducive to rehabilitation. These bills will make impactful changes to prevent people from getting these dangerous drugs and help those who have become addicted to recover. I will continue to fight to combat the opioid epidemic.” Congressman Turner cosponsored the below bills that passed the House this week: H.R. 5735, Transitional Housing for Recovery in Viable Environments Demonstration Program Act: Creates a demonstration housing assistance program to provide low-income individuals recovering from opioid/other substance use disorders with a clean, safe, and structured environment. Housing assistance providers must: (1) offer an evidence-based treatment program and job skills training for individuals recovering from an opioid/substance abuse disorder that meet standards set by the Department of Housing & Urban Development (HUD); and (2) demonstrate prior experience in administering housing vouchers. H.R. 2851, Stop the Importation and Trafficking of Synthetic Analogues (SITSA) Act: Creates a new schedule – Schedule A – to address the problem of synthetic chemical analogues of already-controlled substances, which threaten public health. A substance may be placed on Schedule A if it has a chemical structure that is substantially similar to an existing controlled substance in Schedules I through V and physiological effects on humans equal to or greater than an existing controlled substance. Adds 13 synthetic analogues of fentanyl to the new Schedule A immediately. Permits more rapid control of these dangerous substances as they are identified, and equips law enforcement with additional criminal and civil tools to halt trafficking of these drug “look-alikes” into the United States. H.R. 5788, Securing the International Mail Against Opioids Act of 2018: Imposes additional requirements on the United States Postal Service and Customs & Border Protection to address the opioid crisis by securing international mail, which is often a means for smuggling dangerous synthetic opioids like fentanyl into the U.S. Mandates advance electronic data screening of inbound shipments into the United States in order to identify and intercept illegal substances, including opioids as well as other dangerous, counterfeit, and patent-infringing goods, before they enter the United States. Congressman Turner cosponsored very similar legislation – H.R. 1057, the Synthetics Trafficking and Overdose Prevention (STOP) Act. H.R. 5102, Substance Use Disorder Workforce Loan Repayment Act of 2018: Creates a capped loan repayment program for substance use disorder (SUD) treatment providers in exchange for up to 6 years of work as a SUD treatment professional in areas most in need of such services. Program will be available to a wide range of direct patient medical care providers, including physicians, registered nurses, social workers, and other behavioral health professionals. Regardless of how many years a medical professional agrees to serve, the annual student loan payment he/she receives will be 1/6 of the initial, total student loan balance. Accordingly, if a SUD treatment professional serves for the full 6 year term in a high-need region, he/she will have repaid the entire student loan amount. H.R. 2147, Veterans Treatment Court Improvement Act: Directs the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) to hire at least 50 Veterans Justice Outreach (VJO) specialists, place each one at an eligible VA medical center, and ensure that each serves as part of a justice team in a veterans treatment court or other veteran-focused court. Establishes criteria to determine eligible VA medical centers, including working within a local criminal justice system for justice-involved veterans, maintaining an affiliation with a veterans treatments court, and either routinely assigning VJO specialists to serve as part of a justice team in a veterans treatment court or establishing a plan to do so. Prioritizes placement of VJO specialists for VA medical centers that have, or intend to have, an affiliation with a veterans treatment court. ###
06.06.2018	Congressmen Mike Turner (OH-10) and Evan Jenkins (WV-3)’s CRIB Act has been modified in collaboration with the Senate. The Congressmen have re-introduced their CRIB Act in the House matching the revised Senate bill. The bill will help cover the treatment costs of neonatal abstinence syndrome (NAS), a withdrawal condition in newborns caused by use of addictive substances by expecting mothers. “I have been fighting to help newborns addicted to opioids since I learned of the problem in my community in 2013, and I first introduced the CRIB Act last Congress,” said Rep. Turner. “Our bill will give organizations such as Brigid’s Path, which Health and Human Services Secretary Azar visited earlier this year, funding to treat these vulnerable babies. Our introduction of the modified language in the House brings us one step closer to making the funding of the care of these newborn victims of the opioid epidemic a reality.” “Suffering through withdrawal from exposure to heroin and other opioids is a horrific way to start one’s life, but that’s the reality for many newborns in West Virginia and across the country,” said Rep. Jenkins. “These newborns need specialized care to help them recover from drug exposure before they were even born. Lily’s Place in Huntington is making a difference in the lives of babies with neonatal abstinence syndrome and their families, and we should encourage more centers to open nationwide to treat these newborns. We’re reintroducing the CRIB Act to keep this momentum going in the House and Senate to ensure healthy lives for babies and children across our country.” “We want to thank Representative Turner and Representative Jenkins for addressing the opioid epidemic and especially for introducing the CRIB Act,” said Jill Kingston, Executive Director of Brigid’s Path. “This legislation will allow Brigid’s Path to help babies who are battling neonatal abstinence syndrome and provide support for their families.” Turner has been fighting the opioid epidemic in Southwest Ohio since 2013: December 18, 2013: Toured Soin Medical Center, where issue of Heroin-Exposed Newborns was raised. March 10, 2014: Met with area hospitals to discuss the growing issue of Heroin-Exposed Newborns. May 15, 2014: Visited Dayton Children’s Hospital NICU to discuss infant heroin exposure and the withdrawal and recovery process. June 30, 2014: Held a Community Forum on the Effects of the Heroin Epidemic on Newborns. August 27, 2014: Visited the Women’s Recovery Center. May 2015: Held Community Summit on Heroin-Exposed Infants. August 21, 2015: Toured Greene County Jail and Green Leaf Alcohol and Drug Treatment Program; met with criminal justice system administrators and substance abuse and mental health leadership. November 18, 2015: Met with ONDCP Director Michael Botticelli and introduced the TREAT Act with Congresswoman Marcia L. Fudge (OH-11) and Congresswoman Niki Tsongas (MA-3). May 12, 2016: The House passed an amendment he cosponsored with Congressman Dan Donovan (NY-11) to increase access to medical treatment for pregnant women struggling with substance abuse. May 25, 2016: Introduced CRIB Act to help expand access to specialized treatment and recovery options for infants suffering from neonatal abstinence syndrome (NAS), a withdrawal condition in newborns often caused by use of opioids and other addictive substances in pregnant women. August 29, 2016: Hosted a Heroin Epidemic Response Roundtable in Dayton with Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner (WI-05), lead author of the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act (CARA). October 28, 2016: Hosted a roundtable discussion on the opioid and heroin epidemic in Dayton with Senator Rob Portman (OH). February 2, 2017: Joined the bipartisan Addiction, Treatment, and Recovery Caucus. February 7, 2017: Reintroduced the TREAT Act. May 17, 2017: Reintroduced CRIB Act with Congressman Evan Jenkins (WV-03). August 7, 2017: TREAT Act concept supported by President Donald Trump’s Commission to Combat Drug Addiction and the Opioid Crisis. September 20, 2017: Helped secure funding for the Community Action Commission of Fayette County to help prevent youth substance abuse. September 22, 2017: Spoke at the Payne Theological Seminary Recovery Month Celebration. September 22, 2017: Visited Alkermes with Congressman Steve Stivers (OH-15) to learn about its medical approach to combating the opioid epidemic. September 25, 2017: Held a opioid prevention forum with local leaders and joined Sheriff Plummer in calling for a drug czar. October 5, 2017: Sent a letter with Sheriff Plummer to Phil Parker, President and CEO of the Dayton Area Chamber of Commerce, and Jeff Hoagland, President and CEO of the Dayton Development Coalition, asking for a recommendation in identifying possible candidates for a Dayton Region Drug Czar. October 11, 2017: Testified on TREAT Act and opioid crisis at House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health. December 11, 2017: Joined Congressional letter to the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) requesting a comprehensive funding proposal for additional resources needed to address the opioid epidemic. December 12, 2017: Sent a letter with Ranking Member Seth Moulton (MA-6) of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations to Secretary of Defense James Mattis expressing concern about the Department of Defense’s (DoD) practice of reporting prescriptions, particularly regarding opioids. December 12, 2017: Led a Congressional letter to several House Committees with jurisdiction over opioid-related policy issues urging them to implement the legislative elements of the President’s Commission on Combating Drug Addiction and the Opioid Crisis’ Final Report. January 10, 2018: TREAT Act and CRIB Act included in Bipartisan Heroin Task Force Legislative Agenda. January 19, 2018: Joined Bipartisan Heroin Task Force letter to President urging U.S. Department of Health & Human Services to renew the public health emergency previously declared for the opioid epidemic. February 2, 2018: Joined Congressional letter to Congressional leadership requesting additional funding to support the President’s public health emergency declaration for the opioid epidemic. March 2, 2018: Joined Health and Human Services Secretary Alex Azar in touring and participating in a roundtable discussion at Brigid’s Path. April 18, 2018: Joined as Republican co-lead of the Medicaid Reentry Act, introduced by Congressman Paul Tonko (NY-20), to permit Medicaid to reimburse for substance abuse treatment services furnished to individuals during the 30 days prior to release from incarceration. May 4, 2018: Re-visited Greene County Jail with Sheriff Gene Fischer and the County Commissioners to discuss the Medicaid Reentry Act. May 17, 2018: Turner and Tonko’s Medicaid Reentry Act advanced out of the Energy and Commerce Committee. ###
05.24.2018	Chairman Mike Turner (OH-10) of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Tactical Air and Land Forces released the following statement after the House overwhelmingly passed the National Defense Authorization Act: “All of the provisions I included in the National Defense Authorization Act remained in the bill and overwhelmingly passed the House today, bringing our community one step closer to getting $182 million for a new building at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base. I fought for key provisions in this bill to bolster our community, ensure the safety of our men and women in uniform, and keep our country secure. I will continue to fight for these provisions as we move into working with the Senate on the final defense bill.” Provisions included by Chairman Turner in the FY19 NDAA: Wright-Patterson Air Force Base (WPAFB) Chairman Turner surpassed the President’s budget and authorized the full $182 million for a new complex at the National Air and Space Intelligence Center at WPAFB. Chairman Turner included a provision to expedite hiring of civilian personnel into positions involving acquisition, science, technology, and engineering. These expanded authorities allow commands at WPAFB to more quickly hire personnel in high-tech fields. Chairman Turner included an amendment to create flexibility and strengthen the utilization of the Small Business Innovation Research (SBIR) and Small Business Technology Transfer (STTR) programs, both utilized by the Air Force Research Laboratory. PERSIST Against MST Act Chairman Turner, co-chair of the Military Sexual Assault Prevention Caucus, included bipartisan legislation with his co-chair Niki Tsongas (D-MA-3) to continue to combat sexual assault in the military. The PERSIST Against MST Act: Requires the Secretary of Defense to designate a single official or entity within the Office of the Secretary of Defense to take on the principal responsibility for providing oversight of the registered sex offender management program of the DoD and to provide a briefing to Congress on its efforts with an update no later than June 1, 2019; Ensures that victims of sexual assault in the military, even if their case is handled by the Family Advocacy Program, have the choice to request an expedited transfer to a different location; Mandates the government hand over any information requested by an independent panel, the Defense Advisory Committee on Investigation, Prosecution, and Defense of Sexual Assault in the Armed Forces, that the panel deems necessary to carry out its duties. Maria Lauterbach, a victim of sexual assault who was murdered and was a constituent of Chairman Turner’s, was unable to transfer quickly. That failure by the DoD may have cost Maria her life. The inclusion of the PERSIST Against MST Act in the FY19 NDAA is a step towards ensuring this cannot happen again. Furthermore, Chairman Turner included a provision in the FY19 NDAA to require a minimum two year confinement period for members of the Armed Forces convicted of certain sex-related offenses. SHIELDS Act Chairman Turner’s SHIELDS Act, introduced with Rep. Seth Moulton (D-MA-6), was included in the FY19 NDAA. This bill requires the DoD to report controlled substance prescription information to state prescription drug monitoring programs. This closes a dangerous gap and ensures health care providers have all the tools available to help safeguard our servicemembers, their families, and our veterans from opioid abuse. Evan’s Law Chairman Turner included provisions following up on his Evan’s Law to ensure DoD provided housing is safe for military families. This year’s provision requires DoD to establish a grant program that gives servicemembers living in DoD housing access to resources to emplace window fall prevention devices in their homes. Commander Jason English and his wife Ami lost their son Evan in an accidental fall from a window while living in military residential housing. Chairman Turner has worked to ensure that does not happen again. Tactical Air and Land Subcommittee Chairman Turner’s Tactical Air and Land Subcommittee mark, included in the full committee FY19 NDAA bill: Authorizes multiyear procurement authorities for F/A-18E/F Super Hornet aircraft to generate better cost savings for the taxpayer and provide needed capability to the Navy. Supports Air Force efforts to develop a 21st century Advanced Battle-Management System (ABMS) to mitigate anti-access, area-denial challenges of potential adversaries by integrating the JSTARS Recap program as the foundational platform for ABMS. The mark requires the Secretary of the Air Force to continue the Joint Surveillance Target Attack Radar System Recapitalization (JSTARS Recap) program which will significantly increase Battle-Management, Command and Control, and Ground-Moving Target Indicator intelligence capabilities and capacity over what’s provided to the combatant commanders today, and to minimize operational risk to joint warfighters as concluded in multiple years of past Air Force analyses. Allows the Secretary of the Air Force to use the JSTARS Recap program to attract the civilian workers necessary to update this important aircraft. Works to facilitate mitigation efforts to better address physiological episodes in tactical and training aircraft, and requires the Secretary of the Navy and the Secretary of the Air Force to certify that any new aircraft will all have the most recent technological advancements necessary to mitigate PEs. Directs the Secretary of the Army to conduct a cost-benefit assessment and analysis of using multi-year procurement contracts for armored brigade combat team vehicle modernization to generate better cost-savings and better stability in the industrial base. Works to strengthen and improve ISR investment strategies in order to more efficiently and effectively meet combatant commander ISR requirements. Requires the Secretary of Defense to provide a detailed cost estimate and baseline schedule for the F-35 continuous capability development and delivery program. Works to improve short range air defense (SHORAD) as well as indirect fires protection capability. Directs the Secretary of the Army to provide an accelerated acquisition strategy for the Army’s interim maneuverable SHORAD initiative, as well as identify requirements that are similar to both the SHORAD and counter-UAS missions. Advances the development and procurement of lighter, stronger and more advanced personal protective equipment systems for all warfighters. Sets the conditions and encourages the Department to explore opportunities to accelerate the Future Vertical Lift program in order to meet national security challenges. ###
05.23.2018	Chairman Mike Turner (OH-10) of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Tactical Air and Land Forces spoke on the House floor last night in support of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019. Below are his remarks: “I rise in strong support of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019. I want to thank Chairman Thornberry and all the members of the committee, and certainly the group known as the defense hawks in this body who fought so diligently on increasing the topline so this number will make a difference and change the direction of our national security. I want to also recognize and thank our subcommittee Ranking Member, Ms. Niki Tsongas, for her support and contribution to this bill. The bipartisan partnership she and her staff demonstrated in helping to craft this bill is much appreciated. Niki has also served with me for the last seven years as the co-chair of the Military Sexual Assault Prevention Caucus. Though this NDAA will her last National Defense Authorization Act, her work on the subcommittee and the caucus on sexual assault prevention will leave a strong legacy. Within the Tactical Air and Land Forces Subcommittee’s jurisdiction, this bill recommends authorization for over $97 billion in needed modernization funding that is necessary for our comparative and competitive advantage against strategic peer competitors. The bill again recognizes the importance of 5th generation strike fighter capability and supports the President’s budget request for 77 Joint Strike Fighters. The bill also authorizes the Department to procure additional F-35 aircraft, if funds become available through cost savings and program efficiencies. I also want to take this opportunity to highlight the many foreign partners that comprise the F-35 program, which often gets overlooked by many. These foreign partnerships strengthen our ability to better operate with our allies in future conflicts. The bill includes several oversight provisions to facilitate mitigation efforts for physiological episodes occurring in military aircraft, to include requiring the Secretary of the Navy and the Secretary of the Air Force to certify that any new aircraft procured will have the most current technological advancements available to mitigate future physiological episodes. However, much work remains to be done to improve overall aviation readiness and safety. Going forward our subcommittee will conduct a more detailed review of the investigative and governance processes related to aviation safety mishaps. The bill provides an additional $623 million for the JSTARS Recap program. Based on our analysis resulting from extensive committee oversight activity, we have concluded that completely walking away from this program imposes an unprecedented level of risk to our warfighters. The bill recommends funding to modernize 1.5 armored brigade combat teams which is absolutely necessary for Army. For the seventh consecutive year, this bill addresses sexual assault in the military. The bill requires the Department to create a single office responsible for sexual offender registration, expands expedited transfer rights for victims of sexual assault, and further empowers the Defense Advisory Committee on Investigation, Prosecution, and Defense of Sexual Assault in the Armed Forces. This bill also protects our service-members and their families by closing a gap in the way the Department prescribes controlled substances. The bill requires the Department to share more information with state prescription drug monitoring programs to combat the opioid epidemic. Finally, I’d like to recognize the role small businesses plays. The Small Business Innovation Research Program is highlighted and is bolstered in this. I urge my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to support this bill.” You can watch Chairman Turner’s full remarks here. ###
05.22.2018	Chairman Mike Turner (OH-10) of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Tactical Air and Land Forces brought Defense Intelligence Agency (DIA) Director LTG Robert P. Ashley, Jr., of the U.S. Army to visit the National Air and Space Intelligence Center (NASIC) at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base (WPAFB) yesterday. “Through my work on the Armed Services and Intelligence committees, I continue to learn about the developing international threats coming from adversaries such as North Korea, Iran, and Russia,” said Chairman Turner. “WPAFB, and NASIC specifically, plays a critical role in gathering intelligence to keep our nation safe from these dangers. I would like to thank Director Ashley for taking the time to see firsthand how NASIC helps us maintain our national security.” “It was a pleasure to visit our counterparts at the National Air and Space Intelligence Center and see the great work they do to support our nation’s defense as a key member of the Defense Intelligence Enterprise,” said LTG Ashley. “As the Director of the Defense Intelligence Agency, I truly appreciate the enduring relationships we’ve established with NASIC, principally with DIA’s Missile and Space Intelligence Center delivering critical intelligence to our warfighters to enable them to defend against and defeat adversary ballistic missiles. Thank you to Representative Mike Turner for his unyielding support of both NASIC and DIA and his leadership on the House Committee on Armed Services and House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence.” Chairman Turner recently secured $182 million for a new building at NASIC. ###
05.22.2018	Congressman Mike Turner (OH-10) wrote today to Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) Secretary Alex Azar calling for the release of the study on PFAS, a chemical formerly used at military installations such as Wright-Patterson Air Force Base. Last week, Turner wrote to EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt calling for the release of the study after Politico reported the EPA was blocking it. Today, Turner received a letter from Pruitt that declared HHS has the authority to release this study, but did not deny the EPA had previously sought to block its release. “Administrator Pruitt’s letter made it clear that the EPA is not currently blocking the release of the study on PFAS, although it did not indicate whether it had sought to block this release previously,” said Turner. “Now that Administrator Pruitt has said HHS does have the authority to release this study, I’m calling on Secretary Azar to do so as soon as possible. The release of this study is a public health and safety issue for every community with a military installation in it, including mine.” Below is the text of Turner’s letter to Azar: “I understand the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry (ATSDR) recently completed a study regarding Per- and Prolyfluroalkul Substances (PFAS). The findings of this study must be published without delay. This information is vital to informing Americans as to the dangers of exposure to these toxins. On May 14th, Politico reported the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency sought to block the publication of this study. I wrote to Administrator Pruitt about this report and he assured me that the HHS ATSDR has the authority to release its findings. I have attached his response for your review. As I indicated to Administrator Pruitt, my community of Dayton, Ohio is anchored by Wright-Patterson Air Force Base. Beyond being the largest Air Force Base in the world, Wright-Patt is on the leading edge of the fight against our nation’s enemies. Our air base, like many others around the nation, continues to deal with the detection of PFAS in our groundwater threatening our municipal supply. To date, my community’s leaders have rallied with Wright-Patt on this issue. PFAS were first discovered in groundwater monitoring wells in December 2015. We have acted according to the EPA’s 2016 lifetime health advisory of 70 part per trillion of PFAS in drinking water. If this study finds, as reported, that this is no longer an accurate level of safety for our water, Congress and our constituents need to know immediately so we can begin to address it. Congress has already directed the end of using these chemicals on our military bases, but at least 126 military installations have detected PFAS in their water. This is a matter of public health and safety for each of these communities. I expect that HHS’ participation in today’s National Leadership Summit with the DoD, EPA, and other federal and local partners will provide recommendations for addressing PFAS. I request that you notify me of these recommendations as soon as possible. I trust you appreciate the urgency of my request and look forward to working with you on this issue in the future.” ###
05.18.2018	Congressman Mike Turner’s (OH-10) amendment to the Farm Bill allowing Central State University to receive equal federal funding passed the House by voice vote. Turner’s amendment evens the playing field between all historically black 1890 land-grant institutions. Without Turner’s amendment, Central State University was disadvantaged and unable to receive the same level of federal funding as other historically black colleges. Below are Congressman Turner’s remarks on the House floor in support of his amendment: “Mr. Speaker, I had a great conversation today with Secretary of Agriculture Perdue, in which he spoke very highly of the students, faculty, and the President of Central State University during his visit to the University. Central State University is in my congressional district. I want to thank Secretary Perdue for his leadership. I am committed to working with the Secretary’s office and all the historic black colleges to find a solution during the appropriations process to stop the disparate funding treatment currently in place. All 1890 land-grant intuitions should be treated equal. My common-sense and revenue neutral amendment evens the playing field of federal funding qualifications for all 1890 land-grant historically black colleges rather than just a few, as it is currently written now. Mr. Speaker, I want to thank the Chairman for his support for my work on this amendment. I specifically want to thank Joyce Beatty, who supports the amendment and who is the only alumnus from Central State University.” You can watch the full speech here. ###
05.17.2018	Congressman Mike Turner (OH-10) with Greene County Sheriff Gene Fischer and Greene County Commissioners at the Greene County Jail on May 4, 2018. Congressman Mike Turner (OH-10), the Republican lead on Congressman Paul Tonko’s (NY-20) Medicaid Reentry Act, released the following statement after their bill passed out of the Energy and Commerce Committee to head to the House floor: “In 2015, I toured Greene County Jail and became aware that individuals lose Medicaid eligibility upon incarceration and therefore become unable to receive substance treatment during their time in jail. When we are able to identify individuals as addicted, we need to be able to get them the care they need while we have custody of them. I’ve since pushed for legislation to remedy this gap in access to treatment. I recently visited the Greene County Jail again where the sheriff and commissioners reinforced how beneficial this legislation will be to our community and other communities battling this epidemic of addiction. Today’s advancement of the bipartisan Medicaid Reentry Act is a huge step towards getting these individuals access to the treatment they need.” The Energy and Commerce Committee today approved an amended version of Turner and Tonko’s Medicaid Reentry Act, which will likely come to the House floor as part of a larger opioid epidemic bill package. Turner and Tonko’s legislation would require the Department of Health and Human Services to release guidance within one year, based on recommendations by a group of interested stakeholders, on how to improve substance abuse treatment for people being released from incarceration, facilitating their transition back into society. “This smart-on-crime legislation will plant the seeds for meaningful change and will help to give individuals reentering society a fighting chance to live a healthier, drug-free life,” Tonko said during the committee hearing. “I’d also like to thank my Republican co-lead, Rep. Mike Turner, for his efforts to help shine a light on this vulnerable population.” Energy & Commerce Chairman Greg Walden (OR-2) expressed strong support for Turner and Tonko’s bill during debate, saying, “This is a really sound piece of legislation...and I am fully in support of it.” Turner has been fighting the opioid epidemic in Southwest Ohio since 2013: December 18, 2013: Toured Soin Medical Center, where issue of Heroin-Exposed Newborns was raised. March 10, 2014: Met with area hospitals to discuss the growing issue of Heroin-Exposed Newborns. May 15, 2014: Visited Dayton Children’s Hospital NICU to discuss infant heroin exposure and the withdrawal and recovery process. June 30, 2014: Held a Community Forum on the Effects of the Heroin Epidemic on Newborns. August 27, 2014: Visited the Women’s Recovery Center. May 2015: Held Community Summit on Heroin-Exposed Infants. August 21, 2015: Toured Greene County Jail and Green Leaf Alcohol and Drug Treatment Program; met with criminal justice system administrators and substance abuse and mental health leadership. November 18, 2015: Met with ONDCP Director Michael Botticelli and introduced the TREAT Act with Congresswoman Marcia L. Fudge (OH-11) and Congresswoman Niki Tsongas (MA-3). May 12, 2016: The House passed an amendment he cosponsored with Congressman Dan Donovan (NY-11) to increase access to medical treatment for pregnant women struggling with substance abuse. May 25, 2016: Introduced CRIB Act to help expand access to specialized treatment and recovery options for infants suffering from neonatal abstinence syndrome (NAS), a withdrawal condition in newborns often caused by use of opioids and other addictive substances in pregnant women. August 29, 2016: Hosted a Heroin Epidemic Response Roundtable in Dayton with Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner (WI-05), lead author of the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act (CARA). October 28, 2016: Hosted a roundtable discussion on the opioid and heroin epidemic in Dayton with Senator Rob Portman (OH). February 2, 2017: Joined the bipartisan Addiction, Treatment, and Recovery Caucus. February 7, 2017: Reintroduced the TREAT Act. May 17, 2017: Reintroduced CRIB Act with Congressman Evan Jenkins (WV-03). August 7, 2017: TREAT Act concept supported by President Donald Trump’s Commission to Combat Drug Addiction and the Opioid Crisis. September 20, 2017: Helped secure funding for the Community Action Commission of Fayette County to help prevent youth substance abuse. September 22, 2017: Spoke at the Payne Theological Seminary Recovery Month Celebration. September 22, 2017: Visited Alkermes with Congressman Steve Stivers (OH-15) to learn about its medical approach to combating the opioid epidemic. September 25, 2017: Held a opioid prevention forum with local leaders and joined Sheriff Plummer in calling for a drug czar. October 5, 2017: Sent a letter with Sheriff Plummer to Phil Parker, President and CEO of the Dayton Area Chamber of Commerce, and Jeff Hoagland, President and CEO of the Dayton Development Coalition, asking for a recommendation in identifying possible candidates for a Dayton Region Drug Czar. October 11, 2017: Testified on TREAT Act and opioid crisis at House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health. December 11, 2017: Joined Congressional letter to the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) requesting a comprehensive funding proposal for additional resources needed to address the opioid epidemic. December 12, 2017: Sent a letter with Ranking Member Seth Moulton (MA-6) of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations to Secretary of Defense James Mattis expressing concern about the Department of Defense’s (DoD) practice of reporting prescriptions, particularly regarding opioids. December 12, 2017: Led a Congressional letter to several House Committees with jurisdiction over opioid-related policy issues urging them to implement the legislative elements of the President’s Commission on Combating Drug Addiction and the Opioid Crisis’ Final Report. January 10, 2018: TREAT Act and CRIB Act included in Bipartisan Heroin Task Force Legislative Agenda. January 19, 2018: Joined Bipartisan Heroin Task Force letter to President urging U.S. Department of Health & Human Services to renew the public health emergency previously declared for the opioid epidemic. February 2, 2018: Joined Congressional letter to Congressional leadership requesting additional funding to support the President’s public health emergency declaration for the opioid epidemic. March 2, 2018: Joined Health and Human Services Secretary Alex Azar in touring and participating in a roundtable discussion at Brigid’s Path. April 18, 2018: Joined as Republican co-lead of the Medicaid Reentry Act, introduced by Congressman Paul Tonko (NY-20), to permit Medicaid to reimburse for substance abuse treatment services furnished to individuals during the 30 days prior to release from incarceration. May 4, 2018: Re-visited Greene County Jail with Sheriff Gene Fischer and the County Commissioners to discuss the Medicaid Reentry Act. ###
05.15.2018	Chairman Mike Turner (OH-10) of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Tactical Air and Land Forces wrote today to Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Scott Pruitt and the White House calling for an immediate public release of a water contamination study conducted by the Department of Health and Human Services’s Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry. “This is not an issue of public relations--this is an issue of public health and safety,” said Chairman Turner. “I recently called together leaders from our community and tasked the Miami Valley Regional Planning Commission with providing an assessment of the threat to our drinking water. This report needs to be released so the Commission can have the correct information when providing our community its recommendations.” The study, according to Politico’s reporting, identifies a new and significantly lower safe rate of chemicals in drinking water than the EPA has been adhering to. Previously, Military Times reported at least 126 military installations, including Wright-Patterson Air Force Base, found the chemicals at the subject of this study in their communities’ drinking water. Congress has already taken action to stop the Department of Defense from using these chemicals in the future. The full text of Chairman Turner’s letter to Administrator Pruitt is below: “The Health and Human Services report concerning PFOA and PFOS contamination of drinking water must be publicly released without delay. Publishing the Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry Study is vital to informing Americans as to the dangers of exposure to these toxins. My community of Dayton, Ohio is anchored by Wright-Patterson Air Force Base. Beyond being the largest Air Force Base in the world, Wright-Patt in on the leading edge of keeping America safe. Our air base, like many other military installations around the nation, has recently dealt with the detection of PFOA and PFOS in groundwater, which may be threatening our municipal water supply. To date, my community’s leaders have rallied with Wright-Patt on this issue. PFOA and PFOS were first discovered in our water in December 2015. We have acted according to the EPA’s 2016 lifetime health advisory of 70 part per trillion of PFOS and PFOA in groundwater. If this study finds, as reported, that this is no longer an accurate level of safety for our drinking water, Congress and our constituents need to know immediately so we can begin to address it. Congress has already acted to end the use of these chemicals on military bases, but at least 126 military installations have reported having PFOS and PFOA in their drinking water. This is a matter of public health and safety for each of these communities. I trust you appreciate the urgency of my request and look forward to working with the Administration on this issue in the future.” ###
05.10.2018	Chairman Mike Turner (OH-10) of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Tactical Air and Land Forces released the following statement after the House Armed Services Committee marked up the FY 2019 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA): “This year’s defense funding bill addresses critical issues facing our military. We’ve seen a tragic increase in aviation accidents since the harmful cuts of sequestration, most recently with nine airmen from the National Guard dying in a C-130 accident. The plane they were flying in was about 40 years old. After years of starving the military’s budget, this bill works to restore our troops’ readiness. It will bring $182 million to Wright-Patterson Air Force Base for a new building, expedite hiring at Wright-Patt, and help the Air Force Research Laboratory partner with small businesses. Additionally, this bill includes provisions working to prevent tragedies like Maria Lauterbach’s by combating sexual assault in the military, and Evan English’s by making military housing safer for families. This bill also closes a loophole in DoD’s reporting of prescription drugs, further addressing the opioid epidemic’s effect on our servicemembers and their families. I am pleased the FY19 NDAA has passed out of the House Armed Services Committee and look forward to supporting it on the House floor in the coming weeks so we can fully support our men and women in uniform.” Provisions included by Chairman Turner in the FY19 NDAA: Wright-Patterson Air Force Base (WPAFB) Chairman Turner surpassed the President’s budget and authorized the full $182 million for a new complex at the National Air and Space Intelligence Center at WPAFB. Chairman Turner included a provision to expedite hiring of civilian personnel into positions involving acquisition, science, technology, and engineering. These expanded authorities allow commands at WPAFB to more quickly hire personnel in high-tech fields. Chairman Turner included an amendment to create flexibility and strengthen the utilization of the Small Business Innovation Research (SBIR) and Small Business Technology Transfer (STTR) programs, both utilized by the Air Force Research Laboratory. PERSIST Against MST Act Chairman Turner, co-chair of the Military Sexual Assault Prevention Caucus, included bipartisan legislation with his co-chair Niki Tsongas (D-MA-3) to continue to combat sexual assault in the military. The PERSIST Against MST Act: Requires the Secretary of Defense to designate a single official or entity within the Office of the Secretary of Defense to take on the principal responsibility for providing oversight of the registered sex offender management program of the DoD and to provide a briefing to Congress on its efforts with an update no later than June 1, 2019; Ensures that victims of sexual assault in the military, even if their case is handled by the Family Advocacy Program, have the choice to request an expedited transfer to a different location; Mandates the government hand over any information requested by an independent panel, the Defense Advisory Committee on Investigation, Prosecution, and Defense of Sexual Assault in the Armed Forces, that the panel deems necessary to carry out its duties. Maria Lauterbach, a victim of sexual assault who was murdered and was a constituent of Chairman Turner’s, was unable to transfer quickly. That failure by the DoD may have cost Maria her life. The inclusion of the PERSIST Against MST Act in the FY19 NDAA is a step towards ensuring this cannot happen again. Furthermore, Chairman Turner included a provision in the FY19 NDAA to require a minimum two year confinement period for members of the Armed Forces convicted of certain sex-related offenses. SHIELDS Act Chairman Turner’s SHIELDS Act, introduced with Rep. Seth Moulton (D-MA-6), was included in the FY19 NDAA. This bill requires the DoD to report controlled substance prescription information to state prescription drug monitoring programs. This closes a dangerous gap and ensures health care providers have all the tools available to help safeguard our servicemembers, their families, and our veterans from opioid abuse. Evan’s Law Chairman Turner included provisions following up on his Evan’s Law to ensure DoD provided housing is safe for military families. This year’s provision requires DoD to establish a grant program that gives servicemembers living in DoD housing access to resources to emplace window fall prevention devices in their homes. Commander Jason English and his wife Ami lost their son Evan in an accidental fall from a window while living in military residential housing. Chairman Turner has worked to ensure that does not happen again. Tactical Air and Land Subcommittee Chairman Turner’s Tactical Air and Land Subcommittee mark, included in the full committee FY19 NDAA bill: Authorizes multiyear procurement authorities for F/A-18E/F Super Hornet aircraft to generate better cost savings for the taxpayer and provide needed capability to the Navy. Supports Air Force efforts to develop a 21st century Advanced Battle-Management System (ABMS) to mitigate anti-access, area-denial challenges of potential adversaries by integrating the JSTARS Recap program as the foundational platform for ABMS. The mark requires the Secretary of the Air Force to continue the Joint Surveillance Target Attack Radar System Recapitalization (JSTARS Recap) program which will significantly increase Battle-Management, Command and Control, and Ground-Moving Target Indicator intelligence capabilities and capacity over what’s provided to the combatant commanders today, and to minimize operational risk to joint warfighters as concluded in multiple years of past Air Force analyses. Allows the Secretary of the Air Force to use the JSTARS Recap program to attract the civilian workers necessary to update this important aircraft. Works to facilitate mitigation efforts to better address physiological episodes in tactical and training aircraft, and requires the Secretary of the Navy and the Secretary of the Air Force to certify that any new aircraft will all have the most recent technological advancements necessary to mitigate PEs. Directs the Secretary of the Army to conduct a cost-benefit assessment and analysis of using multi-year procurement contracts for armored brigade combat team vehicle modernization to generate better cost-savings and better stability in the industrial base. Works to strengthen and improve ISR investment strategies in order to more efficiently and effectively meet combatant commander ISR requirements. Requires the Secretary of Defense to provide a detailed cost estimate and baseline schedule for the F-35 continuous capability development and delivery program. Works to improve short range air defense (SHORAD) as well as indirect fires protection capability. Directs the Secretary of the Army to provide an accelerated acquisition strategy for the Army’s interim maneuverable SHORAD initiative, as well as identify requirements that are similar to both the SHORAD and counter-UAS missions. Advances the development and procurement of lighter, stronger and more advanced personal protective equipment systems for all warfighters. Sets the conditions and encourages the Department to explore opportunities to accelerate the Future Vertical Lift program in order to meet national security challenges. ###
05.10.2018	Chairman Mike Turner (OH-10) of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Tactical Air and Land Forces was able to secure $182 million for Wright-Patterson Air Force Base (WPAFB) in the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (FY19 NDAA). The President’s budget request had called for a phase one of a new building at the National Air and Space Intelligence Center (NASIC), located at WPAFB, to be authorized at $116 million. Chairman Turner was able to secure funding for the full project rather than a phase of it, and in doing so added $66 million to the funding WPAFB would receive for the building. “Wright-Patterson Air Force Base and NASIC play a huge role in our national security,” said Chairman Turner. “Central to NASIC’s mission is monitoring actions of North Korea, Iran, Russia, and other adversaries. As the threats to our country grow, so must our intelligence installations. NASIC has outgrown its current space and needs a new building to continue its important work. I fought for full funding of this project rather than partial funding because I know firsthand, as a senior member on both the Armed Services and Intelligence Committees, how critical the work done at NASIC is in continuing our national security. I am proud to say I was able to authorize an additional $66 million above the President’s budget request, and NASIC will now receive $182 million for its new building over the next two years.” The President’s budget request of $116 million for NASIC can be found on page 7 here and pages 95-99 here. Chairman Turner’s $182 million authorization for NASIC can be found on page 73 here. ###
05.09.2018	Congressman Mike Turner (OH-10) wrote today to the Director of Office of Personnel Management (OPM) stating his strong opposition to OPM’s recommendation of cutting benefits for federal workers, over 30,000 of which reside in Congressman Turner’s district. Congressman Turner wrote: “I am writing in strong opposition to your letter sent on May 4, 2018 to Speaker Paul D. Ryan in which you recommended legislative proposals seeking to cut benefits for federal workers. The Dayton region is home to over 30,000 federal employees. In fact, at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base, more than 27,000 federal employees work diligently every day to protect our nation from numerous threats across the world. Additionally, more than 2,200 federal employees at the Dayton VA Medical Center provide the best healthcare for our wounded veterans on a daily basis. Despite their hard work and dedication, few groups have been asked to sacrifice more than federal employees. Since the start of the Great Recession in 2008, federal workers have foregone $182 billion in the form of pay and benefit cuts. They have suffered a three year pay freeze, followed by two years of one percent pay increases that were well below the recommended level. In addition, employees hired since 2012 have seen significant employee contribution increases mandated for their retirement accounts. Moreover, approximately 750,000 workers lost up to eight days of pay because of the devastating impacts of sequestration in 2013. Federal employees are the cornerstone of an effective and efficient federal government. Our country relies on these talented men and women to perform critical duties across all sectors of government, from national security and healthcare to economic expansion and infrastructure development. Worse, these proposals would affect all current retirees and employees, rather than making changes on a prospective basis. This breaks a promise to current federal employees and retirees. We should not arbitrarily make changes to policies that families have planned their lives around, particularly when it affects current retirees with limited ability to make up for unanticipated reductions in estimated income. In order to ‘recruit, retain and honor a world-class workforce to serve the American people’ as OPM seeks, the federal government must maintain a competitive benefits package befitting such a workforce. With the United States’ growing economy and a tightening labor market, we cannot afford to make the federal government a less attractive place to work by diminishing the very benefits that help the government keep pace with jobs in the (often higher-paying) private sector. These are highly skilled and dedicated public servants. Shrinking pensions, gutting retirement benefits, and squeezing overall compensation packages would have the effect of pushing out these vital civil servants and impairing the recruitment of new talent. After dedicating their careers to public service, federal employees and retirees deserve much better from us.” ###
05.08.2018	Chairman Mike Turner of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Tactical Air and Land Forces, member of the House Intelligence Committee, and Chairman of the U.S. Delegation to the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, released the following statement following the President’s decision to withdraw from the Iran Deal: “The Iran Deal is a deeply flawed agreement. As I have previously said, this deal has an insufficient inspection regime, insufficiently addresses long range ICBM missile development, and is limited to 10 years, giving the appearance of permission to develop nuclear weapons in the future. However, without proof that Iran is in violation of the agreement, it is a mistake to fully withdraw from this deal. Now, we need to work with our allies to fix this flawed agreement to ensure the world is not facing a nuclear Iran.” ###
05.02.2018	Chairman Mike Turner (OH-10) and Ranking Member Niki Tsongas (MA-3) wrote on Friday to the members of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Tactical Air and Land Forces (TAL) to seek their feedback on aviation mishaps in advance of a subcommittee hearing/briefing to be scheduled on the issue. Chairman Turner and Ranking Member Tsongas are increasingly concerned about our military’s rising number of aviation mishaps. The TAL Subcommittee has held several hearings during the 115th Congress encouraging the Department of Defense (DoD) to move quickly to eliminate these incidents. However, as the Military Times reported, 133 troops have been killed in aviation mishaps in the past 5 years, including 16 pilots and crew killed in 6 separate aviation crashes during a three-week span last month. This next hearing will allow members to review the DoD investigative process following these mishap episodes. “We’re not certain that the service branches are adequately identifying the source and cause fast enough for us to be able to remedy them, putting more people at risk,” Chairman Turner told Dayton Daily News. “The service branches have been too slow to respond. These are alarming trends. It’s making an unsafe environment for pilots. When we have a hearing or travel to military bases and talk to pilots, we become more and more concerned that the service branches don’t have an answer.” “The spike in aviation mishaps over the past several years warrants a renewed look at how the military services identify and report on the cause of serious accidents,” noted Ranking Member Tsongas. “We must work to reduce the frequency of these events to an acceptable and manageable level. We owe it to our pilots to make sure the aircraft they use to serve and protect our nation are flying safe.” Chairman Turner and Ranking Member Tsongas will hold a hearing or briefing to investigate aviation mishaps. ###
04.25.2018	Chairman Mike Turner (OH-10) of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Tactical Air and Land Forces and Ranking Member Seth Moulton (MA-6) of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations introduced the Sharing Health Information to Ensure Lifesaving Drug Safety, or SHIELDS, Act, H.R. 5591, to close a gap in Department of Defense’s (DoD) practice of reporting prescriptions, including regarding opioids. “We have identified a gap that does not require DoD to report controlled substance prescriptions to prescription drug monitoring programs,” said Chairman Turner. “These drug monitoring programs are imperative in combating the opioid epidemic, but only prevent overprescribing of medication when they have the full scope of data for a patient. This DoD reporting gap makes our nation’s active duty service members, reservists, their families, veterans, and retirees vulnerable to this epidemic of addiction. Ranking Member Moulton and I have introduced legislation to immediately close this gap and prevent more individuals from falling victim to opioid addiction.” “Opioid addiction has had a devastating effect on our veterans community,” said Ranking Member Moulton. “No one is immune to how this epidemic has plagued our country. This bipartisan effort will help our service members get the care they deserve by increasing coordination between the DoD and civilian health care providers. Together, we are taking an important step towards directly tackling the problem of opioid addiction within the armed services.” In December, Chairman Turner and Ranking Member Moulton wrote to Secretary of Defense James Mattis expressing their concern over the DoD prescription reporting gap. ###
04.25.2018	Congressman Mike Turner (OH-10) and Congresswoman Niki Tsongas (MA-3), Co-Chairs of the Military Sexual Assault Prevention Caucus, introduced the Purposefully Expanding and Reinforcing the Statutes we Insist Support our Troops Against Military Sexual Trauma Act (PERSIST Against MST Act) today to combat sexual assault in the military. This legislation has been included in the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Military Personnel mark for the National Defense Authorization Act of Fiscal Year 2019. This bill: Requires the Secretary of Defense to designate a single official or entity within the Office of the Secretary of Defense to take on the principal responsibility for providing oversight of the registered sex offender management program of the DoD and to provide a briefing to Congress on its efforts with an update no later than June 1, 2019; Ensures that victims of sexual assault in the military, even if their case is handled by the Family Advocacy Program, have the choice to request an expedited transfer to a different location; Mandates the government hand over any information requested by an independent panel, the Defense Advisory Committee on Investigation, Prosecution, and Defense of Sexual Assault in the Armed Forces, that the panel deems necessary to carry out its duties. “Today’s legislation is a continuation of the bipartisan work Congresswoman Tsongas and I have done for over a decade to combat sexual assault in the military,” said Congressman Turner. “Specifically, DoD has to report incidents of sexual assault to the appropriate investigative body in order for it to fully conduct its oversight duties. This year we learned the DoD does not have a single office responsible for ensuring compliance of sex offenders in registering, which is unacceptable. Our bill will require a designated person or entity within DoD to provide oversight and ensure all sex offenders are being registered with the appropriate state and local authorities. Additionally, this year’s prevention of sexual assault in the military bill helps victims transfer quickly and requires more thorough oversight by DoD of sex offenders,” continued Congressman Turner. “Victims of sexual assault should be able to transfer quickly and without undue burden. Maria Lauterbach, a victim of sexual assault who was murdered and was a constituent of mine, was unable to transfer quickly. That failure by the DoD may have cost Maria her life. We need to ensure that cannot happen again.” “The PERSIST Against MST Act is another opportunity for us to help survivors of sexual assault navigate bureaucratic roadblocks that prevent them from seeking the support they deserve,” said Congresswoman Tsongas. “This legislation ensures proper oversight over the way our military justice system works and will help make sure convictions of sexual assault in the military don’t fall through the cracks. I’m especially proud of the role that Mr. Turner and I have been able to play in challenging the ways the military handles this heinous crime,” continued Congresswoman Tsongas. “Year after year, we have reached across the aisle and co-authored historic reforms to confront and blunt the inexcusable fact of sexual assault in the military and better support survivors by giving them essential legal tools to seek justice. Our working relationship is an example of how two legislators from opposite sides of the aisle can come together to collaborate on issues that directly impact the American people.” ###
04.23.2018	Congressman Mike Turner (OH-10) joined Congressman Paul D. Tonko (NY-20) as the Republican co-lead sponsoring the Medicaid Reentry Act (H.R. 4005). This legislation opens the door for state Medicaid programs to receive federal matching dollars for medical services going to Medicaid-eligible incarcerated individuals during the 30-days prior to their release. Transitioning individuals are among the most vulnerable to opioid overdose, with studies showing those leaving correctional settings are as much as 129 times more likely to die of an overdose in the first two weeks post-release compared to the general population. “We have a short span of time in which we can identify individuals who have been incarcerated and are in need of substance abuse treatment and them being released,” said Turner. “This bill allows us to use that time to treat these individuals when we have custody of them. The opioid epidemic has affected every corner of our country and has hit our community in Southwest Ohio especially hard. This legislation is a commonsense step to increase access to treatment for Medicaid-eligible individuals.” “Addiction knows no boundary of age, race, gender, geography or political party,” Tonko observed. “I am delighted to welcome my distinguished colleague Michael Turner as the lead Republican on this important and timely legislation. Congressman Turner has long championed the fight against opioid abuse and for recovery-driven solutions for justice-involved individuals. Being smart on crime and investing in recovery is a bipartisan issue. By providing states with increased flexibility to provide those reentering the community with the quality medical care they need, we can reduce overdose deaths, reduce recidivism, and give individuals their best chance at a drug-free life.” This newly-bipartisan legislation is now slated to be marked up, an important step in advancing legislation through committee, in an Energy and Commerce Health Subcommittee session later this week. ###
04.23.2018	Today, U.S. Congressman Mike Turner (OH-10), along with Congresswoman Elizabeth Esty (CT-5), Rep. Rosa DeLauro (CT-3), Rep. John Larson (CT-1), Rep. Jim Himes (CT-4), and Rep. Peter King (NY-2) announced the introduction of their bill, the Brownfields Redevelopment Tax Incentive Reauthorization Act of 2018. This bill will spur the cleanup and redevelopment of brownfields as part of a larger effort to support job creation. Brownfields, typically former industrial sites, are often vacant or undeveloped areas where reuse is complicated by environmental contamination concerns. The Brownfields Tax Incentive Reauthorization Act of 2018, which first passed as part of the Taxpayer Relief Act of 1997, allowed taxpayers to deduct remediation expenditures for the cleanup of a property if the property was used for a trade, business, or for the production of income. However, following a two-year extension in 2009, the incentive expired on January 1, 2012, and has not been reauthorized since. If passed in to law, the Brownfields Tax Incentive would reauthorize the tax incentive through December 31, 2021, providing four years of certainty for potential developers. “As Mayor of Dayton, I developed brownfields to reinvest in our city and spur economic growth, including the building of the Dayton Dragons stadium,” said Turner. “I know firsthand how important brownfields are for communities looking to rebuild. Our bill extends the brownfields tax credit to help cities like Dayton continue to grow.” “I hear time and time again from business owners, developers, and local leaders across central and northwestern Connecticut that the high costs of clean-up deter initial private sector investments. Cities and towns throughout Connecticut have strong industrial histories and are now in the process of transitioning to new sources of economic growth, which is critical to creating good-paying jobs right here in our state. I’m doing what I can to be a strong partner in these efforts,” said Esty. “That’s why I’m introducing the Brownfields Redevelopment Tax Incentive Reauthorization Act, which reinstates tax incentives to help spur redevelopment. Business owners, developers, and local leaders have told me that the high costs of clean-up deter initial private sector investments. Our bill would allow developers to deduct the additional costs.” “This bill will help bring new life to areas that have long-suffered from past industrial use. Our federal government should help improve our communities, better our citizens’ quality of life and foster economic growth,” said DeLauro. “The cleanup and redevelopment plans this bill incentivizes will revitalize our neighborhoods and provide a pathway for new economic development. The strong bipartisan support this bill already has is encouraging, and I will continue to push this Congress to pass it into law.” “I am proud to join my colleagues in introducing the Brownfields Tax Incentive Reauthorization Act of 2018, to incentivize the redevelopment of brownfield sites. This tax credit would encourage investment in brownfield site clean-ups in order to repurpose abandoned industrial areas, which in turn results in jobs and economic revitalization in communities in Connecticut that need it the most. I thank Congresswoman Esty and my colleagues for introducing this forward-thinking legislation,” said Larson. “Towns and cities throughout Connecticut provided the Arsenal of Democracy through World War Two and beyond, creating the economic foundation that allowed our nation to thrive and grow,” said Himes. “Unfortunately, past generations weren’t the thoughtful environmental stewards that they should have been and too many of these sites were polluted and remain unusable. In order to create, attract and keep the jobs of the future that will provide for families in my district and across the country, we need to clean up these spaces, and this bill helps provide the resources and incentives for private enterprise to do so.” “This legislation is an essential piece for the redevelopment of many former contaminated sites. Rather than spreading deductions over time this legislation will encourage private sector involvement in the cleanup and rehabilitation of brownfields properties,” said King. “The City of New Britain strongly supports any effort that encourages economic growth to stabilize communities. Brownfield funding to address environmental barriers is necessary to create viable economic opportunities in communities across the country. Returning these properties to the market creates jobs and housing in the local economy. Local growth leads to national growth. Incentives to clean-up brownfields stimulate private investment and drive the economy. The return on investment for municipalities and states is felt nationally,” said Kenneth A. Malinowski, Acting Director of the Department of Community Development in New Britain. “This important legislation builds on the recently-passed brownfields reauthorization and will assist local efforts to cleanup and redevelop more brownfield properties. With an estimated 400,00-600,000 brownfield sites throughout the United States, more tools are necessary to help promote the redevelopment of these abandoned or underutilized properties. This tax deduction allows for the expensing of all cleanup costs in the year incurred and serves as a powerful incentive to promote the cleanup of brownfields. Redeveloping brownfields is a win for the environment and a win for the economy,” said Tom Cochran from the U.S. Conference of Mayor, Clarence E. Anthony from the National League of Cities, Matthew D. Chase from the National Association of Counties, and Leslie Wollack from the National Association of Regional Councils. Additional endorsements for the bill include: Smart Growth America LOCUS: Responsible Real Estate Developers and Investors National Brownfields Coalition U.S. Conference of Mayors National League of Cities National Association of Counties National Association of Regional Councils Every Congressional District in America is home to at least one brownfield site. To date, there have been over 26,000 brownfields assessments and 1,200 brownfields cleanups nationally, which has created 123,000 jobs and leveraged $350 billion in overall investment. Reauthorizing the federal incentive to deduct the cost of brownfield cleanups will drive development and economic revitalization in communities across America. ###
04.19.2018	Lawmakers Say Wright-Patt and Greater Dayton Area are Uniquely Qualified to Carry Out Mission WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Mike Turner (R-OH-10) was joined by U.S. Senators Sherrod Brown (D-OH) and Rob Portman (R-OH) today to lead the entire Ohio Congressional delegation in urging the Pentagon to locate the F-35 Hybrid Product Support Integrator (HPSI) Organization at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base. In a letter to U.S. Secretary of the Air Force, Heather Wilson, the lawmakers said Wright-Patt is uniquely qualified to handle the new mission, and it could mean an additional 400 plus jobs in Ohio. Wright-Patt’s highly qualified workforce support the Air Force’s critical national security mission and the base is further supported by the broader Dayton defense community, which is full of engineering and contracting specialists. Lawmakers made the case that Dayton’s research industry and universities have long been the center for developing, acquiring, and sustaining the next level of air superiority to counter US adversaries and, therefore, locating HPSI at Wright-Patt would be the best choice for the Air Force. “I was proud to lead this letter to Secretary Wilson with the support of the entire Ohio delegation,” said Congressman Turner. “We can all agree that Wright-Patterson Air Force Base’s location and workforce makes it uniquely qualified to execute this mission that is critical to our national security.” “Based on the criteria used during the strategic basing process, we believe WPAFB’s workforce makes the base the logical location for HPSI. The basing process specifically requires acquisition professionals who are Defense Acquisition Workforce Improvement Act certified with tactical fighter support experience, and WPAFB’s workforce of engineers, programs managers, logistics managers, and contracting personnel would provide HPSI with an exceptional staff,” the lawmakers wrote. The lawmakers who signed the letter to the Air Force include: U.S. Senators Sherrod Brown (D-OH), Rob Portman (R-OH), Rep. Mike Turner, Rep. Steve Stivers, Rep. Dave Joyce, Rep. Bob Gibbs, Rep. Bob Latta, Rep. Steve Chabot, Rep. Warren Davidson, Rep. Bill Johnson, Rep. Jim Renacci, Rep. Joyce Beatty, Rep. Marcia Fudge, Rep. Marcy Kaptur, Rep. Brad Wenstrup, Rep. Jim Jordan, and Rep. Tim Ryan. A copy of their letter to the Air Force appears below and can be found here: Dear Secretary Wilson, We write to express our support to locate the F-35 Hybrid Product Support Integrator (HPSI) Organization at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base (WPAFB). Based on the criteria used during the strategic basing process, we believe WPAFB’s workforce makes the base the logical location for HPSI. The basing process specifically requires acquisition professionals who are Defense Acquisition Workforce Improvement Act certified with tactical fighter support experience, and WPAFB’s workforce of engineers, programs managers, logistics managers, and contracting personnel would provide HPSI with an exceptional staff. WPAFB is a unique base with the Air Force Material Command and the Air Force Life Cycle Management Center (AFLCMC) headquarters. The men and women who work there have mastered specific skills related to the acquisition of all major airframes and the research and development of engines, and munitions. This highly technical workforce is distinctively qualified to oversee the integrated acquisition process for the F-35 program. The men and women at WPAFB support the Air Force’s national security mission and are supported by the broader Dayton defense community’s exceptional engineering and contracting specialists. Just south of WPAFB is the Midwestern campus for the Defense Acquisition University, that and Dayton’s research industry and universities have long been the center for developing, acquiring, and sustaining the next level of air superiority to counter our adversaries and locating HPSI at WPAFB makes sense. One of the other criteria listed in the basing process is foreign partner presence and foreign military sales expertise. The Air Force Security Assistance and Cooperation Directorate (AFSAC), housed within AFLCMC, carries out the critical foreign military sales mission. Our allies rely on the qualified program managers and acquisition personnel at who execute these strategic programs. Additionally, HPSI would benefit from being co-located with the Air Force Research Lab (AFRL), which has developed critical technology integral to the F-35’s success. AFRL together with the AFLCMC, would be able to provide critical science and technology assistance and insights to HPSCI’s acquisition workforce. WPAFB exceeds key criteria listed in the strategic basing process, specifically the capacity requirements for space, housing, and parking, and the relative low cost of construction. The greater Dayton region is home to exceptional educational programs that continue to develop engineering and acquisition professionals, who would enhance HPSI. Thank you for your consideration of WPAFB as the possible location for the F-35 Hybrid Product Support Integrator. Sincerely, U.S. Senator Sherrod Brown U.S. Senator Rob Portman U.S. Representative Mike Turner U.S. Representative Marcy Kaptur U.S. Representative Tim Ryan U.S. Representative Jim Jordan U.S. Representative Bob Latta U.S. Representative Steve Chabot U.S. Representative Bill Johnson U.S. Representative Bob Gibbs U.S. Representative Steve Stivers U.S. Representative Jim Renacci U.S. Representative Brad Wenstrup U.S. Representative Joyce Beatty U.S. Representative David Joyce U.S. Representative Warren Davidson U.S. Representative Marcia Fudge ###
04.17.2018	Congressman Mike Turner’s (OH-10) Fostering Stable Housing Opportunities Act had a hearing today by the House Financial Services Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance. “I am thrilled this bill is getting momentum and moving through the legislative process in the House,” said Congressman Turner. “Right now, we have a situation of government created homelessness when foster care youths age out of the system but have few resources to find safe, stable housing. My bill is a commonsense fix with no additional cost to the federal government that will mean a world of impact for these kids. It’s time to pass this bill.” “While meeting with foster youth directly, Mr. Turner of Ohio immediately seized upon something that continues to be ignored or missed entirely by policymakers and advocates alike: the housing instability faced by former foster youth is entirely predictable – but systems fail time and time again to work together to close the obvious gaps through which so many youth are destined to fall into homelessness,” testified Ruth White, Executive Director of the National Center for Housing & Child Welfare. “Mr. Turner termed this phenomenon, ‘government created homelessness.’ Together with the youth, Hill staff crafted the straight-forward, yet sophisticated solution offered in this bill.” “The Fostering Stable Housing Opportunities Act is a commonsense solution to help kids, who have aged out of the system, succeed and I thank Mike for his work on this important bill,” said Rep. Rodney Davis, Chairman of the Republican Main Street Caucus. “Mike’s bill is one that the Republican Main Street Caucus has identified as legislation that helps further our mission which is making our government work for the people we serve. I fully support this bill and will continue do what I can to help Mike get it to the House floor for a vote.” You can watch the full hearing here. ###
04.14.2018	Chairman Mike Turner (OH-10) of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Tactical Air and Land Forces, a member of the House Intelligence Committee and head of the U.S. Delegation to NATO Parliamentary Assembly, released the following statement on the U.S.’s missile attack with France and the U.K. in Syria: “Assad’s barbaric regime continues to violate international rule of law. The attack with our allies last night was a necessary action to deter horrific chemical weapons attacks by the Syrian government against its own people.” ###
04.11.2018	Congressman Mike Turner (OH-10) released the following statement: “I would like to thank Speaker Ryan for his outstanding leadership. He has worked throughout his career to make life better for hard working Americans. This year, the Speaker was able to accomplish tax reform, which hadn’t been done in 31 years. He gave our men and women in uniform the financial security they need by passing a 2 year budget deal. He has led the House exceptionally, and I thank him for his public service that has undoubtedly bettered our country.” ###
04.06.2018	Congressman Mike Turner (OH-10), Chairman of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Tactical Air and Land Forces, Chairman of the U.S. Delegation to NATO Parliamentary Assembly, and a member of the House Intelligence Committee, and Congressman Joaquin Castro (TX-20), a member of the House Intelligence Committee and the House Foreign Affairs Committee, introduced the bipartisan Stand with UK Against Russia Violations Act in response to Russia's nerve agent attack against Sergei and Aguilar Skripal in the United Kingdom last month: "The Russian government sanctioned attack on Sergei and Yulia Skripal and Officer Nick Bailey last month on British soil violated international law and indicates Putin's growing aggression and disregard for international standards of conduct. It's imperative that the United States stands with the United Kingdom and our international partners in signaling resolve with a strong response," said Reps. Turner and Castro. "That's why we introduced the bipartisan Stand with UK Against Russia Violations Act, which reinforces U.S. commitment to the United Kingdom and NATO by sanctioning those responsible for the Salisbury attack and seeks to deter anyone who will commit similar attacks in the future on behalf of the Russian government. This bill also targets Russian financial institutions until Putin ceases its practice of assassinating expatriates and dissidents outside of Russia. We must send a clear, bipartisan message that the United States stands with our allies and will not tolerate such illegal actions, and this legislation does just that." Click here for the legislation. # # #
03.26.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Today, the Federal Communications Commission proposed a rule prohibiting certain telecom carriers from buying products from Huawei, a company with close ties to the Chinese government. Under the rule, any carrier that accesses the Universal Service Fund, which subsidizes small and rural carriers, would be prohibited from purchasing products from companies that pose a national security threat to the United States. The FCC’s decision comes on the heels of a letter that Congressman Mike Turner (OH-10), Senator Tom Cotton (AR), and several other elected representatives sent to the FCC in December, raising concerns about Huawei’s ability to capture Americans’ private information and asking the FCC to take action. “As a member of the House Intelligence Committee, it was made clear to me that Huawei cannot be trusted and would pose a security threat if given access to U.S. government networks,” said Congressman Turner. “I am pleased FCC Chairman Pai has received a briefing from the Intelligence Community and understands the risk Huawei poses. The FCC’s decision to not use Huawei products is an important step in protecting it from possible security breaches, and I fully support them in this.” “To allow the FCC Universal Service Fund to be spent purchasing equipment from companies with strong ties to the Chinese government would have jeopardized not only the privacy of American citizens but our national security as well,” said Senator Cotton. “I’m glad to see the FCC act on the concerns we raised in December and prevent Americans’ private information from falling into the hands of the Chinese government. Now Congress should do its part by passing the bill I’ve introduced that would prohibit the U.S. government from using any of Huawei’s products." Background In December 2017, Senator Cotton, Congressman Turner, and several other elected representatives sent a letter raising concerns about news that a major U.S. telecom provider would start selling Huawei products in the U.S. in 2018. FCC Chairman Ajit Pai replied to the letter last week, thanking the elected representatives for raising their concerns. Under the proposed rule, any carrier that accesses the Universal Service Fund, which subsidizes small and rural carriers, would be prohibited from purchasing products from companies that pose a national security threat to the United States, such as Huawei. The FCC will vote on the proposed rule at its April 17 meeting. Senator Cotton has also introduced a bill that would prohibit the federal government from purchasing any of Huawei’s products. ###
03.22.2018	Congressman Mike Turner (OH-10), Chairman of the US Delegation to the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) Parliamentary Assembly, received an award today from Montenegro, as did former Vice President Joe Biden and Senator John McCain, in recognition of his work in strengthening the partnership between the United States and Montenegro. “I am deeply honored to receive this award, especially alongside Joe Biden and John McCain,” said Congressman Turner. “I fought hard on Capitol Hill to get my colleagues’ support in adding Montenegro to the NATO alliance. This would not have been possible without Joe or John’s leadership as well. Having Montenegro as a democratic ally is greatly important as NATO continues to combat Russian aggression, especially in the Balkan region. I would like to thank Montenegro for their partnership and look forward to continuing our countries’ bilateral and the alliance’s multilateral relations.” ###
03.21.2018	Congressman Mike Turner (OH-10) released the following statement after Dayton Daily News reported the National Aviation Hall of Fame’s (NAHF) intent to send its chief artifact, a wooden propeller signed by the Wright brothers, to a Colorado museum: “The National Aviation Hall of Fame is struggling financially. Sending its chief artifact to another museum is certain to only worsen that problem. I became aware last year of the Hall’s consideration of selling its artifacts and sent a cease and desist letter to them. As I said then, ‘no museum or enshrinement hall can maintain credibility if the collection of artifacts in its possession is seen as a possible revenue source.’ The lawyer for NAHF called the signed Wright propeller ‘the only significant artifact owned by the National Aviation Hall of Fame,’ when he assured me in February of last year that the Hall did not intend to sell its artifacts. Sending the Hall’s ‘only significant artifact’ from Ohio to be appraised is beyond concerning. The Blue Ribbon Panel I’ve established is working on its conclusions and I look forward to NAHF leadership coming to the table to talk about reasonable solutions about how it plans to work with our community to get back in good standing. Certainly sending its ‘only significant artifact’ out of our community is not going to help.” On January 25th, 2017, Congressman Turner sent a letter to the Chairman of the Board of Trustees of the NAHF, Bill Harris, stating he would investigate the Congressionally Chartered organization after receiving troubling information concerning its finances. On January 30th, 2017, Congressman Turner received support from two National Aviation Hall of Fame Trustees Katie McCallum and Donald I. VanDerKarr after announcing his plans to investigate the NAHF. On February 1st, 2017, Congressman Turner sent a letter to Mr. Harris alerting him that the NAHF must cease and desist all deliberation, efforts, or activities that relate to selling or improperly disposing of artifacts in the NAHF’s possession. On February 2nd, the NAHF assured Congressman Turner “that there has not been any action or even consideration in over a year of selling the signed Wright propeller which is the only significant artifact owned by the National Aviation Hall of Fame.” On February 6th, 2017, Congressman Turner announced Phil Parker, President and CEO of the Dayton Area Chamber of Commerce, Jeff Hoagland, President and CEO of the Dayton Development Coalition, and Brady Kress, President and CEO of Dayton History, would be tasked with forming a Blue Ribbon Panel to create a sustainable plan for the NAHF’s future. On February 6th, 2017, both Senator Rob Portman and the Chairman of the Natural Resources Committee Rob Bishop (UT-01) expressed their support of the investigation and the Blue Ribbon Panel. On February 14th, 2017, NAHF President Michael J. Quiello said in an interview with Dayton Daily News that the NAHF could “vote to pick up the Hall of Fame and move it to some other city that’s welcoming to us.” On February 15th, 2017, Congressman Turner sent a letter informing Mr. Harris that he was drafting legislation to terminate the congressional charter of the NAHF. In July 2017, Congressman Turner included language in the House-passed National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018 to keep the headquarters of the NAHF in Ohio. In November 2017, the National Defense Authorization Act became law, keeping the NAHF headquarters in Ohio. Congressman Turner is exercising his oversight authority to investigate these allegations concerning the congressionally chartered organization. ###
03.19.2018	Congressman Mike Turner (OH-10) released the following statement after President Donald J. Trump called “on Congress to change the restrictive 1970s-era law that prevents Medicaid from paying for care at certain treatment facilities with more than 16 beds”: “We need to treat individuals struggling with addiction when we have the chance to. I’ve introduced the TREAT Act to end the 16 bed limitation the President rightly identified as outdated. When individuals become incarcerated, the 16 bed limitation takes away their Medicaid eligibility. When they’re incarcerated is when these individuals need treatment most. I strongly urge the adoption of the TREAT Act so we can prevent people from returning to their addiction.” Areas of Impact The Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA) prohibits the use of grants from its Center for Substance Abuse Treatment (CSAT) for substance abuse treatment services provided to individuals who are incarcerated. Under this bill, these resources will be made available to individuals in both community-based and institutional settings. Under Medicaid’s Institution for Mental Disease (IMD) exclusion facilities with more than sixteen beds are not eligible for reimbursement. As such, the IMD exclusion prevents reimbursement for substance abuse treatment provided to incarcerated individuals who are otherwise enrolled in or eligible for Medicaid. Under this bill, substance abuse treatment provided at correctional institutions would become eligible for reimbursement. Congressman Turner has been fighting the opioid epidemic in Southwest Ohio since 2013: December 18, 2013: Toured Soin Medical Center, where issue of Heroin-Exposed Newborns was raised. March 10, 2014: Met with area hospitals to discuss the growing issue of Heroin-Exposed Newborns. May 15, 2014: Visited Dayton Children’s Hospital NICU to discuss infant heroin exposure and the withdrawal and recovery process. June 30, 2014: Held a Community Forum on the Effects of the Heroin Epidemic on Newborns. August 27, 2014: Visited the Women’s Recovery Center. May 2015: Held Community Summit on Heroin-Exposed Infants. August 21, 2015: Toured Greene County Jail and Green Leaf Alcohol and Drug Treatment Program; met with criminal justice system administrators and substance abuse and mental health leadership. November 18, 2015: Met with ONDCP Director Michael Botticelli and introduced the TREAT Act with Congresswoman Marcia L. Fudge (OH-11) and Congresswoman Niki Tsongas (MA-3). May 12, 2016: The House passed an amendment he cosponsored to increase access to treatment for pregnant women struggling with substance abuse. May 25, 2016: Introduced CRIB Act to help expand access to specialized treatment and recovery options for infants suffering from neonatal abstinence syndrome (NAS), a withdrawal condition in newborns often caused by use of opioids and other addictive substances in pregnant women. August 29, 2016: Hosted a Heroin Epidemic Response Roundtable with Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner (WI-05). October 28, 2016: Hosted a roundtable discussion on the opioid and heroin epidemic in Dayton with Senator Rob Portman (OH). February 2, 2017: Joined the bipartisan Addiction, Treatment, and Recovery Caucus. February 7, 2017: Reintroduced the TREAT Act. May 17, 2017: Reintroduced CRIB Act with Congressman Evan Jenkins (WV-03). August 7, 2017: TREAT Act concept supported by President Donald Trump’s Commission to Combat Drug Addiction and the Opioid Crisis. September 20, 2017: Helped secure funding for the Community Action Commission of Fayette County to help prevent youth substance abuse. September 22, 2017: Spoke at the Payne Theological Seminary Recovery Month Celebration. September 22, 2017: Visited Alkermes with Congressman Steve Stivers (OH-15) to learn about its medical approach to combating the opioid epidemic. September 25, 2017: Held a opioid prevention forum with local leaders and joined Sheriff Plummer in calling for a drug czar. October 5, 2017: Sent a letter with Sheriff Plummer to Phil Parker, President and CEO of the Dayton Area Chamber of Commerce, and Jeff Hoagland, President and CEO of the Dayton Development Coalition, asking for a recommendation in identifying possible candidates for a Dayton Region Drug Czar. October 11, 2017: Testified on TREAT Act and opioid crisis at House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health. December 12, 2017: Sent a letter with Ranking Member Seth Moulton (MA-6) of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations to Secretary of Defense James Mattis expressing concern about the Department of Defense’s (DoD) practice of reporting prescriptions, particularly regarding opioids. December 12, 2017: Led a Congressional letter to several House Committees with jurisdiction over opioid-related policy issues urging them to implement the legislative elements of the President’s Commission on Combating Drug Addiction and the Opioid Crisis’ Final Report. January 10, 2018: TREAT Act included in Bipartisan Heroin Task Force Legislative Agenda. March 2, 2018: Joined Health and Human Services Secretary Alex Azar in touring and participating in a roundtable discussion at Brigid’s Path. ###
03.08.2018	Congressman Mike Turner (OH-10), a member of the House Intelligence Committee, introduced legislation today to ensure that politically funded information cannot be used as evidence in a court to monitor a U.S. citizen. He released the following statement: “The surveillance abuses brought to light in the past several weeks are extremely concerning. No one, regardless of party, should have politically funded dirt used against them as evidence in court. My bill will amend the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act to ensure U.S. citizens get fair legal treatment before the government infringes on their privacy. I hope that Congress can come to a bipartisan agreement that using politically funded materials in court as evidence should not happen again.” ###
03.07.2018	Chairman Mike Turner (OH-10) of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Tactical Air and Land Forces introduced the It’s About Time Act today to increase efficiency by changing the government funding deadline from October 1 to January 1. He released the following statement: “There is no reason the fiscal year should start on October 1 other than Congress has previously said so. This has done unbelievable damage to the Department of Defense because Congress clearly cannot manage to pass spending bills by our current deadlines. Changing the calendar year would save DoD three painful months of Congress failing to get its work done.” ###
03.05.2018	This weekend, Congressman Mike Turner (OH-10) presented the Black History Month Congressional Award for Community Service to Professor Jeremy Winston. “Jeremy’s talented voice is critical to our community,” said Congressman Turner. “His leadership at Central State University as the Chorus Director is shaping the next generation of Miami Valley’s minds. I am proud to recognize his service by presenting him with the third annual Black History Month Congressional Award for Community Service.” “This honor is special to me because I take it as an endorsement of my commitment to the work of educating the population of students at Central State University,” said Jeremy Winston, assistant professor of music and chorus director, Central State University. “This education comes in the form of music-making at a world-class level. With our group of dedicated musicians and leaders, I know that we can capture the imagination and admiration of Ohio, the nation, and the world.” Winston joined Central State University in 2013 as assistant professor and director of the world-renowned CSU Chorus to continue its legacy of excellence in choral music. The 45-member choir has performed at the White House and abroad at the Vatican, throughout China and across Europe, where they performed for sold-out audiences including in Prague, Czech Republic with the Czech National Symphony Orchestra. “We are pleased that Congressman Turner selected Mr. Winston as the recipient of this award,” said Cynthia Jackson-Hammond, president, Central State University. “Mr. Jeremy Winston is an outstanding conductor and musical maestro of extraordinary talent! To have this distinguished musician of international acclaim is of immense value to our students, the CSU community and to the professional profile of the University.” The Chorus appears on several Telarc International CD recordings: The Best of Erich Kunzel, Gershwin Centennial Edition, Play Ball, Blue Monday, Porgy and Bess, and Amen: A Gospel Celebration which was nominated for a Grammy Award in 1994. In January 2015, they were invited by Governor John Kasich to perform at his inauguration. “Like Mr. Winston, Central State University has a wide array of co-curricular programs designed to educate, build leadership, cultivate talents and develop team camaraderie,” said Jackson-Hammond. “We are so fortunate to have his talents shared with young musical aspirants.” The Chorus is set to release a live-recorded CD this year to include its most requested song, “Total Praise,” and songs from well-known movies such as Porgy and Bess, Dreamgirls, Breakfast at Tiffany’s and Ray. Central State University, based in Wilberforce, Ohio, is an 1890 regionally accredited Land-Grant University, with two Ohio Centers of Excellence in Emerging Technologies and in Fine and Performing Arts. U.S. News and World Report has ranked the University the third most affordable University nationwide for out-of-state students and it is the most affordable University in Ohio. About Central State University: Central State University, located in Wilberforce, Ohio, is a regionally accredited 1890 Land-Grant University with a 131-year tradition of preparing students from diverse backgrounds and experiences for leadership, research and service. The University, which has been named 2017 HBCU of the Year by HBCU Digest, fosters academic excellence within a nurturing environment and provides a strong liberal arts foundation and STEM-Ag curriculum leading to professional careers and advanced studies globally. ###
02.24.2018	Congressman Mike Turner (OH-10), member of the House Intelligence Committee, released the following statement after Ranking Member Adam Schiff (CA-28)’s memo was released: “As I stated multiple times in the business meeting to release this memo, and as House Intel Democrats acknowledged and agreed five times in that meeting, Mr. Schiff’s memo does not disprove that politically funded documents were used as evidence in court. In this case, the Democratic National Committee and Hillary Clinton’s campaign paid for dirt on its opponent, which was then used in a court as evidence to surveil a citizen of the United States. This was an abuse of FISA. Politically funded documents from either side should not be used as evidence in Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Courts.” ###
02.12.2018	Chairman Mike Turner (OH-10) of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Tactical Air and Land Forces released the following statement after the release of President Trump’s American Budget: “Today’s budget is a good starting point for funding American priorities in the coming year. In December, I wrote two letters to the White House asking for comprehensive funding to address the opioid epidemic in this coming year. The opioid epidemic continues to ravage our communities and take lives on a daily basis. I am pleased that the White House has included money in their budget to address this emergency and help save lives across the country. As part of my work as Chairman of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Tactical Air and Land Forces, I requested additional funding for modernization of our Army Brigade Combat Teams. Today’s budget request submitted by the President allocates important resources to this modernization effort. I am grateful the Administration has recognized the need to modernize our military and is dedicating funding to regain readiness in this proposal. Additionally, today’s budget will bolster the work being done at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base that is critical to our national security. I look forward to continuing to advocate for funding for Wright-Patt as we move from this budget proposal into appropriations this year.” ###
02.09.2018	Chairman Mike Turner (OH-10) of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Tactical Air and Land Forces joins House Armed Services Republicans in a press conference supporting the Bipartisan Budget Act. Chairman Mike Turner (OH-10) of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Tactical Air and Land Forces released the following statement after voting in support of the Bipartisan Budget Act: “Today’s passage of the Bipartisan Budget Act is a win for our men and women in uniform, including those at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base,” said Turner. “I have fought for increased funding for our troops since the devastating defense sequester was enacted under President Obama. This long-term bipartisan budget deal provides the money and certainty our armed forces need to move forward and address growing global threats.” “Congressman Turner has been a tireless advocate for increased defense spending after the harmful cuts imposed by sequestration,” said House Armed Services Committee Chairman Mac Thornberry (TX-13). “His vote today supporting the long-term budget deal we’ve been working towards all year will help our military rebuild and regain readiness.” ###
02.09.2018	In Monday’s newly released transcript, Democrats on the House Intelligence Committee acknowledged five times that their memo does not disprove that the Democratic National Committee and Hillary Clinton paid for information used in a Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court Congressman Mike Turner (OH-10), member of the House Intelligence Committee, released the following statement: “Politically funded documents, regardless of which party they come from, should not be used as evidence in Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Courts. On Monday, the House Intelligence Committee voted unanimously to release the Democratic memo, despite every Democrat on the committee having opposed the release of the majority’s memo of FISA abuses just last week. In that meeting, on three separate occasions, I challenged that the Democrat memorandum would not refute that politically funded material was entered in the court as evidence. My Democratic colleague, Mr. Jim Himes of Connecticut, agreed stating, ‘Mr. Turner is correct that nothing in this memo refutes the notion that we all know to be a statement of fact that the Steele dossier was, in fact, paid for initially by the Clinton campaign and subsequently, or, in part, by the DNC.’ When asked again if the Democratic memo disproved the DNC and Hillary Clinton campaign paid for information used as evidence against their opponent, Mr. Himes said, ‘No...there is nothing in the Democratic memo that says that.’ As a full committee, we must move forward to address these FISA abuses and ensure that no individual from either party has politically funded materials being used as evidence in a court against them.” ###
02.06.2018	Chairman Mike Turner (OH-10) of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Tactical Air and Land Forces today called on Senate Democrats to fund defense: “It’s very sad that in your comments you have a whole section on impact of congressional inaction,” Chairman Turner said in today’s hearing with Secretary of Defense Jim Mattis. “But I must say that the House has not really been inactive. We passed a budget and the National Defense Authorization Act. We passed the appropriations bills three times. We’re going to do it again. We really are dealing with a handful of those in the Senate who are causing inaction and I certainly call on Democratic leadership in the Senate to dislodge the defense funding for the military because of the various reasons that you’re giving us of the damage that’s occurring by connecting defense funding to other items.” ###
01.30.2018	Congressman Mike Turner (OH-10), Sandy Keplinger and Steve Staub (co-owners of Staub Manufacturing Solutions), and Corey Adams (skilled welder at Staub Manufacturing Solutions) Chairman Mike Turner (OH-10) of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Tactical Air and Land Forces released the following statement after President Donald J. Trump’s first State of the Union address: “This year, Congress and the White House worked together to provide economic relief and growth. I was very excited the President and First Lady welcomed the co-owners of Staub Manufacturing Solutions and one of their skilled welders. In August, I toured the Staub plant in Dayton, Ohio and Steve told me how much tax reform could help his manufacturing company. Since we’ve passed the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, he has been able to grow his small business and put more money into his employees’ pockets. My biggest concern continues to be our national security and returning our military to a state of readiness. We are about to enter the fifth month of a continuing resolution. These fictional budgets make it impossible for our troops to be able to successfully answer the call when faced with the most complex international adversaries in history. Today, the House voted for the third time to fully fund the Department of Defense for Fiscal Year 2018, which began in October. I hope the Senate finally takes up this critical legislation and removes our troops’ safety from Washington political games.” ###
01.29.2018	Congressman Mike Turner (OH-10) joined Congresswoman Ann Kuster (NH-2) and U.S. Senators Claire McCaskill (MO) and Ron Johnson (WI) to introduce legislation to improve sexual violence data collection at key federal agencies. The legislation will implement recommendations from a Government Accountability Office report that found vast differences in data collection efforts—including the use of 23 different terms to describe sexual violence. “I’ve worked with my colleagues across the aisle for nearly a decade as Chair of the Military Sexual Assault Prevention Caucus to address and improve the culture our troops work in,” said Congressman Turner. “However, we can only address what we know about. Improved reporting across these departments will help us better understand the magnitude of and more effectively combat sexual violence in the workplace.” “Accurate information about sexual violence is crucial as we work to take on the systemic problem,” said Congresswoman Kuster. “This legislation will ensure federal agencies efficiently coordinate their efforts to provide lawmakers and the general public with the best possible information about sex crimes. Gaining a more complete understanding of the persistence of sexual violence will support grassroots and government efforts to make our society safer.” “I’ve spent decades fighting sex crimes, from serving as Jackson County prosecutor to tackling sexual assault on military bases and college campuses as a Senator—and it’s abundantly clear that reliable data can play a key role in strengthening efforts to combat sexual violence,” Sen. McCaskill said. “Missourians want to see Democrats and Republicans working together on important issues and that’s exactly what this bill represents and where I know we can make progress.” “The first steps in solving any problem is gathering information, properly defining, and admitting you have it. We must improve the quality and consistency of data made available across government agencies. The time to act on the recommendations of our federal watchdog is now,” said Chairman Johnson. Sexual violence is underreported in the United States and federal agencies are collecting important data to help us understand and address the problem. A Government Accountability Office (GAO) report found vast differences in how the Departments of Defense, Education, Health and Human Services and Justice manage 10 different efforts to collect data on sexual violence, which vary widely in target population, terminology, and measurements. GAO reported that “differences in data collection efforts may hinder the understanding of the occurrence of sexual violence, and agencies' efforts to explain and lessen differences have been fragmented and limited in scope.” Getting the best possible data will help researchers and policy makers assess the problem and find better solutions. It will also ensure that the public knows and understands the impacts of sexual violence in this country. The companion bills introduced today in the U.S. House and Senate requires that the Office of Management and Budget—which has oversight over federal agencies’ data collection—follow GAO’s recommendations and work with the Departments of Defense, Education, Justice, and Health and Human Services to improve coordination across agencies and develop useful and transparent sexual violence statistics in order to help prevent and address sexual violence and better understand the consequences of these crimes. Read the bipartisan, bicameral bill HERE. ###
01.17.2018	Congressman Mike Turner (OH-10) released the following statement after Premier Health announced it will close Good Samaritan Hospital: “Like many in the community, I am deeply saddened by this news. I am mindful Premier Health is more than a corporate citizen, but is a community leader. I look forward to working with them on their plans for the future at this site and their other hospital locations.” ###
01.10.2018	Congressman Mike Turner (OH-10)’s TREAT Act to increase access to substance abuse treatment was included today in the Bipartisan Heroin Task Force’s Legislative Agenda. “The inclusion of the TREAT Act in the Bipartisan Heroin Task Force’s Legislative Agenda is a huge step forward in addressing the opioid epidemic,” said Congressman Turner. “There is a short window of opportunity between getting someone off the streets and getting them into treatment. The TREAT Act works to provide communities with the resources to help individuals access treatment for addiction.” “As we begin the New Year, the Bipartisan Task Force remains even more committed to fighting the opioid epidemic that has ravaged so many communities and families across the country,” said Chairman Tom MacArthur (NJ-3). “Our agenda represents the important balance of showing compassion for those suffering with substance abuse, while stopping the flow of drugs into our neighborhoods. It’s a crucial step in this fight. Since its creation, the Bipartisan Task Force has grown to 100 members and has been able to successfully advocate against drastic cuts to the Office of National Drug Control Policy, and, shape and advance CARA and the 21st Century Cures Act through Congress. We will continue to build on these accomplishments and stand together in our fight against substance abuse.” Congressman Turner has been fighting the opioid epidemic in Dayton since 2013: December 18, 2013: Toured Soin Medical Center, where issue of Heroin-Exposed Newborns was raised. March 10, 2014: Met with area hospitals to discuss the growing issue of Heroin-Exposed Newborns. May 15, 2014: Visited Dayton Children’s Hospital NICU to discuss infant heroin exposure and the withdrawal and recovery process. June 30, 2014: Held a Community Forum on the Effects of the Heroin Epidemic on Newborns. August 27, 2014: Visited the Women’s Recovery Center. May 2015: Held Community Summit on Heroin-Exposed Infants. August 21, 2015: Toured Greene County Jail and Green Leaf Alcohol and Drug Treatment Program; met with criminal justice system administrators and substance abuse and mental health leadership. November 18, 2015: Met with ONDCP Director Michael Botticelli and introduced the TREAT Act with Congresswoman Marcia L. Fudge (OH-11) and Congresswoman Niki Tsongas (MA-3). May 12, 2016: The House passed an amendment he cosponsored to increase access to treatment for pregnant women struggling with substance abuse. May 25, 2016: Introduced CRIB Act to help expand access to specialized treatment and recovery options for infants suffering from neonatal abstinence syndrome (NAS), a withdrawal condition in newborns often caused by use of opioids and other addictive substances in pregnant women. August 29, 2016: Hosted a Heroin Epidemic Response Roundtable with Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner (WI-05). October 28, 2016: Hosted a roundtable discussion on the opioid and heroin epidemic in Dayton with Senator Rob Portman (OH). February 2, 2017: Joined the bipartisan Addiction, Treatment, and Recovery Caucus. February 7, 2017: Reintroduced the TREAT Act. May 17, 2017: Reintroduced CRIB Act with Congressman Evan Jenkins (WV-03). August 7, 2017: TREAT Act concept supported by President Donald Trump’s Commission to Combat Drug Addiction and the Opioid Crisis. September 20, 2017: Helped secure funding for the Community Action Commission of Fayette County to help prevent youth substance abuse. September 22, 2017: Spoke at the Payne Theological Seminary Recovery Month Celebration. September 22, 2017: Visited Alkermes with Congressman Steve Stivers (OH-15) to learn about its medical approach to combating the opioid epidemic. September 25, 2017: Held a opioid prevention forum with local leaders and joined Sheriff Plummer in calling for a drug czar. October 5, 2017: Sent a letter with Sheriff Plummer to Phil Parker, President and CEO of the Dayton Area Chamber of Commerce, and Jeff Hoagland, President and CEO of the Dayton Development Coalition, asking for a recommendation in identifying possible candidates for a Dayton Region Drug Czar. October 11, 2017: Testified on TREAT Act and opioid crisis at House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health. December 12, 2017: Sent a letter with Ranking Member Seth Moulton (MA-6) of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations to Secretary of Defense James Mattis expressing concern about the Department of Defense’s (DoD) practice of reporting prescriptions, particularly regarding opioids. December 12, 2017: Led a Congressional letter to several House Committees with jurisdiction over opioid-related policy issues urging them to implement the legislative elements of the President’s Commission on Combating Drug Addiction and the Opioid Crisis’ Final Report. ###
01.08.2018	On Inauguration Day 2017, the Obama administration left President Trump a severely weakened and constrained military. For the better part of a decade, President Obama allowed his administration’s sequestration to destroy the capabilities and readiness of our armed forces. He forced our Americans in uniform to take the risk that a weaker military would not further endanger their lives and our own national security. In 2017, we witnessed North Korea’s aggressive nuclear action, Russian meddling in democratic systems (including our own), and an Iranian regime dedicated to expanding its sphere of influence at the expense of their neighbors’ peace and freedoms. On top of all that, our men and women in uniform fight against violent radicalism around the world. Given the scope of these challenges our military faces, remarkably, Secretary of Defense James Mattis testified, “No enemy in the field has done more to harm the combat readiness of our military than sequestration.” Chairman of the Joints Chiefs of Staff, General Dunford, added, “Eight years of continuing resolutions and the absence of predictable funding has forced the [Defense] Department to prioritize near-term readiness at the expense of modernization and advance capability development.” In the final four years of the Obama presidency, our military’s ability to deploy around the world and win wars deteriorated. To right this wrong, in May, an overwhelming 140 of my Republican colleagues—the majority of the majority—joined me in asking Speaker Paul Ryan to bring a vote to repeal the sequestration of national defense to the floor. Congress can and must undo the devastation of the Obama era to our defense. The president also called for this while signing the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018 (FY18 NDAA) and again in his speech on the National Security Strategy. The first step in ensuring national security is funding our armed forces at the full $700 billion FY18 NDAA requirement. Our Armed Forces are charged with securing not only our nation but our ideals of freedom and democracy around the world. Sadly, that force eroded during the Obama administration to one that has too many troops that cannot deploy, too many planes that cannot fly, and too many ships that cannot sail. During the last administration, our Army let nearly 90,000 soldiers go and fewer than 10 percent of our brigade combat teams are now ready to deploy. We have 41 fewer ships than in 2001, over half of the Navy’s aircraft are grounded, and the tragedies of the USS Fitzgerald and USS McCain show our sailors are pushed to the breaking point. A full 80 percent of our Marine Corps aviation units lack the minimum number of ready aircraft. The Air Force needs 2,000 more pilots to fly aircraft that are on average 27 years old. The FY18 NDAA is a bipartisan effort of the House and Senate Armed Forces Committees to address these serious issues and provide our military the means necessary to regain their readiness. It is a good faith attempt from the Senators and Representatives, Republicans and Democrats, who know the national security landscape best, to regain the preeminence of our military. Some of my colleagues in Congress are struggling to recognize the risk of continuing to weaken our armed services. We ask our service men and women to do more with less. Each time we defer our responsibility to fund our defense, we fail those willing to protect this nation with their lives. Expecting our military to successfully operate on this system of fictional and unreliable budgeting is incredibly irresponsible, unrealistic, and gambles with our safety. We cannot continue to neglect our soldiers, sailors, marines, and airmen and expect them to be ready to answer the nation’s future calls. We need a fiscal deal to replace the devastating Budget Control Act and end the effects of sequestration. http://www.foxnews.com/opinion/2018/01/08/rep-mike-turner-obama-era-neglect-our-military-must-come-to-end.html
01.02.2018	Chairman Mike Turner (OH-10) of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Tactical Air and Land Forces released the following statement after Iranian Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei blamed Iran’s “enemies” for protests against the Iranian government: “I strongly support the Iranian peoples’ peaceful calls for democracy, freedom, and human rights. These Iranians are not foreign ‘enemies;’ Tehran should heed their calls for civil liberties and economic opportunities. Instead, the Iranian regime continues to arrest hundreds and block access to communication media applications while over 20 Iranians have been killed. I call on Tehran to honor its human rights obligations by allowing Iranians to speak freely and peacefully assemble. Furthermore, Iranians must be allowed to use social media and communications applications to share ideas, even those that may be unpopular to its ruling government. Only in a nation of peace and individual freedoms will all Iranians prosper.” ###
12.18.2017	Chairman Mike Turner (OH-10) of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Tactical Air and Land Forces released the following statement on President Donald Trump’s America First National Security Agenda: “This week, Congress will have the opportunity to ensure national security by voting to fully fund national defense at the levels authorized by the FY18 NDAA. Expecting our military to successfully operate on a system of fictional and unreliable budgeting is incredibly irresponsible. A vote against funding what we have already promised our troops would be playing politics with their lives. I encourage both the House and Senate to take swift action to rebuild our readiness.” ###
12.18.2017	Congressmen Mike Turner (OH-10) and Rodney Davis (IL-13) today won their fight to preserve education tax benefits in the final tax reform bill. Both the graduate tuition waiver (Section 117(d)) and employer tuition assistance benefits (Section 127) were maintained in the tax reform conference report released today. The House is expected to vote on the report next week. “This tax package is an incredible step forward for our country to achieve economic growth,” said Congressman Turner. “Students pursuing a higher education are working to better themselves. More highly educated Americans means a better workforce, and a better workforce means a stronger economy. By including the provisions Rodney and I fought for, this tax package encourages people to pursue the American dream and helps grow the U.S.” “No bill is perfect, but we fought to make it better and we did,” said Congressman Davis. “This is the legislative process at work. I appreciate Chairman Brady and my other colleagues for coming together to preserve these provisions that will help graduate assistants and mid-level university employees trying to send their kid to college. Maintaining the employer tuition assistance provision helps those looking to further their education, but I also hope that one day we can use it to help address the one trillion-dollar existing student debt crisis that is facing our county. The changes in this bill make it even stronger for the middle class and those living paycheck to paycheck. I’m looking forward to voting ‘yea’ next week to deliver the first real tax relief for hardworking Americans in more than three decades.” “This is a historic moment for the American people,” said Ways and Means Committee Chairman Kevin Brady (TX-8). “Our legislation to finally reform America’s broken tax code will deliver more jobs, bigger paychecks, and fairer taxes to hardworking families and job creators throughout the country. I’m grateful to Congressmen Davis and Turner for their leadership on preserving graduate student tuition assistance and tuition waivers, and for their work in support of making pro-growth, pro-family tax reform a reality for the American people.” Last week, Congressmen Turner and Davis sent a letter with 24 of their colleagues to Chairman Brady and Chairman Orrin Hatch (UT) of the Senate Committee on Finance to include two provisions in the final tax reform bill to help students pursuing a higher education. Both provisions ended up included in the final tax reform package. Congressmen Turner and Davis previously had a colloquy with Chairman Brady on the House floor about this issue. The first provision the Congressmen secured in the final tax reform bill allows taxpayers to exclude qualified tuition reductions from income. If tuition reductions were not maintained, university employees and their spouses and dependents, as well as graduate students, would have faced an unnecessary burden in pursuing a higher education. The second provision included due to the Congressmen’s work is business-provided incentives for employees seeking a higher education. Tax-free qualified educational assistance increases the quality of the American workforce. ###
12.13.2017	Co-Chairs Mike Turner (OH-10) and Niki Tsongas (MA-3) of the Military Sexual Assault Prevention Caucus held a briefing yesterday on the Department of Defense’s (DoD) reporting of sexual assault convictions. Afterwards, they released the following joint statement: “After the shooting in Sutherland Springs, we learned that the Air Force failed to report a military conviction that could have prevented the shooter from obtaining the firearms he used to kill 26 people. This tragic incident led those of us in Congress to question the DoD’s processes for reporting military convictions to civilian authorities in a variety of contexts; for the Military Sexual Assault Prevention Caucus, it meant we should take a deeper look at whether other gaps in DoD’s reporting processes exist, specifically as they relate to sexual offense reporting. Yesterday, we heard that roughly half of military justice cases across the services are related to sexual assault, which makes it all the more important that military sex offense convictions be properly reported to outside authorities. We are concerned over the lack of an integrated DoD-wide data system for tracking and maintaining accountability over such cases. We will continue to work with DoD to find a legislative solution to close any gaps in communication and reporting in order to prevent future tragedies like the one in Texas.” ###
12.12.2017	Chairman Mike Turner (OH-10) of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Tactical Air and Land Forces released the following statement after the President signed the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018 into law today: “This law represents hundreds of hours of bipartisan work to ensure our military is fully equipped to handle every threat it may face in the coming year and rebuild our readiness. It includes provisions to make military housing safer for families, help survivors of military sexual assault be heard, and keep the National Aviation Hall of Fame in Ohio. Within the Tactical Air and Land Forces Subcommittee’s jurisdiction, this law authorizes over $12.6 billion in additional funds to address unfunded modernization requirements and critical capability gaps. Today the President rightfully called again for an end to the sequestration of national defense. The FY18 NDAA overspends what the sequester budget caps allow by $151 billion. Playing politics and using billions of our national defense budget as a bargaining chip needs to end now. Our troops face enough uncertainty--their budget shouldn’t be on the list of things they need to worry about.” BE HEARD Act Included in NDAA Chairman Turner and Ranking Member Niki Tsongas (MA-03), co-chairs of the Military Sexual Assault Caucus, were able to include their BE HEARD Act as part of the NDAA. Inclusion of this language in the NDAA makes it easier for survivors of military sexual assault to BE HEARD by: Expanding specialized training for military Special Victims’ Counsel (SVCs); Allowing the military’s highest court to hear the appeals of sexual assault survivors on decisions while a trial is ongoing; and Permitting military judges to appoint legal representatives for sexual assault survivors who are minors or who are otherwise incapable of representing themselves before charges are filed against a reported perpetrator. Evan’s Law Included in NDAA Congressman Turner’s Evan’s Law was included as part of the NDAA. Evan’s Law requires the Department of Defense (DoD) to implement military residential window safety measures to protect against unintentional falls by young children. National Aviation Hall of Fame Congressman Turner included language in this year’s NDAA to amend the congressional charter of the National Aviation Hall of Fame, ensuring the organization stays headquartered in Ohio. To learn more about Congressman Turner’s effort to keep the NAHF in Ohio, click here. Child Custody Protection Congressman Turner included language in this year’s NDAA that requires the Secretary of Defense to brief the House Armed Services Committee on the information and resources currently provided to service members regarding State child custody laws, including an analysis of how best to standardize distribution of this information to affected service members. NATO Congressman Turner included language in this year’s NDAA that recognizes the role NATO defense industries have played in weapon systems programs through partnerships and supply chain activities. It also directs the Secretary of Defense to provide a briefing on joint weapon system development and coordination and interoperability efforts with NATO members and defense industries. This NDAA also provides a plan for the future of the European Deterrence Initiative, funds used to strengthen our allies and their common defense on the continent. Wright-Patterson Air Force Base (WPAFB) Funding in NDAA This year’s NDAA authorized funding for WPAFB to provide commercial off-the-shelf equipment and technologies such as civil engineers construction, surveying, and mapping equipment commonly used in U.S. commercial construction and other industries. Tactical Air and Land Forces Subcommittee Congressman Turner is the Chairman of the Subcommittee that worked to authorize over $12.6 billion in additional funding as part of the conference agreement for the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018. The subcommittee authorized the following programs: Equipment Modernization The NDAA authorizes key investments to accelerate fielding of new, more effective, lethal, and reliable and cost-effective platforms. It also provides additional capacity for high-demand assets to reduce the stress on the force, rebuild the depth-of-bench in critical capability areas, and begins a path to restoring full-spectrum readiness. Armored Brigade Combat Team Modernization Under the President’s budget, the Army will not complete modernizing their Abrams tanks until 2035. The NDAA provides additional funding to address unfunded requirements to accelerate armored brigade combat team modernization and works to restore needed to capability to Army Armored Brigade Combat Teams (ABCTs) to ensure continued ground combat overmatch. Maintaining Air Dominance The NDAA provides the authority for the procurement of Economic Order Quantities for F-35 Joint Strike Fighters to reduce costs to the taxpayer by authorizing bulk procurement of common manufacturing materials while also requiring continued oversight through DOD certifications regarding design stability and cost savings estimates. It also directs a report on the extension of the System Design and Development (SDD) phase of the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter program, which is expected to finish in FY18. Army Aviation To address unfunded requirements and to accelerate modernization of Army rotorcraft for the Active and Reserve Components, the NDAA provides additional funding for UH-60M Blackhawks, AH-64E Apaches, and CH-47F Chinook helicopters. Critical Munitions The conferees remain concerned about shortfalls in critical munitions. To address this gap, the NDAA authorizes additional funding for critical munitions in war reserves, improves the manufacturing capacity of the munitions industrial base, and accelerates long range precision fires programs. ISR Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance (ISR) is a critical capability of our military that enables warfighters to effectively build situational awareness to mitigate operational risk while accomplishing their missions. Repeated testimony from senior military leaders indicates a significant ISR shortfall within multiple intelligence disciplines. The NDAA makes progress on addressing this shortfall by strengthening and improving ISR investment strategies in order to better meet combatant commander ISR requirements. ###
12.12.2017	Chairman Mike Turner (OH-10) of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Tactical Air and Land Forces and Ranking Member Seth Moulton (MA-6) of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations sent a letter to Secretary of Defense James Mattis expressing concern about the Department of Defense’s (DoD) practice of reporting prescriptions, particularly regarding opioids. The Congressmen urged Secretary Mattis “to take proactive steps to report TRICARE beneficiaries’ controlled substance prescriptions to state prescription drug monitoring programs (PDMPs) as soon as possible.” “The opioid crisis is a national health emergency devastating our communities, Dayton especially,” said Chairman Turner. “A loophole that does not require the DoD to report controlled substance prescriptions to PDMPs makes our nation’s active duty service members, reservists, their families, veterans, and retirees vulnerable to this epidemic of addiction. Ranking Member Moulton and I are asking Secretary Mattis to immediately close this loophole to prevent more individuals from falling victim to opioid addiction.” "It is imperative that Secretary Mattis take proactive steps to ensure reporting of TRICARE beneficiaries’ controlled substance prescriptions to state prescription drug monitoring programs,” said Ranking Member Moulton. “Addressing this loophole will help us get our service members the assistance they may need to stay healthy and safe. Prescription drug monitoring programs are a proven tool to cut down on prescription drug abuse, but these state-based programs require good data. The Department of Defense ought to share its prescription data just like the Department of Veterans Affairs has successfully done. Working together, we can combat prescription drug abuse." ###
12.11.2017	Congressmen Mike Turner (OH-10) and Rodney Davis (IL-13) sent a letter with 24 of their colleagues to Chairman Kevin Brady (TX-8) of the House Committee on Ways and Means and Chairman Orrin Hatch (UT) of the Senate Committee on Finance to include two provisions in the final tax reform bill to help students pursuing a higher education. Congressmen Turner and Davis previously had a colloquy with Chairman Brady on the House floor about this issue. “Tax reform is an important opportunity for our country to grow,” said Congressman Turner. “When our workforce is better educated and has less debt, our economy thrives. These education benefits are critical for middle class Americans pursuing the opportunity of higher education in an attempt to better their lives. I encourage the Chairmen to include these provisions in the final tax reform bill to ensure people are still able to pursue the American dream.” “There is no doubt that by doubling the standard deduction and expanding 529 plans and the child tax credit, this bill will allow the majority of Americans keep more of what they earn,” said Congressman Davis. “But as a member of Congress representing eight colleges and universities, I believe there are a couple of changes that could be made to specifically help address student debt and access to higher education – a one-trillion-dollar problem within our country. By addressing these issues in tax reform, we can ensure that a building services worker who has worked the same job at a university for 20 years or graduate student are not punished and help address student debt.” The first provision the letter asks to have included in the final tax reform bill allows taxpayers to exclude qualified tuition reductions from income. If tuition reductions are not maintained, university employees and their spouses and dependents, as well as graduate students, will face an unnecessary burden in pursuing a higher education. The second provision is business-provided incentives for employees seeking a higher education. Tax-free qualified educational assistance increases the quality of the American workforce. Additionally, the members ask that tax-free qualified educational assistance be expanded to include employees with existing student loan debt, a financial burden seven in ten current college seniors face upon graduation. ###
11.15.2017	Congressman Mike Turner (OH-10) sent the following letter to National Aviation Hall of Fame Chairman Bill Harris informing him that language has been included in the conference report of the National Defense Authorization Act of 2018, passed by the House this week and set to be passed by the Senate and signed by the President, amending the organization’s congressional charter to keep it from relocating outside of Ohio: “As you will recall, earlier this year National Aviation Hall of Fame (NAHF) Board of Trustees’ President/Vice Chairman Michael Quiello publicly threatened to cause the NAHF to relocate its headquarters from Dayton, Ohio. Additionally, your counsel David Greer has repeatedly informed members of the local business community of your considering relocation of the NAHF. In response, I have caused your Congressional charter to be amended to prohibit further attempts to relocate the NAHF. Please inform your Board of Trustees that, effective immediately, the NAHF’s Congressional charter (36 U.S.C. §23101 et seq.) has been amended to clarify where the organization’s principal office may be located. The relevant sentence from 36 U.S.C. §23107 now reads: The principal office of the corporation shall be in Ohio. Mr. Harris, I am pleased that Congress and the President are joining together to end threats to my community by the NAHF Board of Trustees leadership. I look forward to your continued presence in my community.” On January 25th, Congressman Turner sent a letter to the Chairman of the Board of Trustees of the NAHF, Bill Harris, stating he would investigate the Congressionally Chartered organization after receiving troubling information concerning its finances. On January 30th, Congressman Turner received support from two National Aviation Hall of Fame Trustees Katie McCallum and Donald I. VanDerKarr after announcing his plans to investigate the NAHF. On February 1st, Congressman Turner sent a letter to Mr. Harris alerting him that the NAHF must cease and desist all deliberation, efforts, or activities that relate to selling or improperly disposing of artifacts in the NAHF’s possession. On February 6th, Congressman Turner announced Phil Parker, President and CEO of the Dayton Area Chamber of Commerce, Jeff Hoagland, President and CEO of the Dayton Development Coalition, and Brady Kress, President and CEO of Dayton History, would be tasked with forming a Blue Ribbon Panel to create a sustainable plan for the NAHF’s future. On February 6th, both Senator Rob Portman and the Chairman of the Natural Resources Committee Rob Bishop (UT-01) expressed their support of the investigation and the Blue Ribbon Panel. On February 14th, NAHF President Michael J. Quiello said in an interview with Dayton Daily News that the NAHF could “vote to pick up the Hall of Fame and move it to some other city that’s welcoming to us.” On February 15th, Congressman Turner sent a letter informing Mr. Harris that he was drafting legislation to terminate the congressional charter of the NAHF. In July, Congressman Turner included language in the House-passed National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018 to keep the headquarters of the NAHF in Ohio. Congressman Turner is exercising his oversight authority to investigate these allegations concerning the congressionally chartered organization. ###
11.14.2017	Chairman Mike Turner (OH-10) of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Tactical Air and Land Forces spoke today on the House floor in favor of the conference report on the defense spending bill for fiscal year 2018. Chairman Turner, one of the conferees, delivered the following remarks: “Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 2810, the National Defense Authorization Act for 2018. I strongly support this Bill and I want to personally thank our Chairman Mac Thornberry’s for his work in trying to get a higher top line for defense. This bill comes in higher than the President’s budget request, but it is in line with the both the appropriations and budget document that came out of the House. This bill authorizes $634.2 billion in the base budget, a much needed increase over the original budget request, and fully supports many of the unfunded requirements identified by the Department that totaled more than $30 billion dollars. The $634.2 billion authorization is essential. Anything less dramatically handicaps our ability to restore military readiness over nearly a decade of neglect. This increased base budget funding for Fiscal Year 2018 begins the long process to rebuild our military’s full-spectrum of readiness from years of deferred modernization brought on by the failed assumptions from the previous Administration’s Budget Control Act and sequestration. Within the Tactical Air and Land Forces Subcommittee’s jurisdiction, this bill authorizes over $12 billion in additional funds to address unfunded modernization requirements and critical capability gaps. If we do not begin with this budget to set favorable conditions to start to reverse the high-risk defense posture we currently have, we will significantly jeopardize our military’s advantage that we’ve taken for granted in past conflicts and steady-state operations. As such, the bill recognizes the importance of land forces in current and future operations, and authorizes over $2 billion to accelerate armored brigade combat team modernization, to include additional Abrams tanks and Bradley fighting vehicles. The bill authorizes strike-fighter capability and capacity shortfalls, and authorizes over $3 billion in additional funding to procure new 5th generation aircraft and modernize our 4th generation fleet. These projects address unfunded requirements for the Air Force, Navy, and Marine Corps. The bill also continues to address the needs of the National Guard and Reserve components by authorizing an additional $250 million for their equipment modernization. This bill prevents the Air Force from reducing critical I-S-R capabilities. I urge my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to support this bill.” ###
11.14.2017	Congressman Mike Turner (OH-10) spoke today on the House floor to congratulate Dayton VA Medical Center Director Glenn Costie on his retirement. Congressman Turner delivered the following remarks: “I rise to thank and honor an integral member of my community, Director Glenn Costie of the Dayton VA Medical Center, and congratulate him on his retirement. Director Costie turned the Dayton VA into one of the top medical facilities for our veterans in the country. Director Costie’s success as a director of the VA medical center in Dayton has gained him national recognition. He has been sent throughout the country to save multiple VA medical facilities plagued with issues, particularly including veteran patient backlogs. Furthermore, Director Costie has worked tirelessly to integrate the Dayton VA into our community to serve our veterans in a way it hadn’t in several decades. Director Costie’s time at the Dayton VA has been dedicated to bettering the lives of our veterans. I was very honored to work with Director Costie on the issue on bringing creative housing options for Dayton’s veterans, a place known as Lyon’s Place II. We also worked together on the successful campaign to bring the VA National Archives to Dayton. Director Costie’s leadership and expertise will be deeply missed at the Dayton VA. I wish to thank him, give him all the best, and look forward to what he’ll be doing in his leadership in the future in our community and thank him again for everything he’s done for Dayton veterans.” ###
11.07.2017	Chairman Mike Turner (OH-10) of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Tactical Air and Land Forces and co-chair of the Military Sexual Assault Prevention Caucus released the following statement regarding the Air Force’s failure to report the assault committed by the eventual shooter in the Texas church massacre: “The failure of the Air Force to properly report the military criminal record of the Texas church massacre shooter had fatal consequences,” said Chairman Turner. “I fear this incident represents a larger issue within the Department of Defense to report criminal incidents. Sexual assault in the military, like domestic violence, is a serious issue that traumatizes and endangers our service members. “The Department of Defense must be certain that all crimes, including sexual assault, are properly reported across its service branches to protect our service members, their families, and all Americans. I plan to hold a meeting of the Military Sexual Assault Prevention Caucus with my fellow Co-Chair Niki Tsongas on this issue to inquire about the ability of military service members who have sexually assaulted others to obtain guns.” “As we have worked to address the issue of sexual assault in the military, we have seen too many systemic failures lead to fatal and criminal consequences,” said Congresswoman Tsongas (MA-03). “The Air Force’s failure to properly report the criminal record of one of its former airmen echoes this unacceptable pattern with tragic and fatal consequences. Chairman Turner and I will be working with the Military Sexual Assault Prevention Caucus to examine whether this deadly oversight represents a larger issue. Crimes, including sexual assault, committed by service members must be properly reported to all appropriate Federal agencies to protect our service members, their families, and all Americans.” Chairman Turner introduced the BE HEARD Act in May with Congresswoman Tsongas to combat sexual assault in the military. That bill text has been included in the House-passed National Defense Authorization Act. ###
11.01.2017	Congressman Mike Turner (OH-10) wrote today to the President of Fuyao Glass America expressing his deep concern regarding the recent filing by the United Auto Workers seeking to unionize the workforce at the Moraine plant. Congressman Turner wrote: “I write to you today regarding the recent filing by the United Auto Workers (UAW) with the National Labor Relations Board (NLRB) seeking to unionize the workforce at your Moraine facility, the former General Motors (GM) Moraine assembly plant. As you may know, I was raised in a “union” household. My mother was a member of the Ohio Education Association (OEA) and my father was a member of the International Union of Electronic, Electrical, Salaried, Machine and Furniture Workers - Communications Workers of America (IUE-CWA). As an elected official I have also been supportive of many union backed policies. However, I am deeply concerned by the UAW’s recent actions at your Moraine facility. Many in our community remember the Moraine facility was once a thriving GM facility and was shut down because of a deal by GM and the UAW. Thousands of jobs were lost. Why would we trust the UAW with such an important site when they played a role in its prior closure? In addition, attempts were made to demolish the plant. Thankfully, at the request of local Moraine officials, I was able to intervene and prevent this site from being torn down and preserve the opportunity for redevelopment. Fuyao’s decision to invest in the former GM Moraine assembly plant, and our community, has resulted in the transformation of a once abandoned plant into a world class manufacturing facility with over 2000 employees. I believe that as you continue to produce high quality automotive glass for your customers, a direct relationship between you and your employees is vital to your success. Having an intermediary involved could cause harm to you and your employees and prevent future investment and growth in our community. This would also send a negative message to others who may be considering investing here in the Miami Valley. On behalf of the entire Miami Valley, I thank you for deciding to invest here in Dayton, and I look forward to continuing to work with you to ensure success for both you and your employees.” ###
10.26.2017	Congressman Mike Turner (OH-10) released the following statement after President Trump declared the opioid epidemic a public health emergency: “It is important that the Administration today declared the opioid epidemic a public health emergency. This year in Montgomery County alone, 800 deaths are expected of drug overdoses. This is unacceptable. If 800 deaths were expected of Zika, you’d see public outrage, but because this is an addiction issue it hasn’t gotten the attention it's been due. I am committed to continue working with my colleagues to find solutions to increase prevention and treatment for this emergency.” Congressman Turner has been fighting the opioid epidemic in Dayton since 2013: December 18, 2013: Toured Soin Medical Center, where issue of Heroin-Exposed Newborns was raised. March 10, 2014: Met with area hospitals to discuss the growing issue of Heroin-Exposed Newborns. May 15, 2014: Visited Dayton Children’s Hospital NICU to discuss infant heroin exposure and the withdrawal and recovery process. June 30, 2014: Held a Community Forum on the Effects of the Heroin Epidemic on Newborns. August 27, 2014: Visited the Women’s Recovery Center. May 2015: Held Community Summit on Heroin-Exposed Infants. August 21, 2015: Toured Greene County Jail and Green Leaf Alcohol and Drug Treatment Program; met with criminal justice system administrators and substance abuse and mental health leadership. November 18, 2015: Met with ONDCP Director Michael Botticelli and introduced the TREAT Act with Congresswoman Marcia L. Fudge (OH-11) and Congresswoman Niki Tsongas (MA-3). May 12, 2016: The House passed an amendment he cosponsored to increase access to treatment for pregnant women struggling with substance abuse. May 25, 2016: Introduced CRIB Act to help expand access to specialized treatment and recovery options for infants suffering from neonatal abstinence syndrome (NAS), a withdrawal condition in newborns often caused by use of opioids and other addictive substances in pregnant women. August 29, 2016: Hosted a Heroin Epidemic Response Roundtable with Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner (WI-05). October 28, 2016: Hosted a roundtable discussion on the opioid and heroin epidemic in Dayton with Senator Rob Portman (OH). February 2, 2017: Joined the bipartisan Addiction, Treatment, and Recovery Caucus. February 7, 2017: Reintroduced the TREAT Act. May 17, 2017: Reintroduced CRIB Act with Congressman Evan Jenkins (WV-03). August 7, 2017: TREAT Act concept supported by President Donald Trump’s Commission to Combat Drug Addiction and the Opioid Crisis. September 20, 2017: Helped secure funding for the Community Action Commission of Fayette County to help prevent youth substance abuse. September 22, 2017: Spoke at the Payne Theological Seminary Recovery Month Celebration. September 22, 2017: Visited Alkermes with Congressman Steve Stivers (OH-15) to learn about its medical approach to combating the opioid epidemic. September 25, 2017: Held a opioid prevention forum with local leaders and joined Sheriff Plummer in calling for a drug czar. October 5, 2017: Sent a letter with Sheriff Plummer to Phil Parker, President and CEO of the Dayton Area Chamber of Commerce, and Jeff Hoagland, President and CEO of the Dayton Development Coalition, asking for a recommendation in identifying possible candidates for a Dayton Region Drug Czar. October 11, 2017: Testified on TREAT Act and opioid crisis at House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health. ###
10.24.2017	Congressman Mike Turner (OH-10) followed up with a letter to Dayton Mayor Nan Whaley asking for “a detailed plan on actions [the City of Dayton is] taking to address the mismanagement of HOME funds,” including the loss of nearly half a million dollars and almost $4 million that Dayton has not yet provided the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) with the signed and executed agreements required in order for the city to keep the federal funding. Congressman Turner wrote: “Dear Mayor Whaley, My last letter was sent to you based upon my meeting with representatives from the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) relating to their specific concerns about the City of Dayton’s mismanagement of HOME funds. The City of Dayton has been incorrectly assuming that preservation of HOME funds is based upon commitments. It is not. It is based upon the city providing HUD with signed and executed agreements within the two-year statutory deadline. That is why I am writing to you; the City of Dayton continues to fall in non-compliance. City Officials are reporting that the $3.96 million dollars in uncommitted HOME Investment Partnership Program funds have all been committed. Do all of those commitments currently have signed and executed agreements? If so, please provide a copy of each agreement to my office. The City of Dayton’s failure to meet a two-year statutory deadline to provide HUD a signed and executed agreement caused the forfeiture of $476,624 in federal HOME funds. If the City of Dayton is unable to provide HUD with a signed and executed agreement within the two-year statutory deadline, they are at risk of losing the remaining $3.96 million in HOME funds. Furthermore, my first letter addressed the mismanagement and pattern of misidentifying HOME projects in HUD’s Integrated Disbursement and Information System (IDIS), which complicates project tracking and accurate reporting. When I met with representatives from HUD, they informed me that the mismanagement and failure to complete reporting requirements by city officials was not a one-time issue, but in fact an ongoing problem. I am writing to make clear that I am requesting that the City of Dayton provide a detailed plan on actions they are taking to address the mismanagement of HOME funds. These funds are too valuable to waste. Since HUD has raised its concerns with my office, I must ensure that the City of Dayton is taking accurate steps to protect all HOME funds.” ###
10.23.2017	Chairman Mike Turner (OH-10) of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Tactical Air and Land Forces hosted House Armed Services Committee Chairman Mac Thornberry (TX-13) at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base today. “I want to thank Chairman Thornberry for coming to Wright-Patterson Air Force Base to tour the facility and see the work that’s done here that’s critical to the mission of the Air Force,” said Chairman Turner. “I greatly appreciate his leadership in national security issues ranging from acquisition reform to cyber to emerging threats. Chairman Thornberry and I will continue to fight for funding in the National Defense Authorization Act to meet the needs of our men and women in uniform.” “I appreciate Chairman Turner’s invitation to visit Wright-Patterson Air Force Base and get an update on the important role it plays in the readiness of our military,” said Chairman Thornberry. “Mike has been a leader in highlighting the importance of addressing the gaps in our military’s readiness, the need to increase the resources available to our service members to complete their missions, and a strong advocate for the work being done at Wright-Patterson. I enjoyed visiting the base and seeing what they are doing to support the men and women who protect our country.” ###
10.18.2017	Chairman Mike Turner (OH-10) of the House Armed Services Tactical Air and Land Forces Subcommittee joined the Dayton Development Coalition in hosting the second annual Ohio Defense Forum this week. Along with Chairman Turner, bipartisan members of the Ohio congressional delegation joined the Forum to discuss how to best allocate Ohio’s resources to make it competitive going into a possible base realignment and closure (BRAC). “The Ohio Defense Forum is a unique event that brings together government, military, and defense industry officials to ensure Ohio remains central and strong to the mission of the Department of Defense and national security,” said Chairman Turner. “By looking at our resources, the innovation among us, and the research facilities that are here, we can work across the state to ensure that we grow Ohio’s role in defense. It’s important to hear each of what these facilities are doing and their needs. When we work together, we achieve a more efficient and robust national defense system.” “At a time of heightened global security risks and increased strain on our forces after decades of defense cuts, Ohio has a more important role to play in our national security than ever,” saic Congressman Brad Wenstrup (OH-2), who moderated the Understanding and Increasing Military Value Panel yesterday. “I believe that in the coming days, the actions taken – or not taken – to address our military’s readiness crisis will be a defining issue for leadership at all levels of government. I am pleased that so many local, state, and national leaders were able to gather at this week’s defense forum to have conversations about how Ohio can continue to support our national security objectives and provide strategic value. We cannot continue to equip our military to defeat the threats of the previous decade, without making long-term investments in the technologies and capabilities that will prove critical to protecting our future national security.” “The Springfield Ohio National Guard Base located in our district and Wright-Patterson Air Force Base in the greater region both play a critical role in our military capabilities globally,” said Congressman Warren Davidson (OH-8), who moderated the Exploring Defense Industry Adjustment Panel today. “Our region of Ohio is a leader in supporting our national defense capabilities and strong coordination and collaboration with the Department of Defense and all its stakeholders is important.” “As a veteran of over 26 years in the United States Air Force, I know firsthand the importance of a strong national defense,” said Congressman Bill Johnson (OH-6), who moderated the Partnership Strategies and Lessons Learned Panel today. “The Ohio Defense Forum gives us the opportunity to have a conversation about the current state of America’s national security, as to discuss ways to improve military readiness efforts in support of those who have served and are currently serving our country. I will always work to ensure that Ohio remains a prominent national defense hub, and that our military installations such as the Youngstown Air Reserve Station and Wright-Patterson Air Force Base in Dayton have the resources and capabilities necessary to carry out their important missions.” “Ohio is one of the top 10 most populous states, yet we barely rank in the top 20 in military spending,” said Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-9), who sits on the House Defense Appropriations Committee and hosted the Building Innovation through Research Collaboration Panel today. “So how do we turn that around? We do it by working together. It is a high priority of mine to facilitate innovation in the defense sphere for both national security and job security of Ohioans. It requires innovation, trust and most importantly a commitment to each other. Together, we can achieve even greater things in Ohio.” “The Ohio Defense Forum represents an incredible opportunity for our partners throughout the State of Ohio and the country to come together and learn how we can better support Ohio’s military installations,” said Jeff Hoagland, president and CEO of the Dayton Development Coalition. “In the Dayton Region, we understand partnerships. Every day, we work with our business community, military leaders, and local governments to retain our existing missions and look to bring new jobs and opportunities to our region. Those efforts must include our military installations. Wright-Patterson AFB is the largest single site employer in Ohio, providing a $4B economic impact. Finding ways to deepen the connections between the Air Force and our community and allow groundbreaking technologies from military labs to be commercialized represent valuable growth opportunities for our regional and state economy. We’ll be working in the coming months to incorporate what we’ve heard this week into our efforts, and look forward to strengthening the new connections formed here.” ###
10.17.2017	Chairman Mike Turner (OH-10) of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Tactical Air and Land Forces and member of the House Intelligence Committee opened the Dayton Development Coalition’s second annual Ohio Defense Forum today. Congressman Turner delivered the following remarks: “This has been an incredibly important undertaking: the second Ohio Defense Forum. This is an effort, as you all are aware, to place a mark and bring together all of the resources that we have in Ohio that answer the call to serve our national defense and also that are incredibly important to our economy. I want to thank the Dayton Development Coalition for its leadership here, and Jeff Hoagland for seeing the importance of this and helping coordinate this, and I want to thank Ohio State University and in particular thank Dean Dave Williams who, he and I had conversations, several years in the making, that resulted in the call to do this. The Dean was not only aware of the extensive resources that we have throughout the state, but the importance for those resources to be coordinated by his experience elsewhere and his look into this state as to the things that we’re doing. What we know is that scattered throughout Ohio, you have research and development, you have marketing, you have military facilities themselves, you have federal dollars flowing in and out of private enterprises, universities, federal installations, contractor operated installations that government owns such as Lima. You have a myriad of installations that if we look to how we can grow them and how we can coordinate our response to them, have an opportunity to both enhance the importance of what we deliver for national defense, but also enhance the importance of what Ohio does. When I look at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base, and the fact that 47% of all of the Air Force budget goes through Wright-Patterson Air Force Base, I consider every dollar that doesn’t stop at Ohio, that passes through there, leakage. So, with your help we can look at all the facilities that we have, and ways in which we can capture more of the dollars that are travelling through these facilities, and more of the work, and thereby also enhance overall our national security. Now, as Jeff said, I serve on the Armed Services Committee. I previously Chaired, and am still active in, the Strategic Forces Subcommittee, its nuclear weapons, missiles, missile defense, space, military intel. I currently chair Air and Land which has all of the Air Force and Army under its review and I sit on the Intel Committee. What that means is that I have had unbelievable, unique opportunities to see scattered all across our state the different ways that industry, our universities, and our businesses respond to those needs of national security. All the time, I get to learn of new ways that Ohio is responding and what we need to do by pulling our resources together. By highlighting those, by advances the causes of each of those, we can grow what we do in Ohio for national defense. Now, I want to thank your elected officials also who are participating. I thank Rick Perales who is here. But let me tell you that on the congressional side, your congressional delegation understands this issue. So, part of what we need to do in pulling this Ohio Defense Forum together, and thank you for what we are going to see here as the successful second year of this, is an organization that can marry itself to the already statewide view that the congressional delegation has. We have members deployed across many different committees, but still they look to the federal installations, the federal dollars, the national security issues, that are happening in our district and work diligently to address them. Speaking here, we are going to have Brad Wenstrup, who sits with me, both on Armed Services and Intelligence, Bill Johnson, Warren Davidson, and Marcy Kaptur. Each of them are very active in ensuring that Ohio has great representation. And I want to thank also Speaker Rosenberger who’s going to be here, in fact I think he just walked in, who is going to lead one of our delegations. Your elected delegations get that this is important, and that it takes a government response. And with this we are looking to the Ohio Defense Forum to become that forum where government, universities, industry, research and development, can come together to try to tell the story of Ohio, look to what our future can be, and how we can enhance it. I appreciate you being a part of this second Ohio Defense Forum and look to how we can, after this great forum, look to the call of what we can do to help advance national security in Ohio. Thank you.” ###
10.16.2017	Congressman Mike Turner (OH-10) wrote today to Dayton Mayor Nan Whaley to ask for an update on the city’s mismanagement and loss of Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) HOME Investment Partnership Program funds. “As a former Mayor of The City of Dayton, I am well aware of the housing issues facing the community, roughly 35% of which is in poverty,” said Congressman Turner. “It appears that the city has lost nearly half a million dollars that was granted to help Daytonians in need get affordable housing. Additionally, Dayton has nearly $4 million in federal funds that have been granted for the purpose of providing affordable housing, but has not made any plans for that critical money to be used to better our community. This is concerning and needs to be addressed. I look forward to Mayor Whaley’s swift update on her responsibility of HOME funds.” ###
10.13.2017	Chairman Mike Turner (OH-10) of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Tactical Air and Land Forces and member of the House Intelligence Committee released the following statement: “I was opposed to the Iran Nuclear Deal because it has an insufficient inspection regime, insufficiently addresses long range ICBM missile development, and is limited to 10 years, giving the appearance of permission to develop nuclear weapons during the 11th year. However, in my briefings from the International Atomic Energy Agency, it appears that Iran is materially complying with the provisions that require Iran abandon pursuit of the development of nuclear weapons. After the President’s statements today, the international community and Congress must provide sufficient leverage for amending the agreement in ways that could ensure Iran never obtains nuclear weapons.” ###
10.11.2017	Congressman Mike Turner (OH-10) testified today at the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health about how his TREAT Act would curb the opioid crisis. You can watch the full clip by clicking on the video above. “Thank you Chairman Burgess, Ranking Member Green, and members of the Subcommittee. I want to thank you for the opportunity to appear before you today on this important issue. As the Chairman said, I come from Dayton, Ohio. My counties in Ohio are Montgomery, Greene, and Fayette. Despite our community’s efforts to battle the opiate epidemic for years, the epidemic continues to destroy my community and my constituents on a daily basis. This year, current estimates suggest that 800 people could die in my primary county, Montgomery County, due to opiate overdose. Sadly, that would more than double the 371 drug overdose deaths from 2016, the highest number recorded to date. Imagine 800 families receiving notice that someone in their family has died as a result of opioid overdose. Heartbreaking numbers like this have made Montgomery County, Ohio ground zero in the fight against opioid abuse and addiction. Recently, working in conjunction with the county sheriff, I have called for the appointment of a Dayton-area drug czar to help us streamline and coordinate our region’s response to this epidemic. While I worked on the local basis to stem this tide, today I would like to highlight my bill H.R. 982, The Reforming and Expanding Access to Treatment Act, the TREAT Act. As the title suggests, the TREAT Act would increase access to substance abuse treatment by lifting two restrictions that hamstring full deployment of federal resources. Medicaid’s Institutes for Mental Disease (IMD) exclusion states that facilities with more than 16 beds – like jails – are not eligible for reimbursement for substance abuse treatment services furnished to individuals who are incarcerated. Compounding the problem, a Substance Abuse and Mental Health Administration (SAMHSA) policy dating to 1995 limits the use of grants from its Center for Substance Abuse Treatment (CSAT) to only community-based treatment facilities, excluding those who are incarcerated. My TREAT Act offers a common-sense solution that would eliminate these barriers to treatment for individuals who are incarcerated by allowing Medicaid to reimburse for substance abuse treatment services furnished to individuals who are incarcerated. There’s no reason why someone who is Medicaid eligible should lose their benefits the moment they become incarcerated. Lifting the SAMHSA policy that prohibits the use of grant funding for providing substance abuse treatment to individuals who are incarcerated would also assist. Since I first introduced the TREAT Act in November 2015 and then reintroduced it in this Congress, it has garnered a broad spectrum of support from law enforcement to medical providers to local jurisdictions. The President’s Commission on Combating Drug Addiction and the Opioid Crisis’ Interim Report, which was just issued July 31, 2017, strongly endorsed this concept that is in the TREAT Act. The White House Commission called lifting Medicaid’s IMD exclusion the “single fastest way to increase treatment availability across the nation,” noting that “every Governor, numerous treatment providers, parents, and non-profit advocacy organizations” have urged this course of action. Chairman Burgess, Ranking Member Green, and members of the Subcommittee, lives are at stake. This would be an important step to bring treatment to those individuals at a time we have an ability to intervene in their lives.” Congressman Turner has been fighting the opioid epidemic in Dayton since 2013: December 18, 2013: Toured Soin Medical Center, where issue of Heroin-Exposed Newborns was raised. March 10, 2014: Met with area hospitals to discuss the growing issue of Heroin-Exposed Newborns. May 15, 2014: Visited Dayton Children’s Hospital NICU to discuss infant heroin exposure and the withdrawal and recovery process. June 30, 2014: Held a Community Forum on the Effects of the Heroin Epidemic on Newborns. August 27, 2014: Visited the Women’s Recovery Center. May 2015: Held Community Summit on Heroin-Exposed Infants. August 21, 2015: Toured Greene County Jail and Green Leaf Alcohol and Drug Treatment Program; met with criminal justice system administrators and substance abuse and mental health leadership. November 18, 2015: Met with ONDCP Director Michael Botticelli and introduced the TREAT Act with Congresswoman Marcia L. Fudge (OH-11) and Congresswoman Niki Tsongas (MA-3). May 12, 2016: The House passed an amendment he cosponsored to increase access to treatment for pregnant women struggling with substance abuse. May 25, 2016: Introduced CRIB Act to help expand access to specialized treatment and recovery options for infants suffering from neonatal abstinence syndrome (NAS), a withdrawal condition in newborns often caused by use of opioids and other addictive substances in pregnant women. August 29, 2016: Hosted a Heroin Epidemic Response Roundtable with Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner (WI-05). October 28, 2016: Hosted a roundtable discussion on the opioid and heroin epidemic in Dayton with Senator Rob Portman (OH). February 2, 2017: Joined the bipartisan Addiction, Treatment, and Recovery Caucus. February 7, 2017: Reintroduced the TREAT Act. May 17, 2017: Reintroduced CRIB Act with Congressman Evan Jenkins (WV-03). August 7, 2017: TREAT Act concept supported by President Donald Trump’s Commission to Combat Drug Addiction and the Opioid Crisis. September 20, 2017: Helped secure funding for the Community Action Commission of Fayette County to help prevent youth substance abuse. September 22, 2017: Spoke at the Payne Theological Seminary Recovery Month Celebration. September 22, 2017: Visited Alkermes with Congressman Steve Stivers (OH-15) to learn about its medical approach to combating the opioid epidemic. September 25, 2017: Held a opioid prevention forum with local leaders and joined Sheriff Plummer in calling for a drug czar. October 5, 2017: Sent a letter with Sheriff Plummer to Phil Parker, President and CEO of the Dayton Area Chamber of Commerce, and Jeff Hoagland, President and CEO of the Dayton Development Coalition, asking for a recommendation in identifying possible candidates for a Dayton Region Drug Czar. ###
10.05.2017	Congressman Mike Turner (OH-10) and Montgomery County Sheriff Phil Plummer wrote today to Dayton leaders asking for a recommendation in identifying possible candidates for a Dayton Region Drug Czar. The letter was addressed to Phil Parker, President and CEO of the Dayton Area Chamber of Commerce, and Jeff Hoagland, President and CEO of the Dayton Development Coalition. Congressman Turner and Sheriff Plummer write in part: “The opioid epidemic continues to ravage our community with an estimated 800 deaths to occur in Montgomery County alone this year. Local governments, law enforcement agencies, and various organizations have stepped up and focused their individual efforts and services on trying to combat this crisis. Our objective in undertaking this endeavor is to identify someone who can provide the organizational skills and expertise to transform our community response into a collaborative, region-wide, network of addiction services.” “The community is using all resources available to fight this epidemic,” said Congressman Turner. “Still, clearly, what we’ve done has not been enough. Our community has been, up until now, working as many individual efforts without effective communication. The Dayton region needs a drug czar to help us work together and execute a well-organized, coordinated, and planned attack against this epidemic.” “Over the past year to eighteen months we’ve come to really understand that our largely punitive responses to people with substance abuse and mental health disorders is ineffective and costly,” said Sheriff Plummer. “We need a coordinated effort from all service providers in our community to be focused on increasing prevention, treatment, and supporting people in recovery. Our system of care for those with addiction and mental health disorders is inconsistent and lacks a continuum of care that is consistent well-coordinated planned approach to this epidemic.” Congressman Turner has been fighting the opioid epidemic in Dayton since 2013: December 18, 2013: Toured Soin Medical Center, where issue of Heroin-Exposed Newborns was raised. March 10, 2014: Met with area hospitals to discuss the growing issue of Heroin-Exposed Newborns. May 15, 2014: Visited Dayton Children’s Hospital NICU to discuss infant heroin exposure and the withdrawal and recovery process. June 30, 2014: Held a Community Forum on the Effects of the Heroin Epidemic on Newborns. August 27, 2014: Visited the Women’s Recovery Center. May 2015: Held Community Summit on Heroin-Exposed Infants. August 21, 2015: Toured Greene County Jail and Green Leaf Alcohol and Drug Treatment Program; met with criminal justice system administrators and substance abuse and mental health leadership. November 18, 2015: Met with ONDCP Director Michael Botticelli and introduced the TREAT Act with Congresswoman Marcia L. Fudge (OH-11) and Congresswoman Niki Tsongas (MA-3). May 12, 2016: The House passed an amendment he cosponsored to increase access to treatment for pregnant women struggling with substance abuse. May 25, 2016: Introduced CRIB Act to help expand access to specialized treatment and recovery options for infants suffering from neonatal abstinence syndrome (NAS), a withdrawal condition in newborns often caused by use of opioids and other addictive substances in pregnant women. August 29, 2016: Hosted a Heroin Epidemic Response Roundtable with Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner (WI-05). October 28, 2016: Hosted a roundtable discussion on the opioid and heroin epidemic in Dayton with Senator Rob Portman (OH). February 2, 2017: Joined the bipartisan Addiction, Treatment, and Recovery Caucus. February 7, 2017: Reintroduced the TREAT Act. May 17, 2017: Reintroduced CRIB Act with Congressman Evan Jenkins (WV-03). August 7, 2017: TREAT Act concept supported by President Donald Trump’s Commission to Combat Drug Addiction and the Opioid Crisis. September 20, 2017: Helped secure funding for the Community Action Commission of Fayette County to help prevent youth substance abuse. September 22, 2017: Spoke at the Payne Theological Seminary Recovery Month Celebration. September 22, 2017: Visited Alkermes with Congressman Steve Stivers (OH-15) to learn about its medical approach to combating the opioid epidemic. September 25, 2017: Held a opioid prevention forum with local leaders and joined Sheriff Plummer in calling for a drug czar. ###
10.04.2017	Congressman Mike Turner (OH-10) today presented Letter Carrier Donte Cotton of Dayton, Ohio with a Certificate of Congressional Recognition and a Congressional Record of Congressman Turner’s speech on the House floor last week recognizing Mr. Cotton’s acts of heroism on his route. Mr. Cotton is being recognized this week by the National Association of Letter Carriers as one of its Heroes of the Year. “Donte Cotton’s heroism is certainly something to be celebrated,” said Congressman Turner. “I am proud to recognize Donte’s true courage and thank him for his service. It’s heroes like Donte that make our community stronger.” Congressman Turner told the story of Mr. Cotton on the House floor last week: “On April 5, 2016, Letter Carrier Donte Cotton saw an overturned car that had collided with a pole. The driver told Donte her child was inside the car. Acting on immediate instinct, Donte crawled through broken glass to rescue the baby from the car. Both the mother and the child were taken to the hospital and treated for minor injuries. “In August of last year, Donte again found himself in the right place at the right time; again, on his letter carrying route. “While on his normal mail delivery route, an elderly woman, whose home had just been invaded, ran up to Donte seeking help. Donte drove the woman to a nearby police cruiser, ensuring her safety. “His courage is being rewarded this week by the National Association of Letter Carriers, which has given Donte its 2017 Central Area Hero Award. Mr. Speaker, I would like to thank Donte for his acts of true heroism in our community.” "People know that letter carriers represent hard work in public service,” said NALC President Fred Rolando. “Letter carriers deliver for the American people day in and day out, and are an integral part of the finest and most affordable postal service in the world. But we do much more than deliver the nation's mail. We live and work in the communities we serve. Every day, Letter Carriers go out of their way to help the people they serve in a variety ways. Donte’s quick action in rescuing a child and mother from an overturned vehicle represents the daily reality that letter carriers are not only the eyes and ears of communities, they are often heroes in action.” ###
09.27.2017	Chairman Mike Turner (OH-10) of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Tactical Air and Land Forces made the following remarks, as prepared for delivery, at the Subcommittee's hearing on the Army’s tactical network modernization strategy. For testimony and to watch the hearing click here. "The Subcommittee meets today to review the Army’s Tactical Network modernization strategy. I’d like to welcome our witnesses representing the Army: Lieutenant General Bruce T. Crawford, Army Deputy Chief of Staff and Chief Information Officer Major General James J. Mingus, Director, Mission Command Center of Excellence, United States Army Combined Arms Center Mr. Gary Martin , Program Executive Officer for Command, Control and Communications-Tactical We thank you all for your service and look forward to hearing your testimony today. We’re holding this hearing because the Army is proposing a major shift in its tactical network modernization strategy. To begin funding this strategy the Army has indicated they would need to realign funds for fiscal year 2018, over $544.0 million, which would be a major change from their fiscal year 2018 budget request as well as the House passed National Defense Authorization Act. From an oversight perspective, we’ve been down this road before with the tactical network. Since 2008 the Army has restructured its network strategy several times. I recall in 2014 when the Army began a new modernization effort for the tactical network to improve communications called the Simplified Tactical Army Network or Star Net, and identified the network as its number one modernization priority. Over $6.0 billion has been spent on the Warfighter Information Tactical-Network (WIN-T), as well as many billions more on tactical radios and mission command network systems to simplify and improve the network. For at least five years, the Army has come before this committee and defended the need and resources for your current network strategy and Congress has supported those requests. Just 5 months ago, you requested over $400 million in Fiscal Year 2018 for the WIN-T program, and indicated that WIN-T Increment 2 was the foundation of your network modernization strategy and mobile mission command. Now you are asking us to realign almost half a billion dollars from existing programs with only limited details as to what your long term plan is for the network. Given the Army’s previous track record with the network, I am skeptical on whether this proposed new strategy will work as intended. And will we back here 3 years from now discussing another new approach. I understand the change in strategy appears to be driven by two reviews, one internal by the Army and one by the Institute of Defense Analyses. And, that these reviews identified significant operational shortfalls in existing tactical network modernization programs and requirements given current and emerging threats. However, before we agree to anything we need to better understand what the long term plan is for the tactical network. I think we can all agree that our first priority remains the warfighter. If we are going to send soldiers into harms way, their communication devices should never say 'service not available.' Clearly we want to be sure that we are fielding capability that works and equipment that the soldiers will use. So in closing, I want to reiterate two basic questions for which is the primary purpose of this hearing, help us understand why what you are proposing is the right strategy this time and why it is necessary to realign fiscal year 2018 funds after 3 of the 4 defense committees have already been on and off the floor as opposed to waiting for the fiscal year 2019 budget process." ###
09.26.2017	Chairman Mike Turner (OH-10) of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Tactical Air and Land Forces released the following statement after a report that U.S. officials will restrict Russian observation flights: “Allowing Russian spy planes to fly over and photograph our most sensitive military installations puts our country at risk. Just this summer, a Russian spy plane flew over Wright-Patterson Air Force Base. As a member of the House Armed Services Committee, I have heard repeated, yet unsurprising, testimony confirming Russia’s abuse of the Treaty on Open Skies. I look forward to the Administration stopping this practice.” ###
09.22.2017	Congressmen Mike Turner (OH-10) and Steve Stivers (OH-15) visited Alkermes today to learn about its medical approach to combating the opioid epidemic. “Alkermes’s leadership in addressing the opioid epidemic from within the pharmaceutical industry is vital to aiding those struggling with addiction and turning the tide in the battle against opiate abuse,” said Congressman Turner. “Alkermes’s products are being used as tools in treatment and recovery to save lives. I look forward to returning to Washington and continuing to push to cut red tape so more people can access the medical care they need to fight their addictions.” “Addressing the opiate epidemic takes a comprehensive response on all sides of the issue, and companies like Alkermes play an important role in this effort,” said Congressman Stivers. ”I appreciated the opportunity to join Congressman Turner today to learn more about how products made right here in Ohio are making a difference and helping people struggling with addiction. I remain committed to supporting policies in Congress to curb the drug abuse crisis plaguing our communities.” ###
09.20.2017	Today, the Drug-Free Communities (DFC) Support Program, administered by the Office of National Drug Control Policy (ONDCP) and the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA), awarded $125,000 to the Community Action Commission of Fayette County (CACFC) to help prevent youth substance abuse. Congressman Mike Turner (OH-10) wrote a letter of support for CACFC’s grant proposal in March 2017. “Like many communities across the nation, Southwest Ohio has been devastated by the opioid epidemic,” Congressman Turner said. “Today’s grant will allow Fayette County to take stronger action to prevent the spread of addiction in our community. Continued support to prevention organizations such as CACFC remains critical in combating this epidemic. I congratulate CACFC on earning this grant and thank them for their vigilance and efforts to halt substance abuse in our community.” “The Fayette County Prevention Coalition is honored to receive this opportunity to prevent substance misuse in our community,” said Christina Blair, Planner of CACFC and Fayette County Prevention Coalition Chair. “We have an amazing group of dedicated coalition members and with this federal investment, we can begin to effectively implement community level change and save lives. Thank you to every one of our coalition members, youth advisory board members, volunteers, and Congressman Turner’s office for your support over the past year. “We’re losing more than 60,000 people per year to drug overdose, but if we can stop young people from starting to use drugs in the first place, we can save lives,” said Richard Baum, Acting Director of National Drug Control Policy. “Our local DFC coalitions are a key part of this effort because they are bringing together parents groups, schools, healthcare professionals, law enforcement, businesses, and others to prevent drug use and improve the health of the community.” “SAMHSA looks forward to working with its community partners in implementing evidence-based practices to impact the community and help youth,” said Dr. Elinore McCance-Katz, Assistant Secretary for Mental Health and Substance Use. Congressman Turner has been fighting the opioid epidemic in Dayton since 2013: December 18, 2013: Toured Soin Medical Center, where issue of Heroin-Exposed Newborns was raised. March 10, 2014: Met with area hospitals to discuss the growing issue of Heroin-Exposed Newborns. May 15, 2014: Visited Dayton Children’s Hospital NICU to discuss infant heroin exposure and the withdrawal and recovery process. June 30, 2014: Held a Community Forum on the Effects of the Heroin Epidemic on Newborns. August 27, 2014: Visited the Women’s Recovery Center. May 2015: Held Community Summit on Heroin-Exposed Infants. August 21, 2015: Toured Greene County Jail and Green Leaf Alcohol and Drug Treatment Program; met with criminal justice system administrators and substance abuse and mental health leadership. November 18, 2015: Met with ONDCP Director Michael Botticelli and introduced the TREAT Act with Congresswoman Marcia L. Fudge (OH-11) and Congresswoman Niki Tsongas (MA-3). May 12, 2016: The House passed an amendment he cosponsored to increase access to treatment for pregnant women struggling with substance abuse. May 25, 2016: Introduced CRIB Act to help expand access to specialized treatment and recovery options for infants suffering from neonatal abstinence syndrome (NAS), a withdrawal condition in newborns often caused by use of opioids and other addictive substances in pregnant women. August 29, 2016: Hosted a Heroin Epidemic Response Roundtable with Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner (WI-05). October 28, 2016: Hosted a roundtable discussion on the opioid and heroin epidemic in Dayton with Senator Rob Portman (OH). February 2, 2017: Joined the bipartisan Addiction, Treatment, and Recovery Caucus. February 7, 2017: Reintroduced the TREAT Act. May 17, 2017: Reintroduced CRIB Act. August 7, 2017: TREAT Act concept supported by President Donald Trump’s Commission to Combat Drug Addiction and the Opioid Crisis. ###
09.19.2017	Chairman Mike Turner (OH-10) of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Tactical Air and Land Forces and Congressman Jim Banks (IN-03), a member of the House Armed Services Committee, visited Wright-Patterson Air Force Base (WPAFB) today. “I am thankful to Congressman Banks for coming to Dayton to see firsthand the work being done at WPAFB,” said Chairman Turner. “Today’s briefings reinforced that WPAFB plays a critical role in national security. Additionally, our visit reaffirmed that sequestration of defense is taking a real and substantial toll on readiness. Congressman Banks and I will continue to work with the House Armed Services Committee to fight for the funding our men and women in uniform need to keep our country safe.” “Thank you to Congressman Mike Turner for the invitation to visit Wright-Patterson Air Force Base today to see some of the incredible work being accomplished here,” said Congressman Banks. “Visiting NASIC has been particularly eye-opening. Restoring our readiness demands that we are honest about the threats we face and sober minded when developing solutions to defeat them. Thanks to the exceptional team here we are well on our way to identifying those threats and now it is on us as Members of Congress to ensure the resources are provided to properly address them.” ###
09.14.2017	Congressman Mike Turner (OH-10), Co-Chair of the Historic Preservation Caucus, co-sponsored an amendment along with bipartisan members of the caucus, including Congressmen Denny Heck (WA-10), Earl Blumenauer (OR-03), Adam Smith (WA-09), Joe Courtney (CT-02), and Bill Keating (MA-09), to restore $5.5 million in funding to the Historic Preservation Fund. That amendment was included in the final version of the Make America Secure and Prosperous Appropriations Act which passed the House today. “The Historic Preservation Fund is critical to protecting our nation’s cultural identity,” said Congressman Turner. “The appropriations package passed by the House today will provide funds directed to preserving history at national, state, local, and tribunal levels. I am pleased to continue to work with the Caucus to maintain our country’s historic sites.” “For more than 40 years, the Historic Preservation Fund has helped our states and native tribes leverage funds to revitalize communities and create opportunities for economic growth,” said Congressman Heck. “My amendment restores this critical funding to last year’s levels, preserving a small but effective federal program that deserves Congress' continued support.” “Giving communities the tools to preserve their heritage brings people together,” said Congressman Blumenauer. “Funding historic preservation connects communities to who they are and supports efforts to preserve important places for generations to come.” “The Historic Preservation Fund supports grants that help conserve and interpret American history so that future generations are able to learn from our past,” said Congressman Smith. “The Pacific Northwest is home to countless historical sites that help engage our local communities in our collective heritage. These locations preserve the lessons of our country’s fight for civil rights, reflect on the injustice of Japanese American incarceration, and educate the public about our vibrant culture and the incredible diversity of those who call our region home. I am pleased to support funding of the Historic Preservation Fund, and will continue to advocate for programs that increase access to the knowledge that the unique American experience provides.” “It is a mistake to cut funding from an account which helps to create such growth and renewal in communities across the country,” said Congressman Courtney. “I am glad that this bipartisan amendment passed the House, which would restore $5.5 million to the Historic Preservation Fund. Because of the Historic Preservation Fund, states are able to provide grants to revitalize and commemorate vitally important historic buildings and areas. In Connecticut, buildings such as the Florence Griswold Museum Barn in Old Lyme have been renovated because of State Historic Preservation Offices – offices that rely on the important funding from the Historic Preservation Fund.” “The Historic Preservation Fund is critical to ensuring the endurance of local treasures in areas such as New Bedford in my district,” said Congressman Keating. “Preserving significant buildings and community areas is as vital to understanding our history as history books themselves.” ###
08.30.2017	Congressman Turner receives the Spirit of Enterprise Award from the Chamber. Congressman Turner with regional Chamber representatives. Congressman Turner tours Staub Manufacturing with regional Chamber representatives. Congressman Mike Turner (OH-10) today received the Spirit of Enterprise Award from the U.S. Chamber of Commerce for his support for pro-growth policies. “Economic freedom is one of the most important cornerstones our country was built on,” said Congressman Turner. “I am proud to continue to support policies in Washington to preserve that freedom. Thank you to the Chamber for this award.” ###
08.21.2017	Chairman Mike Turner (OH-10) of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Tactical Air and Land Forces released the following statement after President Trump’s announcement on Afghanistan: “President Trump’s announcement this evening makes it even more clear that Congress must act as soon as possible to repeal the sequestration of defense in order to appropriately fund our military. Maintaining a budgetary fiction at odds with the realities of the missions our men and women in uniform are asked to perform is irresponsible. The majority of Republicans in Congress want to repeal defense sequestration. Now is the time to do it.” In May, Congressman Turner gained the support of 140 colleagues pledging to vote to repeal sequestration of national defense. ###
08.18.2017	Congressman Mike Turner (OH-10) released the following statement after presenting area students with a Congressional Medal for their dedication to service throughout their community: “Congratulations to these bright young individuals on their achievements thus far. I am inspired by their hard work and dedication to our community. I look forward to seeing what they accomplish in the future.” About the Congressional Award The Congressional Award Foundation is a public-private partnership created by Congress to promote and recognize service, initiative and achievement in America’s youth. Participants, ages 14 to 23, earn the Award by setting and achieving challenging goals in the four program areas: Voluntary Public Service, Personal Development, Physical Fitness and Expedition/Exploration. Participants follow guidelines established in the Congressional Award Act, Public Law 96-114. Members of the U.S. House of Representatives and U.S. Senate recognize their constituents who earn the Congressional Award Bronze and Silver Medals at local, citywide or statewide ceremonies or presentations. Gold Medals are presented at an annual ceremony in June in Washington, D.C. The National Office serves as a liaison between the medalists and congressional offices. The students who received the award are listed below: Mr. Dhaivat Pandya, Centerville High School, Silver Medalist Ms. Mirisha Sheth, Centerville High School, Silver Medalist ###
08.17.2017	Congressman Mike Turner (OH-10) joins CEO Mark Donaghy on an RTA bus. Congressman Turner and RTA leadership pose in front of an RTA bus. Congressman Mike Turner (OH-10) recently visited the Greater Dayton Regional Transit Authority’s Maintenance Facility. “It was great to visit the RTA to learn about some of the innovative ways it’s making transportation easier, more affordable, and more accessible in the Dayton region,” said Congressman Turner. “Last Congress, I co-sponsored an amendment included in the FAST Act to make RTA eligible to compete for federal infrastructure grants. It is clear RTA is a national leader in bettering its riders’ commutes, and I was glad to be able to help them rightfully compete for federal dollars.” “We appreciate Congressman Turner’s continued support of RTA and the greater transportation network that is so vital to our region’s prosperity,” said RTA CEO Mark Donaghy. “His efforts to support infrastructure investment under the FAST Act will help insure our ability to maintain vital services that connect people to jobs and a better life.” ###
08.15.2017	Congressman Mike Turner (OH-10) visited Miami Valley Hospital last week to thank volunteers cuddling with infants going through opiate withdrawal. “Since I was made aware of this aspect of the opioid crisis, I have introduced the CRIB Act to help cover the cost of care of infants going through withdrawal, specifically ones suffering from neonatal abstinence syndrome (NAS),” said Congressman Turner. “Unfortunately, some of the babies in Miami Valley Hospital’s neonatal intensive care unit (NICU) are suffering with this syndrome due to the use of addictive substances by expecting mothers. I am extremely thankful to the volunteers working every day to ease the discomfort of the most vulnerable victims of this epidemic. I will continue to push for legislation in Congress to end this opioid crisis.” In an effort to provide comfort to these infants, the NICU at Miami Valley Hospital recently launched a volunteer Infant Cuddler Program. “Activities of social interaction support the neurological development and physiologic stability of NAS babies,” said Amy Clayton, RNC-NIC, BSN, clinical nurse educator for Miami Valley Hospital’s NICU. “Creating a compassionate, comforting, safe environment for the infants is the goal.” Congressman Turner has been fighting the opioid epidemic in Dayton since 2013: December 18, 2013: Toured Soin Medical Center, where issue of Heroin-Exposed Newborns was raised. March 10, 2014: Met with area hospitals to discuss the growing issue of Heroin-Exposed Newborns. May 15, 2014: Visited Dayton Children’s Hospital NICU to discuss infant heroin exposure and the withdrawal and recovery process. June 30, 2014: Held a Community Forum on the Effects of the Heroin Epidemic on Newborns. August 27, 2014: Visited the Women’s Recovery Center. May 2015: Held Community Summit on Heroin-Exposed Infants. August 21, 2015: Toured Greene County Jail and Green Leaf Alcohol and Drug Treatment Program; met with criminal justice system administrators and substance abuse and mental health leadership. November 18, 2015: Met with ONDCP Director Michael Botticelli and introduced the TREAT Act with Congresswoman Marcia L. Fudge (OH-11) and Congresswoman Niki Tsongas (MA-3). May 12, 2016: The House passed an amendment he cosponsored to increase access to treatment for pregnant women struggling with substance abuse. May 25, 2016: Introduced CRIB Act to help expand access to specialized treatment and recovery options for infants suffering from neonatal abstinence syndrome (NAS), a withdrawal condition in newborns often caused by use of opioids and other addictive substances in pregnant women. August 29, 2016: Hosted a Heroin Epidemic Response Roundtable with Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner (WI-05). October 28, 2016: Hosted a roundtable discussion on the opioid and heroin epidemic in Dayton with Senator Rob Portman (OH). February 2, 2017: Joined the bipartisan Addiction, Treatment, and Recovery Caucus. February 7, 2017: Reintroduced the TREAT Act. May 17, 2017: Reintroduced CRIB Act. July 31, 2017: President’s Commission to Combat Drug Addiction and the Opioid Crisis supported the concept behind Congressman Turner’s TREAT Act. ###
08.08.2017	Chairman Mike Turner (OH-10) of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Tactical Air and Land Forces released the following statement following a report that North Korea is producing missile-ready nuclear weapons: “China has to step up to the plate and take a firm stance that North Korea’s missile and nuclear weapons programs are unacceptable. The threat North Korea poses to global stability grows daily under its erratic regime. China must be responsible for bringing North Korea to the table with the international community to discuss a de-escalation and surrender of its advanced weapons capabilities.” ###
08.07.2017	Congressman Mike Turner (OH-10) released the following statement after the Commission to Combat Drug Addiction and the Opioid Crisis recommended that President Donald Trump grant a waiver to the states to eliminate barriers to substance abuse treatment caused by the federal Institutes for Mental Diseases (IMD) exclusion within the Medicaid program: “This issue was brought to my attention two years ago when I toured the Greene County Jail, where Medicaid-eligible individuals are unable to receive substance abuse treatment due to this exclusion. Since then, I have been pushing with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to cut red tape and treat as many addicted people in our country as possible. My TREAT Act would, as the Commission recommended, increase flexibility in how existing federal funding can be used to combat the opioid epidemic. Our nation is in crisis due to this epidemic. I strongly urge passage of this legislation to help treat those suffering from addiction.” The Commission called lifting the IMD exclusion, which has been part of Congressman Turner’s solution through the TREAT Act since November 2015, “the single fastest way to increase treatment availability across the nation.” According to the Commission’s Interim Report, “every Governor, numerous treatment providers, parents, and non-profit advocacy organizations” has urged this course of action in an effort to combat the opioid epidemic. Areas of Impact Under Medicaid’s Institution for Mental Disease (IMD) exclusion, facilities with more than sixteen beds are not eligible for reimbursement, including jails. Therefore, individuals who could otherwise be enrolled in Medicaid are ineligible for substance abuse treatment reimbursement while incarcerated. Under Congressman Turner’s legislation, substance abuse treatment provided at correctional institutions would become eligible for reimbursement. Additionally, the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA) prohibits the use of grants from its Center for Substance Abuse Treatment (CSAT) for substance abuse treatment services provided to individuals who are incarcerated. The TREAT Act would make these resources available to individuals in both community-based and institutional settings. In the 114th Congress, the TREAT Act gained support from the following organizations: Ohio HIDTA Buckeye Sheriffs Association Greene County Prosecutor Greene County Board of Commissioners Greater Miami Valley Emergency Medical Services Council County Commissioners Association of Ohio NACo CorJus, Inc. (representing ten of Ohio’s publicly operated Community Correctional Facilities) Miami Township Board of Trustees City of Dayton Congressman Turner has been fighting the opioid epidemic in Dayton since 2013: December 18, 2013: Toured Soin Medical Center, where issue of Heroin-Exposed Newborns was raised. March 10, 2014: Met with area hospitals to discuss the growing issue of Heroin-Exposed Newborns. May 15, 2014: Visited Dayton Children’s Hospital NICU to discuss infant heroin exposure and the withdrawal and recovery process. June 30, 2014: Held a Community Forum on the Effects of the Heroin Epidemic on Newborns. August 27, 2014: Visited the Women’s Recovery Center. May 2015: Held Community Summit on Heroin-Exposed Infants. August 21, 2015: Toured Greene County Jail and Green Leaf Alcohol and Drug Treatment Program; met with criminal justice system administrators and substance abuse and mental health leadership. November 18, 2015: Met with ONDCP Director Michael Botticelli and introduced the TREAT Act with Congresswoman Marcia L. Fudge (OH-11) and Congresswoman Niki Tsongas (MA-3). May 12, 2016: The House passed an amendment he cosponsored to increase access to treatment for pregnant women struggling with substance abuse. May 25, 2016: Introduced CRIB Act to help expand access to specialized treatment and recovery options for infants suffering from neonatal abstinence syndrome (NAS), a withdrawal condition in newborns often caused by use of opioids and other addictive substances in pregnant women. August 29, 2016: Hosted a Heroin Epidemic Response Roundtable with Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner (WI-05). October 28, 2016: Hosted a roundtable discussion on the opioid and heroin epidemic in Dayton with Senator Rob Portman (OH). February 2, 2017: Joined the bipartisan Addiction, Treatment, and Recovery Caucus. February 7, 2017: Reintroduced the TREAT Act. May 17, 2017: Reintroduced CRIB Act. ###
07.28.2017	Chairman Mike Turner (OH-10) of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Tactical Air and Land Forces and of the U.S. Delegation to NATO released the following statement after North Korea tested another intercontinental ballistic missile (ICBM): “North Korea continues to prove it is a danger to the United States. These missile tests must be met with consequences. Earlier this week, I voted to increase sanctions against North Korea. The Senate has since taken the same action. I urge the President to quickly sign these sanctions into law to thwart further escalation of North Korea’s missile systems.” ###
07.20.2017	Congressman Mike Turner (OH-10) released the following statement: “I am deeply saddened to hear of the passing of my former colleague, Congressman Ralph Regula. Congressman Regula worked diligently for Ohio, including securing funding for the development of the Victor J. Cassano Health Center in Dayton. It was a privilege to serve with him. My prayers are with his loved ones at this time.” ###
07.20.2017	Chairman Mike Turner (OH-10) of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Tactical Air and Land Forces released the following statement: "I have had the privilege of working and traveling overseas with Senator John McCain to strengthen our Armed Forces. He has not only been a hero for our country but also a mentor to me. I have no doubt that Senator McCain will tackle this diagnosis with his decided courage and strength. My thoughts and prayers are with the Senator and his family." ###
07.18.2017	Congressman Mike Turner (OH-10) included language in the House-passed National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018 to keep the headquarters of the National Aviation Hall of Fame (NAHF) in Ohio. Congressman Turner released the following statement: “Dayton leaders founded the National Aviation Hall of Fame in the early 1960s. NAHF leadership has repeatedly threatened to take the organization outside of Ohio. I take that threat seriously, which is why I’ve included language in the House-passed National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018 ensuring the NAHF must remain in Ohio to keep its congressional charter. “The NAHF leadership’s mismanagement is the primary driver behind the organization’s financial failures--failures its leadership is working diligently to keep hidden. The NAHF is still refusing to provide all of the requested documents to our Blue Ribbon Panel, which I convened for the purposes of making recommendations to establish long-term financial viability for the NAHF in Dayton. “Based on what has been provided to the Panel at this time, it is clear the current leadership of the NAHF has failed. The Hall has reported annual net losses in excess of $140,000 for the past 13 fiscal years in a row, punctuated by recent losses of $340,939 in 2012 and $185,054 in 2015. NAHF has lost money annually since 2001. The financial disarray the NAHF leadership has wreaked is truly staggering. “I look forward to the conclusions reached by the Blue Ribbon Panel throughout their meetings this summer to put the NAHF back on track toward financial sustainability.” On January 25th, Congressman Turner sent a letter to the Chairman of the Board of Trustees of the National Aviation Hall of Fame stating he will investigate the Congressionally Chartered organization after receiving troubling information concerning their finances. On January 30th, Congressman Turner received support from two National Aviation Hall of Fame Trustees Katie McCallum and Donald I. VanDerKarr after announcing his plans to investigate the NAHF. On February 1st, Congressman Turner sent a letter to Chairman of the Board of Trustees Bill Harris alerting him that the NAHF must cease and desist all deliberations, efforts or activities that relate to selling or disposing of artifacts in the NAHF’s possession. On February 6th, Congressman Turner announced Phil Parker President and CEO of the Dayton Area Chamber of Commerce, Jeff Hoagland, President and CEO of the Dayton Development Coalition and Brady Kress, President and CEO of Dayton History will be tasked with forming a Blue Ribbon Panel to create a sustainable plan for the NAHF’s future. On February 6th, both Senator Rob Portman and the Chairman of the Natural Resources Committee Rob Bishop (UT-01) expressed their support of the investigation and the Blue Ribbon Panel. On February 14th, NAHF President Michael J. Quiello said in an interview with Dayton Daily News that the NAHF could “vote to pick up the Hall of Fame and move it to some other city that’s welcoming to us.” On February 15th, Congressman Turner sent a letter informing Bill Harris, Chairman of the NAHF Board of Trustees, that he was drafting legislation to terminate the congressional charter of the NAHF. Congressman Turner is exercising his oversight authority to investigate these allegations concerning the congressionally chartered organization. ###
07.18.2017	Chairman Mike Turner (OH-10) of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Tactical Air and Land Forces released the following statement following President Donald Trump’s recertification of the Iran Nuclear Deal: “Iran is one of America’s most dangerous adversaries, causing instability through its support of terrorism in the region. The threat Iran poses has not dissipated. Iran remains openly hostile to Israel, one of the U.S.’s strongest allies. As House Armed Services Subcommittee Chairman and a member of the House Intelligence Committee, I remain concerned about Iran’s ballistic missile development and proliferation and believe the Trump Administration must hold Iran accountable to all aspects of this agreement.” ###
07.14.2017	Chairman Mike Turner (OH-10) of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Tactical Air and Land Forces released the following statement after the House of Representatives passed the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018: “The FY18 NDAA provides the necessary funding for our armed forces to combat the most complex and unpredictable threats in our history. Lack of funding has left our troops with significant capability and capacity challenges. My colleagues and I have fought hard to make sure our men and women in uniform get the funding they need to rebuild our military after sequestration’s devastating cuts.” BE HEARD Act Included in NDAA Chairman Turner and Ranking Member Niki Tsongas (MA-03), co-chairs of the Military Sexual Assault Caucus, were able to include their BE HEARD Act as part of the NDAA. Inclusion of this language in the NDAA makes it easier for survivors of military sexual assault to BE HEARD by: Expanding specialized training for military Special Victims’ Counsel (SVCs); Allowing the military’s highest court to hear the appeals of sexual assault survivors on decisions while a trial is ongoing; and Permitting military judges to appoint legal representatives for sexual assault survivors who are minors or who are otherwise incapable of representing themselves before charges are filed against a reported perpetrator. Minimum Confinement Period to Combat Military Sexual Assault The NDAA includes Chairman Turner’s amendment to establish a minimum confinement period of two years for members of the Armed Forces convicted of sex-related offenses. Evan’s Law Included in NDAA Chairman Turner’s Evan’s Law was included as part of the NDAA. Evan’s Law requires the Department of Defense (DoD) to implement military residential window safety measures to protect against unintentional falls by young children. Child Custody Protection Chairman Turner included language in this year’s NDAA that requires the Secretary of Defense to brief the House Armed Services Committee on the information and resources currently provided to service members regarding State child custody laws, including an analysis of how best to standardize distribution of this information to affected service members. NATO Chairman Turner included language in this year’s NDAA that recognizes the role NATO defense industries have played in weapon systems programs through partnerships and supply chain activities. It also directs the Secretary of Defense to provide a briefing on joint weapon system development and coordination and interoperability efforts with NATO members and defense industries. Chairman Turner also included an amendment to this year’s NDAA that indicated a sense of Congress that NATO should: Implement plans to ensure sufficient investment in defense; Identify and address security threats; Bolster deterrence efforts in Eastern Europe; Seek a Dayton II agreement to resolve the constitutional issues faced by Bosnia Herzegovina; and Prepare other countries for NATO membership. Wright-Patterson Air Force Base (WPAFB) Funding in NDAA This year’s NDAA authorized funding for WPAFB to provide commercial off-the-shelf equipment and technologies such as civil engineers construction, surveying, and mapping equipment commonly used in U.S. commercial construction and other industries. Air Force Research Laboratory (AFRL) Funding in NDAA Chairman Turner included language in the NDAA to allow AFRL to assume oversight and management of the Hypersonic Airbreathing Weapons Concept. AFRL will be tasked with: Developing a reusable hypersonics test bed to further probe the high speed flight corridor; Facilitating the testing and development of hypersonic airbreathing weapon systems; Exploring emerging concepts and technologies for reusable hypersonics weapons systems beyond current hypersonics programs, focused on experimental flight test capabilities; and Developing defensive technologies and countermeasures against potential and identified hypersonic threats. AFRL was also authorized funding for research on threats to military readiness and human safety imposed by hypoxia. AFRL will look to: Define causes of the variability in physiologic response to oxygen deprivation that exists among humans; Characterize operational traits of life-supporting systems within current and proposed platforms and the efficacy of those systems in extreme conditions; and Enhance en-route care, which frequently involves exposing both the patient and clinician to conditions of low environmental oxygen. AFRL’s partnership with DoD and the Federal Aviation Administration is furthered in this NDAA to support Unmanned Air Systems (UAS) operations. This work will assist in the development of standards, policies, and procedures for UAS capabilities and employment. The NDAA also authorizes AFRL to help develop the ability to deploy unmanned aerial vehicles with sensors to autonomously detect and track chemical, biological, radiological, and nuclear (CBRN) threats. This would mitigate the risk involved in sending a person into a possibly contaminated environment to confirm if a chemical weapon had been used. Chairman Turner was also able to secure funding for AFRL’s Technology Transition Program. This funding will allow for cost-matched investment in: Research; Development; System performance modeling and simulation; Additive manufacturing; Demonstrations; and Rapid evaluation of system-of-systems prototypes. United States Air Force Institute of Technology (AFIT) Chairman Turner included language in the NDAA to expand AFIT enrollment authority to include civilian employees of the homeland security industry. ###
07.05.2017	Chairman Mike Turner (OH-10) of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Tactical Air and Land Forces and of the U.S. Delegation to NATO released the following statement after North Korea tested an intercontinental ballistic missile (ICBM): “North Korea’s ICBM test re-affirms the need to strengthen and expand America’s missile defense systems and military readiness. We continue to face unpredictable and dangerous threats and I am hopeful that Congress will quickly pass a National Defense Authorization Act that provides our troops the resources they need to address these complex global threats.” ###
06.29.2017	Chairman Mike Turner (OH-10) of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Tactical Air and Land Forces released the following statement after the House Armed Services Committee marked up the FY 2018 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA): “I am proud to see the NDAA for FY18 pass out of committee to give the people protecting us what they need to combat the most complex threats in global history. Sequestration has devastated our readiness. Lack of funding has left our troops with shortfalls in training, functioning equipment, and ammunition. My colleagues and I have fought hard to make sure our men and women in uniform get what they need from the NDAA for FY18 to rebuild the military after the Obama Administration’s harmful cuts to it.” BE HEARD Act Included in NDAA Chairman Turner and Ranking Member Niki Tsongas (MA-03), co-chairs of the Military Sexual Assault Caucus, were able to include their BE HEARD Act as part of the NDAA. Inclusion of this language in the NDAA makes it easier for survivors of military sexual assault to BE HEARD by: Expanding specialized training for military Special Victims’ Counsel (SVCs); Allowing the military’s highest court to hear the appeals of sexual assault survivors on decisions while a trial is ongoing; and Permitting military judges to appoint legal representatives for sexual assault survivors who are minors or who are otherwise incapable of representing themselves before charges are filed against a reported perpetrator. Minimum Confinement Period to Combat Military Sexual Assault The NDAA includes Chairman Turner’s amendment to establish a minimum confinement period of two years for members of the Armed Forces convicted of sex-related offenses. Evan’s Law Included in NDAA Chairman Turner’s Evan’s Law was included as part of the NDAA. Evan’s Law requires the Department of Defense (DoD) to implement military residential window safety measures to protect against unintentional falls by young children. Child Custody Protection Chairman Turner included language in this year’s NDAA that requires the Secretary of Defense to brief the House Armed Services Committee on the information and resources currently provided to service members regarding State child custody laws, including an analysis of how best to standardize distribution of this information to affected service members. NATO Chairman Turner included language in this year’s NDAA that recognizes the role NATO defense industries have played in weapon systems programs through partnerships and supply chain activities. It also directs the Secretary of Defense to provide a briefing on joint weapon system development and coordination and interoperability efforts with NATO members and defense industries. Wright-Patterson Air Force Base (WPAFB) Funding in NDAA This year’s NDAA authorized funding for WPAFB to provide commercial off-the-shelf equipment and technologies such as civil engineers construction, surveying, and mapping equipment commonly used in U.S. commercial construction and other industries. Air Force Research Laboratory (AFRL) Funding in NDAA Chairman Turner included language in the NDAA to allow AFRL to assume oversight and management of the Hypersonic Airbreathing Weapons Concept. AFRL will be tasked with: Developing a reusable hypersonics test bed to further probe the high speed flight corridor; Facilitating the testing and development of hypersonic airbreathing weapon systems; Exploring emerging concepts and technologies for reusable hypersonics weapons systems beyond current hypersonics programs, focused on experimental flight test capabilities; and Developing defensive technologies and countermeasures against potential and identified hypersonic threats. AFRL was also authorized funding for research on threats to military readiness and human safety imposed by hypoxia. AFRL will look to: Define causes of the variability in physiologic response to oxygen deprivation that exists among humans; Characterize operational traits of life-supporting systems within current and proposed platforms and the efficacy of those systems in extreme conditions; and Enhance en-route care, which frequently involves exposing both the patient and clinician to conditions of low environmental oxygen. AFRL’s partnership with DoD and the Federal Aviation Administration is furthered in this NDAA to support Unmanned Air Systems (UAS) operations. This work will assist in the development of standards, policies, and procedures for UAS capabilities and employment. The NDAA also authorizes AFRL to help develop the ability to deploy unmanned aerial vehicles with sensors to autonomously detect and track chemical, biological, radiological, and nuclear (CBRN) threats. This would mitigate the risk involved in sending a person into a possibly contaminated environment to confirm if a chemical weapon had been used. Chairman Turner was also able to secure funding for AFRL’s Technology Transition Program. This funding will allow for cost-matched investment in: Research; Development; System performance modeling and simulation; Additive manufacturing; Demonstrations; and Rapid evaluation of system-of-systems prototypes. United States Air Force Institute of Technology (AFIT) Chairman Turner included language in the NDAA to expand AFIT enrollment authority to include civilian employees of the homeland security industry. ###
06.23.2017	Congressman Mike Turner (OH-10) introduced Evan's Law today to require the Department of Defense to implement military residential window safety requirements to protect against unintentional falls by young children. Commander Jason English and his wife Ami, who lost their son Evan in an accidental fall from a window while living in military residential housing, were in the House gallery with their children as Congressman Turner gave an emotional speech asking for his colleagues’ support of this bill. “Sometimes out of loss, a cause arises and the lives of others are saved,” said Congressman Turner during his speech on the House floor. ###
06.19.2017	Congressman Mike Turner (OH-10) released the following statement on the passing of Otto Warmbier: "I am deeply saddened to hear of Otto Warmbier's passing. Otto was a young man with a bright future. His life was taken too soon by the abusive and repressive regime in North Korea, a threat to our country we will continue to fight. Otto's family remains in my thoughts and prayers, as they have been throughout this harrowing journey." ###
06.14.2017	Congressman Mike Turner (OH-10) released the following statement: "As details of this shooting continue to unfold, my thoughts and prayers are with Rep. Scalise, the Capitol Police Officers wounded and those affected by this criminal attack. I would like to thank the Capitol Police and local law enforcement for their swift response." ###
06.12.2017	Chairman Mike Turner (OH-10) of the House Armed Services Tactical Air and Land Forces questioned Secretary of Defense James Mattis about President Donald Trump’s proposed budget’s effects on readiness ahead of the National Defense Authorization Act of 2018. ###
06.07.2017	Today, Chairman Mike Turner (OH-10) of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Tactical Air and Land Forces made the following opening remarks as prepared for delivery during a hearing about the shortfalls in military aviation modernization that will result from President Donald Trump’s budget for fiscal year 2018: "The subcommittee meets today to review the Navy, Marine Corps, and Air Force aviation investment and modernization budget requests for fiscal year 2018. I would like to welcome our distinguished panel of witnesses: • Vice Admiral Paul Grosklags, Commander of the Naval Air Systems Command; • Rear Admiral 'Chip' Miller, Director of the Navy’s Air Warfare Division; • Lieutenant General Arnold Bunch, Military Deputy in the Office of the Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Acquisition; • Lieutenant General Jerry Harris, Air Force Deputy Chief of Staff for Plans, Programs, and Requirements; and, • Lieutenant General Jon Davis, Deputy Commandant of the Marine Corps for Aviation. I understand this will be General Davis’s final appearance before the committee because he will be retiring next month. General Davis, we thank you for your 37 years of distinguished service to the Marine Corps and our Nation, and wish you the best in your future plans. I thank all of you for your service and look forward to your testimony today. As I have stated at previous hearings, I support the President’s commitment to rebuilding the capacity and capability of our military. However, I am concerned that the current budget request of $603 billion for the Department of Defense will not achieve that goal in the timeline desired and needed. For example, at Congress’ request, the military services submitted their unfunded requirements lists to the congressional defense committees last week. The total amount was over $30.0 billion dollars. A significant portion of these requests were related to modernization needs. Of particular note, the Air Force included an additional 14 F-35A aircraft, and the Navy and Marine Corps included 20 additional aircraft comprised of F-18 Super Hornets, F-35Bs and F-35Cs. I suspect all of our witnesses today will support the President’s budget request. However, Members of this subcommittee need to better understand what additional capabilities are required above the President’s budget request, and why it is imperative we work to fully resource these unfunded requirements to accelerate the restoration of full-spectrum readiness. I continue to support Chairman Thornberry and Chairman McCain who believe that a $640 billion dollar budget in fiscal year 2018 is required to build the capability needed for today’s complex and dangerous world. The military services unfunded requirements also validate a higher topline funding level. Today the subcommittee will review a broad portfolio of tactical aviation modernization programs and associated acquisition strategies. The witnesses have been asked to identify their top five modernization requirements and briefly summarize how the budget request addresses them. The aviation budgets for the Navy, Marine Corps and Air Force appear to be placing a higher priority on current readiness—and rightfully so. Earlier this year, we heard the Vice Chief of Naval Operations report that over 60 percent of F-18s are out of service due to backlogs in depot repair. This budget fully funds depot capacity. This budget also robustly funds preferred aviation munitions such as the Joint Direct Attack Munition, Small Diameter Bombs, and Hellfire missiles—a much needed increase especially for the on-going combat operations in the U.S. Central Command’s area of responsibility. However, the Navy continues to absorb significant risk in its management of the strike fighter inventory. The Navy is challenged to replace legacy F-18C, D, and AV-8B aircraft that have reached the end of their service-life before they can be replaced by new F-35s or new F-18 Super Hornet aircraft. Each year, the Navy flies about 180,000 flying hours in its F-18 fleet which equates to the entire fleet expending 24 to 36 aircraft worth of service-life per year. The Navy’s fiscal year 2018 budget request includes the procurement of 38 F-18 Super Hornets and F-35s, so the Navy is only slightly above its annual expenditure of fighter aircraft life. There are two less Navy F-35Cs in the budget request than were projected last year, and the future years defense program for fiscal year 2018 reduces the planned F-35C procurement by seven aircraft. The Air Force currently has a fleet of 55 combat-coded fighter squadrons, significantly smaller than the Desert Storm force of 134 fighter squadrons. We have heard testimony from senior Air Force leaders that with the current demand for rotational fighter presence, 55 combat fighter squadrons does not allow sufficient time to train pilots or maintain aircraft, which contributes to degraded full spectrum readiness. The 55 combat squadron level meets the minimum requirements set forth in current Defense Planning Guidance, but the Air Force considers it to be high risk in more challenging scenarios. The Air Force has stated that in order to meet current steady-state demands and maintain readiness to meet most surge requirements, the Air Force needs to grow to at least 60 combat fighter squadrons, invest in munitions, modernize existing platforms, and increase participation in advanced training opportunities. The fiscal year 2018 budget request includes 46 F-35As for the Air Force and that number is two more than planned last year for this budget request. However, I would also note that two years ago, the Air Force planned to procure 60 F-35As in fiscal year 2018. In testimony before this committee last July, Air Force General 'Hawk' Carlisle, the former Commander of Air Combat Command, testified that to address the Air Force’s capability and capacity shortfalls, the desired production rate is 60 F-35s per year. The committee is also pleased to see the Air Force reverse its decision to retire the U-2 in 2019 and provide funding to maintain both the U-2 and Global Hawk platforms to meet high-altitude airborne intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance demands of our combatant commanders. However, all of the services represented today need to take a hard look at their investment strategies in airborne ISR capacity because a significant portion of combatant commander’s requirements are still unmet in many of the intelligence disciplines. As the committee continues its deliberation on the fiscal year 2018 budget request, we will look for opportunities to further address the Services’ most pressing modernization requirements." ##
05.25.2017	Today, Congressman Mike Turner (OH-10) and Congresswoman Niki Tsongas (MA-3), Co-Chairs of the Military Sexual Assault Prevention Caucus, introduced the BE HEARD Act, new legislation that continues the lawmakers’ bipartisan effort to combat sexual assault in the military. The Building an Environment for Helpful, Effective, and Accessible Representation and Decision-making (BE HEARD) Act would make it easier for survivors to have their voices heard by expanding specialized training for military Special Victims’ Counsel (SVCs), provide military sexual assault survivors with better access to federal appellate courts to protect their procedural rights, and ensure that the most vulnerable sexual assault survivors have someone to represent their legal interests throughout the military justice process. “Sexual assault in the military is unacceptable,” said Congressman Turner. “I am proud to continue my bipartisan work with Congresswoman Tsongas to fight this injustice by introducing the BE HEARD Act today. BE HEARD will require Special Victims Counsel to undergo specialized training to better understand how survivors cope with the trauma of military sexual assault. BE HEARD also explicitly reinforces survivors’ rights throughout the judicial process, expanding access to the military’s highest court and ensuring timely legal representation while also improving protections for individuals who cannot represent themselves.” “BE HEARD will help amplify the voices of sexual assault survivors so that they receive the services and representation they deserve,” said Congresswoman Tsongas. “In addition to bolstering the critical work of the Special Victims Counsel program, this bill improves the ability of survivors to be heard in appeals and improves representation for child victims of sexual assault. The BE HEARD Act takes important steps to correct deficiencies in the military justice system. I thank Rep. Turner for his utmost dedication to this cause and for his longstanding partnership, and I look forward to our continued work together.” Protect Our Defenders, a national organization aimed at ending military sexual assault, supports the BE HEARD Act: “Last year, the Court of Appeals for the Armed Services (CAAF) slammed the door shut on survivors seeking protection of their rights during the court-martial process by finding that it lacked jurisdiction to review a survivor's challenge to a trial judge's order that violated a protected privacy interest. This erroneous interpretation ignored the intent of Congress in granting victims' explicit rights, and effectively denied survivors access to the court going forward in order to enforce their rights and prevent abuse,” said Colonel Don Christensen, Former Air Force Chief Prosecutor and President of Protect Our Defenders. “The BE HEARD Act reverses this barrier to justice by explicitly giving CAAF jurisdiction of survivor appeals of trial court rulings that violate their rights. The Act ensures survivors have access to the nation's highest military court, and gives survivors the ability to protect their rights at every step in the military criminal system.” Specifically, the BE HEARD Act: Requires that SVCs receive specialized training on how men are impacted by sexual assault; Allows the military’s highest court to hear the appeals of sexual assault survivors on decisions while a trial is ongoing; and Permits military judges to appoint legal representatives for sexual assault survivors who are minors or who are otherwise incapable of representing themselves before charges are filed against a reported perpetrator. ###
05.23.2017	Chairman Mike Turner (OH-10) of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Tactical Air and Land Forces released the following statement regarding the Trump Administration’s Fiscal Year 2018 budget proposal: “Today the Trump Administration released its budget request of $603 billion for the Department of Defense. While I support President Trump’s commitment and intent to rebuild the military, this budget request will not be enough to do what he has said is needed to improve military capabilities and readiness. After years of underfunding and failed assumptions by the Obama Administration, these increases aren’t enough to begin the process to reverse the damage that has been done to our military. “I support Chairman Mac Thornberry and Chairman John McCain’s statements calling for a $640 billion budget for the Department of Defense. This will allow our military to build the capability needed for today’s dangerous world.” ###
05.23.2017	Congressman Mike Turner (OH-10), a member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, questioned Former CIA Director John Brennan today about collusion. The full transcript can be found here. ###
05.22.2017	Congressman Turner with service academy appointees. Today, Congressman Mike Turner (OH-10) announced the 6 students from his district who have been nominated to attend the U.S. Service Academies. “Every year, bright young patriots volunteer to serve their country. I am proud to recognize these six students who will be attending service academies next year and representing Ohio with pride,” said Congressman Turner. In order for a student to be considered for a military academy appointment, he or she must be recommended by an authorized nominating source. This could include the President, Vice President, a Member of the Senate or a Member of the House of Representatives. Receiving a nomination is only the first step in the process of receiving an offer of appointment to a U.S. military service academy. Students must qualify academically and are subject to character, leadership physical fitness, medical fitness and motivation evaluations. To attend the United States Air Force Academy: Abigail Arestides (Beavercreek, OH) Caleb Boone (Beavercreek, OH) Kyle Roshong (Dayton, OH) To attend the United States Naval Academy: Holden Rushing (Kettering, OH) Kasen Stephensen (Bellbrook, OH) To attend the United States Military Academy: Marie Docken (Kettering, OH) ###
05.19.2017	Congressman Mike Turner (OH-10) released the following statement: “After serving on the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform for 14 years as a member and subcommittee chairman, I am proud to support my good friend, Congressman Trey Gowdy, for the chairmanship of this distinguished committee. Trey understands the committee has two equally important mandates: Government Reform and Oversight. I know that he will work for effective government reform while conducting credible oversight. I look forward to working with Congressman Gowdy to make sure that government is working for the people it serves.” ###
05.17.2017	Congressmen Mike Turner (OH-10) and Evan Jenkins (WV-3) re-introduced the bipartisan CRIB Act today, the House companion bill to Senator Sherrod Brown (OH) and Rob Portman (OH)’s bill, to help cover the treatment costs of neonatal abstinence syndrome (NAS), a withdrawal condition in newborns caused by use of addictive substances by expecting mothers. “We must fight for the most vulnerable victims of the opioid epidemic: newborns who through no fault of their own are brought into this world already addicted to drugs,” said Congressman Turner. “This bill will aid organizations that provide medical care for innocent drug-exposed newborns. Specifically, it will allow Medicaid to be used to reimburse medical facilities outside of hospitals that provide newborns with this important care. We are going to continue to fight for funding to address this issue of the heroin epidemic.” “Suffering through withdrawal from exposure to heroin and other opioids is a horrific way to start one’s life, but that’s the reality for many newborns in West Virginia and across the country. These newborns need specialized care to help them recover from drug exposure before they were even born,” Congressman Jenkins said. “We can work together to cut red tape, fight the drug crisis, and ensure healthy lives for babies and children across our country.” Congressman Turner has been fighting the opioid epidemic in Dayton since 2013: December 18, 2013: Toured Soin Medical Center, where issue of Heroin-Exposed Newborns was raised. March 10, 2014: Met with area hospitals to discuss the growing issue of Heroin-Exposed Newborns. May 15, 2014: Visited Dayton Children’s Hospital NICU to discuss infant heroin exposure and the withdrawal and recovery process. June 30, 2014: Held a Community Forum on the Effects of the Heroin Epidemic on Newborns. August 27, 2014: Visited the Women’s Recovery Center. May 2015: Held Community Summit on Heroin-Exposed Infants. August 21, 2015: Toured Greene County Jail and Green Leaf Alcohol and Drug Treatment Program; met with criminal justice system administrators and substance abuse and mental health leadership. November 18, 2015: Met with ONDCP Director Michael Botticelli and introduced the TREAT Act with Congresswoman Marcia L. Fudge (OH-11) and Congresswoman Niki Tsongas (MA-3). May 12, 2016: The House passed an amendment he cosponsored to increase access to treatment for pregnant women struggling with substance abuse. May 25, 2016: Introduced CRIB Act to help expand access to specialized treatment and recovery options for infants suffering from neonatal abstinence syndrome (NAS), a withdrawal condition in newborns often caused by use of opioids and other addictive substances in pregnant women. August 29, 2016: Hosted a Heroin Epidemic Response Roundtable with Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner (WI-05). October 28, 2016: Hosted a roundtable discussion on the opioid and heroin epidemic in Dayton with Senator Rob Portman (OH). February 2, 2017: Joined the bipartisan Addiction, Treatment, and Recovery Caucus. February 7, 2017: Reintroduced the TREAT Act. ###
05.05.2017	Congressman Mike Turner (OH-10) introduced the Hands Off Passengers (HOP) Act this week. This bill prevents airlines from bumping ticketed passengers of an overbooked flight for a member of the airline’s crew. “When United Airlines had Dr. Dao forcibly removed on April 9th, the airline more than just created disruption for him and other passengers; it sparked a national outrage,” said Congressman Turner during his one-minute speech on the House floor. “An airline’s lack of preparation for its own staff travel should not result in the disruption of the lives of its paying customers.” ###
05.04.2017	Congressman Mike Turner (OH-10) released the following statement regarding his vote against the American Health Care Act: “I ultimately could not support the American Health Care Act. This bill will leave our most vulnerable citizens with inadequate health coverage. I cannot support a health plan to replace Obamacare that puts my constituents’ health benefits at risk. “I have repeatedly voiced my concerns to the White House and House leadership. I will continue to work with them and my colleagues in a bipartisan effort to enact health care reforms that ensure patients have affordable access to the insurance coverage they need.” ###
05.03.2017	Chairman Mike Turner (OH-10) of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Tactical Air and Land Forces gained the support of 140 colleagues who pledge to vote to repeal sequestration of national defense. “The sequestration of national defense is a senseless budget tactic that continues to threaten the readiness of our military and our national security,” said Chairman Turner. “An overwhelming 141 Members of Congress, meaning the majority of the House of Representatives GOP Conference, support the repeal of defense sequestration to ensure our country’s safety. “Now is the time for Congress to take immediate action to repeal defense sequestration. If we fail to do so, our military’s capabilities will continue to atrophy, our force size will continue to shrink, and our military will continue to assume more risk. “Repealing defense sequestration allows the Administration to submit a fiscal year 2018 budget request that is capability driven, begins the process of rebuilding our military, and reverses the damaging policies of the previous Administration.” The full letter can be viewed here. ###
05.02.2017	Congressman Mike Turner (OH-10) released the following statement in response to Ohio House Speaker Cliff Rosenberger’s addition of a provision in the state budget that would send $2 million to Wright-Patterson Air Force Base: “I congratulate Speaker Rosenberger on his effort to bring much needed state dollars to Wright-Patterson Air Force Base in order to prepare for possible base realignments and closures in the future. I thank Speaker Rosenberger for pushing to provide $2 million to the base, Ohio’s largest single-site employer. “Wright-Patt as an economic engine continues to grow the Dayton region’s defense industry. This $2 million in state funding signifies Wright-Patt’s importance to the state and will assist us in advocating for the base during any upcoming BRAC.” ###
04.29.2017	Congressman Mike Turner (OH-10) and wife Majida thanked volunteers at National Rebuilding Day today. He released the following statement: “National Rebuilding Day is a great annual opportunity for our community to come together to better itself. Thank you to volunteers from Rebuilding Together Dayton, Booz Allen Hamilton, and the Air Force Institute of Technology. Congratulations to Rebuilding Together Dayton on another successful service event!” Congressman Turner and wife Majida thank volunteers at National Rebuilding Day. Congressman Turner and Majida clap as Mr. James Bailey, an Army veteran who's lived in his home in Westwood for 60 years, finds out Booz Allen Hamilton has bought him a new washer and dryer. Amy Radachi of Rebuilding Together Dayton, Mr. Bailey, and Steve Kocis of Booz Allen Hamilton pose with Mr. Bailey's new washer and dryer. Steve Kocis of Booz Allen Hamilton, Amy Radachi of Rebuilding Together Dayton, Mr. James Bailey, Majida Turner, and Congressman Mike Turner on National Rebuilding Day. Congressman Turner and Majida thank volunteers from Rebuiliding Together Dayton, Booz Allen Hamilton, and the Air Force Institute of Technology for helping rebuild Mr. Bailey's home of 60 years. ###
04.28.2017	Congressman Mike Turner (OH-10) released the following statement: “I extend my deepest condolences and prayers to the loved ones of Sergeant Cameron H. Thomas. Our country and our community honors and greatly appreciates Sgt. Thomas’s service and ultimate sacrifice in the fight against terrorism.” ###
04.13.2017	Congressman Mike Turner (OH-10) released the following statement after a U.S. district court ruled the Treasury must turn over a majority of documents regarding the bailout of General Motors the Obama Administration exercised executive privilege on: “A large group of salaried retires of Delphi were wrongfully harmed by the Obama Administration. For the last eight years, I have worked to expose the unfairness of the situation. These 20,000 people deserve answers. Today’s ruling brings us one step closer to uncover what really happened in that government bailout.” Congressman Turner is a long-time advocate for the Delphi Salaried Retirees. He has led efforts to hold the Obama Administration accountable for unjustly terminating the pensions and benefits of these retirees. December 9, 2015 – Congressman Turner requests that the PBGC Inspector General conduct an inquiry into pension plan documents. June 24, 2015 – Congressman Turner requests PBGC Inspector General conduct inquiry into delays completing key Delphi pension plan documents. August 15, 2013 – The Special Inspector General for the Troubled Asset Relief Program (SIGTARP) issues audit requested by Congressman Turner of Treasury’s role in Delphi pension decisions. July 10, 2012 – The Oversight and Government Reform Subcommittee on TARP, Financial Services, and Bailouts of Public and Private Programs held a hearing requested by Congressman Turner. Auto Task Force staff called to testify. August 18, 2016 – Congressman Turner and Congressman Issa met with Delphi Salaried Retirees to reaffirm their support for the ongoing effort to restore the retirees’ pensions, receive an update on the retirees’ access to documents and information, and offer their continued assistance as the retirees work toward a resolution. ###
04.10.2017	Congressman Mike Turner (OH-10) released the following statement after reintroducing the Fostering Stable Housing Opportunities Act: “Aging out of foster care should not mean aging into homelessness. The Fostering Stable Housing Opportunities Act will remove obstacles blocking these vulnerable youths’ access to safe housing during their overnight transition into adulthood. When we provide young adults the tools to succeed we can create a better future and place them on a path to stable, independent lives.” Endorsed in the 114th Congress by: National Center for Housing and Child Welfare Dave Thomas Foundation for Adoption Ohio Association of Child Caring Agencies Lighthouse Youth Services (Ohio) Center of Vocational Alternatives (COVA) (Ohio) Ohio Youth Advisory Board (YAB) leadership Alumni of Care Together Improving Outcomes Now (ACTION) Ohio leadership Central Missouri Foster Care & Adoption Association In a letter of support Lisa Dickson, Communications Chair of ACTION Ohio stated: “The Fostering Stable Housing Opportunities Act is not only brilliant, it is long overdue. The time is now to make this Act a reality. It offers a creative solution to help, with no additional spending required, by (a.) allowing foster care youth who are at risk of "aging out" of foster care to apply for housing assistance when they reach 16 years old, and (b.) allowing them to jump to the front of the waitlist when they are about to "age out" of foster care.” The Fostering Stable Housing Opportunities Act addresses the issue of aging out of foster care and into homelessness with two meaningful reforms to housing assistance programs for youth at risk: Early application: Minors will be able to apply for housing assistance upon reaching 16 years of age, prior to aging out of foster care. Priority Preference: When a minor reaches the point 6 months prior to aging out of foster care, he/she will automatically receive a priority preference for housing assistance, allowing the minor aging out of foster care to jump to the front of the waitlist.
04.07.2017	Congressman Mike Turner (OH-10), Chairman of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Tactical Air and Land Forces, issued the following statement regarding the U.S. response to a chemical weapons attack in Syria: “The horrific attack by Syrian President Bashar al-Assad required consequences and was essential to deterring future atrocities. It is clear the Obama Administration’s attempt to partner with Russia to eliminate Syria’s chemical weapons cache failed.” ###
04.05.2017	Congressman Mike Turner (OH-10), Chairman of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Tactical Air and Land Forces, questioned Army Chief of Staff Mark Milley today on the effects of a possible year-long continuing resolution on military readiness. During his questioning today, Congressman Turner stated: “We need to continue to look at ways to reasonably continue to grow the Army to minimize the risks associated with current and future operational demands.” As result of actions taken in the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for Fiscal Year 2017 (FY17), the Army is now reversing the downward trend in end-strength. Today, General Milley testified that “a year-long continuing resolution will stop [Army] end-strength increases” and the Army would “essentially have to resume the downward trend in Army end-strength.” Under the leadership of Chairman Mac Thornberry and through efforts led by Congressman Turner and now former Congressman Chris Gibson, the NDAA for FY17 incorporated end-strength increases for the military services in order to reverse the damaging trend of downsizing our military and begin the process of restoring overall military readiness. Click here to watch the questioning in full. ###
03.27.2017	Congressman Mike Turner (OH-10), Chairman of the U.S. Delegation to the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, former NATO parliamentary Assembly President, Chairman of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Tactical Air and Land Forces, and member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, issued the following statement after Montenegro’s accession to NATO passed a key Senate hurdle: “The Senate should promptly ratify Montenegro’s accession to NATO. Granting final approval will not only demonstrate that NATO’s open door policy is a reality, but will also advance U.S. interests by strengthening the alliance, stabilizing the Balkan region, and maintaining international security.” Two weeks ago, Congressman Turner disapproved of Senator Rand Paul’s refusal to support Montenegro’s accession to NATO. At the beginning of March, Congressman Turner sent President Trump a letter urging him to support Montenegro’s accession to NATO. ###
03.24.2017	Congressman Mike Turner (OH-10) released the following statement concerning the American Health Care Act: “After numerous discussions with the White House and the Speaker’s office, in an attempt to improve this bill, including discussions today, I could not support the bill in its current form. This legislation will result in people in my community losing health care coverage. Therefore, I could not support it.” ###
03.22.2017	Congressman Mike Turner, a member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, released the following statement following Chairman Devin Nunes’s (CA-22) press conference regarding surveillance of President Donald Trump: “The Chairman’s statements today detailing the incidental collection and dissemination of the Presidential transition team’s communications is highly concerning. On Monday, I questioned Admiral Rogers, National Security Agency Director, on the legal, inadvertent, and incidental collection of communications by incoming U.S. administration officials, the President-Elect, and the President-Elect’s transition team. “The incidental collection, subsequent dissemination, and unmasking of individuals related to the Presidential transition team needs to be carefully investigated as there are real concerns about whether minimization procedures were appropriately followed. An outgoing administration reviewing the communications of an incoming Administration is highly inappropriate and raises serious concerns. Below is the transcribed exchange between Congressman Turner and Admiral Rogers: TURNER: Are you required to cease, if you are -- are undertaking lawful collection under the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act of a person or individual, either because they're a foreign person located outside the United States or the person that you're collecting against, is the subject of a FISA Court order. If incidental to that collection or inadvertently, the collection results in the collection of communications of an incoming U.S. administration official, the president-elect or the president-elect's transition team, are you required under the minimization procedures, to cease collection? ROGERS: Not automatically. TURNER: Thank you. So the answer's no, correct? Well, the reason why this is important is because intuitively, we would all know that incoming administration would have conversations with those that the intelligence community may be collecting against, either by making phone calls to them or receiving phone calls to them. And so it's important for us to understand that the minimization procedures that are intended to collect the privacy rights of Americans, do not inherently include the -- a prohibition of the intelligence community incidentally or inadvertently, collecting the communications of an incoming administration. ROGERS: Yes, sir. ###
03.16.2017	Congressman Mike Turner, Chairman of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Tactical Air and Land Forces, released the following statement after the release of President Donald Trump’s proposed skinny budget: “The budget that was released today is a step in the right direction for defense spending from President Obama’s funding levels and President Trump’s initial budget proposal. However, this budget still does not adequately fund our military at the $640 billion requested by both Chairman Thornberry and Chairman McCain. Additionally, this budget does not fully address sequestration, which cripples our military readiness. If the Administration wants to put America first and keep our country safe, Congress and the President must finally fully repeal the sequestration of defense.” Congressman Turner initially called out the administration’s budget proposal in late February. ###
03.16.2017	Congressman Turner released the following statement after reports indicated Senator Rand Paul refused to support Montenegro’s accession to NATO. “Montenegro’s accession must be approved. The Senate must take whatever action necessary to make this happen. Senator Paul lost the presidential race and should not have veto power over United States alliances.” Congressman Turner sent President Trump a letter on March 2nd urging him to support Montenegro’s accession to NATO. ###
03.16.2017	Congressman Turner’s office has found that the group Dayton Indivisible is perpetrating a fraud on the Dayton Community. The leader of Dayton Indivisible purports to be Ella Baker. She is not and she along with the leadership of her fraudulent group know her true identity. The community needs to be informed of the true identity of this group. The group continues to prey on the good nature of the Dayton Community. Do not give them money and do not attend their fake events. The group leader has assumed the identity of Ella Baker, a prominent African American civil rights leader, who worked with Martin Luther King Jr. Her real identity, known to the group Dayton Indivisible, is Christie Lamb. Christie Lamb has fraudulently contacted my office and impersonated Ella Baker in violation of 18 USC section 1001. We assume she has also misrepresented her true identity in fund-raising and group organizing. Christie Lamb has also misrepresented her identity in local TV interviews. Christie Lamb has also misrepresented her identity to the Dayton Public Schools and misrepresented that she would be hosting an event with Congressman Turner. Congressman Turner will not be attending any events held by the fraudulent leadership of the fraudulent group Dayton Indivisible. He has spoken with the Superintendent and informed her of this fraud. In addition, the group Dayton Indivisible purports to be a community constituent group. They are not. Dayton Indivisible is an arm of the Democratic Party affiliated national protest group “Indivisible.” The group was upset that their failed candidate Hillary Clinton lost and has vowed to host national protests against Donald Trump. Dayton Indivisibles’ national web site is located at: https://www.indivisibleguide.com/web/ Christie Lamb must apologize to our African American community and our constituent’s community for perpetuating an offensive fraudulent identity. In addition, the group Dayton Indivisible must return all contributions that it has received as a result of the misrepresentation of the group’s identity and the identity of its leader, Christie Lamb This is shameful. “The Dayton community has a long history of community participation, from our priority boards to community service groups, all of which I have been proud to serve and work along side,” said Congressman Turner. “Partisan protest groups such as this that attempt to fraudulently hijack our community’s proud history of citizen participation are shameful. This group and its leadership must apologize to our whole community.” ###
03.02.2017	Congressman Mike Turner, former NATO Parliamentary Assembly President, Chairman of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Tactical Air and Land Forces, and member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, sent a letter to President Donald Trump urging him to support Montenegro’s accession to NATO. Congressman Turner released the following statement: “President Trump said in his Joint Address Tuesday: ‘America is willing to find new friends and to forge new friendships where shared interests align.’ As such, I am asking the President to publicly support Montenegro’s accession to NATO. This will advance U.S interests by strengthening the Alliance, maintaining international security, and stabilizing the Balkan region.” Congressman Turner’s letter, attached, includes the following excerpt: Montenegro “has proved itself a worthy partner to the U.S. It completed essential reforms and contributed to NATO-led missions.” ###
03.01.2017	Congressman Mike Turner, Chairman of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Tactical Air and Land Forces, recently gathered over 100 of his colleagues’ signatures calling on Speaker Paul Ryan to bring the repeal of sequestration to a vote: “Last night President Trump said he will be sending Congress a budget that ‘eliminates the defense sequester.’ Over 100 of my colleagues and I are asking Speaker Ryan to bring a repeal of sequestration to the House floor for a vote. We must end these harmful and senseless budget tactics.” The letter Congressman Turner is circulating amongst his colleagues includes the following excerpt: “We must afford our President the ability to restore military readiness and provide him with the necessary tools to protect our interests at home and abroad.” Congressman Turner is continuing to circulate the letter amongst his colleagues to gain more support before sending it to Speaker Ryan. ###
03.01.2017	Congressman Turner (R-OH), Chairman of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Tactical Air and Land Forces, made the following remarks as prepared at the hearing titled "U.S. Ground Force Capability and Modernization Challenges in Eastern Europe.” "Today we will receive testimony on the operational and strategic challenges facing U.S. and NATO forces in deterring, as well as responding to, Russian aggression on the North Atlantic Treaty Organization’s (NATO) eastern flank. I’d like to welcome our distinguished panel: Mr. David A. Shlapak, Senior International Research Analyst and Co-Director, Center for Gaming, RAND Corporation Mr. Timothy M. Bonds, Vice President, Army Research Division, and Director, RAND Arroyo Center Mr. Andrew P. Hunter, Director, Defense Industrial Initiatives Group, and Senior Fellow, International Security Program for the Center for Strategic and International Studies Beginning with the invasion of Crimea in 2014, followed by incursions into East Ukraine, Russia continues to take aggressive actions in overturning European security. The Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, General Joseph Dunford, has stated that 'Russia presents the greatest threat to our national security,' and that 'what they seek to do is undermine the credibility of our ability to meet our alliance commitments to NATO.' Reported just last week, a Russian intelligence collection ship was operating off the east coast of the United States. Russian military aircraft have made high-speed passes over U.S. Navy ships operating in the Black Sea, and recent media reports indicate Russia has operationally deployed a new ground-launched cruise missile that violates the Intermediate-range Nuclear Forces treaty and directly threatens NATO allies. Secretary Mattis and Vice President Pence have reaffirmed the United States’ commitment to NATO, and also made it clear that Russia would be held accountable for its actions. As the former President of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly (PA), and current head of the U.S. delegation to the NATO PA I am in agreement with the Secretary and the Vice President’s position. NATO’s first goal is to prevent conflict. And highly ready, forward deployed, military forces contribute to this by deterring conventional conflict. Actions have been taken by NATO in response to this continued Russian aggression; for example at the Wales Summit, NATO heads of state established a Readiness Action Plan and stood up an enhanced NATO response force. The United States remains fully prepared to meet Article 5 commitments to NATO allies; however, if we are to rebuild a credible deterrent posture in Europe, then NATO nations also need to meet their agreed-upon goal of spending 2 percent of gross domestic product on defense. Only five nations do so now. Despite taking these actions, a major challenge for the U.S. and NATO continues to be reestablishing a credible forward presence of ready military forces. The previous Administration’s strategy in Europe assumed that a small forward deployed presence, augmented by a small rotational force, would provide credible deterrence; that assumption has been proven wrong. So reviewing our current force structure in Europe is an excellent place to start for understanding current gaps in the capability and capacity of our ground forces, and can be applied to ground forces writ-large. Besides the broader strategic policy implications of reassuring members of the NATO alliance, the witnesses today are prepared to discuss what is required by our ground forces from a modernization perspective in the near term to improve force posture, and mitigate potential threats posed by Russia. Of special interest to the subcommittee today are the findings and observations from the most recent RAND wargame report (2016) on the defense of the Baltics entitled, 'Reinforcing Deterrence on NATO’s Eastern Flank' that raised alarming concerns regarding current U.S. and NATO military posture in Europe. The European Reassurance Initiative and multi-lateral training exercises, like Operation Atlantic Resolve, have been good first steps in improving forward presence in Europe and reassuring our Allies; however, the reality is that more resources and actions are required. Given the threats posed by Russian aggression, we need to move from a position of reassurance to a position of deterrence---credible deterrence. Finally, I want to close with a quote from Lieutenant General John W. Nicholson, the former commander of NATO’s Allied Land Command, 'Military readiness costs money, but the costs of readiness pale in comparison to the human and material costs of war.'" ###
02.28.2017	Congressman Mike Turner released the following statement after President Trump addressed a joint session of Congress: “Tonight President Trump laid out how he’ll turn his campaign promises into policy. While I did not approve of President Trump’s proposed budget, I do agree with much of what he laid out this evening. Congress and the White House have an opportunity to make some big changes, including tax reform, health care reform, and obviously rebuilding our military. I look forward to working alongside my colleagues to implement President Trump’s agenda.” ###
02.27.2017	p.p1 {margin: 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px; font: 12.0px 'Times New Roman'} span.s1 {font-kerning: none} Congressman Turner, Chairman of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Tactical Air and Land Forces, released the following statement after the Trump administration announced plans to offer a $603 billion budget for defense, well below the needed $640 billion: “The new administration claiming a 10% increase that’s really a 3% increase is fake budgeting. “Our military’s readiness has suffered immensely over the past 8 years due to stringent budget cuts. It is imperative we can make a real attempt to reverse dangerous trends in defense spending. I hope the administration will be able to come to the negotiating table in a meaningful way to support our armed forces and to protect our interests at home and abroad.” ###
02.27.2017	Congressman Turner released the following statement after the New York Times Sunday Crossword puzzle featured the National Aviation Hall of Fame’s (NAHF) host city: Dayton, Ohio as the answer for puzzle question number 99 down...in case the President and Chairman of the Board of the NAHF need a reminder. “I will continue to fight to keep the NAHF in Dayton, Ohio and this weekend’s New York Times Crossword puzzle was a national reminder of how important this Congressionally Chartered organization is to our community. I look forward to hearing from the Blue Ribbon Panel and receiving their recommendation on how we can keep the NAHF viable for future generations.” ###
02.16.2017	Congressman Turner (R-OH), Chairman of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Tactical Air and Land Forces, made the following remarks, as prepared at the hearing titled "Military Services 5th Generation Tactical Aircraft Challenges and F-35 Joint Strike Fighter Program Update." “This is a timely hearing and is complementary to last week’s full committee hearing on the “State of the Military.” Last week the committee heard testimony from each of the military services’ Vice Chiefs of Staff that the force is strained, and that the Services have to do more with less. “These challenges, combined with years of budget driven national security strategies and cuts, rather than threat-based strategies, have led to a military readiness crisis. With a new Administration indicating its intent to “rebuild the U.S. Armed Forces,” I look forward to working with them to reverse this harmful trend in military readiness. “Modernization and building capacity are critical components to restoring readiness. This brings us to today’s hearing focus on 5th generation tactical fighter requirements and the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter program. “This is the third oversight hearing the subcommittee has held over the past year on the requirements and importance of fifth generation fighters given current and emerging threats. “One of those hearings was at the National Museum of the United States Air Force at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base on June 18th, 2016, and the witness, then Major General Jerry Harris, here with us today, and then the Vice Commander of Air Combat Command, showed us a striking picture of one half of an F-35 Joint Strike Fighter and one half of a Chinese J-31 fighter joined together. “It looked like one aircraft, and left no doubt in anyone’s mind that our adversaries are extremely close to fielding fifth generation fighter programs of their own. With only 187 F-22s and 219 F-35s produced, we have very limited 5th generation capacity. “The F-35 Joint Strike Fighter program is nearing the end of its development program and is over 90 percent complete. It’s no secret the F-35 development program has faced some significant challenges in cost and schedule overruns early in development. After being re-baselined in 2010, the program has been successful in meeting cost and schedule goals. “Although F-35 development is scheduled to be completed by October of this year, General Bogdan has noted in previous updates that there remains about three to four months of schedule risk to completion of the F-35 development program and additional costs could be incurred. “In terms of oversight, the subcommittee remains concerned about the costs associated with closing out the F-35 development program, the maturity of the program to potentially execute a Block Buy for fiscal years 2018 through 2020, and determining whether more efficient program management can help accelerate the initial operational test and evaluation program. We expect to gain a better understanding of these important oversight issues today. “During our hearing last July on 5th generation fighters, General Herbert “Hawk” Carlisle stressed that fourth-generation aircraft play a significant role in the near term in addressing fighter capacity and inventory concerns since we have few operational 5th generation fighters. “He also noted the importance of 5th generation fighters, [quote] “The role of our 4th Gen fighters will diminish over time due to two main reasons: The first is they will age out and be replaced by more capable F-35s. But more pressingly, our 4th generation fighters are more increasingly unable to operate in highly contested environments where advanced air defense systems render them ineffective.” “Given current fiscal constraints, the military services are being forced to prioritize between building capacity in 4th generation tactical aircraft inventory to help mitigate some of the immediate readiness burdens on the current force or trying to accelerate needed 5th generation tactical aircraft capability. “For National Security purposes, it’s not a question of one or the other…the answer really is that we need to do both. “In closing, there have been several reports and comments in regards to the President’s concerns for the need to lower the costs of the F-35 program. Affordability of this program has always been an oversight concern of this committee. I am looking forward to working with the new Administration and the Department of Defense to continue to explore ways to reduce costs in this program and other defense programs.” ###
02.15.2017	Congressman Turner released the following statement after the Dayton Daily News reported the NAHF has considered leaving Dayton, Ohio. Yesterday, NAHF President Michael J. Quiello said in an interview that the NAHF could, “vote to pick up the Hall of Fame and move it to some other city that’s welcoming to us,” according to the Dayton Daily News. As a result, Congressman Turner sent a letter to Bill Harris, Chairman of the NAHF Board of Trustees, that he is drafting legislation to terminate the Congressional Charter of the NAHF. Below is an excerpt of the letter Congressman Turner has sent: “As a result, I have lost confidence in the current leadership of the NAHF. I have, therefore, directed my staff to draft legislation that would terminate the Congressional Charter of the NAHF. I intend to vigorously pursue this legislation until such time as the Board and leadership of the NAHF regain my confidence that they are committed and capable of executing the responsibilities of a Congressional Charter and ensuring the sustainability of the NAHF at the NMUSAF.” On January 25th, Congressman Turner sent a letter to the Chairman of the Board of Trustees of the National Aviation Hall of Fame stating he will investigate the Congressionally Chartered organization after receiving troubling information concerning their finances. On January 30th, Congressman Turner then announced that he had received support from two National Aviation Hall of Fame Trustees Katie McCallum and Donald I. VanDerKarr after announcing his plans to investigate the NAHF. On February 1st, Congressman Turner sent a letter to Chairman of the Board of Trustees Bill Harris alerting him that the NAHF must cease and desist all deliberations, efforts or activities that relate to selling or disposing of artifacts in the NAHF’s possession. On February 6th, Congressman Turner announced Phil Parker President and CEO of the Dayton Area Chamber of Commerce, Jeff Hoagland, President and CEO of the Dayton Development Coalition and Brady Kress, President and CEO of Dayton History will be tasked with forming a Blue Ribbon Panel to create a sustainable plan for the NAHF’s future. On February 6th, both Senator Rob Portman and the Chairman of the Natural Resources Committee Rob Bishop (UT-01) have expressed their support of the investigation and the Blue Ribbon Panel. Congressman Turner is exercising his oversight authority to investigate these allegations concerning the Congressionally Chartered organization. ###
02.15.2017	Congressman Turner released the following statement after President Trump met with Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu in Washington, D.C. “I remain committed to supporting Israel and I am pleased to see this relationship continue with the new administration. It is my hope that throughout this new administration, our relationship with Israel strengthens as we work together in the fight against terror.” ###
02.14.2017	Congressman Turner sent a letter to Bill Harris, Chairman of the Board of Trustees of the NAHF, addressing an additional letter brought to Congressman Turner’s attention detailing the NAHF’s breach of contract. Congressman Turner’s letter states: “Complaints amounting to a breach of contract are deeply troubling, especially when coming from the entity that both hosted a marquee NAHF event – the 2016 Enshrinement Dinner – and acts as the NAHF’s landlord. The NAHF enjoys a privileged location as a tenant within the NMUSAF, which is found on the grounds of Wright-Patterson Air Force Base (WPAFB). As you are aware, the Dayton community and state of Ohio have invested millions of dollars in NAHF’s museum site at WPAFB.” Yesterday, Congressman Turner announced three past board members of the NAHF Board of Trustees – Wolfgang Dalichau, Zoe Dell Nutter and Bill Gunlock – who will serve as advisors to the Blue Ribbon Panel. Fran Duntz will now join as an additional advisor. On January 25th, Congressman Turner sent a letter to the Chairman of the Board of Trustees of the National Aviation Hall of Fame stating he will investigate the Congressionally Chartered organization after receiving troubling information concerning their finances. On January 30th, Congressman Turner then announced that he had received support from two National Aviation Hall of Fame Trustees Katie McCallum and Donald I. VanDerKarr after announcing his plans to investigate the NAHF. On February 1st, Congressman Turner sent a letter to Chairman of the Board of Trustees Bill Harris alerting him that the NAHF must cease and desist all deliberations, efforts or activities that relate to selling or disposing of artifacts in the NAHF’s possession. On February 6th, Congressman Turner announced Phil Parker President and CEO of the Dayton Area Chamber of Commerce, Jeff Hoagland, President and CEO of the Dayton Development Coalition and Brady Kress, President and CEO of Dayton History will be tasked with forming a Blue Ribbon Panel to create a sustainable plan for the NAHF’s future. On February 6th, both Senator Rob Portman and the Chairman of the Natural Resources Committee Rob Bishop (UT-01) have expressed their support of the investigation and the Blue Ribbon Panel. Congressman Turner is exercising his oversight authority to investigate these allegations concerning the Congressionally Chartered organization. ### Gen. Hudson Letter to NAHF.pdf Letter_Address NMUSAF Concerns _02-14-2017[1].pdf
02.13.2017	Congressman Turner released the following statement after sending the NAHF Chairman of the Board of Trustees Bill Harris a letter detailing the importance of the Blue Ribbon Panel and why this investigation will continue with the goal of developing a long term financial plan for the Congressionally Chartered organization. Attached is the letter Congressman Turner received from the National Aviation Hall of Fame along with the letter Congressman Turner sent in response. “I am confident the Blue Ribbon Panel will be able to create a viable future for the NAHF.” Below is an excerpt of Congressman Turner’s letter to the NAHF: “As we move forward with the formation of the Blue Ribbon Panel, Phillip Parker of the Dayton Area Chamber of Commerce, Jeff Hoagland of the Dayton Development Coalition, and Brady Kress of Dayton History, have agreed to assemble a team of financial, accounting, legal, and non-profit organization experts over the next two weeks to serve. Apart from producing the requested documents to my office, your work will be directly with the Blue Ribbon Panel itself.” On January 25th, Congressman Turner sent a letter to the Chairman of the Board of Trustees of the National Aviation Hall of Fame stating he will investigate the Congressionally Chartered organization after receiving troubling information concerning their finances. On January 30th, Congressman Turner then announced that he had received support from two National Aviation Hall of Fame Trustees Katie McCallum and Donald I. VanDerKarr after announcing his plans to investigate the NAHF. On February 1st, Congressman Turner sent a letter to Chairman of the Board of Trustees Bill Harris alerting him that the NAHF must cease and desist all deliberations, efforts or activities that relate to selling or disposing of artifacts in the NAHF’s possession. On February 6th, Congressman Turner announced Phil Parker President and CEO of the Dayton Area Chamber of Commerce, Jeff Hoagland, President and CEO of the Dayton Development Coalition and Brady Kress, President and CEO of Dayton History will be tasked with forming a Blue Ribbon Panel to create a sustainable plan for the NAHF’s future. On February 6th, both Senator Rob Portman and the Chairman of the Natural Resources Committee Rob Bishop (UT-01) have expressed their support of the investigation and the Blue Ribbon Panel. Congressman Turner is exercising his oversight authority to investigate these allegations concerning the Congressionally Chartered organization. ###
02.07.2017	Congressman Mike Turner reintroduced The TREAT Act, The Reforming and Expanding Access to Treatment Act. The reintroduction of the bipartisan legislation followed Congressman Turner’s meeting with Fayette County Sheriff Vernon Stanforth. This legislation will increase flexibility in how existing federal funding can be used to combat the opioid epidemic. “Our country is facing an exponentially growing epidemic of opioid abuse that is resulting in drastic increases in addiction rates, overdose deaths, and incarceration. I have been working closely with the greater Dayton community for the past 4 years to fight this epidemic,” said Congressman Turner. “This bill would take commonsense steps to expand access to the resources used in treating individuals suffering from substance abuse disorders.” In the 114th Congress, the TREAT Act gained support from the following organizations: Ohio HIDTA Buckeye Sheriffs Association Greene County Prosecutor Greene County Board of Commissioners Greater Miami Valley Emergency Medical Services Council County Commissioners Association of Ohio NACo CorJus, Inc. (representing ten of Ohio’s publicly operated Community Correctional Facilities) Miami Township Board of Trustees City of Dayton Areas of Impact The Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA) prohibits the use of grants from its Center for Substance Abuse Treatment (CSAT) for substance abuse treatment services provided to individuals who are incarcerated. Under this bill, these resources will be made available to individuals in both community-based and institutional settings. Under Medicaid’s Institution for Mental Disease (IMD) exclusion facilities with more than sixteen beds are not eligible for reimbursement. As such, the IMD exclusion prevents reimbursement for substance abuse treatment provided to incarcerated individuals who are otherwise enrolled in or eligible for Medicaid. Under this bill, substance abuse treatment provided at correctional institutions would become eligible for reimbursement. Congressman Turner has been fighting the opioid epidemic in Dayton since 2013: December 18, 2013: Toured Soin Medical Center, where issue of Heroin-Exposed Newborns was raised. March 10, 2014: Met with area hospitals to discuss the growing issue of Heroin-Exposed Newborns. May 15, 2014: Visited Dayton Children’s Hospital NICU to discuss infant heroin exposure and the withdrawal and recovery process. June 30, 2014: Held a Community Forum on the Effects of the Heroin Epidemic on Newborns. August 27, 2014: Visited the Women’s Recovery Center. May 2015: Held Community Summit on Heroin-Exposed Infants. August 21, 2015: Toured Greene County Jail and Green Leaf Alcohol and Drug Treatment Program; met with criminal justice system administrators and substance abuse and mental health leadership. November 18, 2015: Met with ONDCP Director Michael Botticelli and introduced the TREAT Act with Congresswoman Marcia L. Fudge (OH-11) and Congresswoman Niki Tsongas (MA-3). May 12, 2016: The House passed an amendment he cosponsored to increase access to treatment for pregnant women struggling with substance abuse. May 25, 2016: Introduced CRIB Act to help expand access to specialized treatment and recovery options for infants suffering from neonatal abstinence syndrome (NAS), a withdrawal condition in newborns often caused by use of opioids and other addictive substances in pregnant women. August 29, 2016: Hosted a Heroin Epidemic Response Roundtable with Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner (WI-05). October 28, 2016: Hosted a roundtable discussion on the opioid and heroin epidemic in Dayton with Senator Rob Portman (OH). February 2, 2017: Joined the bipartisan Addiction, Treatment
02.06.2017	Congressman Turner and Senator Portman released the following statement after Senator Portman voiced his support for Congressman Turner’s ongoing investigation of the National Aviation Hall of Fame’s troubling financial management and the Blue Ribbon Panel tasked with providing a recommendation on a sustainable plan for the NAHF’s future: “The National Aviation Hall of Fame (NAHF) is not only an Ohio treasure but an American institution, serving as a valuable resource for all interested in remarkable moments in aviation history,” said Senator Portman. “I will work with Congressman Turner to ensure that Ohioans and all Americans will continue to be able to enjoy the NAHF for generations to come.” “I would like to thank Senator Portman for his continued support of this investigation,” said Congressman Turner. “My goal throughout this investigation is to yield a sustainable plan for the NAHF’s future.” Previously, Congressman Turner sent a letter to the Chairman of the Board of Trustees of the National Aviation Hall of Fame stating he will investigate the Congressionally Chartered organization after receiving troubling information concerning their finances. Congressman Turner then announced that he had received support from two National Aviation Hall of Fame Trustees Katie McCallum and Donald I. VanDerKarr after announcing his plans to investigate the NAHF. Congressman Turner sent a letter to Chairman of the Board of Trustees Bill Harris alerting him that the NAHF must cease and desist all deliberations, efforts or activities that relate to selling or disposing of artifacts in the NAHF’s possession. Congressman Turner is exercising his oversight authority to investigate these allegations concerning the Congressionally Chartered organization. ###
02.06.2017	Congressman Turner released the following statement after receiving a letter of support from Congressman Rob Bishop (UT-01), Chairman of the Natural Resources Committee, on Congressman Turner’s ongoing investigation into the NAHF’s finances. Chairman Bishop also praised Congressman Turner’s Blue Ribbon Panel and will appoint a liaison from his staff to monitor the progress. “I am pleased to receive the support of the Chairman of the Natural Resources Committee, Rob Bishop. Together, we share the same concerns for the NAHF and we look forward to the Blue Ribbon Panel’s recommendation’s on how we can move the NAHF into the future.” Below is an excerpt from the letter to Congressman Turner from Chairman Bishop: “As Chairman of the Natural Resources Committee and a Senior Member of the Armed Services Committee, I understand the importance of the NAHF’s ability to execute its Congressionally Chartered mission to honor national pioneers in aviation.” "In addition, I will be appointing from my office a liaison to the Blue Ribbon Panel for the purposes of monitoring the progress of their work.” ### p.p1 {margin: 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px; font: 16.0px Helvetica; -webkit-text-stroke: #000000} p.p2 {margin: 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px 48.0px; text-align: center; text-indent: -48.0px; font: 16.0px Helvetica; -webkit-text-stroke: #000000} span.s1 {font-kerning: none}
02.06.2017	Congressman Turner released the following letter calling for a Blue Ribbon Panel to be formed to guarantee the long-term viability of the National Aviation Hall of Fame. Congressman Turner has called on Phil Parker, President and CEO of the Dayton Area Chamber of Commerce, Jeff Hoagland, President and CEO of the Dayton Development Coalition and Brady Kress, President and CEO of Dayton History. “As part of my investigation of the NAHF, I have asked our community leaders to form a Blue Ribbon Panel,” said Congressman Turner. “I have called on these organizations to form an independent Blue Ribbon Panel to review NAHF’s current financial situation and provide recommendations on how we can create a sustainable plan for the NAHF’s future.” Phil Parker, President and CEO of the Dayton Area Chamber of Commerce: “I am pleased to help form a panel that will find a sustainable plan for NAHF’s long-term viability. We all believe the NAHF is an important organization and together this Blue Ribbon Panel will help ensure its success for the future.” Jeff Hoagland, President and CEO of the Dayton Development Coalition: “The NAHF is a pillar in our community and continues to represent the best of aviation. I look forward to working with the Blue Ribbon Panel to form a viable plan for the bright future of this organization and for those who work so hard to keep the history alive for generations to come.” Brady Kress, President and CEO of Dayton History: “Our community prides itself on its place in aviation history. It’s my hope this panel will be able to provide the necessary resources to keep this national fixture operating well into the future. I look forward to working with the panel in the coming weeks.” Previously, Congressman Turner sent a letter to the Chairman of the Board of Trustees of the National Aviation Hall of Fame stating he will investigate the Congressionally Chartered organization after receiving troubling information concerning their finances. Congressman Turner then announced that he had received support from two National Aviation Hall of Fame Trustees Katie McCallum and Donald I. VanDerKarr after announcing his plans to investigate the NAHF. Congressman Turner sent a letter to Chairman of the Board of Trustees Bill Harris alerting him that the NAHF must cease and desist all deliberations, efforts or activities that relate to selling or disposing of artifacts in the NAHF’s possession. Congressman Turner is exercising his oversight authority to investigate these allegations concerning the Congressionally Chartered organization. ###
02.03.2017	Congressman Turner released the following statement after the Department of Defense announced an agreement between the Department of Defense and the prime contractor Lockheed Martin that will result in reduced costs in the next contract for the procurement of F-35 Joint Strike Fighter aircraft: “This is a good deal for the Department of Defense, our foreign partners, for Lockheed and for the US taxpayer. I commend the President’s efforts and willingness to create the necessary conditions so that the Pentagon could successfully negotiate lower unit costs. This is a refreshing change from what we’ve experienced over the past eight years in the Obama Administration. “I look forward to working with the new Administration and the Department of Defense to continue to explore ways to reduce costs in other defense programs. “Restoring and rebuilding our military’s readiness after years of budget cuts and neglect continues to be our top priority and getting this critically needed fifth-generation fighter aircraft fielded more rapidly and in greater quantity will be essential to our efforts.” ###
02.02.2017	Congressman Mike Turner released the following statement after joining the bipartisan Addiction, Treatment and Recovery Caucus: “Addiction continues to take a toll on our community, state, and country. I have joined this caucus to educate and raise awareness among my colleagues in Congress about addiction prevention and substance abuse.” Last Congress, Congressman Turner introduced two bills aimed at treatment of addiction. The TREAT Act, introduced in November 2015, aimed to increase flexibility in how existing federal funding can be used to combat the heroin epidemic. The CRIB Act, introduced in May 2016, aimed to cover the treatment costs of neonatal abstinence syndrome, a withdrawal condition in newborns often caused by opioids and other addictive substances in pregnant women. The Addiction, Treatment and Recovery Caucus is chaired by Congressmen Jim Sensenbrenner (WI-5), Tim Ryan (OH-13), Dave Joyce (OH-14), and Paul Tonko (NY-20). Congressman Turner brought Congressman Sensenbrenner to Dayton to host a Heroin Epidemic Response Roundtable in August. Congressman Turner has been fighting the opioid epidemic in Dayton since 2013: December 18, 2013: Toured Soin Medical Center, where issue of Heroin-Exposed Newborns was raised. March 10, 2014: Met with area hospitals to discuss the growing issue of Heroin-Exposed Newborns. May 15, 2014: Visited Dayton Children’s Hospital NICU to discuss infant heroin exposure and the withdrawal and recovery process. June 30, 2014: Held a Community Forum on the Effects of the Heroin Epidemic on Newborns. August 27, 2014: Visited the Women’s Recovery Center. May 2015: Held Community Summit on Heroin-Exposed Infants. August 21, 2015: Toured Greene County Jail and Green Leaf Alcohol and Drug Treatment Program; met with criminal justice system administrators and substance abuse and mental health leadership. November 18, 2015: Met with ONDCP Director Michael Botticelli and introduced the TREAT Act with Congresswoman Marcia L. Fudge (OH-11) and Congresswoman Niki Tsongas (MA-3). May 12, 2016: The House passed an amendment he cosponsored to increase access to treatment for pregnant women struggling with substance abuse. May 25, 2016: Introduced CRIB Act to help expand access to specialized treatment and recovery options for infants suffering from neonatal abstinence syndrome (NAS), a withdrawal condition in newborns often caused by use of opioids and other addictive substances in pregnant women. August 29, 2016: Hosted a Heroin Epidemic Response Roundtable with Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner (WI-05). October 28, 2016: Hosted a roundtable discussion on the opioid and heroin epidemic in Dayton with Senator Rob Portman (OH). ###
02.01.2017	Findings show NAHF has considered selling artifacts to raise money Congressman Turner released the following statement after sending a letter to Chairman of the Board of Trustees Bill Harris that the NAHF must cease and desist all deliberations, efforts or activities that relate to selling or disposing of artifacts in the NAHF’s possession. “Throughout my ongoing investigation, I have found that due to NAHF’s troubling financial situation the NAHF has considered disposing of or selling NAHF artifacts. I am calling on the NAHF and NAHF’s Board to immediately cease and desist.” The letter states: “During the Congressional investigation into the financial practices of the NAHF, it has come to my attention that the NAHF has deliberated about and considered selling, or otherwise disposing of, artifacts donated by NAHF contributors or enshrinees. The Congressional investigation has revealed that the NAHF has apparently considered this option as a means of raising funds that are desperately needed due to the dire financial circumstances of the NAHF.” “No museum or enshrinement hall can maintain credibility if the collection of artifacts in its possession is seen as a possible revenue source.” Last week, Congressman Turner sent a letter to the Chairman of the Board of Trustees of the National Aviation Hall of Fame stating he will investigate the Congressionally Chartered organization after receiving troubling information concerning their finances. Congressman Turner announced that he had received support from two National Aviation Hall of Fame Trustees Katie McCallum and Donald I. VanDerKarr after announcing his plans to investigate the NAHF. Congressman Turner is exercising his oversight authority to investigate these allegations against the Congressionally Chartered organization. ###
01.30.2017	Congressman Turner released the following statement after receiving two letters of support from National Aviation Hall of Fame Trustees Katie McCallum and Donald I. VanDerKarr after announcing his plans to investigate the NAHF. Last week, Congressman Turner sent a letter to the Chairman of the Board of Trustees of the National Aviation Hall of Fame stating he will investigate the Congressionally Chartered organization after receiving troubling information concerning their finances. “I am pleased to receive the support from the Trustees which ensures we will not be impeded throughout our investigation. Our efforts remain centered on establishing a sustainable future for the National Aviation Hall of Fame and making certain their Congressionally Chartered mission of supporting the history of aviation can continue.” Congressman Turner is exercising his oversight authority to investigate these allegations against the Congressionally Chartered organization. ###
01.27.2017	Congressman Turner, Chairman of the House Armed Services Tactical Air and Land Subcommittee, released the following statement after Secretary of Defense James Mattis stated he has directed reviews of the F-35 fighter. “I look forward to working with Secretary Mattis to make F-35s as cost efficient as possible while ensuring the safety of our warfighters. The capabilities provided by Fifth Generation Fighters are critical to our national security strategy as Russia and China work to expand their aircraft capabilities. Given the current threat environment, it is imperative that the U.S. continue to invest in both the F-18 and F-35 programs.” ###
01.25.2017	Congressman Turner has sent a letter to the Chairman of the Board of Trustees for the National Aviation Hall of Fame upon receiving troubling information concerning NAHF finances. “The National Aviation Hall of Fame has an important and historic mission. I look forward to making sure that this resource is available for generations to come so they can learn of the remarkable stories of the enshrinees and their dedication to aviation. The goal is to ensure the future of the NAHF.” Congressman Turner is exercising his oversight authority to investigate these allegations against the Congressionally Chartered organization. Below are excerpts from the letter: “…My office has received complaints of financial mismanagement and misappropriation of NAHF resources and assets. These issues appear to threaten the very viability of the NAHF to meet the basic purposes of the NAHF Congressional Charter and to sustain its Ohio Not-for-Profit status.” “…Therefore, my office has initiated a Congressional investigation into the finances of the NAHF, the sources and uses of its operational funds, [and] the use of NAHF funds for the payment of staff, consultants, and subcontractors...” ###
01.24.2017	Congressman Turner released the following statement after calling for an immediate repeal of sequestration for national defense. “This letter shows strong support from Members who are pledging to vote to repeal sequestration. I have been approached by numerous colleagues asking to sign on to this letter and I look forward to gaining continued support throughout this process. The President has repeatedly called for an end to sequestration. It is my effort to reach a majority of support for this letter and to have the confidence of the House to fully repeal sequestration for our national defense.” Congressman Turner has repeatedly voted against sequestration. The letter reads: “As President Trump begins to prepare his budget request for Fiscal Year 2018, it is imperative that we provide him with the ability to fully fund national defense. We must afford our President the ability to restore military readiness and provide him with the necessary tools to protect our interests at home and abroad.” “The majority of members serving in the 115th Congress have never cast a vote on sequestration. Sequestration diminishes our military's readiness, impedes our ability to deter adversaries effectively, and ravages our defense communities across the country. As such, each member should have the opportunity to voice their opposition.” Previously, Congressman Turner has authored multiple letters pushing for increased defense spending. These letters have garnered support from numerous Members of Congress. ###
01.23.2017	Congressman Turner, Chairman of the House Armed Services Tactical Air and Land Subcommittee, released the following statement after President Donald Trump announced the nomination of former US Congresswoman Heather Wilson for Secretary of the Air Force. “I would like to congratulate my friend, former Congresswoman Heather Wilson on her nomination. Her distinguished military service and congressional experience will be invaluable. I served with Heather Wilson in Congress and believe that her service as Secretary of the Air Force will benefit our nation and Wright-Patterson Air Force Base as she leads the effort to modernize our Air Force.” ###
01.19.2017	Congressman Turner released the following statement after VA Secretary McDonald signed a Memorandum of Agreement (MOA) to formally describe the VA’s intention to establish a history center, restore to historic buildings on the Dayton VA Medical Center campus, and set up the VA history program headquartered in Dayton. “Making Dayton the home of the VA archives has been a longstanding goal that I have worked for with our community and I look forward to seeing this honor come to life. Our region remains dedicated to our nation’s veterans and the deep history of our military.” Congressman Turner praised Secretary McDonald’s previous announcement that the Dayton VA could become the home to the national archives in April 2016. Congressman Turner has worked to secure the VA National Archives throughout his time in Congress: • On January 28, 2008, Congressman Turner hosted senior officials from the Department of Veterans Affairs and the National Park Service at the Dayton VA campus. Congressman Turner’s leadership in highlighting the historic significance of the campus began the effort to secure the VA National Archives in Dayton. • On July 21st, 2010 Congressman Turner sent a letter to Secretary Shinseki on the importance of locating VHA Archives at the Medical Center campus in Dayton, Ohio. • On July 23, 2010 Congressman Turner lead an Ohio Delegation in letter to VA Secretary Shinseki to urge the placement of VA Archives in Dayton. • In 2011, Congressman Turner sent a letter to Veterans Administration Medical Center Acting Director William Montague urging him to award Dayton the VA Archives facility. ###
01.13.2017	Congressman Turner spoke on the House floor in support of S. 84 - To provide for an exception to a limitation against appointment of persons as Secretary of Defense within seven years of relief from active duty as a regular commissioned officer of the Armed Forces. “It is imperative that the Department of Defense not lose continuity in leadership, administration, and governance—General Mattis must be confirmed expeditiously.” Click here for Congressman Turner’s full speech. ###
01.12.2017	Congressman Turner released the following statement after House Armed Services Chairman Mac Thornberry announced subcommittee chairmen for the 115th Congress. “I look forward to continuing the important work we were able to accomplish on this subcommittee last Congress. My top priority remains repealing sequestration and restoring military readiness and capability with respect to air and land forces through effective modernization strategies. I will continue to fight to equip our warfighters with the resources they need to carry out their mission and keep our nation safe.” Congressman Turner will serve as the Chairman of the Tactical Air and Land Forces Subcommittee for the second time. ###
01.12.2017	Congressman Turner released the following statement after the Greater Dayton Regional Transit Authority (RTA) and Amalgamated Transit Union Local 1385 (ATU) reached a tentative agreement, which will allow for full bus service to resume Friday morning. "I would like to congratulate both parties on reaching a tentative agreement. RTA’s continued service to our community’s students, elderly and every day riders remains unmatched. I appreciate the continued dedication and hard work of the Dayton RTA employees. I hope to see this agreement approved and enacted as soon as possible.” ###
01.12.2017	Congressman Turner released the following statement after receiving U. S. Army Decoration for Distinguished Civilian Service Award from Secretary of the Army Eric Fanning: This award is the highest civilian award presented by the Army. “I am honored to receive the U. S. Army Decoration Distinguished Civilian Service Award. I am a proud advocate for our men and women in the military. I would like to thank Secretary Fanning for this award and I look forward to working with him in the future on strengthening the U.S. Army.” Secretary of the Army Eric Fanning is a graduate of Centerville High School in Congressman Turner’s district. The award reads: The Honorable Michael Turner is awarded the decoration for distinguished civilian service as a member of the United States House of Representatives and as Chairman of the House Armed Services Tactical Air and Land Subcommittee during the 114th Congress. Representative Turner was a tireless advocate for Army equities and demonstrated steadfast support for increased Army end strength. This support was instrumental in ensuring the Army is best positioned to meet the challenges of the future. He worked diligently to build a strong coalition of support to overcome the fiscal and political challenges inherent in supporting our Army’s priorities. His leadership on sexual assault legislation was critical to assisting the Army in providing the best care for victims and that proper resources were available to address this important topic. Representative Turner’s distinctive accomplishments and unwavering commitment reflect great credit upon him, the United States House of Representatives, and the United States of America. U.S. Army Decoration for Distinguished Civilian Service The Department of the Army Decoration for Distinguished Civilian Service was established by directive of the Secretary of the Army in May 1956. This award consists of a gold medal, lapel button and certificate. This award recognizes distinguished service toward the accomplishment of the Army's mission. The Secretary of the Army awards this decoration to those who provide distinguished service that makes a substantial contribution to the accomplishment of the Army's missions. Eligible individuals include, employees of the Federal Government, officials at the policy development level, Army contractors, and technical personnel who serve the Army in an advisory capacity or as consultants. Army civilian employees are not eligible, as they are eligible for Department of the Army Honorary Awards, nor are military personnel. ###
01.06.2017	Congressman Mike Turner released the following statement after being appointed to the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence: “It is an honor to serve again on the House Intelligence Committee. As our country faces evolving threats to our security at home and abroad, I will make certain our intelligence community has the support they need to accurately carry out their objectives and keep the American people safe.” This will be Congressman Turner’s second term on the Intelligence Committee. ###
01.05.2017	Congressman Turner released the following statement after reintroducing three pieces of important healthcare legislation: H.R. 285 – Healthcare Tax Relief and Mandate Repeal Act H.R. 286 – First Responder Medical Device Tax Relief Act H.R. 287 – Student Job Protection Act of 2017 “As we move to repeal and replace Obamacare, I have reintroduced three important pieces of legislation that will make certain this law is dismantled. This healthcare package would eliminate the growth-hindering effects of the President’s healthcare law. The medical device tax and the individual and employer mandates are two of the most significant, ill-advised policies and my package of bills would fix this once and for all. “Additionally, the Student Job Protection Act would mitigate the job killing effects of Obamacare that hurt students who are employed by an institution of higher education and who receive healthcare coverage. I will continue to fight to ensure everyone has access to quality, affordable healthcare and these three bills place us on a path to achieve that goal.” ###
01.05.2017	Congressman Turner released the following statement after voting for H. Res. 11 - Objecting to United Nations Security Council Resolution 2334 as an obstacle to Israeli-Palestinian peace, and for other purposes. “At the final hour of this administration’s term, they continue to work against peace between Israel and Palestine and continue to undermine Israel’s standing as a global partner. I continue to strongly support Israel and I look forward to working with the new administration on strengthening this important relationship." ###
01.04.2017	Congressman Turner released the following statement after speaking with Vice President-elect Mike Pence during his meeting with House Republicans at the Capitol this morning: “This morning, I relayed my top priority to Vice President-elect Pence and it is a simple one: repeal sequestration. President-elect Donald Trump campaigned on rebuilding our military and ending sequestration. We must begin this process of rebuilding our military and restoring readiness back into our force immediately. I asked the Vice President-elect to work with Congress to repeal sequestration as a top priority of the next administration.” ###
01.03.2017	Congressman Turner released the following statement after Speaker of the House Paul Ryan swore in the 115th session of Congress. “I am excited about the opportunity to work with the new administration as we move the economy forward and strengthen our national defense capabilities.” ###
12.13.2016	Congressman Mike Turner, Chairman of the House Armed Services Tactical Air and Land Subcommittee, released the following statement after the Pentagon reported it killed 3 ISIS fighters responsible for planning the Paris attacks: “Today brings justice for the loved ones of the victims of the appalling Paris attacks that occurred over a year ago. The Pentagon reported intelligence that these ISIS fighters were plotting another attack at the time of the Pentagon’s strike. I am thankful this threat was neutralized prior to another devastating attack." ###
12.10.2016	Congressman Mike Turner, co-chair of the Historic Preservation Caucus, released the following statement after the Senate passed the National Park Service Centennial Act, which includes the National Historic Preservation Amendments Act, legislation he authored to reauthorize the Historic Preservation Fund: “Last night, the Senate acted to advance legislation to preserve our nation’s historic places, parks, and sites for future generations. Reauthorizing the Historic Preservation Fund has been a priority of mine this Congress. I am pleased it has passed both chambers and is headed to the President’s desk for his signature." Historic Preservation Fund (HPF): Created in 1976, the Fund derives its funding from Outer Continental Shelf leases rather than taxpayer dollars. The HPF achieves its preservation mission of documenting, preserving and utilizing America’s legacy of historic sites by providing funding to State and Tribal Historic Preservation Offices and through, at times, competitive grants to identify and rehabilitate historic resources. This essential support spurs job-creating economic development and community revitalization, making it an excellent dollar-for-dollar investment to foster economic growth. The Fund helped to establish the Wright-Dunbar Village Historic District, the West Dayton neighborhood that was once home to the Wright Brothers and African-American poet Paul Laurence Dunbar. ###
12.08.2016	Congressman Turner released the following statement following the death of astronaut and former Ohio Senator John Glenn: “I am deeply saddened to hear of the passing of John Glenn. During my tenure as Dayton’s mayor, I was lucky enough to work with him while he served in the Senate. John Glenn was an American treasure and a champion for Ohio. Our state and nation has lost a part of its history today with his passing. My thoughts and prayers are with his family during this trying time.” ###
12.06.2016	Congressman Mike Turner, Chairman of the House Armed Services Tactical Air and Land Subcommittee, was awarded the Distinguished Public Service Award by Secretary of the Air Force Deborah James. Congressman Turner released the following statement: “I am humbled and honored to receive the Distinguished Public Service Award. As the home to Wright-Patterson Air Force Base and a robust defense industrial base, few communities can compare to Dayton’s enduring commitment to national defense. I am proud to represent and advocate for Dayton and the brave men and women of Wright-Patt. I thank the Secretary for this award. I look forward to a continued, successful partnership with the Secretary and the defense community as a whole.” The Distinguished Public Service Award (DPSA) is awarded to individuals who have significantly contributed to maintaining the USAF as the pre-eminent Air, Space, and Cyberspace Force in the world. The DPSA is now the highest honorary award the Secrtary of the Air Force or Chief of Staff of the Air Force may grant to a private citizen. Eligible candidates for this award are civilians, excluding Air Force employees and contractors. The DPSA was developed to appropriately recognize distinguished Americans who have made significant contributions to the Air Force and its Airmen. Prior to the DPSA, the only award available for this purpose was the Air Force Scroll of Appreciation (AFSOA), which recognizes meritorious achievement or service rendered to any activity of the Department of the Air Force. Although an appropriate award for merit, the AFSOA -- consisting of a certificate with no accompanying medal or device -- was deemed insufficiently distinctive for recognition as compared to similar public service awards presented by the Navy and Army. Congressmen Joel Hefley and Ike Skelton are previous recipients of this esteemed award. ###
12.06.2016	Congressman Mike Turner, co-chair of the Historic Preservation Caucus, released the following statement after the House passed the National Park Service Centennial Act, which includes the National Historic Preservation Amendments Act, legislation he authored to reauthorize the Historic Preservation Fund: “Today, the House acted to advance legislation that is critically important to preserving our nation’s historic places, parks, and sites for future generations. I have championed the reauthorization of the Historic Preservation Fund, and am proud that it has passed the House. “The Fund helped to establish the Wright-Dunbar Village Historic District, the West Dayton neighborhood that was once home to the Wright Brothers and African-American poet Paul Laurence Dunbar. The Fund has been and will continue to be vital to state, local, and tribal historic preservation programs nationwide with today’s reauthorization.” Historic Preservation Fund (HPF): Created in 1976, the Fund derives its funding from Outer Continental Shelf leases rather than taxpayer dollars. The HPF achieves its preservation mission of documenting, preserving and utilizing America’s legacy of historic sites by providing funding to State and Tribal Historic Preservation Offices and through, at times, competitive grants to identify and rehabilitate historic resources. This essential support spurs job-creating economic development and community revitalization, making it an excellent dollar-for-dollar investment to foster economic growth. ###
12.02.2016	Congressman Turner, Chairman of the House Armed Services Tactical Air and Land Subcommittee, released the following statement after the House passed the National Defense Authorization Act for FY17. “I am proud of the work we have started with the National Defense Authorization Act which will begin the process of rebuilding our military and restoring readiness back into the force. This bill stops the harmful end-strength reductions in our military services and begins the process of reversing this damaging trend in reducing our military capacity. “I look forward to working with the new Administration as we use this NDAA as a starting point to rebuild our military to face evolving threats head on.” ###
12.02.2016	Congressman Turner, Chairman of the House Armed Services Tactical Air and Land Subcommittee, released the following statement after President-elect Donald Trump announced his selection of General James Mattis to serve as Secretary of Defense: “The selection of General James Mattis is an encouraging step forward. This choice makes it clear that President-elect Trump is serious about rebuilding our military and keeping national defense a top priority. I look forward to working with President-elect Trump and General Mattis in the near future.” ###
11.30.2016	Congressman Turner, a senior member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, released the following statement after reports indicated ISIS claimed credit for the recent attack at Ohio State University leaving eleven people wounded. “The terror attack on innocent American citizens at Ohio State University is deplorable and further demonstrates an appalling ideology that aims to strike fear in all Americans. These attacks only strengthen our resolve and values of freedom, rule of law and commitment to the right of each and every individual to live free from fear and violence.” ###
11.30.2016	Congressman Turner, Chairman of the House Armed Services Tactical Air and Land Subcommittee, released the following statement after the Army announced they would convert an existing infantry brigade combat team to an armored brigade combat team. “I commend and support the Army’s recent decision to convert an Infantry Brigade Combat Team (IBCTs) to an Armored Brigade Combat Team (ABCTs). As Chairman of the Tactical Air and Land Forces Subcommittee, restoring critical Army Readiness shortfalls and increasing current Army end-strength has been a top priority for the Subcommittee. “I believe this plan is a good first step in returning the Army to where it needs to be in terms of full spectrum capability and reducing current levels of risk. I look forward to continuing to work with the Army to develop ways to increase their ABCT force structure, either through growing more ABCTs or through converting another IBCT.” During a Heritage Foundation event on November 16th, 2016 to mark the release of Heritage’s 2017 Index of U.S. Military Strength report where Congressman Turner was the keynote speaker, Congressman Turner had indicated that a potential option the Army could consider in order to improve lethality and capability of Brigade Combat Teams would be to convert an existing infantry brigade combat team to an armored brigade combat team as soon as possible. ###
10.28.2016	Today, Congressman Mike Turner (R-OH) and U.S. Senator Rob Portman (R-OH) hosted a roundtable discussion on the opioid and heroin epidemic in Dayton. Turner and Portman were joined by Montgomery County Sheriff Phil Plummer, first responders, drug addiction and treatment stakeholders, and other community leaders to discuss ways in which the federal government can better partner with state and local practices to combat this epidemic that has devastated southwest Ohio. “The opioid epidemic is a crisis that continues to take a toll on our communities here in Ohio and across the country. I continue to work with those in our community who work to end this epidemic each day to identify ways we can provide them the resources needed to end this fight,” said Congressman Turner. “I would like to thank Senator Portman and Sheriff Plummer for their work to make sure our first responders and law enforcement are able meet the epidemic head on. Today’s discussion has placed us one step closer to working toward effective solutions that we can implement in our community and help those who battle this addiction every day.” “I want to thank Sheriff Plummer, our first responders, and all those on the front lines of this epidemic for your daily fight against this addiction epidemic,” said Senator Portman. “We’re facing a national crisis, but the battle against this rising tide of addiction won’t be won in Washington; it’ll be won in local communities like Dayton. But Washington can be a better partner with them and make sure they have the tools and the resources needed to win this battle, and that’s why CARA’s comprehensive approach is so important. I recently worked to secure $37 million in new funding to help get CARA’s grant programs up and running as quickly as possible, and I will continue to partner with community leaders in Dayton to make a difference for the hundreds of thousands of Ohioans who’ve been impacted by this disease.” Congressman Turner has been working with the community to draft legislation to help those who have been affected by the opioid epidemic starting with children born addicted to heroin and working to ensure those who are incarcerated for opioid abuse receive the treatment they need to recover. Congressman Turner has been fighting the opioid epidemic in Dayton since 2013: December 18, 2013: Toured Soin Medical Center, where issue of Heroin-Exposed Newborns was raised. March 10, 2014: Met with area hospitals to discuss the growing issue of Heroin-Exposed Newborns. May 15, 2014: Visited Dayton Children’s Hospital NICU to discuss infant heroin exposure and the withdrawal and recovery process. June 30, 2014: Held a Community Forum on the Effects of the Heroin Epidemic on Newborns. August 27, 2014: Visited the Women’s Recovery Center. May 2015: Held Community Summit on Heroin-Exposed Infants. August 21, 2015: Toured Greene County Jail and Green Leaf Alcohol and Drug Treatment Program; met with criminal justice system administrators and substance abuse and mental health leadership. November 18, 2015: Met with ONDCP Director Michael Botticelli and introduced the TREAT Act with Congresswoman Marcia L. Fudge (OH-11) and Congresswoman Niki Tsongas (MA-3). May 12, 2016: The House passed an amendment he cosponsored to increase access to treatment for pregnant women struggling with substance abuse. May 25, 2016: Introduced CRIB Act to help expand access to specialized treatment and recovery options for infants suffering from neonatal abstinence syndrome (NAS), a withdrawal condition in newborns often caused by use of opioids and other addictive substances in pregnant women. ###
10.19.2016	Congressman Turner and Congressman Tiberi toured Wright-Patterson Air Force Base this morning. This tour comes after Congressman Turner hosted the first Ohio Defense Forum in Columbus emphasizing the importance of strengthening Ohio’s defense installations and the communities that house them. Congressman Turner: “I would like to thank Congressman Tiberi for joining me today at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base. Ohio has 9 military installations and offers a wide array of capabilities, which further demonstrates the breadth of Ohio’s military presence. As the defense community battles budget cuts and possible BRAC, we must work together at the federal and state level in Ohio to ensure our men and women are equipped with the best resources to complete the mission.” Congressman Tiberi: “It is an honor to work with the Ohio delegation to support Wright-Patterson Air Force Base. It is vitally important that we ensure our service members have the resources they need to carry out their mission and keep our nation safe and secure. That is why I am so pleased to have a representative in this region like Congressman Mike Turner. He has worked tirelessly to highlight Ohio’s role in building our defense industry, and I sincerely thank him for his leadership. With his help, we will continue to work with key stakeholders in central Ohio and across the state to take advantage of all available opportunities to keep the defense community strong.” ###
10.18.2016	Congressman Turner was awarded the ‘Hero of Main Street’ Award by the National Retail Federation and the US Chamber of Commerce for his continued support of the retail industry and pro-growth policies: “I am honored to be named a ‘Hero of Main Street.’ I will continue to fight to strengthen our economy and work to bring more jobs to the Miami Valley. I would like to thank the National Retail Federation and the US Chamber of Commerce. Together, we continue to fight for pro-jobs and pro-growth policies in Congress.” Phil Parker, President of the Dayton Area of Chamber of Commerce, John Marshal, Owner of Grismer Tires, Gordon M. Gough, President and Chief Executive Officer Ohio Council of Retail Merchants and Affiliates and Alex Boehnke, Public Affairs, Ohio Council of Retail Merchants presented Congressman Turner with the award at the Schuster Performing Arts Center on Main Street in Dayton, Ohio. ###
10.11.2016	Congressman Mike Turner released the following statement to announce the development of a Citizens’ Commemoration Panel to name the Dayton Federal Building and United States Courthouse. The Panel is tasked with providing Congressman Turner a recommendation to name the federal building. Congressman Turner will introduce legislation to name the courthouse using the Panel’s recommendation. “I am grateful to the members of our community who have volunteered to serve on this important panel. The courthouse has served the federal government and the Miami Valley for over forty years and providing it with a formal designation is long past due. I look forward to introducing legislation to honor an individual who has served the Dayton community and the courthouse with the Panel’s recommendation.” Congressman Turner has appointed Merle F. Wilberding as Chairman of the Citizens’ Panel. The names of the panelists are as follows: Merle F. Wilberding, Chairman Amanda Wright Lane Charles J. Faruki Idotha “Bootsie” Neal Kermit F. Lowery Honorable Margaret M. Quinn Brady Kress Reverend Wilburt “Bill” Shanklin County Commissioner Deborah A. Lieberman Mayor Mary McDonald
10.06.2016	Congressman Turner, Chairman of the Tactical Air and Land Forces Subcommittee of the House Armed Services Committee, hosted the first Ohio Defense Forum in Columbus, Ohio. The two-day forum closed this afternoon after hosting defense industry professionals from across the state: “Over the last two days, we were able to share ideas and discuss how we can strengthen Ohio’s defense communities and address the issue of readiness across the military. The ongoing partnership between government, military, and the defense industry is absolutely critical. I would like to thank everyone who attended and all those who helped to make this event possible and an incredible success.” The second and final day of The Ohio Defense Forum came to a close this afternoon. The panels for the second day covered the state of defense and how we can prepare for the future, the importance of building state and regional defense communities and garnering community support for Ohio’s military installations. For more information, please visit the Ohio Defense Forum website. ###
10.06.2016	Congressman Turner, Chairman of the Tactical Air and Land Forces Subcommittee of the House Armed Services Committee, moderated a panel discussing the future of defense during the second and final day of The Ohio Defense Forum in Columbus, Ohio. “The state of the defense community finds itself at a crossroads, whether it is navigating the defense budget or a possible BRAC we must ensure that our installations remain adaptable to change. It is important we maintain the ongoing partnership between government and the defense industry so that we can have the open and frank conversations necessary to keep the U.S. military the best in the world. The current threat environment is one that continues to evolve every day. We must remain mindful of the strain placed on our readiness capabilities as we look to the future.” Congressman Turner moderated the State of Defense Now and into the Future Overview Panel at The Ohio Defense Forum. The panelists included: · Lucian Neimeyer, President of The Niemeyer Group · George Schlossberg, Kutak Rock · Dr. Zachary Mears, Assistant Vice President for National Security Programs and Research, The Ohio State University. For more information, please visit the Ohio Defense Forum website. ###
10.05.2016	Congressman Turner, Chairman of the Tactical Air and Land Forces Subcommittee of the House Armed Services Committee, hosted the first Ohio Defense Forum in Columbus, Ohio. “I would like to thank the Dayton Development Coalition, the Association of Defense Communities, and The Ohio State University for their dedication to our defense installations. The Ohio Defense Forum gives community leaders the opportunity to learn more about the current defense environment and how the defense budget impacts our military installations. I look forward to what we can accomplish on the second day of this forum.” The first day of the Defense Forum included panels on integrating the military and the community for a successful partnership, a discussion on the top issues facing Ohio’s military installations, and building statewide defense initiatives in Ohio. The two-day forum concludes at noon tomorrow. For more information please visit the Ohio Defense Forum website. ###
10.05.2016	This morning, Congressman Mike Turner, Chairman of the Tactical Air and Land Forces Subcommittee of the House Armed Services Committee, opened the Ohio Defense Forum in Columbus, Ohio. “Ohio has 9 military installations and offers a wide array of capabilities, which further demonstrates the breadth of Ohio’s military presence. We must foster the partnership between government, military and the defense industry. The Ohio Defense Forum will give community leaders the opportunity to learn more about the current defense environment and the role each of us can play in support of our defense installations.” To learn more about The Ohio Defense Forum, click here. ###
09.28.2016	Congressman Turner released the following statement on the passing of former Israeli President Shimon Peres: “Today, we join the State of Israel in mourning Shimon Peres’s passing. He will be remembered for his leadership and commitment to peace with Palestine and his love of country. My thoughts and prayers are with his family.” Congressman Turner has met with Israeli President Shimon Peres multiple times. Most notably, in 2008, Congressman Turner traveled to Israel as part of a Congressional Delegation led by then Senator George Voinovich. ###
09.27.2016	Congressman Mike Turner released the following statement following U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development’s (HUD) grant of $2,399,211 to Greater Dayton Premier Management (GDPM): “Currently, almost 16,000 people benefit from GDPM’s work annually. HUD’s grant will go a long way in furthering GDPM’s beneficial impact. GDPM will use this funding to help reduce barriers between individuals and employment training services. I thank HUD for recognizing GDPM’s success and contribution to the Dayton community.” In August, Congressman Turner brought Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25), Chairman of the Transportation, Housing and Urban Development Subcommittee of the House Committee on Appropriations, to Dayton. The congressmen visited GDPM and other creative housing development initiatives in Dayton, sites Congressman Turner called “examples of what can be accomplished when resources from the federal level are allocated creatively.” ###
09.21.2016	Congressman Turner released the following statement after the U.S. Commerce Department’s National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) awarded a grant to the Southwestern Ohio Council for Higher Education’s (SOCHE) Cybersecurity Consortium: “I welcome today’s announcement that SOCHE and its dedicated partners have been awarded this funding to bring together higher education, defense industrial base, and private sector partners from throughout Southwest Ohio to help address cybersecurity workforce demands. A well-trained cybersecurity workforce is critical to both our economy and our national security. This award is a testament to the Dayton region’s longstanding commitment to our national defense and history of innovation.” In June of this year, Congressman Turner sent a letter of support for SOCHE’s application for the grant from the Regional Alliances and Multistakeholder Partnerships to Stimulate (RAMPS) Cybersecurity Education and Workforce Development program. ###
09.21.2016	Today, the Military Sexual Assault Prevention Caucus, co-chaired by Congressman Mike Turner (R-OH) and Congresswoman Niki Tsongas (D-MA), hosted a briefing in order to better inform Congress about male sexual assaults in the military, and to give male victims a chance to be heard. The latest report from the Department of Defense's Sexual Assault Prevention and Response Office (SAPRO) showed that a large number of men in the military are victims of sexual assault, and that men are less likely to come forward and report these crimes. The claim is supported by a March 2015 GAO report that estimated at most only 13 percent of males reported their assaults. Both reports cite that retaliation against victims continues to be a pervasive problem. Rep. Turner and Rep. Tsongas released the following joint statement: “Thank you to the brave men who have experienced the trauma of sexual assault for telling their stories today, and to our colleagues, staff members and experts who attended today. Much more needs to be done to encourage male servicemembers to come forward and report these crimes, and to protect men from retaliation once they do report sexual assault. Today’s discussion underscores the need for a targeted approach to addressing sexual assault against men, but the goals remain the same for all survivors: prevent assaults, encourage reporting, provide effective services for survivors and reform the military justice system that too often fails those who have been sexually assaulted. Military sexual assault is a multifaceted challenge that no one piece of legislation can solve, and discussions such as the one held today provide invaluable information as we in Congress seek to address these crimes. We remain committed to ensuring our colleagues, the public and men and women in uniform are educated on this issue. By holding these briefings we can reach a larger audience and give a voice to the survivors of military sexual assault.” Speaking at the briefing today were: Diana Rangoussis, Senior Policy Advisor, Department of Defense Sexual Assault Prevention Response Office (SAPRO); Dr. Susan J. McCutcheon, Director of Family Services, Women’s Mental Health, and Military Sexual Trauma, Department of Veterans Affairs; Dr. Judith L. Johnson, Consulting Clinical Psychologist, The Lewis B. Puller, Jr. Veterans Benefits Clinic, William & Mary School of Law; Brian Lewis, President and Co-Founder of Mr. MST; Heath Phillips, Executive Director of Mr. MST; Bob Hunter, Vice President of Mr. MST. Rep. Turner and Rep. Tsongas are co-chairs of the Military Sexual Assault Prevention Caucus. They have co-authored several pieces of legislation that directly address male military sexual assault. Legislation they authored, which was signed into law last year as part of the FY16 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA), requires DOD to create a comprehensive strategy to prevent retaliation and protect those who experience it, and improve training for commanders. It also requires DOD to better train and educate servicemembers about the sexual assault of men; provide the medical and mental health needs specific to male survivors; and develop Department-wide metrics to better understand and address the issue. This year, Rep. Turner and Rep. Tsongas continued their work together and co-authored further provisions, which are included in the FY 2017 NDAA, that prompt the DOD to provide treatment options, including intensive therapy, to male victims of sexual assault. Brian Lewis, President and Co-Founder of Mr. MST, said: “It’s unfortunate that these events continue to be a necessity and we appreciate the Department of Defense and the Department of Veterans Affairs taking part in today’s briefing. The reality is, male survivors need to have an equal seat at the table so that we can ensure our needs are met. We will continue with our mission of advocating for male survivors of military sexual trauma. Mr. MST appreciates the continued support of Congresswoman Niki Tsongas, Congressman Michael Turner, and all members of Congress who stand with us and champion equality, and support, for all survivors.” SAPRO released the following statement regarding today’s briefing: "The Military Sexual Assault Prevention Caucus is an important avenue to advance the discussion on sexual assault prevention and response. Like the Caucus, the Department is especially concerned about the impact of this crime on men and commends the Caucus leadership's focus on this critical issue." Dr. Susan McCutcheon, VA’s National Mental Health Director for Military Sexual Trauma stated: “It is crucial that VA be a leader in addressing issues related to sexual trauma among men, particularly since almost half of the MST survivors seen in VA are men. We know that male survivors of MST can face additional barriers in reaching out for help, but it’s important to make sure they know that VA provides free treatment related to MST. Veterans may be able to receive this care even if they are not eligible for other VA care, and no documentation of the MST experiences is required.” Elizabeth Tarloski, Visiting Professor of Practice at the Lewis B. Puller, Jr. Veterans Benefits Clinic at William and Mary Law School, said: "Although MST has garnered a lot of attention in the media in recent years, the majority of attention has focused on women survivors. The absence of the male voice in this discussion only highlights the work that still needs to be done to provide appropriate individualized healthcare services to male survivors." ####
09.14.2016	Congressman Turner released the following statement after hand delivering a letter to FBI Director James Comey requesting an explanation of the FBI’s procedures for processing documents and disseminating information to the public during Federal holidays and how those procedures could be improved to reduce the appearance of political motivations: “Despite Director Comey’s assertions that the FBI’s investigation of Hillary Clinton was apolitical, the Bureau continues to release information on Federal Holiday weekends. The fact that these releases coincide with holidays and weekends raises the question of whether the FBI is playing politics in releasing information to the American public.” ###
09.13.2016	Congressman Turner, Chairman of the Tactical Air and Land Forces Subcommittee of the House Armed Services Committee, released the following statement after sending President Obama a letter urging him to finally support efforts to end sequestration after both presidential candidates have announced they do not support the sequester: “Both the nominees have called for an end to the sequester. In fact, Hillary Clinton recently stated, ‘The sequester makes our country less secure, let’s end it and get a budget deal that supports America’s military, our families, and our country.’ I urge President Obama to be mindful that the 2017 budget will be carried out by the next administration. It is crucial that the next administration has the tools needed to address the full scope of our national security priorities.” ###
09.07.2016	Congressman Mike Turner released the following statement after sending a letter with House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform Chairman Jason Chaffetz to U.S. Government Accountability Office Comptroller General Gene L. Dodaro requesting his agency determine whether the actions of the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) violated the Anti-Deficiency Act (ADA): “The multiple security breaches suffered by OPM allowed the sensitive records of over 20 million government personnel to be stolen by hackers. These breaches compromised the security clearance background investigation information of 21.5 million individuals, putting at risk the fingerprints, current and past addresses, family members’ names and dates of birth, and other personal information of our national security personnel,” said Congressman Turner. “Today’s letter continues my efforts with Chairman Chaffetz to hold OPM accountable to these employees, retirees, and their families.” On June 24, 2015, Congressman Turner questioned senior OPM officials on the role of CyTech, a contractor providing information technology support to OPM, in discovering one of the security breaches. These officials responded with misleading and inaccurate testimony that resulted in further investigation. As a result, it was discovered that OPM may have violated the ADA by failing to pay CyTech for its services. The ADA prohibits the federal government from accepting voluntary services unless there is an emergency involving the safety of human life or the protection of property. Congressman Turner and Chairman Chaffetz’s letter is also included the report released today by the Majority Staff of the Oversight and Government Reform Committee entitled, The OPM Data Breach: How the Government Jeopardized Our National Security for More than a Generation. ###
09.06.2016	Congressman Turner, Chairman of the Tactical Air and Land Forces Subcommittee of the House Armed Services Committee, issued the following statement in response to the release of an internal Department of Defense memo obtained by Politico: “This memo is proof that the Obama Administration continues to play political games when it comes to our national defense. While the Administration expends its efforts on making our national security a partisan issue, the safety and resources of our men and women in uniform hang in the balance. We will continue to work in a bipartisan manner to pass the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017, and ensure our military servicemen and women are provided the resources and equipment they need to keep this country safe.” ###
08.31.2016	Congressman Mike Turner, Chairman of the Tactical Air and Land Forces Subcommittee of the House Armed Services Committee, and Congresswoman Loretta Sanchez (CA-46), Ranking Member of the Tactical Air and Land Forces Subcommittee of the House Armed Services Committee, visited Wright-Patterson Air Force Base (WPAFB) today. The Chairman and Ranking Member were briefed on national security and base operations at WPAFB. Following their visit to the base, the Chairman and Ranking Member held a press conference. Chairman Turner released the following statement: "I am proud to work with Ranking member Sanchez in a bipartisan manner to keep our country and our troops safe. We continue to raise the issue of readiness shortfalls that plague our military. I am grateful to have had the chance to bring her back to Wright-Patterson Air Force Base to reinforce how critical the base is to our country’s national security. As our nation continues to address some of the most dangerous threats we’ve faced both at home and abroad, we must ensure our military has the resources needed to meet those threats head on." Ranking Member Sanchez released the following statement: "As Chairman Turner and I serve on the bipartisan committee that oversees our nation’s defense, we understand the importance of maintaining a strong military and ensuring military readiness. We’ll continue our bipartisan work to support the men and women who serve our country and to strengthen our nation’s defense by making sure that we are adequately funding and equipping our military. I thank Chairman Turner for his invitation to visit Wright-Patterson Air Force Base, an outstanding base that I’ve been fortunate enough to visit several times and see firsthand the crucial role this base plays in protecting our national security. During this time of ongoing combat operations and as America faces complex and emerging threats, it’s vital that we conduct oversight in critical areas such as Wright-Patterson Air Force Base.” ###
08.29.2016	Congressman Mike Turner and Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner (WI-05) hosted a Heroin Epidemic Response Roundtable. Congressman Turner released the following statement: “The opioid epidemic is a national crisis and is taking a toll on our communities. Ohio continues to work on innovative solutions and programs to help end the scourge of heroin and opioid addiction in our community. I thank Congressman Sensenbrenner for his leadership and for joining me today for this important discussion.” Congressman Sensenbrenner released the following statement: “Opioid and heroin abuse is an issue that doesn’t discriminate – it hurts individuals, families, and communities in every corner of this country. I’m happy to be in Dayton today with Congressman Turner to discuss solutions to this serious issue and offer hope to all those impacted by this devastating epidemic.” Congressman Turner has been fighting the opioid epidemic in Dayton since 2013: December 18, 2013: Toured Soin Medical Center, where issue of Heroin-Exposed Newborns was raised. March 10, 2014: Met with area hospitals to discuss the growing issue of Heroin-Exposed Newborns. May 15, 2014: Visited Dayton Children’s Hospital NICU to discuss infant heroin exposure and the withdrawal and recovery process. June 30, 2014: Held a Community Forum on the Effects of the Heroin Epidemic on Newborns. August 27, 2014: Visited the Women’s Recovery Center. May 2015: Held Community Summit on Heroin-Exposed Infants. August 21, 2015: Toured Greene County Jail and Green Leaf Alcohol and Drug Treatment Program; met with criminal justice system administrators and substance abuse and mental health leadership. November 18, 2015: Met with ONDCP Director Michael Botticelli and introduced the TREAT Act with Congresswoman Marcia L. Fudge (OH-11) and Congresswoman Niki Tsongas (MA-3). May 12, 2016: The House passed an amendment he cosponsored to increase access to treatment for pregnant women struggling with substance abuse. May 25, 2016: Introduced CRIB Act to help expand access to specialized treatment and recovery options for infants suffering from neonatal abstinence syndrome (NAS), a withdrawal condition in newborns often caused by use of opioids and other addictive substances in pregnant women. ###
08.25.2016	Congressman Mike Turner and Congressman Steve Chabot (OH-01), Chairman of the House Committee on Small Business, held a panel discussion on manufacturing with Fuyao Glass America suppliers. Congressman Turner released the following statement: “When the Obama Administration wanted to permit the former GM facility to be demolished, I stepped in to preserve it for future job creation and investment in our community. We fought to save this facility from being demolished. “Today, we heard from small business suppliers who have been able to hire new employees, expand their operations, and partner with Fuyao because this facility was saved. Chairman Chabot was able to see firsthand the impact that our efforts have made in supporting small business growth. Chairman Chabot and I are continuing to help cut red tape and help small businesses spur job growth and innovation throughout Ohio.” Chairman Chabot made the following statement: “Southwest Ohio is one of the best places for small business investment right now. I’m looking forward to spending time with Congressman Turner and these incredibly bright small business leaders in the Dayton area to see how, working together, we can find more ways to alleviate the burdens on small businesses now and in the future.” ###
08.22.2016	Congressman Mike Turner, Chairman of the Tactical Air and Land Forces Subcommittee of the House Armed Services Committee, and Congresswoman Niki Tsongas (MA-03) were briefed at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base on national security and base operations. Following their briefing at WPAFB, Congressman Turner and Congresswoman Tsongas toured the GE Aviation EPISCenter at the University of Dayton. Congressman Turner released the following statement: “As the home of Wright-Patterson Air Force Base and GE Aviation’s EPISCenter, Dayton is one of the top national defense communities in the country. As our country continues to face new and evolving threats, we must push to end sequestration. Congresswoman Tsongas and I continue to partner together in Congress for a strong national defense in tandem with both WPAFB and Hanscom Air Force Base. “ Congresswoman Tsongas released the following statement: “Over the past several years, Rep. Turner and I have built a partnership, grounded in a mutual desire to do what’s right and what’s best for the men and women of the United States military. Today’s visit to Wright-Patterson AFB and GE’s EPISCenter continued that bipartisan collaboration, and provided a firsthand look at the cutting-edge innovation and the sophisticated resources being developed to address current and future national security challenges, as well as to support the safety and success of our servicemembers. I appreciate the opportunity to visit Congressman Turner’s district and learn about further ways for us to collaborate. And, I look forward to welcoming him to Massachusetts tomorrow where we will continue our important discussions and site visits focusing on national security, research, innovation and economic development.” ###
08.18.2016	Congressman Mike Turner, a senior member of the Oversight and Government Reform Committee, and former Oversight and Government Reform Committee Chairman Congressman Darrell Issa (CA-49) have worked for years to hold the Obama Administration accountable and assist the Delphi Salaried Retirees. Congressman Turner and Congressman Issa met with Delphi Salaried Retirees to reaffirm their support for the ongoing effort to restore the retirees’ pensions, receive an update on the retirees’ access to documents and information, and offer their continued assistance as the retirees work toward a resolution. After today’s meeting, Congressman Turner released a letter requesting an update on the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation’s (PBGC) efforts to comply with the law and conduct public outreach regarding the renewal and extension of the Health Coverage Tax Credit (HCTC). Congressman Turner’s statement: “Seven years ago, the Administration picked winners and losers and today we reaffirmed our support for the over 20,000 Delphi Salaried Retirees whose pensions and benefits were unjustly terminated. Today, I sent a letter to the Director of the PBGC requesting a much-needed update on their efforts to provide information to those retirees who qualify for the HCTC. Together, Congressman Issa and I have fought to hold the Administration accountable, release documents, and provide access to information for these retirees. We will continue supporting the retirees as they continue their fight to have their pensions restored.” Congressman Issa’s statement: “Justice is long overdue for the Delphi salaried pensioners. For years they have tirelessly sought answers and accountability from the Obama Administration. I remain committed to their cause and ensuring we do whatever we can to make sure that we don’t allow those in power to play politics with peoples’ retirements.” Background: Congressman Turner is a long-time advocate for the Delphi Salaried Retirees. He has led efforts to hold the Administration accountable for unjustly terminating the pensions and benefits of these retirees, and has authored legislation to renew and extend the Health Coverage Tax Credit (HCTC). Unjustly Terminated Pensions December 9, 2015 – Rep. Turner requests that the PBGC Inspector General conduct an inquiry into pension plan documents. June 24, 2015 – Rep. Turner requests PBGC Inspector General conduct inquiry into delays completing key Delphi pension plan documents. August 15, 2013 – The Special Inspector General for the Troubled Asset Relief Program (SIGTARP) issues audit requested by Rep. Turner of Treasury’s role in Delphi pension decisions. July 10, 2012 – The Oversight and Government Reform Subcommittee on TARP, Financial Services, and Bailouts of Public and Private Programs held a hearing requested by Rep. Turner. Auto Task Force staff called to testify. HCTC In June, the IRS announced it would follow the law and establish the Health Tax Credit’s (HCTC) advance monthly payment (AMP) program by July 1. In April, Congressman Turner led a bipartisan group of Members in writing to IRS Commissioner Koskinen urging the IRS to implement the law in accordance with the law, following IRS’s announcement that they would fail to meet the deadline for implementation of the HCTC’s AMP. In October, Congressman Turner sent a letter with Senator Rob Portman to Commissioner Koskinen in support of the IRS quickly implementing the HCTC Advance Payment Program. In June of last year, Congress passed and the President signed into law the Trade Preferences Extension Act. This law includes a provision Congressman Turner authored to renew and extend HCTC. In November 2014, Congressmen Turner and Tim Ryan and sent a bipartisan letter to House leadership reaffirming our strong support for the passage of an extension of the HCTC as a part of the year-end tax extenders bill before the 113th Congress adjourned for the year. In March 2014, Congressmen Turner and Ryan joined a delegation of 28 Members and Senators from across the country in sending a letter to both House and Senate leadership pushing of the extension of the HCTC. In July 2013, Congressman Turner and Ryan introduced legislation that would have provided the Delphi Salaried Retirees and other eligible individuals the choice of continuing within the HCTC program past the program’s termination date, or upon leaving the program. ###
08.17.2016	Congressman Turner released the following statement after Fuyao Glass America signed a 10-year agreement with Strategic Materials Inc. According to a Dayton Daily News article, Strategic Materials will recycle glass scrap for Fuyao’s Moraine plant and bring new jobs to the area. “Once again, I would like to congratulate Fuyao on their newest milestone. Their work to grow the business community in Moraine and the surrounding area has been steadfast. I look forward to more of these announcements as Fuyao continues its success in the region.” Following the closure of the former General Motors Assembly Plant in 2008, Congressman Turner partnered with the city of Moraine and successfully fought to protect the plant from demolition. Congressman Turner has worked closely with city leaders, the Dayton Development Coalition, the U.S. Department of Commerce, and JobsOhio to ensure that the facility remained viable for innovative business leaders and job creators. ###
08.12.2016	Congressman Turner released the following statement after presenting area students with a Congressional Medal for their dedication to service throughout their community: “These students are the future of our community. I am proud to present each of the students with this distinguished award for their work and dedication to our community. I wish them all the best in their future endeavors." About the Congressional Award The Congressional Award Foundation is a public-private partnership created by Congress to promote and recognize service, initiative and achievement in America’s youth. Participants, ages 14 to 23, earn the Award by setting and achieving challenging goals in the four program areas: Voluntary Public Service, Personal Development, Physical Fitness and Expedition/Exploration. Participants follow guidelines established in the Congressional Award Act, Public Law 96-114. Members of the U.S. House of Representatives and U.S. Senate recognize their constituents who earn the Congressional Award Bronze and Silver Medals at local, citywide or statewide ceremonies or presentations. Gold Medals are presented at an annual ceremony in June in Washington, D.C. The National Office serves as a liaison between the medalists and congressional offices. The students who received the award are listed below: Micah Karr Gold Medalist Beavercreek, OH Morgan Karr Gold Medalist Beavercreek, OH Hannah Addington Silver Medalist Miamisburg, OH Brian Stephenson Bronze Medalist Dayton, OH *Pooja Shirahatti Bronze Medalist Beavercreek, OH *Vidushi Tripathi Silver Medalist Dayton, OH Arihant Chordia Bronze Medalist Dayton, OH * Indicates this student attended the ceremony and is pictured above.
08.11.2016	Congressman Mike Turner and Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25), Chairman of the Transportation, Housing and Urban Development Subcommittee of the House Committee on Appropriations, visited the former Cliburn Manor site, Greater Dayton Premier Management (GDPM), and Lyons Place II today. Congressman Turner released the following statement: “Today, I was able to showcase the creative housing development initiatives the Dayton area has to offer. Many of these can be national models. I am very proud to have worked on the Cliburn Manor and Lyons Place II sites. I am thankful to the Chairman for making the time to come visit these important projects in Dayton. I am proud of the work we have done in Dayton to make this city a home to so many families. “The Cliburn Manor site, Greater Dayton Premier Management (GDPM), and Lyons Place II are all examples of what can be accomplished when resources from the federal level are allocated creatively. These projects will help those in need and provide housing solutions for veterans and families. “I would like to thank George Oberer and Greg Thompson with Oberer Thompson, Jennifer Heapy with the GDPM, and Tim Bete along with Wes Young at St. Mary Development. Finally, I would like to thank Sister Rose who is a leading voice for low income housing in our community and was formerly with St. Mary Development and is GDPM Commissioner. I appreciate your hard work and dedication to our community.” Congressman Turner worked on the redevelopment of the Cliburn Manor site both as Mayor and as a Member of Congress. This site was once a public housing development and is now being redeveloped consistent with the housing needs of the community. Congressman Turner has supported the efforts of St. Mary Development Corporation, a non-profit housing developer headquartered in Dayton, to construct senior veteran housing on Dayton VAMC property. Congressman Turner helped St. Mary’s secure an enhanced use lease with the Department of Veterans Affairs in order to build this housing on the Dayton VAMC. They were awarded a $5.1 million Department of Housing and Urban Development grant in order to help finance the project. Chairman Diaz-Balart made the following statement: "I thank Congressman Turner for inviting me to Dayton to visit affordable housing projects in his community. As Transportation and Housing Appropriations Chairman, I appreciate seeing first-hand how federal resources are being allocated to provide for the most vulnerable and to learn from them about how we can make housing programs work more effectively. I commend Congressman Turner's commitment to providing housing solutions to deserving families and veterans, and look forward to working to better serve our nation’s most vulnerable populations.” ###
08.04.2016	Congressman Mike Turner released the following statement after the passing of former Congressman Steve LaTourette: “I am deeply saddened to hear of the passing of Congressman Steve LaTourette. Ohio has lost a great advocate and public servant. He continually fought for those who did not have a voice. His strong leadership and friendship will be missed. My prayers are with his family at this difficult time.” ###
08.02.2016	Congressman Turner, Chairman of the Tactical Air and Land Forces Subcommittee of the House Armed Services Committee, released the following statement after the United States Air Force announced F-35A has reached Initial Operational Capability. “This aircraft is important to our national defense and I am pleased to hear that the Air Force has reached initial operational capability. This is significant progress and this announcement is consistent with two recent hearings held by the Subcommittee on Tactical Air and Land Forces at Wright Patterson Air Force Base, and in Washington DC, highlighting the critical role of fifth generation aircraft to our National Security Strategy. This announcement also continues to showcase the contributions of the Air Force Material Command and Wright-Patterson Air Force Base which are the cornerstones of delivering aerospace power to the Nation.” ###
07.13.2016	On June 18th, Congressman Turner, Chairman of the Tactical Air and Land Forces Subcommittee of the House Armed Services Committee held a field hearing entitled Air Dominance and the Critical Role of Fifth Generation Fighters. Today, Congressman Turner continued to address capability, capacity and overall readiness concerns regarding U.S. Air Force Air Dominance, specifically on current and projected shortfalls. General Herbert J. “Hawk” Carlisle, Commander, US Air Force Air Combat Command joined today’s hearing as a witness. “We must remain committed to providing the resources necessary to provide the capability, capacity and readiness necessary to accomplish the critical mission of maintaining Air Dominance. The House passed NDAA focuses on the importance of overall readiness for our warfighters and my hope is this hearing will continue to shed light on this issue.” Click here to watch the first part of this hearing held at Carney Auditorium, National Museum of the Air Force, Wright-Patterson Air Force Base Dayton, OH. ###
07.13.2016	Congressman Turner, Co-chair of the Historic Preservation Caucus, released the following statement after the House Natural Resource Committee’s passed his bill, H.R. 2817, the National Historic Preservation Amendments Act: “Today’s vote to advance the National Historic Preservation Amendments Act is an important step in reauthorizing this incredibly valuable preservation tool that has served Dayton, Ohio and states and communities across the country for nearly forty years. “The Historic Preservation Fund helped to establish the Wright-Dunbar Village Historic District, the West Dayton neighborhood that was once home to the Wright Brothers and African-American poet Paul Laurence Dunbar. Reauthorization of the Historic Preservation Fund is vital to state, local, and tribal historic preservation programs nationwide, and I look forward to consideration of my bill by the full House.” Historic Preservation Fund (HPF): Created in 1976, the HPF derives its funding from Outer Continental Shelf leases rather than tax-payer dollars. The HPF achieves its preservation mission of documenting, preserving and utilizing America’s legacy of historic sites by providing funding to State and Tribal Historic Preservation Officers and through, at times, competitive grants to identify and rehabilitate historic resources. This essential support spurs job creating economic development and community revitalization making it an excellent dollar-for-dollar investment to foster economic growth. ###
07.08.2016	NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg, Congressman Mike Turner, and President of the Republic of Poland Andrzej Duda. Congressman Turner, the NATO Parliamentary Assembly President, addressed 28 heads of state in Warsaw, Poland at the NATO Summit this morning in a closed session. Below are Congressman Turner’s remarks as prepared: NATO Summit of Heads of State and Government Warsaw, Poland, 8 July 2016 Address by Hon. Michael R. Turner (United States) President, NATO Parliamentary Assembly Thank you for the opportunity to present the NATO Parliamentary Assembly’s views on the challenges to our Alliance. NATO is a force for peace. It was NATO that brought peace to the Balkans. The treaty that ended the war in Bosnia bears the name of my hometown, Dayton. Two decades later, NATO faces new security threats, and must remain an anchor of stability. Russia now calls NATO an adversary and seeks to undermine NATO, while showing a complete disregard for international laws and norms. Russia speaks the languages of force and intimidation, not dialogue and cooperation. Our nations are also threatened by international terrorists–working in some cases with our own citizens. NATO’s members, partners, and adversaries may change; however, the threat that leaders of other nations may attack their own populations or seek to dominate their neighbors will not. Aggression will not be defeated by the passage of time or a new century of ideas. Security can only be assured by credible military forces that can deter and defend against those who would do us harm. Your constituents lock their doors at night, not because they believe that their neighbors are murderers and thieves, but because not doing so would be irresponsible for the protection of their families. Similarly, underfunding deterrence irresponsibly places our NATO family at risk. Dialogue is important to avoid conflicts, but it cannot offset the investment necessary for deterrence. The NATO Parliamentary Assembly’s Declaration for this summit calls for: NATO to rely upon its traditional assets. The first is unity. Our words and actions must show that NATO’s security is one and indivisible. The second is the unique commitment to collective defense. We must show that NATO has the will and the means to defend each and every inch of our territory. The third is our military might: the Alliance needs conventional and nuclear capabilities sufficient to reassure our own members and deter those who threaten us. That must include a sizable, persistent forward presence in the east and southeast, combining fixed and rotational elements and pre-positioned equipment, with contributions from all 28 allies. NATO must have the arrangements and infrastructure necessary to reinforce that presence rapidly in the face of opposition. NATO forces must be flexible, able to deploy rapidly within Europe or beyond to project stability, for instance, by supporting the international counter-ISIL coalition or building partners’ capacity in Libya, Iraq, Afghanistan and elsewhere. And, we must complete NATO’s missile defense system to defend our territory against the growing number of nations acquiring missile technology and weapons of mass destruction. But, what about the cost? The United States has made a commitment with the European Reassurance Initiative. Europe must now follow suit. In Wales, we began to address the funding gap. Now we must make sure that the investments are equitably shared. In addition, the Assembly supports an accelerated timeline for achieving the Wales spending targets. We are also pressing for a prompt ratification of Montenegro’s accession to demonstrate that NATO’s open door is a reality. On behalf of the Assembly, we appreciate your leadership of NATO, a defense alliance united by its values and its commitment to peace. Thank You ### Ahead of the NATO Summit, Congressman Turner released the report “Deterring to Defend: Delivering on NATO’s Promise”. This report details the many facets and dimensions of Russia’s global strategy – including its illegal occupation of parts of Georgia and Ukraine, nuclear threats against NATO Allies, its intensive propaganda and subversion campaign, and massive investments in military modernization, among others. Click here to read the report.
07.08.2016	Congressman Turner, Chairman of theHouse Armed Services Subcommittee on Tactical Air and Land Forces, released the following statement after Speaker Ryan appointed 44 House Republican lawmakers to serve on a bipartisan conference committee charged with producing a final National Defense Authorization Act. “I look forward to working in a bipartisan manner with my colleagues on this critical piece of legislation. We must work to reverse the devastating cuts made by sequestration and end the Administration’s draw down of our troops. As our nation continues to address some of the most dangerous threats we’ve faced both at home and abroad, we must ensure our military services are provided the resources they require in order to meet those threats head on.” ###
07.06.2016	Congressman Turner released the following statement after the President announced he would leave 8,400 troops in Afghanistan. This announcement comes after the President stated he would reverse his pledge to bring back almost all service members before he left office in January 2017. “I have repeatedly called for an end in the reduction of troops and for the Administration to realistically address the threats our country currently faces. This year’s National Defense Authorization Act will provide the funding necessary to maintain a minimum level of 9,800 troops for this vital mission in Afghanistan, unlike the Administration whose budget request fails to provide the funding necessary to support this recent announcement. We must continue to reverse the harmful decisions being made by this Administration with respect to national security. It is time the President comes to the table in a meaningful way and work with Congress to support our warfighters. “This announcement comes ahead of the NATO Warsaw Summit where I will be addressing 28 heads of state to further discuss the importance of cooperation between our allies as we continue to face evolving and worsening global threats.” In February, Congressman Turner introduced the Protecting Our Security Through Utilizing Right-Sized End-Strength (POSTURE) Act of 2016 which would ensure that our Land Forces will not be depleted as a result of the Administration’s persistent flawed assumptions about the current security environment. ###
07.06.2016	Allied leaders must acknowledge the global and comprehensive challenge posed by Russia, and revisit arrangements for NATO’s collective defense and deterrence, NATO PA President Hon. Michael R. Turner argues in a report released today. The report, entitled “Deterring to Defend: Delivering on NATO’s Promise”, details the many facets and dimensions of Russia’s global strategy – including its illegal occupation of parts of Georgia and Ukraine, nuclear threats against NATO Allies, its intensive propaganda and subversion campaign, and massive investments in military modernization, among others. It calls on NATO Heads of State and Government at their upcoming meeting in Warsaw on 8-9 July to take the real measure of the challenge posed by Russia, and adapt NATO’s deterrence and defense posture accordingly. “Russia – as it continually states – is a formidable military power, possessing the full spectrum of conventional and nuclear capabilities. Those capabilities in conjunction with its behavior and rhetoric place it at the forefront of the challenges facing NATO. No other challenge on the horizon raises the spectre of such wholesale destruction. Deterring conflict and Russia’s attempts to reassert its sphere of influence is therefore a central priority”, the report reads. According to Congressman Turner, priorities for NATO must include: “acknowledge[ing] the nature and extent of the threat posed by Russia; bolster[ing] nuclear deterrence; enhanc[ing] NATO’s forward defense in the East; giv[ing] NATO’s missile defense a new impetus; and continue[ing] efforts to reverse past cuts in defense budgets.” Congressman Turner will address NATO’s leaders at the Warsaw Summit on behalf of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly. nato pa special publication - deterring to defend.pdf CLICK HERE TO READ THE REPORT
07.05.2016	Congressman Turner released the following statement after FBI Director James Comey announced that the FBI has concluded its investigation of Hillary Clinton’s mishandling of classified emails: “I believe it is in the best interest of the country that the independent counsel statute is reauthorized to review the findings of the FBI’s investigation into Secretary Clinton’s mishandling of classified information, and to make an independent and impartial decision about whether to prosecute the former Secretary for potential criminal activity. “The investigation by the FBI is steeped in political bias, especially considering that former President Bill Clinton met with Attorney General Loretta Lynch just days before the FBI announced its decision. The role of the independent counsel is to keep investigations honest and prosecutorial decisions independent of the political, personal, and financial conflicts of interest that undermine accountability in government. It is time for Secretary Clinton to be held accountable for her extremely careless actions.” In May, Congressman Turner introduced H.R. 5271, the Independent Counsel Reauthorization Act of 2016, which would reinstate the role of Congress in requesting independent investigations of senior Administration officials and require the Attorney General to conduct preliminary investigations when she is provided with specific and credible information alleging that a high-ranking official committed a serious federal crime. The role of Congress in requesting and appointing independent counsels originated with passage of the Ethics in Government Act of 1978 in an effort to curb abuse of power by the President and executive branch officials. Investigations carried out by independent counsels include: Arthur Christy - relating to allegations of illegal drug use by President Jimmy Carter's Chief of Staff Hamilton Jordan, 1978 Leon Silverman - relating to allegations that Secretary of Labor Raymond Donovan had connections to organized crime, 1981–84 Lawrence E. Walsh - relating to the Iran-Contra affair, 1986–93 Kenneth Starr and Robert Ray - relating to the suicide of Vince Foster, the Whitewater scandal, and the Lewinsky scandal, 1994–2001 The independent counsel statute expired June 30th, 1999. ###
07.01.2016	The United States Air Force Life Cycle Management Center (AFLCMC), based at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base in Congressman Mike Turner’s district, awarded GE Aviation a $1 billion contract to continue maturing its three-steam adaptive cycle engine via the Adaptive Engine Transition Program (AETP). Congressman Turner released the following statement: “I congratulate GE on the continuation of their revolutionary aircraft engine program. GE’s work with the Air Force, and Wright-Patterson Air Force Base specifically, is crucial to the success of our military, country, and community. I look forward to the continued work this contract will bring to Southwest Ohio." ###
06.30.2016	Today, President Barack Obama proposed increased military cooperation with Russia in Syria. The President has proposed that the US would provide Russia with military resources and intelligence in Syria. In exchange, the President has asked Russia to pressure President Bashar Al-Assad to cease attacks against moderate opposition groups. Congressman Mike Turner released the following statement: “Russia continues to occupy significant portions of Ukraine and Georgia, challenge US military vessels in the Mediterranean and Black Seas, and is threatening NATO allies. It is incomprehensible that President Obama would agree to share US intelligence and military resources with Russia. President Obama must return to the drawing board and formulate a decisive plan to defeat and destroy ISIS.” ###
06.24.2016	Congressman Turner, President of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, released the following statement on the British referendum. “The British people voted last night to leave the European Union. It is their sovereign right and decision. I am convinced that the United Kingdom will continue to play a decisive role in favor of European stability and prosperity. “This decision will not affect the United Kingdom’s pivotal role in NATO. The Alliance is united in its response to the many complex challenges, which affect the security of Europe and North America today. I expect that the NATO Summit in Warsaw next month will reaffirm NATO’s role as the cornerstone of our common security, and our resolve to defend our citizens." ###
06.21.2016	Congressman Turner released the following statement urging Secretary of State John Kerry to denounce his recent nomination of Ms. Rose Gottemoeller for the position of NATO Deputy Secretary General after Senator Tom Cotton, Senator Jim Risch and Senator Marco Rubio echoed Congressman Turner’s concern. Previously, Congressman Turner wrote a letter with all Subcommittee Chairman from both the House Armed Services Committee and the House Committee on Foreign Affairs calling on Secretary Kerry to rescind his recent nomination of Ms. Rose Gottemoeller for the position of NATO Deputy Secretary General. “As I have stated before, Ms. Gottemoeller’s behavior suggests she may have repeatedly misled Members of Congress and our NATO allies. I am now joined by Members of the Senate asking you to rescind your nomination of Ms. Gottemoeller and put forth a new American nominee for this important position.” As a result of Ms. Gottemoeller’s unprofessionalism, Congressman Turner previously wrote to Chairman Rogers calling for Ms. Rose Gottemoeller, Under Secretary of State for Arms Control and International Security, to testify on the record concerning issues she appears to have misrepresented to Members of Congress. ###
06.16.2016	Congressman Turner released the following statement after meeting with Congressional Award Gold Medal recipient Rachana Raghupathy of Dayton, Ohio: “I would like to congratulate Rachana and I am proud to have her represent the Tenth Congressional District with this award. I wish her all the best in her bright future.” Rachana helped sick patients, motivated students to live healthier lifestyles and get involved in the community, and crocheted hats and scarves for the homeless for the winter season. Additionally, she has improved personal skills such as her violin playing, tennis game, and Indian classical dance skills. Her expedition was to New York City to learn about diversity. Earning a Congressional Award Gold Medal requires a significant commitment. Each participant must spend two years or more completing at least 400 hours of community service, 200 hours of both personal development and physical fitness activities, and a four-night Expedition or Exploration. For this achievement, Gold Medalists are recognized at the Capitol by their Member of Congress with the presentation of the Congressional Award Gold Medal, which is struck by the United States Mint. ###
06.10.2016	Congressman Turner released the following statement upon House passage of H.R. 5325, the FY2017 Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, which includes a provision he requested to prevent the Library of Congress from unilaterally censoring and eliminating its subject headings “Aliens” and “Illegal Aliens”: “Today the House acted to prevent the Library of Congress from engaging in partisanship and censorship. The Library of Congress has a duty to provide impartial and accurate access to Americans. I urge the Senate to pass this important legislation to keep Washington in check.” The language requested by Congressman Turner would require the Library of Congress to use subject headings consistent with the terminology of the United States Code, and not unilaterally change and eliminate its subject headings “Aliens” and “Illegal Aliens.” On March 22, the Library of Congress announced its decision to unilaterally revise its subject heading “Aliens” and eliminate its subject heading “Illegal Aliens.” On April 14, Congressman Turner sent a letter to Legislative Branch Subcommittee Chairman Tom Graves requesting language be included in the FY17 Legislative Branch Appropriations bill that would prohibit the Library of Congress from carrying out these changes. On April 20, the Legislative Branch Subcommittee advanced the FY17 funding measure, which included the provision requested by Congressman Turner. On May 17, the Appropriations Committee approved the measure. ###
06.06.2016	Under pressure from Congressman Turner, the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) has announced it will follow the law and establish the Health Tax Credit’s (HCTC) advance monthly payment (AMP) program by July 1. Congressman Turner released the following statement: "I am proud of this victory and pleased the IRS has finally given the Delphi retirees the certainty they need. I will continue to lead the fight and stand with these retirees to ensure they receive the treatment they deserve, and hold the IRS accountable as this program is implemented." In April, Rep. Turner led a bipartisan group of Members in writing to IRS Commissioner Koskinen urging the IRS to implement the law in accordance with the law, following IRS’s announcement that they would fail to meet the deadline for implementation of the HCTC’s AMP. In October of 2015, Rep. Turner and U.S. Senator Rob Portman sent a letter to IRS Commissioner John Koskinen in support of the IRS quickly implementing the HCTC Advance Payment Program. In June of 2015, Congress passed and the President signed into law H.R. 1295, which included a provision authored by Congressman Turner to renew and extend HCTC. In November of 2014, Reps. Turner and Ryan sent a bipartisan letter to House leadership reaffirming their strong support for the passage of an extension of the HCTC as part of a year-end tax extenders bill before the 113th Congress adjourned for the year. In March of 2014, Reps. Turner and Ryan joined a delegation of 28 Members and Senators from across the country in sending a letter to both House and Senate leadership pushing for the extension of the HCTC. In July of 2013, Reps. Turner and Ryan introduced legislation that would have provided the Delphi Salaried Retirees and other eligible individuals the choice of continuing within the HCTC program past the program’s termination date, or upon leaving the program. ###
05.25.2016	Congressman Turner released the following statement after introducing H.R. 5271, the Independent Counsel Reauthorization Act of 2016, which would reauthorize the independent counsel statute to reinstate the role of Congress in requesting independent investigations of the Administration. “Whether it is the IRS targeting taxpayers for their political beliefs, or Secretary Clinton’s use of a private email server, the Administration has refused to appoint non-partisan, independent investigators to lead these efforts. Congress must take action to ensure that these investigations are impartial, professional, and free of political motivation. “This bill would reauthorize the independent counsel statute to reinstate the role of Congress in requesting independent investigations of the Administration. The House continues to conduct hearings and hold government official accountable to the taxpayers, and the Administration should do the same.” The role of Congress in requesting and appointing independent counsels originated with passage of the Ethics in Government Act of 1978 in an effort to curb abuse of power by the President and executive branch officials. Investigations carried out by independent counsels include: Arthur Christy - relating to allegations of illegal drug use by President Jimmy Carter's Chief of Staff Hamilton Jordan, 1978 Leon Silverman - relating to allegations that Secretary of Labor Labor Raymond Donovan had connections to organized crime, 1981–84 Lawrence E. Walsh - relating to the Iran-Contra affair, 1986–93 Kenneth Starr and Robert Ray - relating to the suicide of Vince Foster, the Whitewater scandal, and the Lewinsky scandal, 1994-2001 The independent counsel statute expired June 30th, 1999. ###
05.25.2016	Congressman Turner released the following statement after introducing the bipartisan CRIB Act which would help cover the treatment costs of neonatal abstinence syndrome (NAS), a withdrawal condition in newborns often caused by opioids and other addictive substances in pregnant women. This is a companion bill to the CRIB Act Senator Sherrod Brown recently introduced in the Senate. “I am proud to lead this effort in the House and fight for those who are born addicted to opioids. This bill would help organizations like Brigid’s Path, which provide inpatient medical care for drug-exposed newborns,” said Congressman Turner. “The opioid epidemic has swept through our communities and we must work together to end addiction for those innocent children beginning their lives.” Congressman Turner has been fighting the opioid epidemic in Dayton since 2013: • December 18, 2013: Toured Soin Medical Center, where issue of Heroin-Exposed Newborns was raised. • March 10, 2014: Met with area hospitals to discuss the growing issue of Heroin-Exposed Newborns. • May 15, 2014: Visited Dayton Children’s Hospital NICU to discuss infant heroin exposure and the withdrawal and recovery process. • June 30, 2014: Held a Community Forum on the Effects of the Heroin Epidemic on Newborns. • August 27, 2014: Visited the Women’s Recovery Center. • May 2015: Held Community Summit on Heroin-Exposed Infants. • August 21, 2015: Toured Greene County Jail and Green Leaf Alcohol and Drug Treatment Program; met with criminal justice system administrators and substance abuse and mental health leadership. • November 18, 2015: Met with ONDCP Director Michael Botticelli and introduced the TREAT Act with Congresswoman Marcia L. Fudge (OH-11) and Congresswoman Niki Tsongas (MA-3). • May 12, 2016: The House passed an amendment he cosponsored to increase access to treatment for pregnant women struggling with substance abuse. ###
05.19.2016	Congressman Turner joined House Republicans this morning to proudly announce the passage of the National Defense Authorization Act of Fiscal Year 2017: "The National Defense Authorization Act is about supporting our men and women in uniform and ensuring that we return our armed forces to a state of readiness.” Click here to watch his full remarks. ###
05.18.2016	Congressman Turner released the following statement upon Appropriations Committee approval of the FY2017 Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, which includes a provision he requested to prevent the Library of Congress from unilaterally censoring and eliminating its subject headings “Aliens” and “Illegal Aliens”: “The Committee’s approval of this legislation brings us one step closer to preventing the Library of Congress from advancing these partisan interests and censorship. The Library of Congress is undermining its credibility and ignoring its responsibility to provide the American people with impartial and accurate access to its many resources.” On March 22nd the Library of Congress announced its decision to unilaterally revise its subject heading “Aliens” and eliminate its subject heading “Illegal Aliens.” On April 14th, Congressman Turner sent a letter to the Chairman of the Legislative Branch Subcommittee Tom Graves requesting language be included in the FY17 Legislative Branch Appropriations bill that would prohibit the Library of Congress from carrying out these changes. On April 20th, the Legislative Branch Subcommittee advanced the FY17 funding measure, which included the provision requested by Congressman Turner. On May 17, the Appropriations Committee approved the measure, which now awaits consideration on the House floor. ###
05.18.2016	Congressman Mike Turner, Chairman of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Tactical Air and Land Forces, released the following statement after the House passed the FY 2017 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA): “As our nation continues to address some of the most dangerous threats we’ve faced both at home and abroad, we must ensure our military can meet those threats head on. The FY2017 NDAA provides our men and women in uniform with the resources needed to support and defend our country. “Additionally, I am proud of the work executed by my subcommittee to address the importance of readiness and responsiveness for our warfighters as we look to modernize against current and future threats.” The FY2017 NDAA also includes the provisions of the Prevent Retaliation and Open Transparency to Expand Care for Troops (PROTECT) Act. The PROTECT Act combats sexual assault in the military by calling for increased transparency in the military justice system, greater protection for survivors and witnesses from retaliation, better survivor access to court information and an increase focus on treatment for male survivors of sexual assault. Both Congressman Turner and Congresswoman Tsongas, co-chairs of the Military Sexual Assault and Prevention Caucus, introduced the PROTECT Act earlier this year. “The PROTECT Act increases transparency and protects survivors and those affected by sexual assault in the military. Our servicemen and women sacrifice so much for our country and they deserve to be protected against retaliation that often coincides with sexual assault,” said Rep. Turner. “Rep. Tsongas and I have fought together for years for those who need it most and I appreciate her continued dedication and support of our nation’s military.” Included below is a breakdown of provisions championed by Congressman Turner in the FY17 NDAA: Sexual Assault in the Military Recent reports and testimony, including witnesses at the Judicial Proceedings Panel, have highlighted deficiencies in the military system that often leaves survivors unprotected, without access to basic court documents and information. In addition, the military criminal justice system currently does not designate a crime to specifically punish acts of professional retaliation against survivors and witnesses of crimes, and instances of retaliation are often investigated by untrained or under-trained personnel. The PROTECT Act would: Create a specific article in the Uniform Code of Military Justice criminalizing professional retaliation against victims and witnesses of crimes. Require retaliation-specific investigation training for Department of Defense (DOD) investigators. Require DOD to report data on sexual assaults against spouses, intimate partners, and children to Congress. Require the DOD to create a website where victims, witnesses, and members of the public can access key court-martial information, including docketed court dates, key court documents, and records of trial. Encourage the DOD to provide treatment options, including intensive therapy, to male victims of sexual assault. Army Force Strength POSTURE ACT “As the Chairman of the Tactical Air and Land Forces Subcommittee, I have seen the crippling effects of mindless budget cuts on the military forced by sequestration,” said Rep Turner. “Recent briefings from the U.S. Army and a hearing I chaired on the findings of the National Commission on the Future of the Army confirmed the strain these cuts put on our troops. We must properly fund our defense department to ensure the security and rights of the American people are maintained. Furthermore, proper defense funding allows for trust with our allies, deters aggression, shapes security environments and wins wars.” The POSTURE Act would: Ensure that our Land Forces will not be depleted as a result of the Administration’s flawed assumptions about the current security environment. Our military’s ability to meet new and complex global demands is essential to our national security and a continued force drawdown would be catastrophic. Wright-Patterson Air Force Base “I am proud of the provisions in this year’s NDAA that would support Wright-Patterson Air Force Base. Wright-Patterson is critical to our Air Force, country, state, and the Dayton community. The legislation continues to bolster the robust portfolio that Wright-Patterson facilitates each day, keeping Americans safe at home and abroad.” Protection of Child Custody Rights for Members of the Armed Forces: Annual notification and pre-deployment notification to Service members of their parental rights under the Service Members Civil Relief Act. Attendance at Professional and Technical Conferences: In last year’s bill Congressman Turner included a provision requiring the DoD to review current policies of personnel participation in professional and technical conferences. This year, Congressman Turner built off that success to further ensure our military personnel working in fields such as engineering and science and technology are not restricted. Improved Security Gate at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base: Congressman Turner ensured the bill provided funding for increased security at Wright Patterson. Congressman Turner has worked with Gen. Ellen Pawlikowski, the commander of the Air Force Materiel Command at Wright-Patterson, to urge action to improve security measures on the sprawling base. Technology Transfer: Building off of a successful push from last year’s NDAA on technology transfer capabilities, Congressman Turner included language ensuring the Air Force Research Laboratory (AFRL) is permitted to leverage private sector capabilities in order to provide the warfighters the newest technologies. Hypersonics Research: Congressman Turner ensured the bill provided increased funding for Hypersonics research. The DoD has placed urgency on the important development of Hypersonic Systems. These systems have the ability to travel Mach 5 plus and at very high altitudes and are pivotal to the maintaining U.S. Air Dominance. Autonomous Systems Research: Congressman Turner included language to increase funding for advanced research into the development of “human-machine teaming”. The Air Force has identified Autonomy as a “game changing” technology. Autonomous Systems, which can facilitate decision-making at the speed of computing, offer distinct advantages for Airmen and the Air Force’s mission at large. Collaboration between AFRL and other Ohio Research Labs: Congressman Turner ensured the bill provided increased funding for the Air Force Research Laboratory’s collaborative work with other Ohio based research labs. Southwest Ohio has become a hub of scientific and technical innovation for the Air Force, and the Department of Defense at-large. AFRL at Wright-Patterson is integral to the development, integration, and discovery of new technologies and capabilities to address a broad range of emerging threats. Supporting AFRL and other research laboratories Congressman Turner proudly cosponsored a provision offered by Rep. Tsongas that makes permanent an authority that allows Department of Defense laboratories to provide funds for research and development of technologies for critical military missions. UAS Research Collaboration: Congressman Turner included language this year to support the collaboration of Unmanned Aircraft Systems (UAS) research between the DoD, NASA, and the FAA. The use of UAS have significantly increased, with continued strong projected growth. Collaboration between the federal agencies involved in UAS flight and research is key to integrating UAS into the national air space for military purposes. Joint Systems Manufacturing Center in Lima, Ohio This year, Congressman Turner included a provision that would allow the plant to maximize use of the facility while improving efficiencies through a pilot program that promotes cost savings. Congressman Turner continues to fight to protect the production lines and the skilled, technical workers at the Lima tank plant. Tactical Air & Land Forces Subcommittee The Tactical Air and Land Forces proposal works to ensure our military retains strength and agility with respect to air and land force modernization strategies, and provides the funding and authorization necessary to retain overmatch against current and future threats. Consistent with previous NDAA activity, the proposal continues to recognize that a vital industrial base at every level is critical to the long-term effectiveness and operational capability of the force. Tactical Air & Land Forces Subcommittee Programmatic Summaries Advances the development and procurement of lighter, stronger and more advanced personal protective equipment systems for all soldiers, while also ensuring women entering combat roles are fully and correctly equipped. Authorizes multiyear procurement authorities for UH-60 Black Hawk helicopters and AH-64 Apache Attack helicopters to generate better cost savings for the taxpayer and provide the most modernized helicopters for the active and reserve components. Requires the Secretary of Defense to develop munition strategies for each of the Combatant Commands in order to better assess critical munition requirements and inventory shortfalls. Continues to provide necessary oversight of the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter program with legislation requiring the GAO to review current sustainment strategies. Stresses the importance of rapidly developing and fielding needed aircraft survivability equipment for helicopters and tactical aircraft. Supports and encourages a more streamlined and accelerated approach to fielding vehicle active protection systems to better address emerging threats. Unaccompanied Alien Children on CONUS military installations Congressman Turner was a cosponsor of the READI Act, which prohibits the use of a military installation to house any alien unlawfully present in the United States. Congressman Turner supported Congressman Bridenstine’s (OK-1) amendment to prohibit housing Unaccompanied Alien Children on CONUS military installations. ###
05.17.2016	Congressman Mike Turner, Chairman of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Tactical Air and Land Forces, released the following statement after the Senate confirmed Centerville High School graduate, Acting Secretary of the Air Force Eric Fanning, to be Secretary of the Army. “I would like to congratulate Eric Fanning of Centerville, Ohio on becoming Secretary of the Army. His dedication and service to our country is honorable. He has shown true leadership and our community can be proud to have him serving our nation. I look forward to working with him in the near future.” ###
05.12.2016	Click here to watch Congressman Turner speak on the House floor in support of this amendment. Congressman Mike Turner released the following statement upon House passage of an amendment he cosponsored to increase access to treatment for pregnant women struggling with substance abuse: “I am proud to continue to fight for a better life for both babies and mothers who have been exposed to heroin and opioids. This is a significant step forward in our effort to develop and implement a strategy that provides targeted intervention and takes significant steps to identify and treat this at-risk population. Now is the time for decisive, thoughtful action that seeks to provide the best possible start in life for our community’s children, and passage of this amendment is step towards achieving that goal.” This amendment is another initiative undertaken by Congressman Turner to protect pregnant women and their babies from the dangerous effects of exposure to heroin and opioids. Specifically, the amendment would help provide care for expectant mothers with substance abuse disorders and help put them on the path to recovery by expanding the eligible uses of existing grant funding available through the Department of Justice. With this increased access to treatment, these mothers and their unborn children stand to benefit. Congressman Turner has been fighting this issue in Southwest Ohio since 2013: December 18, 2013: Toured Soin Medical Center, where issue of Heroin-Exposed Newborns was raised. March 10, 2014: Met with area hospitals to discuss the growing issue of Heroin-Exposed Newborns. May 15, 2014: Visited Dayton Children’s Hospital NICU to discuss infant heroin exposure and the withdrawal and recovery process. June 30, 2014: Held a Community Forum on the Effects of the Heroin Epidemic on Newborns. August 27, 2014: Visited the Women’s Recovery Center. May 2015: Held Community Summit on Heroin-Exposed Infants. August 21, 2015: Toured Greene County Jail and Green Leaf Alcohol and Drug Treatment Program; met with criminal justice system administrators and substance abuse and mental health leadership. November 18, 2015: Met with ONDCP Director Michael Botticelli and introduced the TREAT Act with Congresswoman Marcia L. Fudge (OH-11) and Congresswoman Niki Tsongas (MA-3). ###
05.03.2016	Congressman Turner released the following statement after announcing students from the tenth district who have been nominated to attend the U.S. Service Academies: “Year after year, young men and women at such a young age raise their hand and volunteer to serve and protect this country. I am honored to recognize these students who will be attending Service Academies next year and representing Southwest, Ohio with great pride and patriotism.” In order for a student to be considered for a military academy appointment, he or she must be recommended by an authorized nominating source. This could include the President, Vice President, a Member of the Senate or a Member of the House of Representatives. Receiving a nomination is only the first step in the process of receiving an offer of appointment to a U.S. military service academy. Students must qualify academically and are subject to character, leadership physical fitness, medical fitness and motivation evaluations. To attend the United States Naval Academy: Jared Fuerst – Fairborn, OH Eric Towe – Vandalia, OH David Vine – Dayton, OH To attend the United States Air Force Academy: Michael Chuck – Beavercreek, OH Matthew Kuhn – Centerville, OH Tyler Wiederholt – Bellbrook, OH To attend the United States Air Force Prep Academy: Callie Wolfenberger – Beavercreek, OH To attend the United States Military Academy (West Point): Alexander Decker – Kettering, OH Holly Hulett – Bellbrook, OH Gavin Tom – Spring Valley, OH To attend the United States Merchant Marine Academy: Caitlin Erbacher – Fairborn, OH ###
05.02.2016	Congressman Turner released the following statement regarding his recent vote to prohibit unaccompanied alien children from being housed at military bases: “Security throughout the City of Dayton and Wright-Patterson Air Force Base is critically important. It is irresponsible and dangerous to allow unaccompanied illegal alien children to be housed at our military installations. This is an issue of safety and security for our service members, our community, and the children themselves. Additionally, the base is not equipped for such a mission especially, while our military is struggling to meet our national security demands.” Last week, the House Armed Services Committee considered the FY2017 National Defense Authorization Act, which included a provision to prohibit housing unaccompanied alien children on military installations in the continental United States. In addition to supporting the amendment, Congressman Turner is also a cosponsor of the READI Act, legislation that prohibits the use of a military installation to house any alien unlawfully present in the United States. The FY2017 National Defense Authorization Act now awaits full consideration in the house. Congressman Turner has continued to urge the City of Dayton to rescind the invitation to illegal immigrants and refugees to come to Dayton. ###
04.28.2016	Congressman Mike Turner, Chairman of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Tactical Air and Land Forces, released the following statement after the House Armed Services Committee marked up the FY 2017 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA): “The FY2017 NDAA provides our men and women in uniform with the resources needed to keep Americans safe at home and abroad. As our nation continues to address some of the most complex security challenges in recent history, we must ensure our military can meet those threats head on. “Additionally, I am proud of the steps we are taking to protect the responsiveness of our national defense capabilities and provide the necessary resources to modernize our military to combat future threats.” The FY2017 NDAA also includes the provisions of the Prevent Retaliation and Open Transparency to Expand Care for Troops (PROTECT) Act which calls for increased transparency in the military justice system, greater protection for survivors and witnesses from retaliation, better survivor access to court information, and an increased focus on treatment for male survivors of sexual assault. Both Congressman Turner and Congresswoman Tsongas, co-chairs of the Military Sexual Assault and Prevention Caucus, introduced the PROTECT Act earlier this year. “The PROTECT Act works to increase transparency and protect survivors and those affected by this crime. Our servicemen and women sacrifice so much for our country and they deserve to know they are protected against the retaliation that often coincides with this crime” said Rep. Turner. “Rep. Tsongas and I have worked together over the years to fight for those who need it most and I appreciate her ongoing dedication to our nation’s military.” Included below is a breakdown of provisions championed by Congressman Turner in the FY17 NDAA: Sexual Assault in the Military Recent reports and testimony, including witnesses at the Judicial Proceedings Panel, have highlighted deficiencies in the military system that often leaves survivors unprotected, without access to basic court documents and information. In addition, the military criminal justice system currently does not designate a crime to specifically punish acts of professional retaliation against survivors and witnesses of crimes, and instances of retaliation are often investigated by untrained or under-trained personnel. The PROTECT Act would: Create a specific article in the Uniform Code of Military Justice criminalizing professional retaliation against victims and witnesses of crimes. Require retaliation-specific investigation training for Department of Defense (DOD) investigators. Require DOD to report data on sexual assaults against spouses, intimate partners, and children to Congress. Require the DOD to create a website where victims, witnesses, and members of the public can access key court-martial information, including docketed court dates, key court documents, and records of trial. Encourage the DOD to provide treatment options, including intensive therapy, to male victims of sexual assault. Army Force Strength POSTURE ACT “As the Chairman of the Tactical Air and Land Forces Subcommittee, I have seen first hand the effects sequestration has had on our military,” said Rep Turner. “These concerns have been reinforced by recent briefings from the U.S. Army and a hearing I chaired on the findings of the National Commission on the Future of the Army. We must pre-empt future degradations of the ability of the Land Forces of the United States to safeguard the security and rights of the American people and to assure our allies, deter aggression, shape security environments and win wars. The POSTURE Act would: - Ensure that our Land Forces will not be depleted as a result of the Administration’s flawed assumptions about the current security environment. - Our military’s ability to meet new and complex global demands is essential to our national security and a continued force drawdown would be catastrophic. Wright-Patterson Air Force Base “I am proud of the language included in this year’s NDAA that will support Wright-Patterson Air Force Base which is critical to our country and to Southwest Ohio. The provisions continue to bolster the robust portfolio that Wright-Patterson facilitates each day, keeping Americans safe at home and abroad.” Protection of Child Custody Rights for Members of the Armed Forces: - Annual notification and pre-deployment notification to Service members of their parental rights under the Service Members Civil Relief Act. Attendance at Professional and Technical Conferences: - In last year’s bill Congressman Turner included a provision requiring the DoD to review current policies of personnel participation in professional and technical conferences. This year, Congressman Turner built off that success to further ensure our military personnel working in fields such as engineering and science and technology are not restricted. Improved Security Gate at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base: - Congressman Turner ensured the bill provided funding for increased security at Wright Patterson. Congressman Turner has worked with Gen. Ellen Pawlikowski, the commander of the Air Force Materiel Command at Wright-Patterson, to urge action to improve security measures on the sprawling base. Technology Transfer: - Building off of a successful push from last year’s NDAA on technology transfer capabilities, Congressman Turner included language ensuring the Air Force Research Laboratory (AFRL) is permitted to leverage private sector capabilities in order to provide the warfighters the newest technologies. Hypersonics Research: - Congressman Turner ensured the bill provided increased funding for Hypersonics research. The DoD has placed urgency on the important development of Hypersonic Systems. These systems have the ability to travel Mach 5 plus and at very high altitudes and are pivotal to the maintaining U.S. Air Dominance. Autonomous Systems Research: - Congressman Turner included language to increase funding for advanced research into the development of “human-machine teaming”. The Air Force has identified Autonomy as a “game changing” technology. Autonomous Systems, which can facilitate decision-making at the speed of computing, offer distinct advantages for Airmen and the Air Force’s mission at large. Collaboration between AFRL and other Ohio Research Labs: - Congressman Turner ensured the bill provided increased funding for the Air Force Research Laboratory’s collaborative work with other Ohio based research labs. Southwest Ohio has become a hub of scientific and technical innovation for the Air Force, and the Department of Defense at-large. AFRL at Wright-Patterson is integral to the development, integration, and discovery of new technologies and capabilities to address a broad range of emerging threats. Supporting AFRL and other research laboratories - Congressman Turner proudly cosponsored a provision offered by Rep. Tsongas that makes permanent an authority that allows Department of Defense laboratories to provide funds for research and development of technologies for critical military missions. UAS Research Collaboration: - Congressman Turner included language this year to support the collaboration of Unmanned Aircraft Systems (UAS) research between the DoD, NASA, and the FAA. The use of UAS have significantly increased, with continued strong projected growth. Collaboration between the federal agencies involved in UAS flight and research is key to integrating UAS into the national air space for military purposes. Tactical Air & Land Forces Subcommittee The Tactical Air and Land Forces proposal works to ensure our military retains strength and agility with respect to air and land force modernization strategies, and provides the funding and authorization necessary to retain overmatch against current and future threats. Consistent with previous NDAA activity, the proposal continues to recognize that a vital industrial base at every level is critical to the long-term effectiveness and operational capability of the force. Tactical Air & Land Forces Subcommittee Programmatic Summaries Advances the development and procurement of lighter, stronger and more advanced personal protective equipment systems for all soldiers, while also ensuring women entering combat roles are fully and correctly equipped. Authorizes multiyear procurement authorities for UH-60 Black Hawk helicopters and AH-64 Apache Attack helicopters to generate better cost savings for the taxpayer and provide the most modernized helicopters for the active and reserve components. Requires the Secretary of Defense to develop munition strategies for each of the Combatant Commands in order to better assess critical munition requirements and inventory shortfalls. Continues to provide necessary oversight of the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter program with legislation requiring the GAO to review current sustainment strategies. Stresses the importance of rapidly developing and fielding needed aircraft survivability equipment for helicopters and tactical aircraft. Supports and encourages a more streamlined and accelerated approach to fielding vehicle active protection systems to better address emerging threats. Unaccompanied Alien Children on CONUS military installations Congressman Turner was a cosponsor of the READI Act, which prohibits the use of a military installation to house any alien unlawfully present in the United States. Congressman Turner supported Congressman Bridenstine’s (OK-1) amendment to prohibit housing Unaccompanied Alien Children on CONUS military installations. ###
04.19.2016	Today, Congressman Turner led a bipartisan group of Members in writing to Internal Revenue Service (IRS) Commissioner Koskinen to share their concerns with the IRS’s recent announcement that they will fail to meet the deadline for implementation of the Health Coverage Tax Credit’s (HCTC) Advance Monthly Program (AMP). Click here to view their letter. Congressman Turner (OH-10) was joined by Congressmen Pat Tiberi (OH-12), Congressmen Steve Stivers (OH-15), Congressmen David Joyce (OH-14), Congressmen Tim Ryan (OH-13), Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-9), and Congressmen Chris Collins (NY-27). “The fact that the IRS waited until now to make this announcement disregards the personal decisions of individuals who rely on the AMP and expect your agency to meet the statutory deadline for its implementation. This treatment is unacceptable and continues to highlight the lack of accountability at the IRS.” In June, Congress passed and the President signed into law H.R. 1295, which included a provision authored by Congressman Turner to renew and extend the HCTC. In October 2015, U.S. Senator Rob Portman joined Congressman Mike Turner in a letter sent to IRS Commissioner John Koskinen to quickly implement the HCTC Advance Payment Program. This program is vital for Delphi salaried retirees facing health-related expenses. In November of 2014, Reps. Turner and Ryan sent a bipartisan letter to House leadership reaffirming their strong support for the passage of an extension of the HCTC as part of a year-end tax extenders bill before the 113th Congress adjourned for the year. In March of 2014, Reps. Turner and Ryan joined a delegation of 28 Members and Senators from across the country in sending a letter to both House and Senate leadership pushing for the extension of the HCTC. In July of 2013, Reps. Turner and Ryan introduced legislation that would have provided the Delphi Salaried Retirees and other eligible individuals the choice of continuing within the HCTC program past the program’s termination date, or upon leaving the program. ###
04.18.2016	Today, Congressman Mike Turner (R-OH) and Congresswoman Niki Tsongas (D-MA), Co-Chairs of the Military Sexual Assault Prevention Caucus, introduced the PROTECT Act, new legislation that continues the lawmakers’ bipartisan effort to combat sexual assault in the military. The Prevent Retaliation and Open Transparency to Expand Care for Troops (PROTECT) Act calls for increased transparency in the military justice system, greater protection for survivors and witnesses from retaliation, better survivor access to court information and an increased focus on treatment for male survivors of sexual assault. “Accountability begins at the top and must extend across the military, to every rank and position. The PROTECT Act works to increase transparency and protect survivors and those affected by this crime,” said Rep. Turner. “This legislation is a step closer to changing the current flawed system and will help to bring those offenders to justice. Our servicemen and women sacrifice so much for our country and they deserve to know they are protected against the retaliation that often coincides with this crime. Rep. Tsongas and I have worked together over the years to fight for those who need it most and I appreciate her ongoing dedication to our nation’s military.” “The PROTECT Act aims to ensure justice for survivors, witnesses, and military families against glaring deficiencies in the military justice system,” said Rep. Tsongas. “Too many victims still fear the social and professional retaliation that so often occurs when they work within the military justice system. It all evidences a flawed military culture and underscores the fact that much more needs to be done. This legislation will take much needed steps in changing the status quo by increasing transparency, training and protections afforded to survivors. And it does what should have been done long ago – make professional retaliation a crime. I thank Rep. Turner for his dedication to this cause and look forward to our continued work together.” The PROTECT Act would: Create a specific article in the Uniform Code of Military Justice criminalizing professional retaliation against victims and witnesses of crimes. Require specific retaliation investigation training for Department of Defense (DOD) investigators. Require DOD to report data on sexual assaults against spouses, intimate partners, and children to Congress. Require the DOD to create a website where victims, witnesses, and members of the public can access key court-martial information, including docketed court dates, key court documents, and records of trial. Encourage the DOD to provide treatment options, including intensive therapy, to male victims of sexual assault. Recent reports and testimony, including witnesses at the Judicial Proceedings Panel, have highlighted deficiencies in the military system that often leaves survivors unprotected, without access to basic court documents and information. In addition, the military criminal justice system currently does not designate a crime to specifically punish acts of professional retaliation against survivors and witnesses of crimes, and instances of retaliation are often investigated by untrained or under-trained personnel. On June 18, 2015 Air Force Special Victims Counsel Captain Micah Smith testified before the Judicial Proceedings Panel regarding the Inspector General’s ability to adequately investigate claims of retaliation, stating, “It's been my experience that the IG program that we currently have is not set up to handle retaliation as I've seen it.” On November 14, 2014, Meg Garvin, Executive Director, National Crime Victims' Law Institute, testified before the Judicial Proceedings Panel concerning the need for transparency in the military justice system. Ms. Garvin explained, “Everyone in this system has to have access to similar, if not equivalent information throughout the criminal investigation and prosecution, and then post-conviction. And the reason that has to happen is both the lawyer who is representing the victim and the victim need to know what is happening in the room that everyone else knows. A lawyer simply cannot counsel a victim on the best course of advocacy the best course of action if they are denied access to information about what is happening in proceedings.” ####
04.14.2016	Congressman Michael Turner released the following statement after sending a letter to the Chairman of the Legislative Branch Subcommittee of the House Committee on Appropriations Congressman Tom Graves requesting that language be included in the FY2017 Legislative Branch Appropriations bill. The Library of Congress announced on March 22, 2016 its decision to unilaterally revise its subject heading “Aliens” and eliminate its subject heading “Illegal Aliens.” “The Library’s attempt to unilaterally censor these terms, disregards their meaning and use in the current United States Code. By acting in the interest of partisanship, the Library of Congress is undermining its credibility and ignoring its responsibility to provide the American people with impartial and accurate access to its many resources. “ The language requested by Congressman Turner would prohibit the use of funds by the Library of Congress to unilaterally change and eliminate its subject headings “Aliens” and “Illegal Aliens.”
04.13.2016	Congressman Turner released the following statement after sending a letter to Gen. Ellen M. Pawlikowski to express his concern with the recently reported actions of Wright-Patterson Air Force Base (WPAFB) personnel removing a Bible from the POW/MIA display at Wright-Patterson Medical Center. “I am greatly concerned that the actions at Wright-Patterson Medical Center may reflect a policy implementation at WPAFB that could put at risk many of the artifacts currently on display at the National Museum of the United States Air Force.” Since 2007, Congressman Turner has been fighting against censorship and removal of religious symbols and expression. Most notably, Congressman Turner introduced bipartisan legislation titled, ‘The Andrew Larochelle God, Family, and Country Act,’ to permanently end the restriction of religious expressions on U.S. Capitol flag certificates. ###
04.13.2016	Congressman Turner released the following statement after sending Chief Executive Officer & Medical Center Director Glenn A. Costie, a letter of congratulations after the Dayton VA was chosen to house the Veterans Affairs (VA) National Archives. “I would like to congratulate Director Costie on this honor and his continued dedication to our nation’s veterans. This distinction and honor would not be possible without your hard work. I have worked diligently with our community to bring this important site to the Dayton area and I look forward to working together on this effort.” Congressman Turner was able to personally congratulate Director Costie yesterday while attending the Dayton Development Coalition Fly-In events. ###
04.12.2016	Rep. Turner, Sen. Portman and Sen. Brown released the following joint statement on the announcement that the Dayton Veterans Affairs campus will become the home of the Veterans Affairs National Archives. “We are proud to announce that Dayton has been selected for this honor. Ohio is home to nearly one million veterans and world class VA facilities. The region boasts a long-standing commitment to our nation’s veterans and a proud military tradition, making Dayton the ideal location for the VA National Archives. ” Currently, the VA archives are kept in multiple locations. When the VA decided to consolidate its archives into one central location, Dayton was immediately considered as a potential home. With its selection, the Dayton VA will serve as the central location for all records, photos, and information collected and preserved by the VA over the years. The facilities will bring jobs to the Dayton region and further build upon its reputation as home to a high-concentration of military and veteran’s expertise and knowledge. ###
04.12.2016	Congressman Turner released the following statement after Veterans Affairs Secretary Robert McDonald announced the Dayton VA could become the home of the VA’s national archives. “The region’s long-standing commitment to our nation’s veterans and its history of military innovation makes Dayton an excellent location for Veterans Affairs National Archives. This has been a longstanding goal of mine for our community and I am proud of the work we have done to secure this honor.” Since 2010, Congressman Turner has pressed the Obama Administration to place the VA National Archives at the VA Medical Center campus in Dayton. Currently, the VA archives are kept in multiple locations. When the Department of Veterans Affairs decided to consolidate its archives into one central location, Dayton was immediately considered. With nearly one million veterans who call Ohio home, Dayton serves as a fitting home for the National Archives. This complex would bring jobs to the Dayton region and solidify its reputation as a community with a high-concentration of military and veteran’s expertise and knowledge. Congressman Turner has worked to secure the VA National Archives throughout his time in Congress: • On January 28, 2008, Congressman Turner hosted senior officials from the Department of Veterans Affairs and the National Park Service at the Dayton VA campus. Congressman Turner’s leadership in highlighting the historic significance of the campus began the effort to secure the VA National Archives in Dayton. • On July 21st, 2010 Congressman Turner sent a letter to Secretary Shinseki on the importance of locating VHA Archives at the Medical Center campus in Dayton, Ohio. • On July 23, 2010 Congressman Turner lead an Ohio Delegation in letter to VA Secretary Shinseki to urge the placement of VA Archives in Dayton. • In 2011, Congressman Turner sent a letter to Veterans Administration Medical Center Acting Director William Montague urging him to award Dayton the VA Archives facility. ###
04.07.2016	Congressman Turner released the following statement after Wright-Patterson Air Force Base announced Col. Bradley W. McDonald will become the new base commander following Col. John M. Devillier’s departure in June. “First, I would like to thank Col. John M. Devillier for his partnership and dedication to the Wright-Patterson Air Force Base community. I look forward to working with Col. Bradley W. McDonald and congratulate him on this new phase in his already impressive career. "In addition, I look forward to working with Col. John M. Devillier at the Pentagon as his new responsibilities will intersect with the House Armed Services Committee.” ###
04.05.2016	Congressman Turner, Chairman of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Tactical Air and Land Forces, released the following statement while traveling with Speaker Ryan on his first Congressional Delegation trip as Speaker: “As a member of both the House Armed Services Committee and the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, this visit is important to maintain our relationship with Israel. We are at a critical moment and I know our two nations can continue to work together for a better future.” Congressman Turner is the only member in attendance who sits on both the House Armed Services Committee and the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence. Congressman Turner is the former Chairman and current member of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Strategic Forces. Under his leadership, the Subcommittee on Strategic Forces provided strong support to the Iron Dome short-range rocket defense system. For more information please follow along at http://www.speaker.gov/ ###
03.22.2016	Congressman Turner, Chairman of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Tactical Air and Land Forces, issued the following statement on the multiple terrorist attacks in Brussels today: “I was shocked and saddened to hear news of the horrific terrorist attacks in Brussels this morning. My thoughts and prayers are with the victims of these attacks. We remain firm in our condemnation of terrorism and will continue to combat this together with utmost resolve and guided by our unshakable commitment to the values which define our societies.” ###
03.16.2016	Secretary Kerry Must Rescind NATO Nomination Congressman Turner released the following statement after all Subcommittee Chairman from both the House Armed Services Committee and the House Committee on Foreign Affairs sent a letter to Secretary of State John Kerry denouncing his recent nomination of Ms. Rose Gottemoeller for the position of NATO Deputy Secretary General. “We believe Ms. Gottemoeller has exhibited a pattern of behavior that suggests she may have repeatedly misled Members of Congress and our NATO allies. Given the important role NATO plays in bringing stability to both Europe and North America, it is imperative to have the right individuals selected to execute this role. Ms. Gottemoeller has shown she does not posses the qualities necessary that this esteemed position requires.” As a result of Ms. Gottemoeller’s evasiveness, Congressman Turner previously wrote to Chairman Rogers calling for Ms. Rose Gottemoeller, Under Secretary of State for Arms Control and International Security, to testify on the record concerning issues she appears to have misrepresented to Members of Congress. Turner Questions Rose Gottemoeller <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mBY37A2wmi4> Gottemoeller_NATO_Letter_ (1).pdf
03.07.2016	Congressman Turner released the following statement announcing the support of the Buckeye State Sheriffs Association and the Ohio High Intensity Drug Trafficking Area (HIDTA) for the TREAT Act: “The heroin epidemic continues to grow in communities across the country, and the TREAT Act will help those who need it most,” said Congressman Mike Turner. “The support from both the Buckeye State Sheriffs Association and Ohio HIDTA underline the importance of the policies that would be enacted through the TREAT Act. Ohio’s law enforcement professionals are on the front lines battling the heroin epidemic, and I appreciate their support for this commonsense legislation.” The TREAT Act is a bipartisan bill to increase flexibility in how existing federal funding can be used to combat the heroin epidemic. In their letter of support, the Buckeye State Sheriffs Association stated: If counties were reimbursed for the programs and treatment of individuals jail space would be freed-up for the hardened criminals. A Medicaid program is available to addicted individuals prior to incarceration and should be available while incarcerated. The continuum of care for addicted individuals is paramount to the success for becoming “Drug Free”. Ohio High Intensity Drug Trafficking Area (HIDTA) expressed their support, stating: I fully support H.R. 4076 (TREAT Act) and the access it provides for treatment to those who are incarcerated. I truly believe this will help our jails, communities and those who have addiction issues. This may be the step in preventing further use and potential death to those who are incarcerated. Areas of Impact · The Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA) prohibits the use of grants from its Center for Substance Abuse Treatment (CSAT) for substance abuse treatment services provided to individuals who are incarcerated. Under this bill, these resources will be made available to individuals in both community-based and institutional settings. · Under Medicaid’s Institution for Mental Disease (IMD) exclusion, facilities with more than sixteen beds are not eligible for reimbursement. As such, the IMD exclusion prevents reimbursement for substance abuse treatment provided to incarcerated individuals who are otherwise eligible for and enrolled in Medicaid. Under this bill, substance abuse treatment provided in correctional institutions would become eligible for reimbursement. Congressman Turner has been fighting this issue in Southwest Ohio since 2013: · December 18, 2013: Toured Soin Medical Center, where issue of Heroin Exposed Newborns was raised. · March 10, 2014: Met with area hospitals to discuss the growing issue of Heroin Exposed Newborns. · May 15, 2014: Visited Dayton Children’s Hospital NICU to discuss infant heroin exposure and the withdrawal and recovery process. · June 30, 2014: Held a Community Forum on the Effects of the Heroin Epidemic on Newborns. · August 27, 2014: Visited the Women’s Recovery Center. · May 2015: Held Community Summit on Heroin Exposed Infants. · August 21, 2015: Toured Greene County Jail and Green Leaf Alcohol and Drug Treatment Program; met with criminal justice system administrators and substance abuse and mental health leadership. · November 18, 2015: Met with with ONDCP Director Michael Botticelli and introduced the TREAT Act with Congresswoman Marcia L. Fudge (OH-11) and Congresswoman Niki Tsongas (MA-3). ###
03.02.2016	Congressman Turner and Dayton History issued a joint press release announcing that Dayton History will oversee and manage the planning, implementation and operation of a new educational center at the Mound site in Miamisburg. Dayton History staff has started to process artifacts and digitize 80,000 negatives from the Mound Science and Energy Museum’s collections. Construction has not yet begun but planning is underway to reuse an existing building on the Mound site in conjunction with an engaging multi-media facility, which will allow the story of the Mound Lab to be told through educational programs, workshops and school-tours. “I have long advocated for the Mound to receive the recognition it deserves, and today I am happy to join Dayton History in this success,” said Congressman Mike Turner. “The Mound and the men and women who worked there have played an important role in our country’s history and more importantly our region’s. I look forward to visiting the facility upon completion in 2017.” “We want the world to understand the enormous impact Mound played in the U.S. weapons program and space exploration during the Cold War” said Brady Kress, Dayton History President & CEO…“key to the development of these new exhibits, are the Mound Lab retirees, who are subject matter experts and the heroes of these stories; their research and work helped win the Cold War.” The new education center is scheduled to open in October 2017. Dayton History staff and the volunteers of the Mound Science and Energy Museum will work together to educate visitors of all ages on the fascinating history of the Mound Lab. “This is another fine example of how the Mound is witnessing a rebirth through visitor traffic, commercial investment, and public amenities.” said Eric Cluxton, President of the Mound Development Corporation. Mound Laboratory had its origins in the World War II Manhattan Project, in which Dayton scientists were responsible for the final chemistry and metallurgy to isolate polonium, which was needed for the atomic bomb initiator. After successful demonstrations of their work in the skies over Japan, a site was located in Miamisburg, Ohio and construction on the Mound Laboratory began to replace the wartime Runnymede Playhouse site in Oakwood. The Mound Laboratory was the first permanent atomic energy facility to be constructed after the war in the United States, and its mission was to support atomic weapons research through the development of the radioactive element polonium. The Lab officially opened in 1949 with seventeen buildings built on the original 182 acre site. Mound Laboratory was on the cutting edge of science and technology for more than 50 years with the U.S. nuclear weapons and space exploration programs. In 1954, development of the Radioisotope Thermoelectric Generators at Mound provided electrical power for a variety of NASA space programs, including Apollo, Voyager I and II, Galileo, Cassini, the Mars rover and many more. ###
02.24.2016	Congressman Mike Turner released the following statement after more than 80 House Republicans joined a letter to the House Budget Committee stating they would not back down on last year’s budget deal of $574 billion for national defense base requirements. “I am proud to lead the over 80 House Republicans who stand by last year’s budget agreement to ensure our national defense is fully funded. As we face continued terror threats, it is critically important that we sustain our military and meet contingency operations requirements so that we can provide our next President with viable strategic options.” Congressman Turner sent a similar letter to House leaders regarding defense funding and the House budget resolution. That letter signed by 70 House Republicans, received overwhelming support and resulted in a budget deal that fully funded defense. ** CLICK HERE TO READ THE LETTER* ###
02.22.2016	Congressman Turner released the following statement in response to the report issued by the Inspector General for the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (PBGC): “The inquiry I requested has provided us with new information and has resulted in the PBGC making meaningful, substantive changes that will hold the agency accountable to Delphi Salaried Retirees. For far too long, these retirees have been denied access to information about their unjustly terminated pensions. Because of the inquiry I requested, the there is now greater transparency and accountability for Delphi Salaried Retirees.” On December 9, 2015, Turner wrote to the Office of Inspector General (IG) for the PBGC, requesting an inquiry into the agency’s actions in failing to provide retirees with information regarding the Plan Asset Audit and Benefit Statement Worksheets. On February 12, 2016, the IG issued its response and the results of its inquiry. In the inquiry requested by Turner, the IG determined that the Plan Asset Audit was completed on June 29, 2015. Completion of this Audit is required before any benefit determinations can be made. The PBGC had asserted, at least as late as August 31, 2015, that it had not yet completed the Audit. Without a completed and accurate Audit it is impossible to know whether a retiree is receiving the full pension benefit they are entitled to under the law. Further, the inquiry requested by Turner revealed that the IG determined that improvements were needed to the PBGC’s processes for retirees’ requesting Benefit Statement Worksheets. These Worksheets detail how an individual retiree’s benefits were calculated by the PBGC, and are necessary for retirees seeking to appeal the agency’s benefit calculation. Following the inquiry, the IG recommended and the PBGC agreed to make improvements to its process that will provide retirees with additional information in a more timely manner.
02.11.2016	https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Y2JbiqI9CZE Congressman Turner testified in support of his bill, H.R. 2817, the National Historic Preservation Amendments Act before the House Natural Resources Subcommittee on Federal Lands on Wednesday during their legislative hearing. “For nearly forty years, the Historic Preservation Fund has served as an incredibly valuable tool for states and communities across the country in carrying out historic preservation programs. For example, it was utilized in Dayton to help establish the Wright-Dunbar Village Historic District. I urge the Natural Resources Committee to take action on H.R. 2817 and reauthorize this program that is so vital to the state, local, and tribal historic preservation programs throughout the United States.” The National Trust for Historic Preservation was supportive of Congressman Turner’s testimony and work on this issue: “The Historic Preservation Fund has made possible the documentation, preservation and operation of America’s historic sites that tell our nation’s story, while also spurring job creation and community revitalization. We applaud the bi-partisan leadership of Rep. Michael Turner (R-OH) and Rep. Earl Blumenauer (D-OR) in co-sponsoring legislation to re-authorize the Fund and advocating for its passage in Congress.” Elizabeth Hughes, President of the National Conference of State Historic Preservation Officers was encouraged by Congressman Turner’s statements today, saying: “I want to thank Congressman Turner for recognizing that historic preservation projects facilitated by the Historic Preservation Fund (HPF) are about much more than preserving places and saving buildings. They are about revitalizing cities and towns, like Dayton. When he was mayor of Dayton during the 1990s, Congressman Turner learned firsthand that historic preservation projects do something that simply building new homes, office buildings and stores can never do. They tell the stories of our communities. They tell us about where we have come from and they point us toward where we are going. We appreciate Congressman Turner’s leadership in the effort to reauthorize the HPF.”
02.11.2016	TURNER & GIBSON: STOP Obama’s Land Forces Draw Down Turner and Gibson introduced Protecting Our Security Through Utilizing Right-Sized End-Strength (POSTURE) Act of 2016 “We maintain the Peace through Strength; weakness only invites aggression.” – President Ronald Reagan, March 23, 1983 Congressman Mike Turner (OH-10), Chairman of the House Armed Services Committee’s Subcommittee on Tactical Air and Land Forces and Congressman Chris Gibson (NY-19) released the following statement after introducing the Protecting Our Security Through Utilizing Right-Sized End-Strength (POSTURE) Act of 2016. “It remains evident that the Administration continues to jeopardize both our military and our national security, and by doing so, the peace that President Reagan spoke of is virtually extinct.” These concerns have been reinforced by recent briefings from the U.S. Army and yesterday’s hearing chaired by Congressman Turner on the findings of the National Commission on the Future of the Army. In response to yesterday’s findings, Congressman Turner and Congressman Gibson have introduced Protecting Our Security Through Utilizing Right-Sized End-Strength (POSTURE) Act of 2016 “This bill ensures that our Land Forces will not be depleted as a result of the Administration’s flawed assumptions about the current security environment. Our military’s ability to meet new and complex global demands is essential to our national security and a continued force drawdown would be catastrophic.” ### Click here to read the bill.
02.09.2016	TURNER reacts to POTUS FY 2017 Budget Proposal Congressman Turner, Chairman of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Tactical Air and Land Forces, issued the following statement on President Obama’s FY2017 budget proposal: “The Administration blatantly ignored the terms of the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2015, further jeopardizing our national security and depleting the resources necessary to maintain our military. I continue to urge Members to remain committed to providing a robust national defense and advocate on behalf of our men and women in uniform as we prepare to consider a budget resolution for FY 2017 in the House.” ###
01.12.2016	Congressman Turner introduced the TREAT Act that cuts red tape for substance abuse treatment. Congressman Turner released the following statement after President Obama stated his concern with the rise in substance abuse across the country during his final State of the Union. “In November, I introduced the bipartisan TREAT Act, which cuts red tape for substance abuse treatment. I have seen the effects substance abuse can have on cities and towns across America which is why I hope President Obama will support common sense steps like the TREAT Act. I appreciate the President taking up this important issue and I look forward to helping those Americans that need it most.” Congressman Turner was joined by Congresswoman Marcia Fudge (OH-11) and Congresswoman Niki Tsongas (MA-3) in support of this important legislation that would increase flexibility in how existing federal funding can be used to combat the heroin epidemic. ###
01.12.2016	Congressman Turner, Chairman of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Tactical Air and Land Forces, released the following statement after President Obama’s final State of the Union. “After asking the President to come to the table with a comprehensive strategy to defeat the many threats we face as a nation, the President continues to come up short. During President Obama’s time in office, relationships with our many allies have deteriorated along with our standing as a global leader. Whether it’s addressing the threats posed by ISIS, North Korea, or Iran, the United States continues to lead from behind.” Congressman Turner recently sent a letter to the President asking him to outline a strategy to stop North Korean aggression and the further proliferation of nuclear weapons following claims by the government of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea that it has successfully detonated a thermonuclear device. ###
01.06.2016	Congressman Turner, Chairman of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Tactical Air and Land Forces, issued the below statement following claims by the government of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea that it has successfully detonated a thermonuclear device. “I condemn in the strongest possible terms any nuclear test allegedly conducted by the government of North Korea. If reports prove accurate, this most recent test poses a direct threat to the United States, NATO, and our many partner nations in the region. North Korea’s continued development of nuclear weapons and advanced delivery capabilities must be met with decisive action and condemnation by the entire international community. North Korea is a nuclear proliferator and has chosen a dangerous course of steady escalation.” “We cannot afford to be complacent or naive towards nuclear proliferators like North Korea. This event also reminds us of the fundamental importance of nuclear deterrence to our countries and citizens’ security. I sincerely hope that NATO’s Summit in Warsaw in July will reaffirm unambiguously that in today’s dangerous environment, nuclear deterrence remains the ultimate and essential guarantee of Allies’ security.” ###
01.06.2016	Congressman Turner, Chairman of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Tactical Air and Land forces sent a letter to President Obama following claims by the government of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea that it has successfully detonated a thermonuclear device. The text of the letter is below: January 6, 2016 President Barack Obama The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, DC 20500 Dear Mr. President: As you prepare for your State of the Union address to Congress next week, it is imperative that you plan to share with us a comprehensive strategy to counter North Korea’s nuclear weapons program and restore stability to the Korean Peninsula. The alleged detonation of a nuclear device by North Korea is in clear violation of international law and presents a direct threat to the United States and our many allies in the region. North Korea is a nuclear proliferator and has chosen a dangerous path of steady escalation. Since you first took office in 2009, North Korea has successfully detonated three nuclear devices and launched a multistage rocket capable of striking targets in the United States. Despite these significant milestones achieved by North Korea, your Administration has taken no action to curtail further proliferation or develop critical defense systems, such as an additional missile defense site capable of defending the U.S. homeland. At a 2013 speech in Berlin, Germany, you stated that it was your goal to stop the spread of nuclear weapons and “reject the nuclear weaponization that North Korea and Iran may be seeking.” Since your speech in Berlin, North Korea has doubled its nuclear efforts, and your Administration has agreed to a deal with Iran that provides a clear path toward possessing a nuclear weapon. North Korea’s continued development of nuclear weapons and advanced delivery capabilities must be met with decisive action and condemnation by the entire international community. As you prepare to speak before Congress next week, it is my sincere hope that you are fully prepared to outline a comprehensive strategy focused on countering North Korea’s nuclear program. Sincerely, Congressman Mike Turner ###
12.23.2015	Congressman Turner released a joint statement with Dayton Development Coalition President and CEO Jeff Hoagland on funding included in the House-passed omnibus for a new satellite pharmacy at Wright-Patt and additional funding for technology transfer activities at the Air Force Research Laboratory. “Wright-Patterson Air Force Base is a pillar in our community and throughout Southwest, Ohio. I am happy to work with the Dayton Development Coalition to ensure that WPAFB and the technology transfer program within the Air Force Research Laboratory (AFRL) were provided with the resources necessary to serve our community and to provide our warfighters with game changing technologies.” Dayton Development Coalition President and CEO Jeff Hoagland stated his support, saying: “Construction of the pharmacy will provide better service to our Air Force personnel and help modernize the base,” said Jeff Hoagland, President and CEO of the Dayton Development Coalition. “Maintaining up-to-date facilities like this is important for the long-term viability of the base, which is important with the possibility of a round of base closings coming up in the future.” “Funding the Air Force technology transfer program will stretch Air Force research dollars by strengthening ties between the Air Force Research Laboratory and commercial industry,” Hoagland said. ”We are hopeful that businesses in the Dayton region will benefit, which will create high value jobs.” Pharmacy Replacement at WPAFB · The bill provides $6.6 million for a new satellite pharmacy at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base. Technology Transfer · The bill provides an additional $4.1 million above the President’s request for technology transfer activities. The additional funding is a benefit to the Air Force Research Laboratory (AFRL) as it will allow the lab to leverage private sector capabilities in order to provide our warfighters with game changing technologies. ###
12.22.2015	Congressman Turner released a joint statement with Wright State Research Institute (WSRI) on additional funding included in the House-passed omnibus for Wright-Patt’s Human Effectiveness Directorate. “I am proud of the steps taken in this bill to bolster Wright-Patt and local research institutes such as Wright State. This critical Air Force program and its ongoing partnership with Wright State Research Institute will ensure our military is prepared to address complex security challenges for generations to come,” said Congressman Mike Turner. Dennis Andersh, Executive Director of the Wright State Research Institute stated his support saying: “Wright State commends Representative Turner and the U.S. House of Representatives and Senate for supporting Human Effectiveness Applied Research in the year-end budget deal. This important program supports advanced research to improve warfighter performance, and much of this work is done right here in Southwest Ohio.” The bill provides an additional $10 million above the President’s request for the Air Force’s Human Effectiveness Directorate, which is headquartered at Wright-Patt. Wright-State Research Institute has partnered with AFRL and the Human Effectiveness Directorate to conduct research related to increased levels of autonomy for unmanned systems. ###
12.22.2015	Congressman Turner released a joint statement with the University of Dayton Research Institute (UDRI) on additional funding included in the House-passed omnibus for the Air Force Research Laboratory’s Manufacturing Technology Program located at Wright-Patt. “I am proud to be a strong supporter of this program, which continues to bolster Ohio’s unique manufacturing capabilities and taps into the talent at Wright-Patt. This bipartisan initiative supports Department of Defense priorities, while continuing to bring job opportunities to Ohio,'' said Congressman Mike Turner. John E. Leland PhD PE, Vice President for Research and Executive Director, Research Institute University of Dayton stated his support, saying: “Additive manufacturing has strong potential to help the Air Force reduce maintenance costs and improve readiness. The support of Congressman Turner and Congressman Ryan will allow the Air Force to more quickly implement this promising technology and reap cost savings.” ###
12.21.2015	Congressman Mike Turner released the following statement after the Dayton VA announced that Department of Veterans Affairs’ Secretary Robert McDonald has approved the site for a Fisher House. Congressman Turner sent a letter of support of a Fisher House being located on the Dayton VA Medical Center Campus. “In October, I sent a letter to the Dayton VA Medical Center in support of a Fisher House being located on the Medical Center’s campus. I applaud Secretary McDonald’s approval of this important project as it will serve as an invaluable resource to our community’s veterans and to the veterans throughout the Southwest Ohio region.” The VA Medical Center services a wide catchment area, including more than 38,000 veterans and spanning seventeen counties in Southwest Ohio. The addition of such a location strengthens our commitment to providing high quality and compassionate veteran care. ###
12.16.2015	Congressman Mike Turner, Chairman of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Tactical Air and Land Forces, released the following statement after release of the Consolidated Appropriations Act for 2016. “As our nation continues to address some of the most complex security challenges in recent history, we must make certain that our military is properly equipped to carry out the mission. I am proud of the steps taken in this bill to bolster Wright Patterson Air Force Base and our Dayton community.” Included below is a breakdown of provisions championed by Congressman Turner: Human Effectiveness Applied Research · The bill provides an additional $10 million above the President’s request for AFRL’s Human Effectiveness Applied Research program. Currently, Wright-State Research Institute is partnered with AFRL to conduct research related to autonomous systems as well as human-machine interaction. Manufacturing Technology Program · The bill provides an additional $10M above the President’s request for AFRL’s Manufacturing Technology Program. Ohio is a leader in the field of additive manufacturing with Youngstown State University and the University of Dayton Research Institute already working together on ways to increase the use of additive manufacturing in the military. Pharmacy Replacement at WPAFB · The bill provides $6.6 million for a new satellite pharmacy at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base. Technology Transfer · The bill provides an additional $4.1 million above the President’s request for technology transfer activities. The additional funding is a benefit to the Air Force Research Laboratory (AFRL) as it will allow the lab to leverage private sector capabilities in order to provide our warfighters with game changing technologies. ###
12.09.2015	“The delays and lack of information are simply unacceptable.” Congressman Turner released the following statement after sending a letter to Robert Westbrooks, Inspector General for Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (PBGC): “The PBGC’s continued mistreatment of the Delphi Salaried Retirees warrants additional scrutiny from the independent Inspector General. It is my hope that we will gain further insight into the delays, lack of transparency, and repeated efforts to stonewall these retirees. The pensions and benefits these men and women earned over the course of their careers were unjustly terminated, and the PBGC must be held accountable for their actions.” The letter requests that Inspector General conduct an inquiry into the agency’s actions in failing to provide retirees with information: 1. Plan Asset Audit for the Salaried Plan: Please determine the date of completion and what justification, if any, the PBGC has for informing plan participants that it has not yet been completed. If the document has not been completed, please determine how PBGC arrived at its final benefit determinations in the absence of the necessary supporting calculations and documentation. 2. Benefit Statement Worksheets: Please determine why PBGC has provided benefit determinations that fail to explain whether, and/or to what extent, a benefit comes from PBGC’s insurance guarantee, the Salaried Plan’s asset allocation, or the participant’s share in PBGC’s recoveries from Delphi and GM. Please also determine the cause of PBGC’s delays in fulfilling requests for Benefit Statement Worksheets. **Letter is attached**12-9-15_Letter_to_PBGC[1].pdf
12.06.2015	Congressman Mike Turner, Chairman of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Tactical Air and Land Forces, released the following statement after President Obama addressed the country on the ongoing threat of ISIL. “The President continues to demonstrate that he does not have a strategy to defeat ISIL and rhetoric alone is not enough to quell the ongoing threats posed by ISIL to the U.S. and our allies. Now, more than ever, ISIL directly threatens the safety and security of the American citizens here at home." On November 18th, Congressman Turner sent a letter to President Obama questioning the intelligence provided to his Administration leading to the conclusion that ISIL is ‘contained’. ###
12.03.2015	Congressman Turner released the following statement after the House passed the Conference Report accompanying H.R. 22 – Surface Transportation Reauthorization and Reform Act. “I am proud to be a voice for the Dayton region and I know firsthand how important transit funding is for the city and its residents. This bill will help level the playing field for Southwest Ohio’s transit systems. While the seven state set-aside remains in place, my efforts have led to increased funding for competitive grant opportunities for transit systems in Ohio and all fifty states to compete for these funds on their own merits.” On November 5th, Congressman Turner spoke on the House floor in support of an amendment he cosponsored. Click here to watch Congressman Turner’s remarks. ###
11.20.2015	Congressman Turner introduced The Reforming and Expanding Access to Treatment (TREAT) Act. The introduction of the legislation followed Congressman Turner’s meeting with Director Michael Botticelli of the Office of National Drug Control Policy (ONDCP). This legislation will increase flexibility in how existing federal funding can be used to combat the heroin epidemic. "As a nation, we are facing a growing epidemic of heroin and prescription drug abuse that is resulting in drastic increases in addiction rates, overdose deaths, and incarceration. I have been working closely with the greater Dayton community to fight this epidemic,” said Congressman Mike Turner. “This bill would take the commonsense steps to eliminate these barriers and expand access to the resources used in treating individuals suffering from substance abuse disorders.” Dr. Kent Youngman, the CEO Mental Health & Recovery Board of Clark, Greene, and Madison Counties stated his support for the TREAT Act: “Our local judges and prosecutors tell us that upwards of 75% of the individuals they arrest or prosecute have a drug abuse or addiction problem. Most of these individuals would not have legal problems if it were not for their addiction. Being able to adequately treat addicts while they are incarcerated will not only save dollars, it will save lives. Permitting Medicaid to be used while a person is incarcerated, many times, is the only way such treatment can be offered. If a person is in jail because of an addiction it makes sense to treat the cause of their incarceration.” Melissa Litteral is the Director of the Greene County Adult Probation and has expressed her support for the TREAT Act and how this legislation will help incarcerated offenders: "Having the opportunity to apply for SAMHSA grants will provide agencies the opportunity to provide drug and alcohol treatment services to those incarcerated individuals at the local level which has not been available. The Heroin epidemic in Ohio calls for action to be taken at the local level by having access to funds to treat those incarcerated offenders and still hold them accountable for their actions." Montgomery County Sheriff Phil Plummer has witnessed the effects of heroin on the Dayton community and supports this comprehensive legislation: “Heroin has crept into the cities, suburbs and rural areas all across the communities in the Miami Valley. We are now battling drug cartels, heroin addicted parents, and fatalities that this county has never seen before. This epidemic is compounded by the vast gap in access to opioid addiction treatment. The TREAT Act would allow more qualified treatment providers and expand the possibilities of treatment.” Areas of Impact · The Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA) prohibits the use of grants from its Center for Substance Abuse Treatment (CSAT) for substance abuse treatment services provided to individuals who are incarcerated. Under this bill, these resources will be made available to individuals in both community-based and institutional settings. · Under Medicaid’s Institution for Mental Disease (IMD) exclusion facilities with more than sixteen beds are not eligible for reimbursement. As such, the IMD exclusion prevents reimbursement for substance abuse treatment provided to incarcerated individuals who are otherwise enrolled in or eligible for Medicaid. Under this bill, substance abuse treatment provided at correctional institutions would become eligible for reimbursement. Congressman Turner has been fighting this issue in Southwest Ohio since 2013: · December 18, 2013: Toured Soin Medical Center, where issue of Heroin Exposed Newborns was raised. · March 10, 2014: Met with area hospitals to discuss the growing issue of Heroin Exposed Newborns. · May 15, 2014: Visited Dayton Children’s Hospital NICU to discuss infant heroin exposure and the withdrawal and recovery process. · June 30, 2014: Held a Community Forum on the Effects of the Heroin Epidemic on Newborns. · August 27, 2014: Visited the Women’s Recovery Center · May 2015: Held Community Summit on Heroin Exposed Infants · August 21, 2015: Toured Greene County Jail and Green Leaf Alcohol and Drug Treatment Program; met with criminal justice system administrators and substance abuse and mental health leadership. · November 18, 2015: Met with ONDCP Director Michael Botticelli ###
11.19.2015	Congressman Turner, Chairman of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Tactical Air and Land Forces, released the following statement after the House passed H.R. 4038 – American SAFE Act. “America has a long and proud history of sheltering those in need. However, we have a responsibility to balance those humanitarian beliefs with the safety and security of all Americans. The American SAFE Act requires the nation’s top security officials—the Secretary of Homeland Security, the Director of the FBI, and the Director of National Intelligence—to review before admitting any refugees into the United States. The safety and security of the American people must always be our number one priority.” Congressman Turner sent a letter to President Obama on November 18th requesting any intelligence that led to the conclusion ISIL is ‘contained’. The President’s statements on containment, and the diminishing threat posed by ISIL continue to conflict with assessments provided to Congress.
11.18.2015	Congressman Turner, Chairman of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Tactical Air and Land Forces, released the following statement after sending President Obama a letter requesting any intelligence that led to the conclusion ISIL is ‘contained’. “Mr. President, you have stated that the goal of the United States is to ‘degrade and ultimately defeat ISIL’, yet every day the headlines suggest neither has been accomplished. Your statements on containment, and the diminishing threat posed by ISIL continue to conflict with assessments provided to Congress. If you have received any intelligence supporting your claims, I urge you to share that information with the appropriate Congressional committees.” ### 111715 Rep Turner Letter to POTUS .pdf
11.18.2015	Congressman Turner is joined by Congresswoman Marcia L. Fudge (OH-11) and Congresswoman Niki Tsongas (MA-3) to fight the heroin epidemic across the country. Today, Congressman Turner released the following statement with Congresswoman Marcia L. Fudge (OH-11) and Congresswoman Niki Tsongas (MA-3) after introducing The Reforming and Expanding Access to Treatment (TREAT) Act. This legislation will increase flexibility in how existing federal funding can be used to combat the heroin epidemic. “We are facing a nationwide epidemic of heroin and prescription drug abuse that is resulting in drastic increases in addiction rates, overdose deaths, and incarceration. Sadly, unnecessary burdens stand in the way of communities seeking to fight this epidemic. This bill would take the commonsense steps to eliminate these barriers and expand access to the resources used in treating individuals suffering from substance abuse disorders.” - Congressman Mike Turner (OH-10) “Substance abuse is a serious disease permeating every facet of our society, including our prisons. Congress must act to get help to those in need. By removing burdensome restrictions, the TREAT Act increases resource flexibility and expands access to treatment for incarcerated persons. I am proud to join this bipartisan effort to combat drug addiction and help save lives.” - Congresswoman Marcia L. Fudge (OH-11) “Expanding drug-treatment opportunities to incarcerated individuals has the potential to save lives and stabilize communities. I’ve heard directly from those on the front lines of this crisis that this bill would take a positive step towards preparing those behind bars for a more productive, healthy lifestyle upon release. I appreciate the opportunity to work alongside Rep. Turner and Rep. Fudge on this legislation and urge our colleagues on both sides of the aisle to join us in further examining ways to combat the opioid crisis.” – Congresswoman Niki Tsongas (MA-3) Areas of Impact · The Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA) prohibits the use of grants from its Center for Substance Abuse Treatment (CSAT) for substance abuse treatment services provided to individuals who are incarcerated. Under this bill, these resources will be made available to individuals in both community-based and institutional settings. · Under Medicaid’s Institution for Mental Disease (IMD) exclusion, facilities with more than sixteen beds are not eligible for reimbursement. As such, the IMD exclusion prevents reimbursement for substance abuse treatment provided to incarcerated individuals who are otherwise eligible for and enrolled in Medicaid. Under this bill, substance abuse treatment provided in correctional institutions would become eligible for reimbursement. Congressman Turner has been fighting this issue in Southwest Ohio since 2013: · December 18, 2013: Toured Soin Medical Center, where issue of Heroin Exposed Newborns was raised. · March 10, 2014: Met with area hospitals to discuss the growing issue of Heroin Exposed Newborns. · May 15, 2014: Visited Dayton Children’s Hospital NICU to discuss infant heroin exposure and the withdrawal and recovery process. · June 30, 2014: Held a Community Forum on the Effects of the Heroin Epidemic on Newborns. · August 27, 2014: Visited the Women’s Recovery Center. · May 2015: Held Community Summit on Heroin Exposed Infants. · August 21, 2015: Toured Greene County Jail and Green Leaf Alcohol and Drug Treatment Program; met with criminal justice system administrators and substance abuse and mental health leadership. · November 18, 2015: Met with with ONDCP Director Michael Botticelli ###
11.16.2015	Rep Turner Letter to Mayor.pdf Congressman Turner released the following statement after sending a letter to Mayor Whaley to rescind her offer to accept Syrian refugees in Dayton, Ohio. “I call on Mayor Whaley to listen to the concerns of the greater Dayton community and rescind her invitation to accept Syrian refugees to our region. The intelligence community has repeatedly stated the United States is unable to perform proper and thorough background checks on these refugees. While Dayton is a welcoming city, we must prioritize the safety and security of our community in the wake of the deadly attacks in Paris, France.” On September 29th, Congressman Turner sent a letter to the President denouncing Mayor Whaley’s request for Dayton to become a relocation site for Syrian refugees.
11.13.2015	Congressman Turner released the following statement after reports confirm over eighteen people were killed in multiple attacks in Paris, France. “Our thoughts and prayers are with the victims and their families. Tonight’s attacks in Paris are appalling and we will continue to monitor the situation as we learn more information. We stand by our allies.” ###
11.12.2015	Congressman Turner released the following statement to announce that he will represent Dayton, Ohio during the 20th anniversary of the Dayton Peace Accords in Bosnia as part of bipartisan delegation. “I am honored to represent Dayton on this historic day. Twenty-years ago, Dayton helped to change the course of history and I believe we must continue our commitment to peace. I have asked Secretary Kerry to take action to address the political crisis in Bosnia and Herzegovina by calling for a Dayton Peace Accords II to address the challenges the region continues to face.” Today, Congressman Turner sent a letter to Secretary Kerry expressing his support for the U.S. to lead a call for a Dayton Peace Accords II. He previously wrote to Secretary Clinton in 2010 and 2011 encouraging a strong U.S. role in unresolved issues throughout the region. In November of 1995, Mr. Turner served as the Mayor of Dayton, leaders of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia, and Serbia convened at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base in an attempt to halt conflicts that began in Bosnia and Herzegovina in April of 1992. After almost a month of negotiations, a peace settlement, known as the Dayton Peace Accords, was reached, ending the conflict that threatened to destabilize Europe, and resulted in the death of approximately 250,000 people, and the displacement of more than 2,000,000 men, women, and children. 111215_Rep_Turner_Ltr_SecKerry_re_Dayton_II.pdf
10.22.2015	Congressman Michael R. Turner, Chairman of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Tactical Air and Land Forces released the following statement after sending a letter to House leaders advocating full funding support for national defense base requirements in Fiscal Year (FY) 2016. “I am proud to continue to lead the fight for a strong national defense that allows our men and women in uniform to address threats that endanger our national security. We should not play political games on the backs of our warfighters. If Congress fails in its principal duty to ‘provide for the common defense’ of the nation, we will see devastating consequences to national security.” Joined by 101 House Republican colleagues, Turner’s letter calls on House leaders to reject a full-year continuing resolution and put forth a funding measure that funds national defense base requirements at or above the $561 billion level included in the President’s budget request. Earlier this year, Turner sent a similar letter to House leaders regarding defense funding and the House budget resolution. That letter signed by 70 House Republicans, received overwhelming support and resulted in a budget deal that fully funded defense. Turner’s current letter seeks FY2016 defense funding consistent with that budget deal. **Letter is attached**TURNER FY2016 Defense Funding Letter.pdf
10.22.2015	Congressman Michael R. Turner, Chairman of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Tactical Air and Land Forces released the following statement after President Obama vetoed the National Defense Authorization Act for FY 2016. “The President’s decision to veto the NDAA, a bipartisan bill that provides authorizations for the same amount of defense funds he requested is both unprecedented and reprehensible. This action comes a week after the president announced the extension of our mission in Afghanistan, and just hours after one of our brave servicemen was killed while rescuing hostages being prepared for execution by ISIS in Iraq. “While the President insists on playing politics at the expense of our service-members, I will continue to fight to ensure that our men and women in uniform are provided with the resources needed to ensure the safety of this country and protect our interests abroad.Our men and women in uniform routinely address some of the most complex security challenges in history, and we must make certain that our they are properly equipped to carry out that mission.” Congressman Turner is leading the fight to fully fund our national defense and was joined by 101 other Republican members of Congress on a letter to House GOP Leadership. Click here to read the letter.
10.22.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, U.S. Congressman Mike Turner (R-OH-10) and U.S. Senator Rob Portman (R-Ohio) continued their fight for Delphi salaried retirees by urging Internal Revenue Service (IRS) Commissioner John Koskinen to quickly implement the Health Coverage Tax Credit’s (HCTC) Advance Payment Program. This program is vital for Delphi salaried retirees facing health-related expenses. “The HCTC passed with strong bipartisan support in both chambers and is incredibly important to thousands of American families,” the lawmakers wrote. “We urge the IRS to do everything in its power to rapidly implement the HCTC Advance Payment Program and give eligible American families the support that they deserve.” Turner and Portman have repeatedly fought for the Delphi salaried retirees who had their pensions unjustly terminated in the wake of the federal government’s bailout of General Motors. Just recently, Turner and Portman continued their efforts to obtain information regarding the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation’s delay in providing final benefit determinations for Delphi retirees. Congressman Turner has been working on this issue since 2013. In June of 2015, Rep. Turner’s provision to renew Health Coverage Tax Credit (HCTC) to protect Delphi salaried retirees passed the House as part of the Trade Adjustment Assistance (TAA) legislation. In November of 2014, Rep. Turner sent a bipartisan letter to House leadership reaffirming their strong support for the passage of an extension of the HCTC as part of a year-end tax extenders bill before the 113th Congress adjourned for the year. In March of 2014, Rep. Turner joined a delegation of 28 Members and Senators from across the country in sending a letter to both House and Senate leadership pushing for the extension of the HCTC. In July of 2013, Rep. Turner introduced legislation that would have provided the Delphi Salaried Retirees and other eligible individuals the choice of continuing within the HCTC program past the program’s termination date, or upon leaving the program. Text of the letter can be found below: Dear Commissioner Koskinen, We request an update on the efforts to implement the Health Coverage Tax Credit’s (HCTC) Advance Payment Program, which the President signed into law on June 29, 2015. As you know, the HCTC helps make healthcare affordable for those receiving Trade Adjustment Assistance benefits or for 55-64 year old Americans whose pensions were terminated and are being administered by the Pension Benefit Guarantee Corporation. The HCTC passed with strong bipartisan support in both chambers and is incredibly important to thousands of American families. These families that depend on the HCTC will be disappointed if the IRS delays in implementing the Advance Payment Program until mid-2016. Given the complexities of family medical bills and annual insurance enrollment periods, this relaxed timing is causing great concern for Americans waiting for this critical support. We urge the IRS to do everything in its power to rapidly implement the HCTC Advance Payment Program and give eligible American families the support that they deserve. Thank you for your attention to this issue. ###
09.29.2015	TURNER_POTUS_LETTER_.pdf Congressman Turner released the following statement after sending a letter to the president denouncing Mayor Whaley’s request for Dayton to welcome Syrian refugees. “I am surprised the Mayor continues to take unilateral action to commit the Dayton region in a very costly and dangerous undertaking. She does not fully understand this issue or the impact of her actions. I have sent a letter to the President informing him that she does not have the authority to undertake the relocation of Syrian refugees into our community. Further, as our community knows the Mayor of Dayton does not have the authority to commit money or other resources to support these refugees.” ###
09.11.2015	Click here to watch the full video message Congressman Turner released the following video message to honor and remember those we lost on September 11, 2001. “We all remember where we were the fateful morning of September 11, 2001. We were heading into work, getting the kids off to school or watching the news. On that day, I served as Mayor of Dayton and worked with our first responders as the morning unfolded. “As Americans, this day will always remain reverent and forever in our minds as we remember the lives lost and those men and women who risked their lives for others. As a country, we lost so much and together we work each day to ensure that the legacy of those we lost lives on. “Today, we face increasing global threats and continue to fight to protect our country from those extremists who look to extinguish our freedoms. I hope you will take a moment today and join me in remembering the brave Americans we lost that day and thank the men and women in uniform who have fought for our freedom each and everyday. Thank you and God Bless the United States of America.” ###
09.11.2015	Congressman Turner released the following statement after the House voted on a series of measures on the nuclear deal with Iran. In a House Armed Services Strategic Forces Subcommittee hearing, Congressman Turner questioned Lt. Gen Frank Klotz, Energy Under Secretary for Nuclear Security on the secret side deals involved in the nuclear agreement. “I continue to oppose the nuclear deal with Iran and I am perplexed as to how any Member of Congress can vote in good faith knowing there are secret side agreements to this deal. The President is seeking approval of a deal that largely remains hidden from the public. “Iran’s previous actions towards the global community are reason enough to not trust this deal. It is not in the best interest for Middle East regional stability or our own national security. I believe that we must demand a better deal and we must push to retain sanctions against the world’s largest state sponsor of terror.” ###
09.02.2015	Congressman Turner released the following statement after the Senate has procured enough votes to secure the Iran nuclear deal. “Today, the President is celebrating that he has secured less than 35% of the Senate to support the nuclear deal with Iran. This deal is supported by a partisan minority in Congress, while a bipartisan majority of Congress loudly disapproves and I urge the President to abandon this deal.”
09.02.2015	Congressman Turner released the following statement after Secretary of State John Kerry addressed the Iran Nuclear Deal. “Secretary Kerry negotiated a deal with Iran based on what they would give us, not what we need as a secure global community. If we look to Iran’s history and recent actions, we should have no reason to trust that this deal is in the best interest for regional stability or our own national security. Instead, we have a bad deal with less sanctions and restrictions. Under this agreement, Iran will remain a major threat to the United States and our allies.” Click here to read Congressman Turner’s op-ed in The Hill: “Reject the deal and Iran will return to the table”
08.31.2015	Congressman Mike Turner released the following statement in response to President Obama moving to rename Mount McKinley. "President McKinley was a proud Ohio Republican who was assassinated during his time in office while serving our nation and deserves the recognition Congress previously awarded him. The President’s recent actions to remove his name and undermine a prior act of Congress is disrespectful and I will continue to fight for proper recognition of President McKinley’s legacy.” ###
08.20.2015	Congressman Turner released the following statement amid reports Iran will be able to use its own inspectors to investigate alleged nuclear development site. “If these reports are indeed true we cannot continue to hope Iran will follow the agreement the Administration blindly supports. The Parchin agreement between the IAEA and Iran must be made public. Iran’s past actions are evidence enough that we cannot expect them to follow through on this agreement in good faith.” Congressman Turner was one of the first House Republicans to denounce the nuclear deal. He is a senior member on the House Armed Services Committee and serves on the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence.
08.05.2015	Congressman Turner released the following statement after touring the Namer armored personnel carrier production line at the Joint Systems Manufacturing Center in Lima, Ohio. Danishai Kornbluth, the Israeli Ministry of Defense representative located at the Israeli Embassy in Washington, DC, accompanied Congressman Turner on the tour. Earlier this year, Congressman Turner visited Israel in conjunction with his work on the House Armed Services Tactical Air and Land Forces Subcommittee. During the visit he had the opportunity to tour their combat vehicle production facility with Israeli Defense Forces (IDF) officials and met with Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu. In May of this year, the Israeli government awarded a contract to General Dynamics to produce the Namer in Lima, Ohio. “I would like to thank Danishai Kornbluth, a representative from the Israeli Embassy and the Israeli Ministry of Defense, for looking to Ohio to invest in their national security. Second, I would like to thank the Joint Systems Manufacturing Center (JSMC) and General Dynamics for hosting us today. “I am proud of the hard-working men and women whose steadfast efforts earned this contract. As a key production facility, JSMC is an integral part of Ohio’s manufacturing base; and I am proud to support their work to equip the U.S. and our allies while creating jobs right here in Ohio.” ###
08.03.2015	Congressman Turner released the following statement after presenting six Dayton area students with the Congressional Award at his District Office this afternoon. “I would like to congratulate these six students on winning the Congressional Award. At a young age all of you have demonstrated a desire to learn, a passion for service and a drive to contribute something to the Dayton Community. I wish you all the best in your future endeavors.” The Congressional Award is the United States Congress' award for young Americans. It is non-partisan, voluntary, and non-competitive. The program is open to all students between the ages of 14-23 year of age. Participants earn Bronze, Silver and Gold Congressional Award Certificates and Bronze, Silver and Gold Congressional Award Medals. Each level involves setting goals in four program areas; Volunteer Public Service, Personal Development, Physical Fitness, and Expedition/Exploration. Congress established the Congressional Award in 1979 to recognize initiative, achievement and service in young people. It began as a bipartisan effort in both the United States Senate and the House of Representatives. Senator Malcolm Wallop of Wyoming and the late Congressman James Howard of New Jersey sponsored the original bill. The enabling legislation (Public Law 96-114) established the Congressional Award as a private-public partnership, which receives all funding from the private sector, and was originally signed into law by President Jimmy Carter. Presidents Ronald Reagan, George Bush, Bill Clinton, George W. Bush and Barack Obama have each signed continuing legislation. Below is a list of the recipients: Anukriti Tayal, Bronze Medalist Centerville, OH Magsig Middle School Dhaivat Pandya, Bronze Medalist Dayton, OH Watts Middle School Dhira Venkatramani, Bronze Medalist Xenia, OH Jacob Coy Middle School Rachana Raghupathy, Bronze Medalist Dayton, OH Centerville High School Sanjana Yerubandi, Silver Medalist Dayton, OH Centerville High School Vidur Prasad, Silver Medalist Beavercreek, OH The Dayton Regional STEM School
07.28.2015	Congressman Turner was recently named a ‘Hero of Main Street’ by the National Retail Federation for his outstanding support on issues including trade, health care, tax reform and labor relations. “I am honored to receive this award from the National Retail Federation today and continue to support policies that will allow small businesses in Dayton, Ohio and across the country to grow. Burdensome regulations continue to hold small businesses hostage and I will continue to fight for legislation that cuts back on the red tape.”-- Congressman Mike Turner "NRF’s Heroes of Main Street have shown through their voting records that they care about retailers, big and small, and value the role these businesses play in communities around the country.”-- NRF President and CEO, Matthew Shay John Marshall, Owner of Grismer Tire was also in attendance for the award presentation this afternoon. This award was created to recognize members of Congress for their support of the retail industry’s public policy priorities. Award eligibility is defined through key votes, bill sponsorship and advocacy.
07.23.2015	Congressman Turner reacts to Secretary of State John Kerry testimony to the Senate Foreign Relations Committee on the Iran nuclear agreement: “From the beginning, the Administration has worked to disguise this nuclear deal as a win for the country and the global community. Today, Secretary Kerry continued to deceive the American people and Congress on the terms of this deal. After reviewing the text of the agreement, it’s clear this deal does nothing to make the United States and its allies more secure. Instead, the deal fails to hold Iran accountable, provides a pathway to a bomb, and allows for the continued support of terrorist organizations like Hezbollah. “Since the announcement of the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action, the Obama Administration has continued to assert that this deal was built on verification rather than trust. Following P5+1 negotiations in Lausanne, France earlier this year, I had the opportunity to meet directly with IAEA officials involved in Iran nuclear inspections. Those officials made clear, that despite the Obama Administration’s assertions, the IAEA will remain unable to verify all locations associated with Iran’s nuclear program. Put plainly, verification is not possible and the President’s own negotiating principles are based on fantasy. “Last week, I met with a top national security official from a P5+1 country, who has been intimately involved in negotiations with Iran. That official indicated that the United States negotiating team fell short and that a stronger deal against Iran may have been achievable. This official further indicated that the deal’s collapse would have limited consequences and that Iran would likely return to the negotiating table in the future and accept stronger terms. This is again contrary to the Obama Administration, which continues to assert that it achieved the best deal possible.” ###
07.23.2015	Congressman Turner released the following statement after the FBI Director James Comey said ISIS is a bigger threat than al Qaeda: “ISIS is unlike any other terror group we have encountered, and we were warned of this very scenario in the 9/11 commission report, chapter 12. Without a comprehensive strategy to defeat ISIS, this campaign will drag on. The recent attacks here at home underscore the real threat ISIS is to the United States.” ###
07.16.2015	Today, Congressman Turner was joined by Speaker Boehner, Senator Portman and Ohio Delegation Republicans as they continued their efforts to gain information on the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation’s (PBGC) delay in providing final benefit determinations for Delphi Salaried Retirees. More than 20,000 Delphi Salaried Retirees had their pensions unjustly terminated in the wake of the federal government’s taxpayer-funded bailout of General Motors in 2009. In this letter, Congressman Turner is asking the PBGC Acting Director to provide answers and documents regarding the delay in completing final benefit determinations for these retirees. Congressman Turner previously led Ohio Delegation Republicans in calling for the agency’s Inspector General to conduct an inquiry into this delay, and the results of that report included the PBGC’s self-imposed deadlines for completing key documents and providing final determinations. Today’s letter asks for a status update on the completion status of each document, an explanation for any delays, and copies of any completed documents. “I am proud to lead the fight for the Delphi Salaried Retirees and their families. This letter asks for accountability and answers for Delphi Salaried Retirees,” said Congressman Turner. “Nearly six years ago, the government picked winners and losers that left over 20,000 of these retirees with drastic reductions to their hard-earned pensions and benefits. These men and women deserve the benefits they were promised, not years of stonewalling and delay from the Administration.” “We are continuing our push for answers from the PBGC for Delphi salaried retirees. Their pensions and benefits were unjustly terminated and it is unacceptable that another year has gone by as retirees wait for a final determination,” said Speaker Boehner. “We won’t let up and I thank Congressman Turner for leading the Ohio Republican delegation in calling for transparency and accountability from the president and his administration on this issue.” “The Delphi salaried retirees and their families have gone too long without adequate answers regarding their pensions,” said Senator Portman. “It’s important we continue to work for answers for these Ohioans who lost their pensions through no fault of their own.” ###
07.14.2015	Congressman Turner released the following statement after negotiations concluded on the nuclear agreement with Iran: "The President’s strategy to address Iran’s nuclear ambitions have been flawed from the beginning. "Earlier this morning, President Obama told the American people that this deal was built on verification rather than trust. While this deal was being negotiated, I had the opportunity to meet directly with IAEA officials involved with Iran nuclear inspections. Those officials made clear that despite President Obama’s assertions, the IAEA will remain unable to verify all locations associated with Iran’s nuclear program. Put plainly, verification is not possible and the President’s own negotiating principles are based in fantasy. “Equally troubling is that fact that Iran will be allowed to continue its pursuit of ballistic missile technology, which will place the United States and its allies in harm’s way. I am appalled that the President continues to misrepresent this deal to the American people.” ### Iran Deal Text.pdf
07.09.2015	Turner Statement on OPM announcement that millions of national security personnel had information compromised in data breaches: Applicants for security clearances are required to complete and submit to OPM the federal government’s Questionnaire for National Security Positions known as Standard Form 86 (SF-86). At more than 100 pages, the SF-86 includes a significant amount of sensitive, personal information that must be submitted in order for a federal employee or contractor to receive a security clearance and serve in a national security position. Applicants must submit information regarding their mental health records, personal finances, and family members’ work history. “Today’s announcement by OPM that a significant amount of sensitive information was taken from SF-86’s could be devastating to our national security personnel and their families. OPM estimates that more than 1 million fingerprints, in addition to current and past addresses, family member names and dates of birth, and other personal information has been put at risk. I remain committed to getting answers from OPM on how this happened, and exactly how they intend to help these employees, retirees, and their families in the wake of this crisis.” ###
07.08.2015	Congressman Mike Turner released a statement after reports suggest the Army would plan to cut 40,000 troops over the next two years: “I have fought to end sequestration from the beginning and to see these cuts made at such a pivotal time for our national security is troubling. This year, I led a group of 70 members of Congress to end the devastating effects of sequestration to ensure our national defense is adequately funded. The protection of our national defense and the security of the American people must come first.” ###
07.08.2015	Congressman Mike Turner released the following statement in response to extending negotiations with Iran over its nuclear program: “It’s time for the President to be honest with the American people – Iran is not negotiating in good faith. I remain concerned that extending these talks may lead to unnecessary and unwise concessions on the part of the United States. Disregarding the very deadlines his Administration helped create is not a strategy to further America’s national security, stability in the Middle East, or a nuclear-free Iran.”
06.17.2015	Today, Congressman Mike Turner (R-OH) and Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D-OR), co-chairs of the Historic Preservation Caucus, introduced the National Historic Preservation Amendments Act of 2015. This bipartisan legislation will extend the Historic Preservation Fund (HPF) which aids core historic preservation programs for 10 years. Congressman Turner has long been a proponent of historic preservation for Southwest Ohio and sites across the country. “Today, I introduced the National Historic Preservation Amendments Acts of 2015. Our Southwest Ohio community is steeped in American history, and is home to multiple historic sites including the Dayton Aviation Heritage National Historical Park, which includes five National Historic Landmarks to commemorate the work of Orville and Wilbur Wright. Historic preservation stimulates private investment, spurs economic growth and creates jobs while revitalizing our communities and protecting our country’s cultural heritage,” said Congressman Turner. “At the heart of every livable community is a sense of place and uniqueness. The Historic Preservation Fund protects our most treasured sites,” said Congressman Blumenauer. “In supporting projects across the country – including my home state of Oregon – the Historic Preservation Fund has helped Americans remember our past as they look to the future. Passage of this bill will do much in protecting and restoring our historic resources.” Current cosponsors of the National Historic Preservation Amendments Act of 2015 are as follows: Rep. Cynthia Lummis (WY-AL), Rep. Raul Grijalva (AZ-3), Rep. Chris Gibson (NY-19), Rep. Matthew Cartwright (PA-17), Rep. John Katko (NY-24), Rep. Niki Tsongas (MA-03), Rep. Ralph Abraham (LA-05), and Rep. Michael Fitzpatrick (PA-08). Ohio’s 10th Congressional district has 205 registered historic sites, 44 registered historic districts, and 9 registered historic landmarks. Please see the attachment for a full list. Historic Preservation Fund (HPF): Created in 1976, the HPF derives its funding from Outer Continental Shelf leases rather than tax-payer dollars. The HPF achieves its preservation mission of documenting, preserving and utilizing America’s legacy of historic sites by providing funding to State and Tribal Historic Preservation Officers and through, at times, competitive grants to identify and rehabilitate historic resources. This essential support spurs job creating economic development and community revitalization making it an excellent dollar-for-dollar investment to foster economic growth. ###
06.16.2015	Congressman Turner, Member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence (HPSCI), released the following statement after House passage of the Intelligence Authorization bill for Fiscal Year 2016 (H.R. 2596). This annual authorization bill provides the U.S. intelligence enterprise the authorization needed to carry out its mission. “I am proud of the work done by the House Intelligence Committee under the leadership of Chairman Devin Nunes. The FY2016 bill strikes an important balance between protecting the homeland and ensuring the freedoms and rights of all American citizens. “Furthermore, the bill ensures the continuation of critical intelligence programs such as National Air and Space Intelligence Center headquartered at Wright-Patt. In addition, Congressman Turner included an amendment, which the House approved. This amendment requires the Director of National Intelligence to submit a report to Congress on the funding of political parties and Non-Governmental Organizations in former Soviet states by the Russian Federation and its security and intelligence services. “I continue to be concerned with a resurgent Russia determined to destabilize the West and various Euro-Atlantic institutions such as NATO. My amendment seeks to increase understanding of non-military Russian tactics in order to effectively plan for and combat Russian aggression.” Click here to read the text of the amendment. ###
06.11.2015	Congressman Turner released the following statement after the House passed the Fiscal Year (FY) 2016 Department of Defense Appropriations Act. “This is a great step towards fully funding our national security needs and sets up a collision with the President’s irresponsible veto threat that ignores the real security risks facing our nation. “Passage of the FY2016 Defense appropriations bill is an important step toward ensuring our military is properly resourced to successfully defend the United States and its allies for many years to come. As our men and women in uniform continue to face a growing and dynamic threat environment, this year’s funding bill ensures that they have the resources needed to address those challenges. “I commend the tireless work of Chairman Frelinghuysen in getting this bill to the floor and passed out of the House. Under Chairman Frelinghuysen’s leadership, his subcommittee put forth a bill that strikes the appropriate balance between equipping our military to effectively carry out its mission, while also providing needed oversight to ensure accountability and appropriate use of taxpayers’ dollars.” Congressman Turner Provisions Among other initiatives put forth by Congressman Turner, the FY2016 Department of Defense Appropriations Act included additional funding above the President’s request for the Air Force’s Human Effectiveness Applied Research Program and the Manufacturing Technology Program. The subcommittee report includes an additional $10 million for each program. Currently, University of Dayton works in conjunction with the Air Force Research Laboratory (AFRL) on the Manufacturing Technology Program. Wright State University works with AFRL on the Human Performance Applied Research Program. ###
06.10.2015	Congressman Turner released the following statement after the Administration announced they will send additional military advisers to Iraq: “Just this week, President Obama admitted to the world that he does not have a strategy to combat ISIL. I am concerned that his recent decision to send 450 additional troops into harms way is a knee-jerk reaction to a political misstep, rather than a long-term strategy. This move underscores the fact that President Obama fails to recognize ISIL as a real threat to our national security.” ###
06.10.2015	Congressman Turner released the following statement after President Obama spoke with world leaders on Monday stating he does not have a strategy to defeat ISIL: “I am appalled by President Obama’s lack of leadership and resolve in dealing with ISIL. While ISIL continues to move through the region, the President continues to discount this extremist organization as a major global threat. We must have a comprehensive strategy to defeat ISIL and support our allies in the region, rather than simply ignoring reality. It is time for the President to take decisive action to ensure the security of the United States and our allies.” ###
06.05.2015	Congressman Turner released the following statement in response to the United States International Trade Commission’s (ITC) recent decision, at Turner’s recommendation, to extend trade duty orders to protect jobs in Dayton, Ohio. "I have fought for the ITC to recognize the damaging affects these unfair trade practices would have on jobs here at home. I would like to congratulate Tate & Lyle on the outcome of this case and I am pleased the ITC agreed with my recommendation to continue trade enforcement measures which are critical to protecting American jobs. Cracking down on illegal trade practices is a critical component to job creation here at home and ensuring fair trade.” On April 30th, 2015, Turner sent a letter urging the ITC to keep the antidumping (AD) orders on citric acid and certain citrate salts from China and Canada, and the countervailing duty (CVD) order on citric acid from China in place for another five years. Subsequently, on May 21st, 2015, the ITC extended the AD/CVD orders on citric acid imports from Canada and China for five more years. ###
05.27.2015	The Dayton Area Chamber of Commerce hosted the event in preparation for the 20th anniversary of the Dayton Peace Accords. Congressman Turner has worked closely with the Ambassador on a number of initiatives to include advancing Bosnia-Herzegovina’s status within the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO). Congressman Turner “Representing Dayton, Ohio has allowed for me to continue to foster the important relationship Dayton and the country has with Bosnia-Herzegovina. Ambassador Negodic and I have worked together on a number of important projects. Today’s forum helped to set the stage for the 20th Anniversary of the Dayton Peace Accords and allow us all to reflect on their importance. I look forward to working with Ambassador Negodic and maintaining our strong partnership.” Ambassador Negodic “I would like to thank Congressman Turner and the Dayton Area Chamber of Commerce for inviting me here today. The important relationship our country has with Dayton is one that we hold in high esteem. As the 20th Anniversary of the Dayton Peace Accords nears, it is important to remember how far we have come as a country. I appreciate the partnership we have with the city of Dayton and Congressman Turner and I look forward to what we can accomplish in the future.” ###
05.15.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C.--Congressman Mike Turner, Chairman of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Tactical Air and Land Forces, released the following statement after House-passage of the FY 2016 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA). “The FY2016 NDAA provides our men and women in uniform with the resources needed to ensure safety and security across the country and protect our interests abroad. As our nation continues to address some of the most complex security challenges in recent history, we must make certain that our military is properly equipped to carry out the mission. “Furthermore, I am proud of the steps taken by my subcommittee to protect the responsiveness of the defense industrial base and provide the necessary resources to modernize our military against current and future threats.” The FY2016 NDAA also includes all provisions of the Support Uniformed Patriots; Prevent Offenses and Restore Trust Act (SUPPORT Act), which seeks to combat the issue of sexual assault in the military. Congressman Turner and Congresswoman Tsongas, as co-chairs of the Military Sexual Assault and Prevention Caucus, introduced the SUPPORT Act earlier this year. “Congresswoman Tsongas and I have long worked together on leading the fight to eradicate sexual assault in our military. The provisions of our bill, included in the FY2016 NDAA, will further protect both military and civilian victims and hold perpetrators firmly accountable under the law.” “With these provisions, the FY2016 NDAA strengthens our national security and provides protections for our service members. I urge my colleagues in the Senate to follow the leadership of the House, and I look forward to continuing the bipartisan, bicameral effort to strengthen our military.” Included below is a breakdown of provisions championed by Congressman Turner in the FY16 NDAA Sexual Assault in the Military Additionally, The FY16 NDAA includes all provisions of the Support Uniformed Patriots; Prevent Offenses and Restore Trust Act (SUPPORT Act), which seeks to combat the issue of sexual assault in the military. The SUPPORT Act was introduced earlier this year by the Military Sexual Assault and Prevention Caucus co-chairs, Congressman Turner and Congresswoman Tsongas. The SUPPORT ACT Requires sexual assault prevention and response training for all Reserve Officer Training Corps (ROTC) personnel. Requires the DOD to create a comprehensive strategy to prevent retaliation and protect those who experience it, as well as improved training for commanders. Provide a way for the DOD’s civilian employees to gain access to the special victims counsel program Enhances Special Victim Counsel (SVC) Program, ensuring advocates receive systematic training and an evolution process is put in place. Requires the DOD to better train and educate service members about the sexual assault of men; provides the medical and mental health needs specific to male survivors and develop Department-wide metrics in order to better understand the issue and address it. Prevents a sexual assault survivor’s mental health record from being released without an order from a military judge. Requires the Department of Defense to implement changes to the military justice systems in way to ensure fair and equal treatment across the services. Wright-Patterson “I have also included language that encourages the Air Force to expand its Minority Leader Program which works directly with Historically Black Colleges and Universities. It is my hope that this provision will help Wilberforce University and Central State University to do more outreach, research and scientific recruitment with students at these schools. Protection of Child Custody Rights for Members of the Armed Forces The FY15 NDAA included a provision amending the Service Members Civil Relief Act by prohibiting a court from using a deployment as the sole factor when determining child custody arrangements for military parents. This year’s bill builds on that success by encouraging the Department to work with both State courts and military parents to make certain that everyone is aware of these important changes to federal law. Attendance at Professional and Technical Conferences The bill recognizes the value associated with participation in professional and technical conferences by some Department of Defense personnel—especially those working in such fields as engineering and science and tech. This year’s committee report requires the Department to review current policies and encourages that appropriate consideration be given to such conferences going forward. Authority for U.S. Air Force Institute of Technology (AFIT) to Charge and Retain Tuition for Instruction of Persons Other Than Air Force Personnel Detailed for Instruction at the Institute Section 591 of the FY16 NDAA amends current law by authorizing AFIT to enroll non-Air Force personnel and charge and retain tuition for such persons. This section will create a new revenue stream for AFIT and ensure that the institute remains strong for many years to come. Renaming Site of the Dayton Aviation Heritage National Historical Park, Ohio Section 2851 of the FY16 NDAA would modify the name of the John W. Berry, Sr. Wright Brothers Aviation Center, Dayton, Ohio, to the John W. Berry, Sr. Wright Brothers National Museum, Dayton, Ohio. Air Force Minority Leaders Program The committee report encourages the Air Force to expand its Minority Leaders Program, which works directly with Historically Black Colleges and Universities on a host of critical government research tasks. This provision will provide Wilberforce University and Central State University by providing greater ability to compete for various research opportunities. Pharmacy Replacement at WPAFB The bill provides $6.6 million for a new pharmacy at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base. Technology Transfer The FY16 NDAA provides an additional $10 million above the President’s request for technology transfer activities. The additional funding is a benefit to the Air Force Research Laboratory (AFRL) as it will allow the lab to leverage private sector capabilities in order to provide our warfighters with game changing technologies. Tactical Air & Land Forces Subcommittee Provides for the procurement and development of the most up-to-date body armor and personal protective equipment systems. Supports the F-35 program with additional aircraft and continued testing and development, while achieving targeted savings and increasing accountability on the F-35 engine program and other logistics systems. Addresses the Department of the Navy’s concerns regarding shortfalls in tactical strike fighter aircraft and addresses a Navy unfunded requirement for additional F/A-18F Super Hornets. Supports National Guard aviation programs to include additional aircraft and upgrades to UH-60 Blackhawks, along with requiring additional accountability on the prioritization and distribution strategy employed by the National Guard Bureau. Compensates for the shortsighted removal of heavy equipment from Europe by proposing to upgrade the lethality of current Stryker Combat Vehicles. ###
05.08.2015	Washington, DC: Congressman Mike Turner released the following statement after security was enhanced at military bases across the country. “I have been in touch with Colonel John Devillier, 88th Air Base Wing and Installation Commander at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base, and have received a separate classified House Intelligence briefing regarding recent terror threats and enhanced security measures at military installations. I have full confidence in Wright-Patt leadership and we must be diligent in addressing today’s threat environment. Today’s recent events underscore the need for a comprehensive global strategy to combat increased terrorist threats.” ###
05.07.2015	Washington, DC: Congressman Mike Turner released the following statement after attending the Habitat for Humanity Kick-Off for the Jabir Family. “Today, marks an important day for the Jabir family. Najm has worked hard and with the help of Habitat for Humanity she and her family are able to have a home to call their own. As a former mayor and a member of Congress, I have worked with Habitat as they have impacted many families and improved the quality of many of our neighborhoods throughout our community. “This organization has helped over 5 million people since 1976 and that number continues to grow. I appreciate the help that Habitat for Humanity has provided for the citizens of Dayton and across the country.” ###
03.18.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – March 18, 2015 – The House Air Force Caucus has announced its bipartisan leadership team for the 114th Congress. The Air Force Caucus co-chairs are: Congressman Michael R. Turner (R-OH), Congressman Sam Johnson (R-TX), Congresswoman Madeleine Z. Bordallo (D-GU) and Congresswoman Niki Tsongas (D-MA). The Caucus currently has more than 70 members. The Air Force Caucus seeks to educate other Members of Congress on the Air Force’s role in national defense and raise pertinent issues related to Air Force manpower, capabilities, and missions. The Caucus hosts events throughout the year with Air Force leaders, and holds discussions with members and staff about current issues affecting the Air Force and ways to shape policies that enhance the Air Force’s ability to carry out its role protecting American national security interests. Below please find short bios and statements from each co-chair: Congressman Mike Turner (R-OH) is the Chairman of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Tactical Air and Land Forces and represents both the City of Dayton and Wright-Patterson Air Force Base in Congress. With roughly 27,000 people working on or stationed at the base, Wright-Patterson is the largest single-site employer in the state and is one of the largest Air Force installations in the world. “It’s an honor to continue to serve as a co-chair of the Air Force Caucus,” said Congressman Turner. “This bipartisan and bicameral forum provides an opportunity to directly engage the perspectives of the leaders of our Air Force and discuss the issues that are most important to our airmen. I look forward to continuing to work closely with Rep. Tsongas, Rep. Johnson, and Rep. Bordallo to make certain that our airmen at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base and around the world have the support and tools that they need to carry out their missions and maintain our technical superiority in the air.” Congressman Sam Johnson (R-TX), a decorated war hero and native Texan, ranks among the few Members of Congress to have fought in combat. During his 29-year career in the U.S. Air Force, Sam flew combat missions in both the Korean and Vietnam Wars. After his service in the Korean War, Sam served as director of the Air Force Fighter Weapons School and also flew the F-100 Super Sabre with the elite Air Force Thunderbirds. It was during his 25th combat mission in Vietnam that Sam was shot down and taken to the infamous Hanoi Hilton as a POW. He endured nearly seven years as a POW, including 42 months in solitary confinement with ten other "diehard" POWs, self-named the Alcatraz Gang. While in the Hanoi Hilton, Sam and his POW buddies decided that when they got out that they would stop griping about the government's problems and start fixing it. As the Representative for Texas' 3rd District, Sam upholds constitutional conservative values and actively supports America's servicemen and women - both active duty and veterans. "It is an honor to serve as co-chair of this important Air Force Caucus,” said Congressman Johnson. “Our airmen bravely serve Our Great Nation in a unique capacity, and it is important that Congress understands and meets the needs of our Air Force so that our airmen are able to effectively do their jobs and protect our Homeland. I look forward to a productive year supporting our airmen - they selflessly serve us all on a daily basis." Congresswoman Madeleine Bordallo (D-GU) represents the U.S. Territory of Guam and is the Ranking Member of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Readiness. As Guam’s Delegate to Congress, Bordallo represents the western most territory of the United States. Guam is home Andersen Air Force Base, which provides the U.S. Air Force with a forward presence in the Asia-Pacific region and is critical to supporting U.S. operations and our allies in the region. Ms. Bordallo has previously served as a co-chair of the Air Force Caucus during the 113th Congress. “I am proud to continue to serve as a co-chair of the Air Force Caucus for the 114th Congress,” said Congresswoman Bordallo. “The Caucus has been critical to better educating members of Congress of the important role our Air Force plays in our national security and the unique capabilities it provides our nation to deter and address a broad range of contingencies around the world. As Guam’s representative in Congress and member of the House Armed Services Committee, I have a deep appreciation of the many sacrifices our airmen, and all servicemembers, make to keep our country safe. Guam is home to Andersen Air Force Base, home of the 36th Wing, and host to the Continuous Bomber Presence which is critical to air projection in the Asia-Pacific region. I am glad to have Congresswoman Tsongas as my other Democratic co-chair, along with Congressmen Turner and Johnson as our Republican co-chairs. I look forward to continuing to support our Air Force during the 114th Congress and providing them with the tools and resources they need to fulfill their missions.” Congresswoman Niki Tsongas (D-MA), whose father was an Air Force Colonel who survived the bombing of Pearl Harbor, grew up on Air Force bases around the world. She is also currently a member of the Air Force Academy’s Board of Visitors. Hanscom Air Force Base, one of the U.S. military’s premier acquisition management facilities,is located in Massachusetts. Tsongas also serves as co-chair of the Military Sexual Assault Prevention Caucus. “I am honored to serve as a co-chair of the bipartisan Air Force Caucus and I look forward to using this position to work with both the Air Force and my colleagues in Congress to find the best policies to support the men and women serving in the U.S. Air Force,” said Congresswoman Tsongas. “Massachusetts is home to the only active duty Air Force base in New England, Hanscom Air Force Base, and I have developed a strong appreciation for the vital work done there. I also have seen firsthand how the Air Force has been able to capitalize on the high-tech cluster of academia and industry in Massachusetts. This peerless intellectual ecosystem has proven essential to enhance our nation’s security and ensure that the United States Air Force remains second to none. I look forward to drawing from the great work being done in Massachusetts as the Caucus works to best meet the needs of our Air Force. I am grateful to have the opportunity to serve in this leadership role and look forward to working with Congressman Turner, Congressman Johnson and Congresswoman Bordallo.” ####
03.17.2015	Rep. Turner for the defense The Washington Post By: Jennifer Rubin March 17, 2015 Rep. Mike Turner (R-Ohio) is a key voice leading the charge against a misguided defense budget. Earlier this month, he rounded up 70 Republicans to write a letter to the speaker deploring the anticipated budget that would under-fund defense. “The protection of our national defense and of the security of the American people must come first. Every member who signed this letter was unwavering in their commitment to vote against a budget resolution that fails to fully fund national defense at or above the $561 billion identified by the President in his budget request.” Unfortunately, we got a budget today that barely differs from the president’s. In an Armed Services Committee hearing there was this exchange with General Raymond T. Odierno, the Chief of Staff of the Army: REP. MIKE TURNER: . . . You testified last week that only 33% of our brigades are ready when our sustained readiness rate should be closer to 70%. This number is disturbing both because of its significance to our military and the effects of it. When a Brigade Combat Team or BCT – which is the essential building block of the Army’s combat power – isn’t ready and the Army isn’t ready to fight but they go to fight. General Odierno, could you describe to us doesn’t this mean that more people will get injured or killed? It isn’t just an issue of readiness, risk, capability, or mission? It’s that more people will get injured or killed? Is that correct? GENERAL ODIERNO: That’s absolutely right Congressman. It means it will take us longer to do our mission, it will cost us in lives and it will cost us in injuries and it could potentially cost us in achieving the goals we are attempting to achieve as well. REP. MIKE TURNER: So the translation we need is: we can lose, people will die, and people will be injured. GENERAL ODIERNO: That is correct sir. REP. MIKE TURNER: Now General, if we go to full sequestration for FY2016 and that’s an issue that’s beyond just what the budget is, your goal of taking our brigades to 70% of readiness, how do you accomplish that? GENERAL ODIERNO: We will not. What we will do – as you mentioned with 33% ready now, that will go down with sequestration, probably to somewhere around 25%. We will have to focus all our resources on a small part of the force just to meet every day requirements that we have in the Army. The rest of the force will go untrained and that means that if they are needed, they will not be able to do the job we expect them to do. And our sons and daughters will be asked to do things without the proper training or proper readiness of their equipment REP. MIKE TURNER: Which again means that more people will be injured or killed? GENERAL ODIERNO: That is correct sir. Leadership will pick off many votes for the budget from Turner’s letter, but many may still resist the entreaties to sign onto a dangerous budget that is coincidentally also politically foolish. As Mackenzie Eaglan explains, the most likely outcome will be this: The defense appropriations bill that passes the House will match the legal spending caps for the core defense budget at $499 billion for 2016. . . . Congress will seek to add additional emergency supplemental funds – or overseas contingency operations (OCO) money – for defense above President Obama’s levels, but much of it will ultimately be stripped out during floor debate. . . . The defense spending bills that pass in both chambers will not become law. Most likely, the federal government will start the fiscal year operating under another continuing resolution (CR). . . All eyes will turn to the Budget Committee chairmen to craft a follow on to the Ryan-Murray Bipartisan Budget Act to stanch the bleeding and triage the patient (defense) while providing some fiscal certainty and relief for the military later this summer or early fall. But this could have been done differently. “The House GOP leadership took the easy way out — politically and budgetary. This resolution will do little to draw support from policymakers with a deep understanding of the crisis in defense and will likely end up failing for not pleasing any bloc in the party, including defense hawks, fiscal hawks and appropriators. For the Pentagon, this means another long year of budget uncertainty with no foresight into how or when the budgetary process will end and at what spending levels. That hurts not only the military, but taxpayers as well since it creates inefficiency and drives up program and planning costs across the largest federal agency.” Perhaps the House and then the Senate will reconsider this and at least put on the president’s desk responsible legislation that adequately funds the first priority of the federal government.
03.17.2015	If Sequestration takes effect in FY2016, "...we can lose, people will die, and people will be injured..." Washington, DC: Today, the House Armed Services Committee conducted a full committee hearing regarding the Fiscal Year 2016 National Defense Authorization Budget request from the military departments. See below for a portion of Congressman Mike Turner’s exchange with General Raymond T. Odierno, the Chief of Staff of the Army. REP. MIKE TURNER: As you are all aware, today the House Budget Committee unveiled its budget and it will be funding the Department of Defense at the sequestration number, which I oppose and I think most people in this room oppose... But I have had this conversation with most of you. The more we talk in this room about the effects of sequestration the less we win. Because we are all on the same page. But we’ve got to get the message outside of this room. And unfortunately in this room, when we talk about sequestration, we use words like readiness, risk, capability, mission. General Odierno, I’m going to ask you to help give us some clarity, beyond words of readiness, risk, capability, and mission. You testified last week that only 33% of our brigades are ready when our sustained readiness rate should be closer to 70%. This number is disturbing both because of its significance to our military and the effects of it. When a Brigade Combat Team or BCT—which is the essential building block of the Army’s combat power— isn’t ready and the Army isn’t ready to fight but they go to fight. General Odierno, could you describe to us doesn’t this mean that more people will get injured or killed? It isn’t just an issue of readiness, risk, capability, or mission? It’s that more people will get injured or killed? Is that correct? GENERAL ODIERNO: That’s absolutely right Congressman. It means it will take us longer to do our mission, it will cost us in lives and it will cost us in injuries and it could potentially cost us in achieving the goals we are attempting to achieve as well. REP. MIKE TURNER: So the translation we need is: we can lose, people will die, and people will be injured. GENERAL ODIERNO: That is correct sir. REP. MIKE TURNER: Now General, if we go to full sequestration for FY2016 and that’s an issue that’s beyond just what the budget is, your goal of taking our brigades to 70% of readiness, how do you accomplish that? GENERAL ODIERNO: We will not. What we will do –as you mentioned with 33% ready now, that will go down with sequestration, probably to somewhere around 25%. We will have to focus all our resources on a small part of the force just to meet every day requirements that we have in the Army. The rest of the force will go untrained and that means that if they are needed, they will not be able to do the job we expect them to do. And our sons and daughters will be asked to do things without the proper training or proper readiness of their equipment REP. MIKE TURNER: Which again means that more people will be injured or killed? GENERAL ODIERNO: That is correct sir.
03.12.2015	Washington, DC: Following press reports that President Obama negotiated a secret deal with German Chancellor Angela Merkel and unilaterally agreed not to provide lethal assistance to Ukraine, Congressman Mike Turner sent a letter to the president requesting that he: (1) Immediately brief Congress on any and all details related to the alleged negotiations. (2) Finally provide Ukraine with the lethal assistance necessary to defend their country. “As Putin continues to send Russian troops and military equipment across the Ukrainian border in blatant violation of the ceasefire agreement, it appears that the President has covertly and unilaterally decided to deny lethal assistance to the Ukrainian military. This decision continues President Obama’s pattern of formulating secret deals, failing to consult with Congress, and disregarding the opinions of his own administration,” said Turner. “The President should immediately reverse his position, provide Congress with any and all details relevant to these negotiations, and make certain the Ukrainian military has the resources necessary to defend their country,” said Turner. -- Over the last year, Congressman Turner has repeatedly pushed the Obama Administration to confront the reality of the Russian threat and to provide the Ukrainians with the defensive weapons they need to adequately confront Putin’s increasingly aggressive posture. In March of 2014, Congressman Turner urged Secretary of Defense Chuck Hagel to immediately provide Ukraine with the critical intelligence required to fully understand the severity of the Russian threat. Instead, nearly ten months later, an intelligence gap between the Ukrainian military and the United States government remains and the administration is only now “taking a fresh look” at the situation. Last April, the armed forces of Ukraine asked the Obama administration for both lethal and non-lethal aid. Along with a bipartisan coalition of members, Congressman Turner urged the president to provide this assistance and to help make certain the Ukrainian forces were appropriately equipped to combat pro-Russian Ukrainian separatists. The president failed to do so. Additionally, this past fall, Ukrainian President Petro Poroshenko addressed a joint session of Congress and strongly reiterated his request for “more military equipment, both lethal and non-lethal, urgently,” arguing “one cannot win the war with blankets.” Notably, he stated, “In Ukraine, you don’t build a democracy. It already exists. You just defend it.” Instead of aiding Ukraine with the systems they specifically requested, the United States has persisted with its policy of solely providing non-lethal aid.
03.03.2015	Washington, DC: Today, following Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu’s address to a joint session of Congress, Congressman Mike Turner, Chairman of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Tactical Air and Land Forces released the following statement: “A nuclear Iran is unacceptable. Iran’s turbulent past, along with its unstable central government prove that the country cannot be trusted, especially when negotiating issues like weapons of mass destructions. For this reason, I have long opposed any negotiated deals between Iran and the international community that would allow Iran to maintain a nuclear program in any form. As Prime Minister Netanyahu noted today, a nuclear Iran is a dangerous threat to Israel and to the entire international community. Preventing a nuclear Iran is undeniably critical to the national security of the United States. We must work together with the nation of Israel and all our allies to confront this serious threat,” said Turner. Congressman Turner is the former Chairman and current member of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Strategic Forces. Under his leadership, the Subcommittee on Strategic Forces provided strong support to the Iron Dome short-range rocket defense system. For FY 2015, Congressman Turner has strongly supported additional support for the Iron Dome.
03.02.2015	Dayton, OH: Today, Congressman Mike Turner toured the Lima Tank Plant facility. Congressman Turner chairs the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Tactical Air and Land forces, which has direct oversight of the acquisition of the M1 Abrams Main Battle Tank Program. The Lima Tank Plant is the only facility that modernizes Abrams tanks for the military services. This year, for the first time in his presidency, President Obama did not propose cuts or program cancellations that would have shutdown the Abrams Tank plant. Specifically, President Obama’s FY2016 budget proposal included more than $445 million to accelerate the next major upgrade to the Abrams Tank and to sustain the Lima tank production facility. “Despite a yearly effort from President Obama to cut critical funding, Congress has been able to work successfully in a bipartisan and bicameral way to protect the industrial base and keep the Lima Tank plant open. This year’s turn-around from the Administration is a clear victory for the Abrams Tank and a confirmation that our work and advocacy has been effective,” said Turner. Congressman Turner has long fought to prevent any production break of the Abrams Tank and consistently been a voice for both the plant and it’s workforce. This year, Congressman Turner authored and fought to include language in the FY2015 NDAA that recognizes the necessity of the Abrams Tank to our national security and encouraged the Army to consider acceleration of the next series of major upgrades for Abrams Tanks. The language also authorized an additional $120 million for these critical upgrades for Abrams Tanks. “Keeping the production lines open here in Lima, Ohio is critical to maintaining the defense industrial base. This critical resource cannot be turned on and off like a light switch; any production break or temporary shutdown at the Lima Tank Plant would not only result in the loss of technical expertise that might never return, but would threaten the national security of the United States,” said Turner. ####
03.02.2015	Washington, DC: Congressman Mike Turner led 70 members of Congress in an effort to end the devastating effects of sequestration on our Defense Department and Wright-Patterson Air Force Base. On Friday February 27, the lawmakers sent a letter to Speaker John Boehner to ask for his support and leadership to ensure that national defense is adequately funded at or above the $561 billion included in the President’s budget request. “Seventy individual members have made it clear that a budget that fails to fully fund defense will not pass the House of Representatives,” said Turner. “The protection of our national defense and of the security of the American people must come first. Every member who signed this letter was unwavering in their commitment to vote against a budget resolution that fails to fully fund national defense at or above the $561 billion identified by the President in his budget request,” said Turner.
02.26.2015	Washington, D.C. –Congressman Mike Turner, a senior member of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee, reintroduced The Taxpayer Nondiscrimination & Protection Act renewed his years-long push to make certain that America taxpayers are protected. This legislation would amend Title 18 of the U.S. Code to make it a crime for an Internal Revenue Service (IRS) employee to discriminate against an individual or group on the basis of their protected rights. In addition, it expressly clarifies that political speech and political expression are protected rights. “This legislation takes action. No matter which party controls the White House, taxpayers deserve to be treated fairly. As Congress continues to investigate the IRS, we must also make certain that the proper corrective mechanisms are in place to protect American taxpayers from any act of wrongful discrimination by the federal government’s tax collectors,” said Turner. Currently, IRS employees who discriminate against taxpayers may be subject to a maximum penalty of termination and then only at the discretion of their supervisors. Congressman Turner’s bill would make it a crime for an IRS employee to target an individual or group based on their beliefs. This legislation would increase the maximum penalty to a $5,000 fine, 5 years in prison, or both - which is the same maximum penalty for a member of the president's cabinet who directs an employee to take that sort of action. “When the IRS unfairly targeted individuals on the basis of their political beliefs, the IRS badly damaged the trust of the American public in its ability to act in a fair, nonpartisan, and nondiscriminatory manner. This legislation takes an important step to restore that weakened trust and strongly deter any future acts of discrimination,” said Turner. ###
02.23.2015	Click HERE to Watch JAKE TAPPER: Let's bring in Republican Congressman Mike Turner, who sits on the House Intelligence Committee. Congressman, good to see you. Thanks for joining us. You will get a briefing on the al Shabab video and their call to attack the Mall of America this week. How serious a threat do you take this group to be? REP. MIKE TUNRER: Well, I think this is why we need a global strategy, Jake. This is in effect a terrorist attack. Their goal of terrorism as you know is to cause fear and their attempt here is to cause fear. Whether or not these particular threats are real or not, these organizations are. As you pointed out, al Shabab having ties to al Qaeda, has previously orchestrated these types of attacks. I think we need to make certain we don't just look at this as isolated geographic instances. This is not just how do we deal with Paris or with the threat to the Mall of America. It's how do we deal globally with these terrorist groups and organizations to take down their capabilities, to take their ability to threaten Americans JAKE TAPPER: But different groups have different reaches and different groups have different abilities. I know in the past, the group ISIS versus the al Qaeda remnants in Syria plus then there's Boko Haram, there are a whole bunch of different terrorist groups. Is al Shabab considered a serious threat to the United States homeland? REP. MIKE TUNRER: Well, I think you just outlined well in your description of this in your opening. Any group or organization that has the intent to harm Americans and are making these calls and pronouncements can both have a direct threat and also the effect of soliciting or encouraging others to take action. But in this instance, what we see unfortunately and this is something that the United States turn to, that the President needs to turn to, as we have retreated from these areas and these groups have grown and taken hold, the threat to the West and to the United States has grown. This is something that needs to be addressed because if we don't take this fight directly to them to take down their capabilities, both financially, structurally and their leadership, we will see threats like this continue to be a risk for us. JAKE TAPPER: You were talking about how in a way; al Shabab had already achieved something by creating terror, creating fear. Minnesota is home to the largest Somali population in the U.S. Somalia, of course, home to al Shabab's base of operations. Do you think that there is actually a link there, or are they -- is the group in your estimation hoping somebody in Minnesota is inspired by this video, or are they trying to alienate Somali Americans from the rest of the population? REP. MIKE TURNER: Well, I think your last point is certainly an important one. We should not look suspiciously at just anyone who has either roots or faith in Islam or comes regionally from an area. The issue is one of these terrorist organizations that take terrorism, Islamic extremism, to the point of wanting to hurt Americans. We can't succumb to their culture of fear that they want to impose upon us. At the same time we need to remain diligent. It's very good to see what the Mall of America is doing. It's good to see what Homeland Security is doing. But what we need to do is a global strategy that makes them at risk instead of our being at risk. JAKE TAPPER: Congressman Mike Turner from Dayton, Ohio, thank you so much. Really appreciate it.
02.23.2015	Washington, DC: Friday afternoon, Congressman Mike Turner (R-OH) and Congressman Tim Ryan (D-OH) introduced legislation that would extend the Health Coverage Tax Credit (HCTC) for the Delphi Salaried Retirees. With the expiration of the HCTC on January 1, 2014, tens of thousands of families across the country have struggled to pay their health bills. The legislation would restore the HCTC for five years and provide these retirees with the certainty and stability they need. “More than five years ago, 20,000 Delphi Salaried Retirees unjustly lost up to seventy percent of their pensions during the GM bankruptcy,” said Rep. Turner. "For the last year, these retirees have been forced to use up to fifty percent of their remaining pensions to pay for their health care. This legislation would provide much-needed relief for thousands of families who have already lost so much.” “The Health Coverage Tax Credit will give relief to thousands of Delphi salaried retirees and dislocated and retired United Steelworkers (USW) who have had their pensions and healthcare significantly reduced through no fault of their own,” said Rep. Ryan. "It is critical that we pass this legislation and ensure that they receive the affordable coverage they deserve, we cannot leave these hardworking Americans behind.” In November of 2014, Reps. Turner and Ryan sent a bipartisan letter to House leadership reaffirming their strong support for the passage of an extension of the HCTC as part of a year-end tax extenders bill before the 113th Congress adjourned for the year. In March of 2014, Reps. Turner and Ryan joined a delegation of 28 Members and Senators from across the country in sending a letter to both House and Senate leadership pushing for the extension of the HCTC. In July of 2013, Reps. Turner and Ryan introduced legislation that would have provided the Delphi Salaried Retirees and other eligible individuals the choice of continuing within the HCTC program past the program’s termination date, or upon leaving the program. ###
02.12.2015	Washington, DC: Following the confirmation of the new Secretary of Defense, Ash Carter, Congressman Mike Turner, Chairman of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Tactical Air and Land Forces, released the following statement: “Ash Carter boasts an impressive track record at the Pentagon and has made it clear that he will be ‘entirely straight and upfront with the President.’ Just last week, Ash Carter stated, that he was ‘very much inclined’ to provide arms to Ukraine and that, ‘we need to support the Ukrainians in defending themselves.’ With Ash Carter’s official confirmation, I am hopeful that the President will stop stalling and listen to his own Secretary of Defense, Members of Congress in his own party, and numerous military and civilian leaders who have all recommended action to empower the Ukrainian army so that they can successfully confront mounting Russian aggression.”
02.12.2015	NYTimes: Defense Nominee Urged to Take Action in Sexual Assault Cases He’s not scheduled to be confirmed as defense secretary until Thursday afternoon, but the pressure on Ashton B. Carter has already started. House members led by Representative Louise M. Slaughter, Democrat of New York, have written a letter putting Mr. Carter on notice that they will be watching how he handles reports of sexual assault in the military. The letter, also signed by Representative Michael R. Turner, Republican of Ohio, and Representative Niki Tsongas, Democrat of Massachusetts, asks Mr. Carter to bring “the full weight of your office to bear on improving the military’s response to sexual assault and preventing it from happening in the first place.” The Pentagon released a survey on Wednesday showing that although students at the three military service academies reported fewer sexual assaults in the 2013-14 school year, more than 40 percent of those who had reported unwanted sexual contact also said they had faced retaliation. “We want to make sure that he does not let up on this,” Ms. Slaughter said in a telephone interview. – Helene Cooper http://www.nytimes.com/politics/first-draft/2015/02/12/new-hampshires-wistful-look-at-off-the-cuff-politics/#post-mb-3
02.12.2015	Reps. Turner, Slaughter, and Tsongas, to Send Bipartisan Letter Asking New Defense Secretary Ashton Carter to Focus on Curbing Sexual Assault in the Military Report Released Yesterday Shows Women and Men Who Come Forward at Service Academies Are Subject to Retaliation Official Confirmation by Senate is Expected Today WASHINGTON – Today, Representatives Mike Turner (R-OH), Louise M. Slaughter (D-NY), Niki Tsongas (D-MA), and 50 of their colleagues are sending a bipartisan letter to new Secretary of Defense Ashton Carter asking him to focus on curbing military sexual assault in the military. “As you are well aware, preventing and appropriately responding to the tragedy of military sexual assault is an issue of extreme importance for the wellbeing of our brave servicewomen and men,” the representatives wrote. “We have a moral duty to do everything we can to protect those who sacrifice so much to protect us every single day.” The representatives called on Secretary Carter to follow in his predecessors’ footsteps and continue to make reforming the military’s sexual assault prevention and response program a top priority. Despite increased awareness and concrete steps taken by the Pentagon to lower the incidence of sexual assault and make it easier to deliver justice to survivors, the rate of sexual assault in the military remains pervasively high, as does the rate of survivors who experience retaliation from their peers after reporting. According to a report released yesterday by the Pentagon, 43% of women and 36% of men who reported unwanted sexual contact while attending the academies – the most elite military training institutes in the country – have experienced retaliation. And 22% of women who experienced unwanted sexual contact said they did not report it because they were afraid of retaliation from the offender or the offender’s friends. Read the full letter below: February 12, 2015 The Honorable Ashton Carter Secretary of Defense 1000 Defense Pentagon Washington, DC 20301-1000 Dear Secretary Carter: Congratulations on your recent confirmation as the Secretary of Defense. President Obama has shown significant faith in you and your ability to lead our nation’s excellent military forces in a time of great importance in our history. As you are well aware, preventing and appropriately responding to the tragedy of military sexual assault is an issue of extreme importance for the wellbeing of our brave servicewomen and men. We have a moral duty to do everything we can to protect those who sacrifice so much to protect us every single day. There has been significant progress on this issue in recent years, from establishing the Sexual Assault Prevention and Response Office (SAPRO) and assigning a high level officer to direct it, to the inclusion of multiple provisions related to military sexual assault in National Defense Authorization Acts, such as expedited base transfers, extended maintenance of records, training in specialized victim-sensitive techniques for criminal investigations, and the creation of a Special Victims’ Counsel to best serve those affected. Secretary Leon Panetta joined Congress in addressing this critical issue by issuing specific directives that evidenced the commitment of the Department of Defense to combatting sexual assault in the military. The Director of SAPRO, Major General Snow, indicated during a recent briefing to Members of Congress that Secretary Chuck Hagel further elevated the issue to have a place on the agenda every week in his meetings with the highest-ranking members of his team. That focus has led to various improvements, although there remains much more work to be done. We respectfully request that as Secretary of Defense, you continue the commitment shown by your predecessors to addressing sexual assault in the military, bringing the full weight of your office to bear on improving the military’s response to sexual assault and preventing it from happening in the first place. We are particularly concerned by recent evidence that the rate of experiencing personal or professional retaliation for reporting an incident of sexual assault is unacceptably high. Our service members must feel safe in reporting sexual assault if there is to be true progress toward ending it. We look forward to partnering with you to protect our servicewomen and men. Sincerely, Louise M. Slaughter Niki Tsongas Member of Congress Member of Congress Michael Turner Joe Wilson Member of Congress Member of Congress Tulsi Gabbard Susan Davis Member of Congress Member of Congress Madeleine Z. Bordallo Tammy Duckworth Member of Congress Member of Congress Jackie Speier Elijah E. Cummings Member of Congress Member of Congress Jackie Walorski Brian Higgins Member of Congress Member of Congress Sam Farr Beto O’Rourke Member of Congress Member of Congress Elizabeth Esty Michelle Lujan Grisham Member of Congress Member of Congress Steve Cohen James P. McGovern Member of Congress Member of Congress David Cicilline Jan Schakowsky Member of Congress Member of Congress Mark Pocan Dina Titus Member of Congress Member of Congress Betty McCollum Emanuel Cleaver II Member of Congress Member of Congress Walter Jones John Conyers Member of Congress Member of Congress Ann McLane Kuster Charles B. Rangel Member of Congress Member of Congress Jerry McNerney Mark Takano Member of Congress Member of Congress Kyrsten Sinema Katherine Clark Member of Congress Member of Congress Suzan DelBene Bobby L. Rush Member of Congress Member of Congress Chellie Pingree Carolyn Maloney Member of Congress Member of Congress Tim Ryan Dan Benishek Member of Congress Member of Congress Joaquin Castro Jim Langevin Member of Congress Member of Congress John Yarmuth Rosa DeLauro Member of Congress Member of Congress Michael Coffman Alan Lowenthal Member of Congress Member of Congress Pete Aguilar Rich Nugent Member of Congress Member of Congress Mike Fitzpatrick Chris Gibson Member of Congress Member of Congress Lois Frankel Cheri Bustos Member of Congress Member of Congress Debbie Wasserman Schultz Alcee L. Hastings Member of Congress Member of Congress Daniel Lipinksi Member of Congress
02.11.2015	Washington, DC—Today, following President Obama’s formal request for a new authorization for the use of military force (AUMF) against ISIL, Congressman Mike Turner, Chairman of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Tactical Air and Land Forces, released the following statement: “This request is not a national security strategy. Instead of clear, decisive international leadership, we continue to see reluctance and indecision by the President. In order to successfully defeat ISIL, the President must articulate and implement a comprehensive strategy that gives our military experts and commanders the agility and authority they need to successfully confront this increasingly dangerous and complex threat. Today’s request by the President does not meet that criteria. ”
02.10.2015	Washington, DC: Today, ahead of Wednesday’s planned peace talks between Ukrainian President Petro Poroshenko, German Chancellor Angela Merkel, French President Francois Hollande, Russian Federation President Vladimir Putin, and pro-Russia separatist leaders in Minsk, Belarus, Congressman Mike Turner, Chairman of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Tactical Air and Land Forces, released the following statement: “Within the last year, Mr. Putin has flagrantly and deliberately violated the 1987 Intermediate-Range Nuclear Forces (INF) Treaty, the Budapest Memorandum, and the Minsk Protocol. This well-established pattern of aggressive dismissal of international treaties and norms gives the world no reason to believe that Putin will uphold his end of any agreement, even if tomorrow’s negotiations are successful. Additionally, yesterday, President Obama himself admitted that economic sanctions have not been enough to deter Putin. In order to change Putin’s calculus, President Obama must stop stalling and listen to his own Secretary of Defense, Members of Congress in his own party, and dozens of military and civilian leaders who have all recommended actions to empower the Ukrainian army so they can successfully confront the growing Russian threat.”
02.09.2015	Washington, DC: Today, following joint remarks from the President of the United States and German Chancellor, Andrea Merkel, at the White House, Congressman Mike Turner, Chairman of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Tactical Air and Land Forces, released the following statement: “Instead of looking out for the best interest of the United States and its allies, President Obama relies on the leadership of other nations and continues to outsource his foreign policy agenda. In order to halt Putin’s ongoing effort to retake territories lost following the collapse of the Soviet Union, the President needs to form and execute a firm strategy focused on empowering Ukraine’s military and dissuading further Russian hostility in Eastern Europe,” said Turner. “The United States cannot continue to stand idly by and allow the deteriorating situation in Ukraine to continue. In recent weeks, there has been a groundswell of support for decisive U.S. action to provide the Ukrainian army with the defensive assistance required to confront and deter Putin’s ongoing aggression,” said Turner. Notably, last week a joint report from leaders of the Brookings Institution, the Atlantic Council, and the Chicago Council on Global Affairs recommended that the U.S. provide lethal assistance to Ukraine and stated: “Some in the West are concerned that provision of military assistance, particularly of lethal arms, would cause Russia to escalate the crisis. We vehemently disagree. Russia has already continuously escalated: seizing and annexing Crimea, encouraging and aiding separatists in eastern Ukraine, providing the separatists with heavy arms, and ultimately invading the Donbas with regular Russian army units….Enhanced military assistance would increase Kyiv’s capability to deter further Russian escalation.” Additionally, last week, defense secretary nominee, Ashton Carter, stated, that he was “very much inclined in that direction” and that, “we need to support the Ukrainians in defending themselves,” including the possibility of “lethal” arms. Over the weekend (February 6-8), Congressman Turner was one of fifteen members of Congress who attended the Munich Security Conference in Munich, Germany. Congressman Turner also serves on the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence and as President of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly. ###
02.06.2015	Washington, DC: Today, following the release of President’ Obama’s new national security plan for his last two years in office, Congressman Mike Turner, Chairman of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Tactical Air and Land Forces, released the following statement: “This new ‘strategy’ is a regurgitation of the same failed policies that have engendered an international environment of weakness and made the United States and our allies around the world less safe. Instead of offering a plan to arm the Ukrainians so they can successfully combat ongoing Russian aggression, today the Obama Administration urged more restraint and inaction. The president must change course and recognize that Putin poses a threat not only to Ukraine, but to our NATO allies throughout Europe." ###
02.06.2015	Click HERE to watch JAKE TAPPER: Let’s bring in Congressman Mike Turner. He sits on the House Intelligence Committee and the House Armed Services Committee. Thanks so much for being here. So today, the White House admitted for the first time the sanctions were not changing Moscow's behavior, although they are certainly damaging Russia's economy. You say it's long past time to give lethal aid to Ukraine. Are you not worried at all that this would essentially drag the United States into another foreign war? REP. MIKE TURNER: Well, it doesn’t drag the United States in. It really is helping our friends and opposing those who declare themselves as our enemy. In this instance, we have intelligence information about what the Russians are doing. We should be working more closely with Ukraine so they actually know what they are facing. And then we should be providing them both military aid; defensive and lethal. Congress at the end of last year authorized the President to provide that lethal aid. He has all the authority to do it. Ukraine has been a NATO partner and certainly the infrastructure is there to provide that aid. The President needs to acknowledge this is an invasion and he needs to help a friend. JAKE TAPPER: You are on the House Intelligence Committee. What can you assert as a fact in terms of what has gone over the border from Russia into Ukraine beyond arms? Obviously they are supplying the pro-Russian separatists with arms but what about, are there definitely Russian tanks, Russian soldiers? REP. MIKE TURNER: Obviously I can't tell you what we are receiving in intelligence briefings but certainly, we know from the Ukrainians themselves that there are thousands of Russian troops that are present in Ukraine and that the heavy equipment that is going back and forth to the border between the border represents a significant threat. If you look at what they have had outside, General Breedlove has made it very clear as to the invasion force that’s on the outside of the border and the Russian troops inside the border pose a full invasion threat. This is Vladimir Putin not just merely being adventuresome. He intends to take a significant portion of Ukraine if we do nothing to stop him. JAKE TAPPER: How long do we have, does the U.S. have, before it's too late to act on behalf of the Ukrainians? REP. MIKE TURNER: I was talking to one NATO general just last weekend and he was saying time is running short. Since Russia has not been deterred, they made their intentions absolutely clear. The Ukrainians both in what they have in reserves and what they are utilizing is running thin. In order to be able to turn the tide, this needs to be done very quickly. JAKE TAPPER: Bloomberg is reporting that only half of the $118 million of non-lethal assistance pledged to Ukraine has so far been delivered. Only half. Even if the U.S. authorized lethal aid, how do we know it's even going to get there? REP. MIKE TURNER: Well, we know it can get there because we can assist in it getting there and we know it can be utilized. I was just in Ukraine last December; I met with commanders who were over the front line in Ukraine. They are waiting for our assistance and they will put it to good use. JAKE TAPPER: What is Putin's end game here? You think he just wants to grab eastern Ukraine? He already obviously took Crimea. REP. MIKE TURNER: Right. But we look primarily to what he has said. He has in part proposed that perhaps the Ukraine could even be divided in a way that would have some of it have a sphere of influence with Europe and another be aligned with Russia. What we have here is Russia having violated the territorial integrity of a country where they signed a treaty to protect it; this is the type of area where the United States needs to respond. The president needs to be clear. It's a mystery as to why the President will not declare it an invasion. We need to provide aid. JAKE TAPPER: Isn't the bottom line that none of the NATO countries, Ukraine is obviously not a member, but none of the NATO countries are willing to expend the life of one NATO soldier? Isn't that the bottom line as to why no one is doing more? REP. MIKE TURNER: That's not quite the case. We can do a tremendous amount and still not be in a situation where NATO troops or U.S. troops themselves are engaged in the conflict. But this is the type of assistance that a country like Ukraine which is aligned with NATO which is a NATO friend, deserves and we should be providing. JAKE TAPPER: Congressman Mike Turner from Ohio, thank you for coming we appreciate it.
02.04.2015	It’s Time To Arm the Ukrainians: President Obama must change course and give Ukrainians the arms they need to stop Putin. BY: REP. MICHAEL R. TURNER The Obama administration must stop the handwringing that has characterized the president’s foreign policy and immediately provide lethal military assistance to Ukraine. After failing for nearly a year to change Russian President Vladimir Putin’s calculus, the United States needs to finally take action. When Secretary of State John Kerry visits Kiev for talks with the Ukrainian government, he should establish a renewed commitment of U.S. support in the form of lethal assistance. As we have seen in Ukraine, Putin has opened a war zone in Europe, refused to support enforcement of the Minsk Protocol, and shown no evidence or intention of deescalating the burgeoning crisis he has created. Instead, Putin has stated repeatedly that he has the right and the intention to deploy Russia’s nuclear weapons in the Ukrainian territory of Crimea. At present, Russian forces hold a significant advantage over the Ukrainian military. Although Russia’s economy is about the size of Italy’s, their military threatens all of Europe and Putin continues to ratchet up his military presence and capabilities in Ukraine. At present, over 5,000 Ukrainian lives have been lost in the deadly conflict and Russia has conscripted nearly 100,000 troops to fight in Eastern Ukraine. For far too long, the administration has been reticent to declare Russia as an adversary. President Obama needs to finally recognize that Putin poses a threat not only to Ukraine, but also to our NATO allies throughout Europe. The United States cannot continue to stand idly by and allow this deteriorating situation to continue. President Barack Obama’s refusal to respond adequately to Putin’s escalation of an increasingly serious crisis has engendered an environment of weakness and sent a very dangerous message to Russia and to the rest of the world. The president must change course and provide lethal assistance to Ukraine in order to bolster Ukrainian national security, prepare the Ukrainian army to confront the Russian threat, and help restore stability throughout the region In March of 2014, I urged Secretary of Defense Chuck Hagel to immediately provide Ukraine with the critical intelligence required to fully understand the severity of the Russian threat. Instead, nearly ten months later, an intelligence gap between the Ukrainian military and the United States government remains and the administration is only now “taking a fresh look” at the situation. Last April, the armed forces of Ukraine asked the Obama administration for both lethal and non-lethal aid. Along with a bipartisan coalition of members, I urged the president to provide this assistance and to help make certain the Ukrainian forces were appropriately equipped to combat pro-Russian Ukrainian separatists. The president failed to do so. This past fall, Ukrainian President Petro Poroshenko addressed a joint session of Congress and strongly reiterated his request for “more military equipment, both lethal and non-lethal, urgently,” arguing “one cannot win the war with blankets.” Notably, he stated, “In Ukraine, you don’t build a democracy. It already exists. You just defend it.” Instead of aiding Ukraine with the systems they specifically requested, the United States has persisted with its policy of solely providing non-lethal aid. And at the end of last year, Congress unanimously approved legislation authorizing lethal assistance to Ukraine, which the president subsequently signed into law. Despite having the legal authority and strong bipartisan support from Congress, the president continues to vacillate on the issue. NATO’s military commander, Gen. Philip Breedlove, has been vocal in his support for U.S. efforts to deter Russian aggression. In addition, this week a joint report from the Brookings Institution, the Atlantic Council, and the Chicago Council on Global Affairs recommended that the U.S. provide lethal assistance to Ukraine. Finally, on Wednesday, defense secretary nominee Ashton Carter stated, that he was “very much inclined in that direction” and that, “we need to support the Ukrainians in defending themselves,” including the possibility of “lethal” arms. For far too long, the administration has been reticent to declare Russia as an adversary. President Obama needs to finally recognize that Putin poses a threat not only to Ukraine, but also to our NATO allies throughout Europe. The United States cannot continue its pattern of indecision. The president must take immediate and decisive action to provide Ukraine with the lethal assistance required to confront and deter Putin’s ongoing aggression.
02.04.2015	WASHINGTON, DC –Today, Representatives Mike Turner (R-OH), Niki Tsongas (D-MA) and Louise Slaughter (D-NY) released the following bipartisan, joint statement urging the Senate and Ash Carter to prioritize military sexual assault prevention during the Secretary of Defense nominee’s confirmation hearing, which begins today. “Over the last several years, prompted by historic, bipartisan legislation, the military has made substantial efforts to combat military sexual assault and provide important resources to survivors. Secretary Hagel showed a willingness to work with Congress on this issue and took steps to change the military culture that has allowed these crimes to occur for too long. But there is much more work to be done and both parties in the House continue to be focused on addressing military sexual assault. “As Ash Carter’s confirmation hearing begins this week, we hope the Senate shares our bipartisan will and pushes Mr. Carter on military sexual assault prevention. We urge Mr. Carter to prioritize military sexual assault and look forward to hearing his plan for supporting survivors and further preventing these heinous crimes. We intend to continue working together and with all our colleagues on both sides of the aisle to maintain pressure on the Department of Defense and the Secretary of Defense so that further progress is made on this critical national security issue.” ####
02.04.2015	ICYMI: POLITICO PRO Q&A: Rep. Mike Turner By JEN JUDSON 2/3/15 3:37 PM EST Rep. Mike Turner is positioning the House Armed Services panel he chairs to be the one that really gets after sequestration, examining its impacts from every angle. This year, the Ohio Republican hopes his Tactical Air and Land Forces Subcommittee will spend less time dickering over the details of plagued Defense Department programs and focus more on the capabilities needed for the military to meet its worldwide missions that will hopefully translate to smarter acquisition decisions. Turner has presided over the subcommittee since 2013. Among some of his key issues: the fate of the Army’s heavy vehicle production capability and the tumultuous F-35 Joint Strike Fighter program. For several years, he has opposed the Army’s proposal to halt two General Dynamics Abrams tank production lines in Lima, Ohio, and York, Pennsylvania, and reopen them later when it needs new tanks. In a wide-ranging interview, Turner discussed with POLITICO his goals and ambitions ahead. Here are some edited excerpts: What are your top priorities this year? The top priority is ensuring that sequestration gets set aside. Our committee is going to try to do the ground work of painting the picture of what will happen if sequestration took place and documenting the effects of past sequestration. It’s just very essential that people understand what has happened, what is at stake. These are not Chicken Little-sky-is-falling predictions, these are actual real devastating, debilitating cuts that must be set aside. What are some examples you find most alarming? Really, all aspects of training were affected, which of course has a cascading effect for research, development and acquisition. Sequestration wasn’t an across-the-board or top-line cut, it was a strategic, foundational cut to defense, so the ability to deploy, to field new systems and win was impacted. We did not anticipate six months ago heavier operations in the Middle East against the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant, how is that affecting your approach? Well, that is the second goal. The second goal is taking the programs of the committee and aligning them with our new global threats and, in that, we don’t want to just look at what systems are in place and what are the future systems that are being planned. Our assessment is going to be what are our threats, how do we see them evolving and what do we need to match those. How does that then relate to what work we are doing and where are there gaps? How do you plan to get at that? First, we are doing a straight-up hearing on sequestration itself that will look prospectively and at past effects. Then, as we enter into debates of specific systems, we are looking at the mission that those systems respond to. For example, for the A-10 [Warthog] debate, we are asking the question of how do we do close air support, what are the strategies or the goals, what are the threats that we have that require close air support and how best to respond to it. Similarly, for surveillance, the Air Force has been in this contradictory position of arguing they want to retire the Global Hawk and the next year coming in and arguing that they want to retire the U-2 without any clear strategies or goals as to what their surveillance portfolio will look like. Defining that portfolio will help us define what the mix should be of the assets that we have. DoD has allowed the budget to drive their policy proposals and that has resulted in them arguing disingenuously for or against systems that perhaps they need. What we need is to bring some baseline back to the discussion that is not just monetary. What’s your next priority after that? My third area is bringing some sanity to the overall acquisition process. The Army has, unbelievably, argued that they don’t need tank funding, that they do need tank funding and leaving stranded or abandoned a very unique government-owned manufacturing facility that can only produce these types of heavy vehicles. Closing and reopening is an impossible task, but yet the Army has argued the irrational position of closure and reopening for several years in a row. Congress has saved [the Abrams tank production line] three years in a row, and it’s time for the Army to come forward and provide a sane proposal as to how they are going to sustain their heavy vehicle capability. Couple that with the Air Force arguing retiring competing systems ineffectively. There is not a clear strategy, and our goal is to take it back to the discussion of the mission and then the systems. What about the aviation restructure initiative? Do you think it’s a good idea? Is the commission Congress authorized to study it a good thing? We are going to have a specific hearing [on March 26] that is targeted just on that issue, and I think our goal is to provide the appropriate oversight. I think the Army is responding to some very critical needs but at the same time we want to make certain there aren’t mistakes being made. What other issues will you address? Certainly, we are going to do [a hearing] on the F-35 and the goal there is obviously to continue to provide oversight and accountability and contrast it with some real accomplishments of the program. Overlapping with the issue of F-35 is the need for 5th generation capability and, in part, that requires a look at what others are doing … China and Russia and what our adversaries are going to be fielding in the future and how we may or may not be denied access in air space. We continue to be concerned for the warfighter individually; weight, capability, protection and how the systems that they use for personal protection and warfighting affect their capability and health. What’s your take on some of the global challenges that we face. Do you think we need to put more forces, for instance, in Eastern Europe? Yes Do we need to have more robust training programs for the Iraqi Army and Syrian rebels? Yes. We need to have flexible forces that are highly capable to address even the unforeseen. We don’t know what we are going to see in 2015. If you look at Libya, you look at Yemen, either one of those countries could instantly become a greater threat to the Army. You have internal chaos and turmoil, but the moment that begins to affect outside their borders you are going to have a real situation that is going to require response. Syria and Iraq are not going to remain in stagnant position that they are in, they are going to continue to grow as a threat and become even more dangerous. With respect to Russia and Iran and ISIS, I think there is a fallacy within our foreign policy that we don’t listen to our adversaries. If they claim that they are our adversaries, I think they mean it. Should we adhere to troop withdrawal dates set in Afghanistan? End dates are never wise. Why would you tell your opponent when you are quitting, because all they have to do is wait. The metrics have to be are we safer?. Are situations becoming more stable? Should [the Overseas Contingency Operations account] go away eventually, or should there be a permanent but maybe smaller account? I think it’s an excellent tool of ensuring that contingency operations do not eat away at the base funding for the DoD. Some people criticize it as not being reflective of the true cost of defense. But it’s even more reflective of the true cost of defense because you have to have funding to be able to sustain your capability then there is an additional cost when it’s required to be used. Do you think the Asia Pacific pivot should still be a DoD focus given the turmoil in the Middle East? I think the Asia pivot is a great example of the Obama administration’s failures in foreign policy because it’s a policy by its name that angers everyone. If you are not in Asia, you feel like we are leaving. And if you are in Asia, you are questioning why we are coming. The reality is we have always been in the Pacific, and I think the capabilities that DoD sees for the future were a natural outgrowth of the direction we were going prior to the president’s pronouncement of a pivot. Read more: http://www.politico.com/story/2015/02/politico-pro-qa-rep-mike-turner-114873.html#ixzz3Qj1QoLIx
02.03.2015	Washington, DC: Following reports that President Obama is taking a ‘fresh look’ at considering sending defensive weapons and other lethal aide to Ukraine, Congressman Mike Turner, President of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, released the following statement: “As Putin continues to send troops, tanks and weapons across the Ukrainian border, I am pleased to hear the Administration is taking a fresh look at providing the Ukrainian military with the weapons systems they so desperately need. Vladimir Putin has no intention of deescalating the burgeoning crisis he has created. The Administration needs to act now and stop the handwringing that has characterized the President’s foreign policy.” said Turner. On April 30 2014, Congressman Mike Turner called on President Obama to heed Ukraine’s urgent needs list for both lethal and non-lethal equipment and 'provide further military assistance to Ukraine in order to contain Russian orchestrated unrest.' On September 18, 2014, Ukrainian President Petro Poroshenko addressed a joint session of Congress. Before Congress, President Poroshenko stated that 'Ukraine’s fighters need more military equipment, both lethal and non-lethal, urgently.' Notably, he said “blankets, night-vision goggles are also important…But one cannot win the war with blankets. Even more, we cannot keep the peace with a blanket…In Ukraine, you don’t build a democracy. It already exists. You just defend it.” “I am hopeful that the President will heed President Poroshenko’s request and take action to empower the Ukrainian army and to deter future Russian military aggression. Currently, the Russian military holds a significant advantage and the provision of U.S. weapons to Ukraine is necessary to change Putin’s calculus,” said Turner. Yesterday, The Brookings Institution, The Atlantic Council, and the Chicago Council on Global jointly released a project titled, “Preserving Ukraine’s Independence, Resisting Russian Aggression: What the United States and NATO must do." This report was authored by eight former senior U.S. diplomatic and military officials and urges the United States and NATO to increase lethal defensive assistance to the Ukrainian military.
02.02.2015	Washington, DC: Today, following the release of President Obama’s fiscal year 2016 budget request, Congressman Mike Turner, Chairman of the House Armed Services Tactical Air and Land Forces Subcommittee, released the following statement: “The President’s budget request is a non-starter. This proposal includes a $2.1 trillion dollar tax increase, adds $8.5 trillion dollars to our national debt, and never balances. Demanding higher taxes as the only mechanism to avert the President’s sequestration is not a serious solution to this failed policy. The President must be willing to work with Congress to find bipartisan, sustainable, and long-term solutions that protect our national security and grow our economy.” ###
01.28.2015	Increasing U.S. exports of LNG will create American jobs & bolster our strategic partnerships Click HERE to watch Congressman Turner: Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Mr. Speaker, U.S. natural gas exports will create American jobs and will bolster our strategic partnerships. I serve as president of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly and many foreign officials have expressed their need for energy diversification. Russia, the largest supplier of natural gas to Europe, has repeatedly used natural gas pricing to draw governments closer to its orbit and punish western leaning governments with higher prices. U.S. natural gas exports will foster a more dynamic and competitive world energy market, helping to curve the use of energy as a political weapon. And regardless of where U.S. natural gas is shipped, increasing supply in the global market will help provide international customers with greater choice and leverage to negotiate prices. In fact, Obama Administration officials have made this very same argument. The State Department’s energy envoy recently stated, and I quote: “Now, where the gas will go doesn’t matter. The fact that we have approved exports of natural gas has already had an impact on Europe. And where the molecule actually ends up going, also doesn’t matter.” Now, I understand there have been questions about whether or not European countries, such as Ukraine, are prepared to receive U.S. natural gas. Many of our European allies are implementing infrastructure projects to diversify their natural gas resources. For example, Poland and Lithuania are opening LNG import terminals to reduce their dependence on Russian gas. And just last week, Poland and Ukraine announced an agreement to construct a pipeline that will allow Ukraine to access natural gas from two LNG import terminals, potentially from the United States. England and Spain already have contracts in place to receive U.S. natural gas. These are just a few examples of infrastructure projects which the State Department is advocating for to help Europe diversify its natural gas resources. Mr. Speaker, last year, President Obama, in a joint statement with European leaders, welcomed U.S. natural gas exports to help our European allies and other strategic partners. While I am encouraged by the President’s statement, these words must be followed by action. The President must work with Congress to enact H.R. 351. I urge all of my colleagues to support the bill. *H.R. 351, The LNG Permitting Certainty and Transparency Act, passed the House this morning with a bipartisan vote of 277-133. ###
01.23.2015	Members of Congress Prepare for BRAC: Today, Lawmakers Met to Identify Ways to Protect and Strengthen Ohio’s Military Assets Columbus, OH: Today, Congressman Mike Turner (OH-10), Congressman Bill Johnson (OH-06), Congressman Steve Stivers (OH-15) and Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09) met with representatives from Ohio’s military installations in anticipation of BRAC to identify ways to protect, strengthen, and grow Ohio’s military assets. Today’s meeting gave the lawmakers an opportunity to hear Ohio’s top military commanders directly outline the mission and capabilities of their individual installations. Based on the information collected from today’s meeting, the lawmakers will work to formulate an action plan for protecting and potentially enhancing our state’s Department of Defense facilities in any future BRAC. Congressman Mike Turner (OH-10), Chairman of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Tactical Air and Land Forces: “Today, we helped put Ohio ahead of the curve," said Turner. "Ohio's military leaders and congressional representatives began a critically important conversation and established a strong commitment to coordination in the face of any future BRAC. Due to the devastating effects of sequestration, our Department of Defense is facing decreasing budgets and increasing pressures. Going forward, this ongoing dialogue will help to identify our state's opportunities and vulnerabilities and enable the leaders of our state to play the best hand possible so that Ohio wins," said Turner. Congressman Bill Johnson (OH-06): “Congressman Turner and I, along with other members of the Congressional delegation and their representatives participated in a listening session in Columbus today, and heard directly from several of Ohio’s distinguished military leaders on the status of Department of Defense facilities and organizations throughout the state. I look forward to working with Governor Kasich to retain and expand Ohio’s defense infrastructure, and the important jobs that go with it,” said Johnson. Congressman Steve Stivers (OH-15): “I appreciated the opportunity to hear about the unique military capabilities and assets across the state of Ohio,” said Stivers. “It is important for the Ohio delegation to work together as a team to effectively prepare for BRAC in order to successfully acquire and maintain new missions for our state in the future. Today was a good step in that direction,” said Stivers. Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09): Congresswoman Kaptur, a member of the House Defense Appropriations Subcommittee added, "Ohio's Department of Defense assets greatly benefit our state and advance our national security. Is is important that our delegation has pledged to work together to ensure the role of our existing national defense facilities in Ohio and also work to broaden Ohio's defense preparedness mission in areas such as advanced manufacturing and cyber security."
01.22.2015	Washington, DC: Today, leaders of the House Armed Services Committee, Congressman Mike Turner (R-OH) and Congressman Mike Rogers (R-AL), urged Secretary Hagel and Secretary Kerry to update the U.S. defense policy and force posture in Europe and respond assertively to President Putin’s ongoing threats to deploy nuclear weapons in Crimea. “We believe the U.S. must immediately take actions to respond to Russia’s threats to European security and to change President Putin’s calculus,” the lawmakers wrote. “In our opinion, the Administration must immediately move to update the U.S. defense policy and force posture in Europe. These policies, which have not been updated to reflect that Russia has no interest in being a partner to the West, and, in fact, views the West as a military threat, were naive at inception and are simply dangerous at present.” Congressman Mike Turner, Chairman of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Tactical Air and Land Forces: “Despite the fact that the President’s ‘reset’ with Russia has been over for quite some time, the defense policy of the United States and our strategic capabilities in Europe still reflect an outdated and dangerously misguided view of Russia. Putin’s position that he has both the right and the intention to deploy nuclear weapons in the Ukrainian territory of Crimea has further escalated his ongoing pattern of aggression and proven his flagrant disregard for international agreements and treaties. In order to change the outcome, we must face the reality in front of us: Putin is an adversary of the United States. It is imperative that President Obama, Secretary Kerry, Secretary Hagel and the rest of the Administration abandon the false narrative of what they want Russia to be and shift their focus, strategy, and posture to what Putin's actions are.” Congressman Mike Rogers, Chairman of the House Armed Service’s Strategic Forces Subcommittee: “You don’t deal with a thug like Vladimir Putin by asking nicely. He breaks treaties, he invades countries and then stations his nuclear forces on their soil, and he cozies up to terrorist regimes like Assad’s, North Korea’s Kim Jong Un, and the mullahs in Tehran. What’s next? Who’s next? Concessions on missile defense and arms control only emboldened the former KGB officer. We cannot continue to wait for the Administration to wake up and see that then- Secretary of State Hillary Clinton’s ‘reset' was a failure from day one. I have said repeatedly that I will work with the Administration if they show me they are taking these matters seriously. For months I’ve been asking the Administration how they will prevent Putin from stationing his nuclear forces on Ukrainian soil in Crimea. The Administration has no plan; the security of our allies cannot afford a continued delay.” Full text of the letter below: January 22, 2015 Turner, Rogers Letter to Secretary Hagel, Secretary Kerry.pdf
01.21.2015	Washington, DC: Following reports that Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu will address a joint session of Congress, Congressman Mike Turner released the following statement: “The threat of violent Islamic Terrorism and the danger of a nuclear Iran are not isolated to any one part of the world. We must work together with the nation of Israel and all our allies to confront these global challenges. I strongly support Speaker Boehner’s initiative and decision to invite Prime Minister Netanyahu to address a joint session of Congress and am glad to hear that the Prime Minister has accepted his invitation. The nation of Israel and its people continue to have my full support.” ###
01.20.2015	Washington, D.C.—Following President Obama’s State of the Union Address, Congressman Mike Turner, Chairman of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Tactical Air and Land Forces, released the following statement: “Despite the fact that there is wide, bipartisan agreement that sequestration is devastating to our Defense Department, tonight, in his State of the Union Address, the President failed to mention it. All of the Joint Chiefs have testified before the House Armed Services Committee that if the President’s sequestration continues in 2016, our military will come to a grinding halt. Sequestration will affect mission readiness and our deployed personnel around the globe, while having deep impacts to vital national security installations like Wright-Paterson Air Force Base, and the corresponding civilian jobs within our southwest Ohio community and across the country. Tonight, I had hoped the President would put forth a plan to reverse the devastating effects of this harmful policy to provide our Servicemembers with the support, funding and certainty they need. Instead, he ignored the issue of sequestration all together. National security is a constitutional responsibility and the President's failure to address sequestration in tonight’s speech is a a significant and meaningful omission.” ###
01.20.2015	Turner Welcomes his Guest: Speaker of the Ohio House, Cliff Rosenberger Click HERE to watch Question: What do you hope to hear from the President tonight? Rep. Mike Turner: Well, I am very honored to have the Speaker of the Ohio House here with me today and as he certainly knows, one of the most important things that the President could say today is his commitment to a willingness to work together with a new Congress. As we step forward, he’s looking out at a much different Congress and the American public want all the various portions of the government to work together and to get along so we can move the economy forward, make certain our nation is safe, and certainly make certain that our country is working for them. Question: What does this address mean for people in Ohio? Speaker Cliff Rosenberger: Well first off, I’m honored to be here with Congressman Turner who has really been out there on the forefront of making sure we take care of our troops, number one. But I think what Ohioans really want is to finally see a government that will step up and lead and I think we are expecting this President to step up and lead. Lead on a worldwide basis, but also lead locally and domestically on helping free up our small businesses and entrepreneurs so that they can actually break the red tape and bureaucracy that continues to push them down. We want to see something from the President that allows those who go on to higher education to be able to afford it and to be able to go out and continue to live the American dream. Look we have great people in the state of Ohio with the best work force in the world. We just need to hear from the President tonight the ability to kind of step out of our way and let Ohio do its job, so that we can continue to succeed.
01.16.2015	Intel Seat Gives Turner Even More Influence By: John Bennett January 15, 2015 Defense News WASHINGTON — House Armed Services Committee member Mike Turner has secured a seat on the Intelligence Committee, giving the Ohio Republican added influence on national security issues. House Speaker John Boehner on Wednesday tapped Turner, HASC's Tactical Air and Land Forces subcommittee chairman, for the intel panel. Over the past year, Turner has become more of a national figure — especially on national security issues. He was one of the most outspoken GOP critics of President Barack Obama's handling of the Russian invasion of Ukraine. "President Obama continues to ignore the obvious. Ukraine has been and continues to be invaded by Russian troops," Turner said late last year. "To counter this aggression, the president of the United States must at least be willing to acknowledge that Russia's actions are an invasion and a violation of Ukraine's sovereign territory." And he has been among the most vocal GOP voices in questioning the president's strategy for fighting the Islamic State. Turner has become a regular face on cable news networks, sometimes doing multiple hits a day — and almost always discussing national security matters. Just last week, Turner was called on to defend House Republican leaders' strategy to attach riders targeting Obama's immigration action to a must-pass Department of Homeland Security funding bill. "Well, remember, Wolf, if anything shuts down, it's not because Congress shuts it down. It's because the president either vetoes or is unwilling to take action," Turner told CNN's Wolf Blitzer on Jan. 8. "If a bill is on his desk to fund Homeland Security but doesn't fund his effort to change the status of illegal immigrants and he vetoes that, he will be the one who shut down the [agency] without looking to what he should be focusing on," Turner said, "which is a global strategy which was called for the 9/11 Commission to address Islamic extremist and Islamic terrorism." He even was a guest last August on NBC's "Meet the Press" program, a shift typically reserved for Washington heavyweights. During that high-profile appearance, Turner sharply dubbed Obama's foreign policy approach in Iraq and Syria a "failure" that stemmed from "neglect." "This appointment grants me direct jurisdiction over all the national intelligence operations," Turner said in a statement. " This appointment — in conjunction with my Armed Services Subcommittee Chairmanship — grants me significant oversight jurisdiction over the Department of Defense and the United States intelligence community." Turner eyed a run for the full HASC chairmanship, but ultimately held fire. One Turner aide told Defense News last year that his boss was urged to run for chairman by people from across the defense-industrial-congressional complex. "Members from across the Republican spectrum — both junior and senior members — have come up to Mr. Turner and encouraged him to do this," the Turner aide said at the time. "It's all gamut of people: it's other members, it's industry people, and it's Pentagon people." Several GOP sources say Turner is setting himself up to seek that post at the end of just-installed Rep. Mac Thornberry's run leading the Armed Services Committee. Some in Washington see Turner as a rising star inside the House GOP caucus, with several current and former aides saying he has become one of the party's most articulate and forceful critics of the Obama administration. Seats on the Armed Services and Intelligence panels likely will only increase Turner's standing in the caucus. After all, another Republican leader led a HASC subcommittee and sat on the Intelligence panel in the last Congress: Thornberry. The committee assignments and his presence on television news programs means the 2016 presidential election gives him a chance to raise his profile even more. With former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton tapped by almost every expert's overwhelming favorite to land the Democratic presidential nomination, Turner is poised to help the Republican nominee question her national security agenda. Turner as one of the GOP's national security go-to guys gives the party a young, energetic and articulate voice on the full range of defense and foreign policy issues to hit Clinton daily on cable news and regularly on the Sunday morning political shows. What's more, Turner's Ohio remains in the swing state category, and the GOP nominee likely would need to take the Buckeye state to upset Clinton. That could give Turner a role in helping the party achieve a major goal: Keeping the Clintons out of the White House.
01.15.2015	Washington, DC: Following today’s State of the Air Force address from Secretary of the Air Force, Deborah Lee James, Congressman Mike Turner, Chairman of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Tactical Air and Land Forces, released the following statement: “Reversing the harmful and devastating effects of sequestration remains my top priority in Congress. As Secretary James correctly outlined today, if the President’s sequestration returns in 2016, it will have severe and irreversible consequences for our Air Force and for the mission readiness of our airmen. The President’s plan, as I predicted when I voted against this misguided policy, imposes irresponsible and massive cuts to our military, deeply impacts installations like Wright-Patterson Air Force Base, and poses a direct threat to our national security. I am optimistic that with a Republican Senate and a larger House Republican majority, there will be increased momentum to find a solution for sequestration. The United States has the most talented Air Force in the world. It is critically important that our airmen have the support, funding, and certainty they need to fully and successfully execute their missions." ###
01.14.2015	Washington, DC: Today, Speaker Boehner announced that Congressman Mike Turner was chosen to serve on the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence (HPSCI) for the 114th Congress. With this appointment, Congressman Turner is one of only two members of Congress to serve as both a House Armed Services Subcommittee Chairman and a member of the HPSCI. For the 114th Congress, Congressman Turner was also chosen to serve as the Chairman for the House Armed Services Tactical Air and Land Forces Subcommittee. “It is an honor to be selected to serve on the House Intelligence Committee. This appointment—in conjunction with my Armed Services Subcommittee Chairmanship—grants me significant oversight jurisdiction over the Department of Defense and the United States intelligence community.” said Turner. The House Intelligence Committee is charged with the oversight of the United States intelligence community and of the Administration. As a member of HPSCI, Congressman Turner will be routinely briefed on the United States' government’s most classified military and intelligence programs. “Last week’s attacks in Paris sent an international reminder about the critical importance of intelligence in our global fight against terrorism. I look forward to working with Chairman Nunes and the other members of the committee to make certain our intelligence community has the support they need to accurately carry out their objectives and keep the American people safe,” said Turner. Congressman Turner has long been a successful advocate for the National Air and Space Intelligence Center (NASIC), located at Wright-Patt. This year, Congressman Turner authored language included in the FY 2015 NDAA that led to the location of Foreign Material Exploitation (FME) facility at NASIC. “The operations of WPAFB include a fundamental piece of the U.S. intelligence enterprise and the success of the mission is vital to our military and to U.S. national security. This appointment grants me direct jurisdiction over all the national intelligence operations, including those located at and supported by NASIC,” said Turner. ###
01.13.2015	Washington, DC: Following the announcement that Fuyao will add 750 more jobs at the former General Motors facility in the city of Moraine, Congressman Mike Turner released the following statement: "Fuayo’s decision to not only locate, but to continue to expand and create jobs in the city of Moraine builds upon our community's role as a major center for the automobile industry. Today’s announcement further underscores our region's unique capabilities and skilled and dedicated workforce. Thank you to the chair of Fuyao Group, Dewang Cao; it is a great honor to have an international business leader committed to our community." Following the closure of the former General Motors Assembly Plant in 2008, Congressman Turner partnered with the city of Moraine and successfully fought to protect the plant from demolition. Since that time, Congressman Turner has worked closely with city leaders, the Dayton Development Coalition, the U.S. Department of Commerce, and JobsOhio to ensure that the facility remained viable for innovative business leaders and job creators. ###
01.13.2015	Washington, DC: Today, Congressman Mike Turner continued his bipartisan effort to increase U.S. exports of liquefied natural gas (LNG). A leader on this issue for several years, Congressman Turner reintroduced his bipartisan legislation, the American Job Creation and Strategic Alliances LNG Act, that would streamline the Department of Energy’s regulatory process to export U.S. natural gas to World Trade Organization (WTO) countries. “This legislation is an opportunity for the United States to demonstrate international leadership, establish an active presence in the global energy market, and simultaneously retain huge and immediate economic benefits here at home,” said Turner. “Over the last year, it has become clear through Putin’s actions that Russia will continue to use its energy resource dominance as a geopolitical weapon against our European allies. Putin’s functional monopoly on natural gas exports in Europe has left our allies vulnerable and without options, posing a direct threat to their security and independence. On March 26, 2014, following the U.S. E.U. Summit, President Obama and leaders of the European Union issued a joint statement welcoming “the prospect of U.S. LNG exports in the future since additional global supplies will benefit Europe and other strategic partners.” “These statements were encouraging, but they are not enough. This legislation is the opportunity to put that intent into concrete action,” said Turner. "The American Job Creation and Strategic Alliances LNG Act would lift the self-imposed restrictions on U.S. natural gas exports and provide our allies with an alternative and reliable source of energy," said Turner. “Immediately, the United States would provide our allies with assurance, greater choice and more opportunities to negotiate prices.” Congressman Turner originally introduced The American Job Creation and Strategic Alliances LNG Act on March 4, 2014. Congressman Turner also partnered with the House Energy and Commerce Committee to help author H.R.6, The Domestic Prosperity and Global Freedom Act. Co-Sponsors: Rep. Tim Ryan (D-OH), Rep. Jim Bridenstine (R-OK), Rep. Mike Kelly (R-PA), Rep. Jeff Duncan (R-SC), Rep. Aaron Schock (R-IL), Rep. Steven Pearce (R-NM), Rep. Robert Latta (R-OH), Rep. Steve Stivers (R-OH), Rep. Marsha Blackburn (R-TN), Rep. Blake Farenthold (R-TX), Rep. Trent Franks (R-AZ), Rep. Leonard Lance (R-NJ), Rep. Tom McClintock (R-CA), Rep. Michael Conaway (R-TX), Rep. James Sensenbrenner (R-WI), Rep. Rob Bishop (R-UT), Rep. Charles Dent (R-PA), Rep. Michael McCaul (R-TX), Rep. Doug Lamborn (R-CO), Rep. Frank Lucas (R-OK), Rep. Bob Gibbs (R-OH), Rep. Steve Chabot (R-OH), Rep. Tom Marino (R-PA), Rep. David Schweikert (R-AZ), Rep. Lynn Jenkins (R-KS), Rep. Ryan Zinke (R-MT), Rep. Bruce Westerman (R-AR), Rep. Steven Palazzo (R-MS), Rep. John Kline (R-MN), Rep. Lou Barletta (R-PA), Rep. Scott Tipton (R-CO), Rep. Bill Johnson (R-OH), Rep. Markwayne Mullin (R-OK), Rep. Robert Pittenger (R-NC) Background: The United States is one of the largest producers of natural gas in the world and is experiencing a surplus in production, helping to keep prices low compared to global rates. A Department of Energy-commissioned report found that increasing exports of natural gas would have positive economic benefits for our country. Under section 3 of the Natural Gas Act, companies seeking to export natural gas must gain approval from the Department of Energy's Office of Fossil Energy, which determines if such exports are in the public interest. For countries with which the United States has a Free Trade Agreement (FTA) the approval is automatic. For non-FTA countries, there is a regulatory process to determine if such exports are in the public interest. The American Job Creation and Strategic Alliances LNG Act would treat WTO countries similar to FTA countries, making the public interest determination automatic for natural gas exports for such countries. The House Energy and Commerce Committee recently released a report documenting the geopolitical benefits of U.S. natural gas exports and included such a legislative recommendation. 1.13.15_American Job Creation and Strategic Alliances Act.pdf
01.11.2015	Click here to watch ARTHEL NEVILLE: A live look again on the streets of Paris. Where it is 6:15 p.m. there. Crowds, more than a million strong are marching in a huge display of solidarity in the wake of this week's attacks. But the question now is are we doing enough to protect the United States and its allies. Joining me now is Ohio Congressman Mike Turner. He is President of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly and of course, France is a close NATO ally and a partner in the U.S.-led coalition in the war against the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria. They were first to join the air campaign against ISIS in Iraq. That's where I want to start, Congressman. So much focus has been on ISIS. Has the U.S. taken its eye off of al-Qaeda? REP. MIKE TURNER: Well I think we've taken our eye off the ball. And certainly our NATO allies and the United States need to go back and rededicate themselves. If you look at Chapter 12 of the 9/11 Commission Report, it says we need a global strategy to fight terrorism and that this is not just generic terrorism. It’s Islamic terrorism and that this is going to require looking beyond al-Qaeda, looking beyond Osama Bin Laden, to the entire terrorist network that is supporting these Islamic terrorists. And I think, to some extent, we have not remained vigilant and we're seeing the outcome of that. ARTHEL NEVILLE: So I ask then, what role do you think the U.S. should play in leading this international war on terrorism and what has to be the new strategy? REP. MIKE TURNER: Absolutely. I think the President needs to take the lead here. Because the report specifically says that you cannot call this generic terrorism. You have to understand that it’s Islamic terrorism and that you need a global strategy because they have a global strategy. So the President of the United States needs to come back to looking at how we can pull our allies together, make certain there aren't sanctuaries, that we track these organizations down—their funding their weapons, the individuals who support them—and dismantle these networks. You can see from what happened in Iraq. As we walk away, the vacuum is filled by their infrastructure and we need to take this infrastructure down. ARTHEL NEVILLE: And you make a point there, Congressman, that words are important, semantics are important. Clearly, ISIS, al-Qaeda, whoever they are, they are doing a really good job with semantics. they're doing a great job using the internet and they're really getting the ire up of their base. So to your point, our leaders need to get the ire up. I think Americans are tired of some of the passiveness that appears to be passive. I don't want to suggest that the Administration's not doing anything, but there needs to be more fire in the belly. REP. MIKE TURNER: Absolutely. I mean when you look at trying to defeat your enemy, you first have to understand who your enemy is and how your enemy views you. I think in this instance—Chapter 12 of the 9/11 Commission Report gave a warning. It said that if we only look at this as a fight against Osama bin Laden or al-Qaeda, that the world will not be safe—that this is a growing threat that has to be identified and has to be met with a global strategy, led by the United States and with our allies.
01.09.2015	Washington, DC: Today, Congressman Mike Turner (OH-10), continued his legislative fight to end the practice of naming government facilities after sitting Members of Congress. In the FY2012 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA), Congressman Turner successfully included a provision that banned the naming of buildings and infrastructure controlled by the Department of Defense after sitting members of Congress. The Prohibiting Taxpayer-Funded Monuments to Members of Congress Act would apply that same ban across all federal-agency funded projects. “This legislation would establish a uniform, government wide prohibition of Congressional ‘monuments to me,’” said Turner. “Aside from being a blatant conflict of interest, this practice allows sitting members of Congress to advertise and promote themselves, instead of the American public whose tax dollars were used to fund the project.” Supporting this legislation should be a bipartisan no-brainer,” said Turner. Congressman Turner originally authored and introduced The Prohibiting Taxpayer-Funded Monuments to Members of Congress Act on April 23, 2013 at the beginning of the 113th Congress. ###
01.07.2015	Washington, DC: Following reports that twelve people were killed in a terrorist attack at the Charlie Hebdo magazine in Paris, Congressman Mike Turner, President of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, released the following statement: “Today’s terrorist attack on the offices of the Charlie Hebdo magazine was an appalling act of barbarity and an assault on the values our Alliance stands for,” said Turner. “The slaughter of journalists and the law enforcement officers trying to protect them is an outrage, and I utterly condemn the perpetrators of this carnage. On behalf of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, I extend our sympathy and condolences to the families and friends of the victims.”
12.31.2014	Dayton, OH: In 2014, Congressman Mike Turner successfully delivered for southwest Ohio and the people of the 10th Congressional District. “This year in Congress, I was honored to fight to protect our families, our jobs, and our futures,” said Turner. In the 113th Congress, Congressman Turner served as Chairman of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Tactical Air and Land Forces and as a senior member of the Oversight and Government Reform Committee. This December, Congressman Turner was also elected President of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, a position that has direct ties both to Wright-Patterson Air Force Base and to the national security of the United States. In 2014, Congressman Turner brought six of his colleagues, including the important Chairman of the House Armed Services Committee, to our community to tour Wright-Patterson Air Force Base and see the innovative research and development first hand. This year, Congressman Turner hosted two meetings each with the Mayors and State Representatives of the 10th Congressional District. These bipartisan, collaborative forums provided an opportunity for the elected leaders of southwest Ohio to discuss all the issues facing our community. See below for an overview of Congressman Turner’s Legislative initiatives and accomplishments from this last year: Military Child Custody For the last seven years, Congressman Turner has fought to protect the parental rights of our Servicemembers. Unbelievably, family law courts across the country have used military deployment or even the possibility of deployment against our service members when determining custody arrangements This year, the FY2015 NDAA included historic provisions, authored by Congressman Turner, that will provide a national standard of protection for our Servicemembers and ensure that they will not loose custody of their children because they have served or might deploy as part of their military service. "Servicemembers risk their lives in support of military operations that keep our nation safe. They should never be penalized for serving their country." Military Sexual Assault Since 2007, Congressman Turner has worked to pass substantive, bipartisan legislation every single year to change the flawed culture that has enabled sexual assault to occur in our Armed Forces. This year, along with Congresswoman Tsongas, Congressman Turner authored and introduced the FAIR Military Act, which takes significant and powerful steps in the areas of prevention, prosecution, and protection. This legislation takes action to confront the pervasive and deep-rooted culture that has allowed this serious problem to continue and ensures that the perpetrators of these terrible crimes and are no longer capable of using unrelated, subjective factors as evidence of innocence. These groundbreaking reforms were successfully included in the final bipartisan FY2015 NDAA and hold our military leaders to the highest standard. “We have a duty to protect those who protect us,” said Turner. “We will continue our bipartisan, bicameral effort to fully eradicate sexual assault from our military.” Unmanned Aerial Systems Congressman Turner authored and fought to include provisions in this year’s FY2015 NDAA that ensure all of Ohio’s airspace resources are recognized and utilized to their maximum capacity. “Our region remains an epicenter for innovative research in the expanding field of Unmanned Aerial Systems,” said Turner. “These provisions enhance our region’s valued assets." Abrams Tank Congressman Turner authored and fought to include a provision in the FY2015 NDAA that recognizes the necessity of the Abrams Tank to our national security and authorizes an additional $120 million for Abrams Tank upgrades. "I was proud to author this provision that keeps the production lines open in Lima, Ohio and ensures that our skilled, technical workers are protected." College Students Following reports that students throughout the country are losing their jobs and having their hours restricted because of an ObamaCare requirement, Congressman Turner introduced the Student Job Protection Act in 2014. ObamaCare requires certain employers to provide health insurance to employees working 30 hours or more a week or pay a tax. This requirement imposes a financial burden on many colleges and universities, forcing them to restrict work hours for students seeking employment at their schools. The Student Job Protection Act would exempt full-time students who are also employed by the college or university from this requirement. “This legislation would remove a significant barrier for full-time students working at their colleges and universities and ensure that they are able to keep the jobs and the work hours necessary to help them afford the rising cost of higher education." Housing for our Veterans Congressman Turner has long been an advocate for providing access to affordable housing for Dayton’s veterans. This year, Congressman Turner was honored to celebrate the groundbreaking of Lyons Place II. A leader on the project from the beginning, Congressman Turner secured the funding for this project and authored an amendment that ensured that conflicting regulations would not stand in the way of Lyons Place II. This facility will provide access to high quality, energy efficient, safe, secure and affordable housing for independent seniors and veterans who have served our nation. Additionally, Congressman Turner supported a provision in the FY2015 NDAA that directed the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) to establish a pilot program to rehabilitate and modify homes of disabled and low-income veterans. “Our servicemen and women have risked their lives to serve this country and protect our national interests. The least we can do is ensure they have access to good housing when they come home.” Heroin Exposed Newborns In 2014, Congressman Turner launched an imitative to bring together community leaders to find ways we can work together to prevent babies being born exposed to opiates and to develop a community response to treat the entire at-risk-population. This year, Congressman Turner partnered with the Greater Dayton Area Hospital Association (GDAHA) to host a community forum on the effects of the heroin epidemic on newborns. Additionally, Congressman Turner met with first responders at the Women’s Recovery Center and nurse leaders at Dayton Children’s Hospital to see the effects of this epidemic first hand and see the heroic work being done to care for these children. Congressman Turner will continue this initiative in 2015. “These are our community’s children and we must do everything we can to protect them.” Delphi Salaried Retirees For the last five years, Congressman Mike Turner has led the fight to restore the pensions of the Delphi Salaried Retirees who unjustly lost their futures in the wake of the General Motors bankruptcy. This year on July 22, the 5-year anniversary of the decision that terminated the pensions of more than 20,000 Delphi Salaried Retirees, Congressman Mike Turner hosted a closed-door briefing with a group of Delphi Salaried Retirees from the Dayton-area. Together, they discussed the progress that has already been made and identified future action that must be taken. Also in 2014, Congressman Turner joined with Speaker John Boehner, Senator Rob Portman, and the entire Ohio Republican delegation to push for new answers for the Delphi Salaried Retirees regarding the lengthy delay in final benefit determinations for these men and women. The Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (PBGC’s) has a stated policy of issuing these determinations in three years; however, these retirees have waited in earnest for over five years for the PBGC to complete the basic documentation necessary to begin the benefit determination process. In 2015, Congressman Turner will continue to push for the extension of the Health Coverage Tax Credit for the Delphi Salaried Retirees and the full restoration of their pensions. “This injustice will not be tolerated or forgotten and we will continue to move ahead until the Delphi Salaried Retirees receive the full and equitable treatment they deserve.”Dayton Manufacturing Community In 2014, Congressman Turner stopped an effort to eliminate funding for an economic development program critical to the Dayton community. Earlier this year, the U.S. Department of Commerce announced that the Dayton-Cincinnati region had been designated a ‘manufacturing community,’ giving Dayton preferential application status for $1.3 billion in federal economic development assistance. Turner led his colleagues in successfully voting down an amendment that would have significantly jeopardized this $1.3 billion and severely limited the chances of Dayton receiving substantial funding for increased manufacturing and development. “I was proud to protect opportunities critical to our community’s business leaders, job creators and innovators. Preserving this funding helped ensure that our Southwest Ohio community can continue our tradition of leadership in manufacturing and innovation.” Fuyao Following the closure of the former General Motors Assembly Plant in 2008, Congressman Turner partnered with the city of Moraine and successfully fought to protect the plant from demolition. Since that time, Congressman Turner has worked closely with city leaders, the Dayton Development Coalition, the U.S. Department of Commerce, and JobsOhio to ensure that the facility remained viable for innovative business leaders and job creators. In 2014, Congressman Turner was glad to welcome the arrival of Fuyao, a thriving auto parts manufacturer to the City of Dayton. Fuyao’s decision to locate and expand in Moraine will create hundreds of new jobs in southwest Ohio and continue to build upon our region’s role as a major center for the automobile industry.
12.18.2014	Washington, DC: Congressman Mike Turner, Chairman of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Tactical Air and Land Forces and President of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly released the following statement regarding the inclusion of $20 million in the recently passed Fiscal Year 2015 Consolidated and Further Continuing Appropriations Act for the acceleration of a Ballistic Missile Defense (BMD) site in Poland. Under the Administration's European Phased Adaptive Approach (EPAA) the United States' is carrying out a multi-phase program to construct a missile defense capability in Eastern Europe designed to defend against ballistic missiles threats emanating from countries such as Iran. Phase 2 of the program is scheduled to be completed next year and will consist of a BMD capability in Romania. Phase 3 will be in Poland and is scheduled for completion in the 2018 timeframe. Phase 4, which would have provided a defense for Europe and the United Stated against intercontinental ballistic missiles, was canceled by the Obama Administration after Russian protests of the concept. "I commend the Appropriations Committees and Chairman Rogers for including $20 million to accelerate completion of the Aegis ashore site in Poland," said Turner. "Given Russia's increased aggression toward the West and Iran's stubbornness toward its nuclear program, we must ensure a robust BMD capability in Europe. Russia is clearly now a threat to the West." "While the Obama Administration continues to flounder when it comes to missile defense, I commend Congress for its willingness to keep pace with the growing BMD threat posed by Russia, Iran, and others," said Turner."Going forward, I will continue to support completion of Phase 3 in Poland and further development of the Standard Missile-3 Block IIA by 2018."
12.17.2014	Washington, DC: Representatives Mike Turner (OH-10) joined Speaker John Boehner (OH-08), Steve Chabot (OH-01), Brad Wenstrup (OH-02), Jim Jordan (OH-04), Bob Latta (OH-05), Bill Johnson (OH-06), Bob Gibbs (OH-07), Pat Tiberi (OH-12), Dave Joyce (OH-14), Steve Stivers (OH-15), and Jim Renacci (OH-16) today to release the following statement regarding their constituents’ experiences with open enrollment and the Department of Health and Human Services’ (HHS) downgrade of projected enrollees. “All across Ohio, the harmful effects of the president’s health care law continue to be widespread. Premiums and deductibles are rising, plans are being cancelled, people are losing access to their doctors, and small businesses have been forced to reduce employee hours in order to comply with the law’s mandates – turning full-time work into part-time work for too many." “The president’s Department of Health and Human Services recently reduced its estimate for projected enrollees, acknowledging the same lack of confidence Ohioans have expressed in the product it’s selling. “We've heard from a great many of our constituents who have shared their stories, and that is why we will continue to fight to repeal and replace this broken system with real health care solutions that will lead to lower costs and more choices.” Following are testimonials from Ohioans throughout the state: "Since I was a sophomore I had been working two jobs at Miami University to help pay for my education. When I received a letter over the summer saying that I would no longer be able to work more than thirty hours a week because of a new ObamaCare requirement, I was forced to give up one of my jobs. This is happening to students all over the country due to the reckless requirements written into the President's health care law. At a time when education is so expensive in the United States, these work hour requirements are hurting hardworking students." -Carolyn Turner, Daughter of Congressman Mike Turner, Dayton, OH To remove this barrier and help solve this problem for students across America, Congressman Turner introduced The Student Job Protection Act. This legislation would exempt full-time students, who are also employed by the college or university, from this ObamaCare requirement and help them keep the jobs and hours necessary to help afford the rising cost of higher education. __ "We have a ten-year-old daughter with cerebral palsy and a seizure disorder. We are already feeling the effects of Obamacare, with our current insurance company limiting therapy visits…and informing us that her current drugs may not be covered starting in January. I believe health care reform is needed. However, government-controlled healthcare is not the answer. Health care needs to be patient-and-doctor centered, with competition allowed across state lines for insurance companies.” –Carol, Mason, OH “Our premiums are jumping by 18 percent for 2015 and because of Obamacare; we will lose our plan in 2016. We are a healthy family of three, and have had no significant claims. I worry that next year, my family and I will be facing even higher deductibles, out of pocket costs, and premiums for a plan that doesn’t meet our needs.” –Mike, Cincinnati, OH “My company had insurance that our employees liked, but costs rose rapidly when Washington started discussing the Affordable Care Act. After Obamacare was passed I hoped that the prices would stabilize, but unfortunately we are still facing huge increases this year. We now have insurance through a new company that got its start with Obamacare but we are very unhappy. Our new plan has altered our prescription coverage so that some employees must pay hundreds of dollars out-of-pocket for prescriptions that were previously covered with reasonable co-pays. Everyone should be able to sit down with their own doctor and decide what treatment is best.” – Dan, Business owner in Ohio’s 4th District "I am very disappointed with the Affordable Care Act. I just had to change my insurance policy through work because my premium would have gone up by $1300/year. I liked my policy. I wanted to keep my policy. I was told that I could keep it if I liked it. But it was not supposed to go up in cost. The ACA was supposed to save us $2500 not increase costs by $1300.” - Resident of Ohio’s 5th District, Perrysburg, Ohio “Our medical insurance premium costs went from $235 per month to $520 per month…President Obama promised that people would not have to choose between quality medical care and the basic essentials of life… I think that this system and the president have greatly failed me and many Americans in what was promised. I go to bed at night wondering how I am going to pay the increase in the medical insurance premiums as well as the increases in the out of pocket medical expenses we now face.” – Alice, Dennison, OH “My insurance has increased over $100 a month. My daughter is not covered because I cannot afford it, plus Medicaid has not gotten back to me about her (she has a disability). My deductible is $2500, which I have to pay before anything is covered! I cannot even afford to go to doctor and my employer said it is because of ObamaCare. There are no extras, just basic coverage. I hope nothing major happens to me and my family!” – Sherrie, Hartville, OH "I found out today our premium is going up again this year another 35 percent. We also have a $7,000 dollar deductible... It really angers me. We pay our taxes, we pay our bills. We try to do the right thing … As things stand right now, with increasing cost of living, [stagnant] wages, and increasing health care costs, I don't know how we are going to remain financially solvent and also have any kind of quality of life. For a health care law that was intended to help people, it sure seems that the ones who are being hurt are those who have worked hard to make a living for themselves.” -Jamey, Piqua, OH "My premiums rose 25 percent this year and will rise 25 percent again next year. It’s not just my premiums that are increasing; my out-pocket-expenses went from copays to a 20 percent cost-share, as well. Obamacare certainly hasn’t made healthcare more affordable for me.” – Nancy, Central Ohio “I had the same health insurance plan since 2007, one that was affordable and the right plan for me. Six months ago, I got a letter from my insurance company telling me that because of ObamaCare, they were no longer offering the plan I had been on for seven years. After struggling to find a new plan, my new monthly premium is now doubled from $425 to over $900." – Jeff, Hudson, OH “My name is Mildred and I retired as a teacher's aide. I now live in my daughter's home. As a retiree from the Ohio School system, I used to have a good health care plan which has covered a heart surgery in addition to other health needs. When ObamaCare started I received a notice that my premium would increase from $66.00 to $299.00 per month. That new amount was way more than my meager pension. I had no choice but to cancel my policy. My doctors tell me that I will eventually need another heart operation. I don't know what I will do.” – Mildred, Columbus, OH “I own a small business and employ close to 1,000 people, of which 700 should be eligible for insurance. If 75 percent of those eligible participate, I will be put out of business within 3-6 months. Though I am planning to hire and expand, the 30-hour definition of full-time employment within Obamacare threatens our very existence. I urge Congress to apply the traditional 40-hour definition of full-time employment to the health care law in order to provide me with the certainty I need to grow my company and create jobs.” – Jim, North Canton, Ohio ###
12.12.2014	Following 7 Year Fight for Military Families: Child Custody Provisions Included in FY 2015 NDAA Washington, DC: For the last seven years, Congressman Mike Turner, the Chairman of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Tactical Air and Land Forces, has fought to protect the parental rights of our service men and women. Today, the bipartisan FY2015 National Defense Authorization Act successfully passed the Senate and is headed to the President’s desk for his signature. Congressman Turner authored and successfully included provisions in this bipartisan legislation that will provide a uniform national standard that prohibits state courts from using past, current, or future deployment against service members when making child custody determinations. In 2007, Congressman Turner met Lt. Eva Slusher, who lost custody of her daughter, Sara, when she returned home from deployment as a member of the Kentucky National Guard. In Lt. Slusher’s case, the judge ruled that because of her deployment, “the military lifestyle is not stable and is not conducive to raising children.*" Following an arduous two-year, $25,000 court battle, Lt. Slusher successfully regained custody of her child, but at a significant personal cost. “Unbelievably, family law courts across the country have used military deployment or the even possibility of deployment against our service members when determining custody arrangements,” said Turner. “Inspired both by Lt. Slusher’s story and the stories of numerous other men and women, we began working to find a legislative solution that would protect the parental rights of all current and future service members. "We have a duty to protect those who protect us. Service members risk their lives in support of military operations that keep our nation safe. They should never be penalized for serving their country. I was honored to author, champion, and successfully fight to include a national standard of protection in this year’s NDAA that ensures service members will not loose custody of their children because they have served or might deploy as part of their military service,” said Turner. These important provisions amend the Servicemembers Civil Relief Act and also prevent courts from permanently altering custody orders during a parent’s deployment and require pre-deployment custody to be reinstated unless it is not in the best interest of the child. Currently, there are a myriad of state laws that do not match and that provide an opportunity for ex-spouses to venue shop until they find a state that will alter custody agreements. Additionally, Department of Defense documents have acknowledged a direct link between child custody disputes and military suicides. “This difference in state laws creates chronic uncertainty and places unimaginable stress on our military men and women. We have a national military. We need a national standard,” said Turner. “These important protections will provide all our military men and women with the guarantee that their service to their country won’t jeopardize their rights as parents.” “We are grateful for the support of Secretary Hagel, Secretary Panetta, and Secretary Gates and the consistent effort of House Armed Services Committee Chairman Buck McKeon to see this important initiative through,” said Turner. In 2008, Congressman Turner included a specific provision in the Service Members Civil Relief Act that grants service members a 90-day window to appear in court for cases related to child custody. Military child custody legislation has passed the House on twelve separate occasions: Nine times as part of the National Defense Authorization Act (FY2008, FY2009, FY2010, FY2011, FY 2012, FY2013, FY2014, FY2015) Twice as a standalone bill by voice vote (H.R.6048, 2008 & H.R. 4201, 2012) Once as part of the Veterans Economic Opportunity Act (H.R. 2481) *Click HERE to read more
12.09.2014	Washington, DC: Today, following the filing of an amendment by Senators Portman and Brown that would extend the Health Coverage Tax Credit (HCTC) for Delphi Salaried Retirees, Congressman Mike Turner sent a letter to Leaders Reid and McConnell urging them to support this bipartisan amendment and the extension of the HCTC. “For the last year, Delphi Salaried Retirees have been paying out of pocket for their health insurance premiums. The Health Coverage Tax Credit is critical to helping thousands of Delphi Salaried Retirees, who have already lost so much, afford the health care they need. I urge Leaders Reid and McConnell to support this bipartisan amendment and extend the HCTC.” Full text of the Letter below: December 9, 2014 The Honorable Harry Reid The Honorable Mitch McConnell Dear Leaders Reid and McConnell: I am writing today in strong support of the amendment filed by Senators Rob Portman and Sherrod Brown to H.R. 5771, the Tax Increase Prevention Act to extend the Health Coverage Tax Credit (HCTC). Having helped thousands of individuals across the country pay for their health insurance premiums, the HCTC is incredibly important to those whose hard-earned pensions and benefits have been terminated. For example, thousands of Delphi Salaried Retirees have utilized the HCTC following the federal government’s multi-billion dollar, taxpayer-funded bailout of General Motors (GM) that resulted in the elimination of these retirees’ health insurance, life insurance, and up to seventy percent of their individual pensions. With such significant portions of their earned retirement benefits lost to the federal government’s majority ownership of GM, many struggle to afford the cost of healthcare on reduced and modest incomes. These men and women are now spending up to half of their remaining pensions to fund their health care premiums, and will continue to struggle to cover the cost of their healthcare expenses if the HCTC is not extended. Fortunately, the HCTC has already been considered through regular order and approved by Senate Finance Committee in its tax extenders measure earlier this year. In fact, this provision was adopted in Committee with unanimous, bipartisan support. Similarly, H.R. 2783, legislation I co-authored, also has strong bipartisan support. It is my hope that you recognize the great need for the HCTC’s extension and will support this amendment when the Senate considers H.R. 5771. Thank you for your consideration, and please do not hesitate to contact me if I may be of assistance. Sincerely, Michael R. Turner Member of Congress
12.09.2014	Gruber said what we already know: The Administration intentionally deceived the American public Click HERE for the full video of Congressman Turner’s questioning at today’s OGR hearing Gretchen Carlson: We’re going to talk to a congressman who was in that hearing today as Gruber dodged all kinds of questions, including whether Obamacare is actually a tax and how crafty he said the administration was to sell it to the American people. Gruber: That was an inexcusable term-- Congressman Turner: I'm not asking you about how you believe whether or not you should have said that or not. It's a factual statement you're making. Did anybody in the Administration ever have that conversation with you? Gruber: I do not recall them using the word tortured, no. Gretchen Carlson: That's Ohio congressman Michael Turner. He is going to join me coming up next. ------------------------------------------ Gretchen Carlson: Time for some real talk now about Jonathan Gruber. We've heard the advisor boasting about deception used to hide the true nature of the health care law, including taxes. Our next guest, Ohio Congressman Mike Turner, pinning him down. Congressman Turner: Do you know what a tax is? You do have, you know, expertise in economics. Do you know what a tax is? Jonathan Gruber: Yes. Congressman Turner: Okay. So you would not deny today that in these statements that you made that Obamacare is a tax, would you? Jonathan Gruber: Obamacare is a large piece of legislation with many parts, and -- Congressman Turner: Is one of those parts a tax, Mr. Gruber? Jonathan Gruber: There are some taxes in Obamacare, yes. Gretchen Carlson: Mike Turner, a republican on the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee. Why is it so tough to get people to just answer the questions plain and simple? Did you get a satisfactory answer about the tax from Jonathan Gruber? Congressman Turner: Not really. What Jonathan Gruber is saying which we all now know and suspected that the administration intentionally deceived the American public. We saw this when the president was arguing it wasn't a tax. He said this was a tax, and we didn't tell the American voter, the American public, because it would have been objectionable and we drafted the legislation so we could avoid a CBO scoring, and the thing that he wouldn't tell us is, okay, who told you that? Who did you sit with in the administration and who had that discussion with you about how they would set about deceiving the American public? Certainly it's objectionable. Gretchen Carlson: That is incredibly important piece of information. Listen to this. Congressman Turner: Did they have the conversation with you that it had to be drafted in a way that the CBO did not score the individual mandated taxes? Anyone in the administration acknowledge it, explain it, or assign aspects to you within that construct? You are under oath. Jonathan Gruber: I honestly do not recall. Gretchen Carlson: Wow. That's convenient to say people don't recall, right? What do you think? Congressman Turner: Well, I think he does recall, and that's why we caught him in casual conversation and at conferences on tape openly saying he was part of the deception, that the Obama administration, you know, worked to deceive the American public, and now he is saying, okay, now I'm in front of you, and I want to apologize for insulting the American voter, and I didn't mean to call people stupid. This deception occurred and it goes right to the heart of the inner workings of the Obama administration and Obamacare. Gretchen Carlson: Even democrats today during the hearing, Congressman, seem to be really upset about this guy because they even said that he handed, you know, everything on a silver platter to the republicans in this entire argument, right? Congressman Turner: Right. He did two things. He not only insulted the voter by calling them stupid. He then told them how they deceived us, that there was a coordinated effort to get around the aspects of the tax. This was not an accident. This was an active case of deception. Gretchen Carlson: I understand that Jonathan Gruber is coming back to another hearing. What more do you need? What do you want from him? Congressman Turner: Well, I think he needs to come up front and tell us who did he work with? We all know he says he did this complex calculating which actually just sounded like he put together a tax. Who did he work with? Who are the people in the administration that we can pull forward and say, hey, this is what he says about this. Is that true? Were you involved in this? Why was this put together in a way to deceive the American public because it certainly shows that in many aspects, not only just the quality of care under Obamacare, but also the fees and tacks of Obamacare. The administration did not tell the truth. Gretchen Carlson: All rill, let me know if you come up with those people that actually admit that they know him because a lot of those politicians said, Jonathan who? We've never heard this guy. Congressman Mike Turner, we know who you are. A republican from Ohio. We thank you for your time. Thanks, sir. Congressman Turner: Thank you so much.
12.05.2014	Washington, DC— Congressman Mike Turner, Chairman of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Tactical Air and Land Forces, authored and successfully included important provisions for Southwest Ohio and Wright-Patterson Air Force Base in the final, bipartisan National Defense Authorization Act of 2015. This legislation was successfully passed by the House of Representatives with strong bipartisan support this afternoon. The Senate is expected to take up the legislation next week. “This bicameral, bipartisan legislation is a product of substantial negotiations between the House and Senate and it was an honor to advocate successfully on behalf of our Southwest Ohio community and Wright-Patterson Air Force Base to make certain that the provisions we included in the House version of the bill were included in the final compromise package.” Housing for Disabled and Low-income Veterans “It was an honor to support a provision directing the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) to establish a pilot program to rehabilitate and modify homes of disabled and low-income veterans. “ Unmanned Aerial Systems “Our region is an epicenter for innovative research in the expanding field of Unmanned Aerial Systems. I authored provisions included in this year’s NDAA that ensures all of Ohio’s airspace resources are recognized and utilized to their maximum capacity." Abrams Tank "The FY 2015 NDAA recognizes the necessity of the Abrams Tank to our national security and authorizes an additional $120 million for Abrams Tank upgrades. This provision keeps the production lines open in Lima, Ohio and ensures that our skilled, technical workers are protected."
12.05.2014	White House: New Secretary of Defense will be ‘Very Clear’ on Chain of Command Turner: But White House Still has No Foreign Policy Strategy Washington, DC: Following President Obama's nomination of Ash Carter for Secretary of Defense and the Obama Administration's comments that the next Secretary of Defense 'will be very clear about what the chain of command is,' Congressman Mike Turner, Chairman of the Tactical Air and Land Forces, released the following statement: “While the chain of command may be clear, there is still no indication that we will see any type of national security or foreign policy strategy in the last two years of the Obama Administration. President Obama has admittedly failed to present or implement a coherent foreign policy or provide decisive U.S. leadership. Instead, we’ve seen inaction, uncertainty, and indecision that diminished U.S. influence, eroded the overall effectiveness of U.S. policy, and exacerbated threats throughout the world. Unfortunately, despite Ash Carter’s impressive track record at the Pentagon, unless the White House articulates a clear national security and foreign policy strategy, it may not matter who is in the job.”
12.04.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, the House of Representatives passed the Fiscal Year 2015 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA), which authorizes funding and sets policy for the Department of Defense. The bill included significant provisions authored by Congressman Mike Turner (R-OH) and Congresswoman Niki Tsongas (D-MA), co-chairs of the Military Sexual Assault Prevention Caucus, to combat military sexual assault. Earlier this year, Tsongas and Turner introduced the Furthering Accountability and Individual Rights within the Military Act of 2014 (FAIR Military Act), which supports survivors, eliminates a bias in the military justice system and increases accountability among all levels of the military. The two have since worked across the aisle to include these important changes in the annual defense bill. The Senate is expected to vote on the FY15 NDAA next week. The House passed FY15 NDAA includes provisions from the FAIR Military Act that: Limit the use of the “good soldier” defense, which allowed a defendant to cite unrelated, subjective factors during trial, such as military record; Require commanders be assessed on their ability to create a climate where a victim can report a crime without fear of retaliation; Require commanders and servicemembers be assessed on their support of sexual assault prevention and response policies; Ensure that the changes and provisions regarding military sexual assault prevention from the FY14 Defense Authorization apply to the military service academies; Ensure that an independent panel will look at how the mental health records of victims are admitted into evidence at trial and whether changes should be made to the military rules of evidence. __ “For the last five years, Congresswoman Tsongas and I have successfully constructed and passed meaningful reforms every single year to eradicate sexual assault from our military. This year’s NDAA takes unprecedented steps forward in the areas of prevention, prosecution and protection and directly confronts the deep-rooted and flawed culture that has perpetuated these crimes. Under this legislation, Perpetrators will no longer be capable of using unrelated, subjective factors as evidence of innocence,” said Congressman Turner. “But our work is not done. Going forward, Congresswoman Tsongas and I will continue our bipartisan effort to eliminate sexual assault from our military and work to ensure that our service men and women have the protection they deserve.” “Accountability begins at the top and must extend across the military, to every rank and position. This legislation ensures our military leaders, servicemembers and the military justice system, are held to the highest standard,” said Congresswoman Tsongas. “And no more will the ‘good soldier’ defense run interference for criminal behavior and prevent the finder of fact from arriving at justice. Military sexual assault is a multifaceted challenge that requires continued, meaningful reforms. One thing is certain – a cultural change is needed to combat an environment that has allowed these crimes to occur. Although a complete change will not happen overnight, this year’s NDAA is another step towards eradicating military sexual assault.” "The FAIR military act brings much needed accountability to both officers and enlisted members who create harassing, toxic cultures in their military units which allow incidents of military sexual violence to flourish," said Anu Bhagwati, former Marine Corps captain and executive director of Service Women's Action Network. "Additionally it prevents a perpetrator's 'general military character' from being used as a defense for these crimes." Tsongas and Turner also released the following joint statement regarding the Department of Defense report issued to the President today outlining several initiatives to combat military sexual assault. “While these numbers continue to be concerning, the rise in reporting is a possible signal that legislative and military changes from recent years are having an encouraging impact and suggests that victims of sexual assault may be more comfortable coming forward. We are also optimistic about the success of the Special Victims Counsel program, which provides survivors with an attorney to walk them through the complicated military justice system. But none of these findings obviate the simple fact that these heinous crimes continue to occur at an alarming rate, and that a majority of those who choose to report face retaliation. This year’s NDAA includes language we authored that requires that commanders be assessed on their ability to prevent retaliation because the military needs an environment where men and women can come forward without fear of retaliation or repercussion. This report contains valuable information that the Department of Defense must use to take a hard look at itself and to better understand the deep and pervasive challenge it has. In the coming days we will be looking closely at this report, its findings and its proposals, and will work with survivors, support groups and our colleagues in Congress to examine its impact while continuing to pursue substantial legislative reforms. ###
12.04.2014	WASHINGTON, DC –Today, the Department of Defense will issue a report to the President on sexual assaults in the military and outlining several initiatives to combat the crimes. Congresswoman Niki Tsongas (D-MA) and Congressman Mike Turner (R-OH), co-chairs of the Military Sexual Assault Prevention Caucus, released the following joint statement. “While these numbers continue to be concerning, the rise in reporting is a possible signal that legislative and military changes from recent years are having an encouraging impact and suggests that victims of sexual assault may be more comfortable coming forward. We are also optimistic about the success of the Special Victims Counsel program, which provides survivors with an attorney to walk them through the complicated military justice system. But none of these findings obviate the simple fact that these heinous crimes continue to occur at an alarming rate, and that a majority of those who choose to report face retaliation. This year’s NDAA includes language we authored that requires that commanders be assessed on their ability to prevent retaliation because the military needs an environment where men and women can come forward without fear of retaliation or repercussion. This report contains valuable information that the Department of Defense must use to take a hard look at itself and to better understand the deep and pervasive challenge it has. In the coming days we will be looking closely at this report, its findings and its proposals, and will work with survivors, support groups and our colleagues in Congress to examine its impact while continuing to pursue substantial legislative reforms.”
12.03.2014	Washington, DC: Congressman Michael Turner has been elected to serve as President of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization’s Parliamentary Assembly (NATO PA). The NATO PA is an affiliate organization of NATO and is comprised of over two hundred and fifty delegates from the parliaments and legislative bodies of the Alliance’s 28 members states and associate nations. “I am honored to serve as President of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly. NATO is the United States’ strongest and most important ally and its success is critical to keeping the American people safe. This body serves as the important link between the NATO Alliance and the governing bodies of all the individual member nations. It is the responsibility of the NATO PA to help secure and build upon on our relationships with our European allies and to provide valued insight, dialogue and understanding regarding our shared security and political concerns,” said Turner. To fulfill its core mission, the Assembly holds over 40 activities every year that bring together between 10 and 350 members of parliaments and legislatures in various formats. These meetings provide a unique and specialized forum for dialogue and debate among the parliamentary delegates on security issues. Twice a year, the assembly meets in full session to discuss and adopt Committee reports and policy recommendations for the NATO Alliance. In addition to leading this Assembly, Congressman Turner will have the opportunity to meet with the NATO Secretary General and other high-ranking NATO officials on an annual basis to discuss and influence the response to national security issues. “The alliance continues to face a wide range of security threats and we must respond with a strong unified voice. Over the next two years, one of the most pressing threats will continue to be Russia. It will be critical for NATO to address Russia’s clear violation of international agreements, their violation of the sovereignty of other nations, and their blatant disregard for international values. Additionally, we will need strong commitment and cooperation from all member nations to successfully fight ISIS and combat terrorism in Afghanistan, Syria, and Iraq,” said Turner. Congressman Turner succeeds former President Hugh Bayley, a British Member of Parliament, whose mandate came to an end after two years. Congressman Turner has served as the Chairman of the U.S. Delegation to the NATO Parliamentary Assembly since 2011 and served in the Parliamentary Assembly since 2009. ###
12.03.2014	Washington, D.C.—Following the release of the Fiscal Year 2015 National Defense Authorization Act, Congressman Mike Turner released the following statement: “The release of the Fiscal Year 2015 National Defense Authorization Act, as agreed to by the House and Senate Armed Services Committee, marks a significant milestone towards final passage of the bill. This bicameral, bipartisan legislation is a product of substantial negotiations between the House and Senate and it was an honor to advocate successfully on behalf of our Southwest Ohio community and Wright-Patterson Air Force Base to make certain that the provisions we included in the House version of the bill were included in the compromise package.”
12.02.2014	Washington, DC: Following a request from Congressman Mike Turner, Pastor Dr. David E. Gray led the House of Representatives in opening prayer this afternoon. Following the prayer, Congressman Turner delivered remarks from the House floor to highlight Pastor Gray's life of service and thank him for his commitment to his faith. Click HERE to watch Pastor Gray: Let us pray. Gracious God. Your love is never ending. In these hallowed halls, your sovereign spirit comes to us, calms us, calls us and infuses us with your grace. Give us strength this day to look outside ourselves for the opportunities that come with connection and collaboration. Give us faith to bring our best selves and to seek your will. Give us confidence that solutions can be found and problems solved. Grant us gratitude for the trust placed in us for the privilege of living in this free land and for your presence here with us. Allow us to rest in and rely on your hope filled spirit. Loving God, we ask your blessing upon this body and all who gather here. Help us to receive your assurance, your encouragement, your wisdom and your inspiration for the tasks to which we have been called. We pray this day. Amen. Click HERE to watch Congressman Turner: Thank you Mr. Speaker. I am honored to welcome my good friend, Pastor David Gray, as our Guest Chaplain. He was born in Dayton, Ohio. Pastor Gray grew up active in the Presbyterian Church and has gone on to lead a distinguished life of service. Holding both a law degree and a Doctorate of Ministry, Pastor Gray is a former public servant, having served as a staffer in the Senate, and a true spiritual leader that has helped numerous individuals and families grow in their relationship with God. Currently, Pastor Gray serves as the Head Pastor at the Bradley Hills Church and resides in Bethesda, Maryland with his wife, Bridget and four children. On behalf of the United States Congress and the people of his hometown in my district, the 10th Congressional District of Ohio, I want to thank Pastor Gray for his commitment to his faith and for opening the House with a prayer today.
11.20.2014	Washington, DC: Today, Congressman Mike Turner (R-OH) and Congressman Tim Ryan (D-OH) sent a bipartisan letter to House Leadership reaffirming their strong support for the passage of an extension of the Health Coverage Tax Credit (HCTC) as part of a year-end tax extenders bill before the 113th Congress adjourns for the year. The HCTC helps struggling American families pay their health bills, including thousands of Delphi Salaried Retirees whose pensions were terminated during the GM rescue and subsequently turned over to the Pension Benefit Guarantee Corporation. In March of this year, Reps. Turner and Ryan joined a delegation of 28 Members and Senators from across the country in sending a letter to both House and Senate leadership pushing for pushing for the extension of the Health Coverage Tax Credit (HCTC). In July 2013, Reps. Turner and Ryan introduced legislation that would have provided the Delphi Salaried Retirees and other eligible individuals the choice of continuing within the Health Coverage Tax Credit (HCTC) program past the program’s December 31, 2013 termination date, or upon leaving the program. The full text of today's letter can be found below: November 20, 2014 The Honorable John Boehner The Honorable Nancy Pelosi Speaker of the House Minority Leader U.S. House of Representatives U.S. House of Representatives Washington, D.C. 20515 Washington, D.C. 20515 The Honorable David Camp The Honorable Sander Levin Chairman Ranking Member Committee on Ways and Means Committee on Ways and Means U.S. House of Representatives U.S. House of Representatives Washington, D.C. 20515 Washington, D.C. 20515 Dear Speaker Boehner, Leader Pelosi, Chairman Camp and Ranking Member Levin: We wish to reaffirm our strong support for passing an extension of the Health Coverage Tax Credit (HCTC) as part of a year-end tax extenders bill before the 113th Congress adjourns for the year. As you know, an extension of the HCTC was included in the Senate’s tax extenders bill and we urge you to include it in the House tax extenders bill as well. The Senate provision, supported by Senate Sherrod Brown and Senator Rob Portman, mirrors H.R.2783, a bill we introduced by in the House. A March 2014 letter supporting the HCTC was signed by 28 Members of Congress and Senators from across the country, and is attached for your reference. Across the country, the HCTC has helped tens of thousands of struggling families pay their health bills. These families include thousands of Delphi retirees whose pensions were terminated during the GM rescue and subsequently turned over to the Pension Benefit Guarantee Corporation. As you know well, many of 20,000 Delphi salaried retirees lost significant portions of their promised pensions. Without the HCTC, which expired on January 1, 2014, these salaried retirees face financial hardship with up to 50 percent of their remaining pension going to fund their health care premiums. The Delphi retirees have spent all of this year paying for health care out of their own modest income. If Congress fails to act, these retirees will continue to struggle to pay their health care expenses. This is an issue that cannot wait. We urge you to pass the tax extenders bill that includes the two-year extension of the HCTC before the 113th Congress adjourns. Thank you for your attention to this important issue. Sincerely, Michael R. Turner Member of Congress Tim Ryan Member of Congress
11.18.2014	Washington, DC: Following reports that two Palestinians attacked a synagogue in Jerusalem and killed four Israeli worshipers, Congressman Mike Turner, Chairman of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Tactical Air and Land Forces, released the following statement: "This act of terror must immediately be condemned by the international community. As we mourn the death of the three American citizens involved in today's attack, our hearts go out to all the victims and their families as they attempt to recover from today’s senseless act of violence," said Turner. "We recognize and support Israel's right to defend its territory and its citizens against further attacks by radical elements such as Hamas. The nation of Israel and its people continue to have my full support,” said Turner.
11.17.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Rep. Mike Turner and U.S. Sens. Sherrod Brown (D-OH) and Rob Portman (R-OH) applauded a decision by the NCAA to select the University of Dayton as the host site for opening round games of the NCAA Men’s Division 1 basketball tournament through 2018. “Today, the NCAA recognized the importance of hosting the First Four in Dayton. Last week, I was proud to highlight Dayton’s distinct capabilities and to urge the NCAA to keep the opening of March Madness in Dayton. We are grateful that the NCAA agreed and that Dayton’s tradition of tremendous attendance, strong fan experience and record ratings for the NCAA’s First Four will continue,” Turner said. “I congratulate the University of Dayton on their selection as host for the NCAA Final Four games. Today’s announcement reaffirms what so many of us have long known – Dayton is a city that has so much to offer to visitors, and I am excited about the economic impact these games will bring to the region.” Portman said. “Today’s decision by the NCAA is a slam dunk for Dayton and basketball fans throughout Ohio,” Brown said. “For more than a decade, Dayton and the Miami Valley have been exceptional hosts of the opening round games. By continuing to start the tournament in Dayton, the NCAA selection committee has reaffirmed Dayton’s important place in the tournament.” -- Earlier this month, Brown, Portman, and Turner sent a letter to NCAA President Dr. Mark Emmert urging the NCAA to select the University of Dayton as the host for the First Four games. The letter pointed to long-standing support of leaders and the community for the tournament. In 2013, the First Round games generated more than $4.5 million in revenue for the Dayton-area. The full letter to the NCAA can be seen below. November 12, 2014 Dr. Mark Emmert President National Collegiate Athletic Association P.O. Box 6222 Indianapolis, Indiana 46206-6222 Dear Dr. Emmert: We write in support of the University of Dayton’s (UD) bid to continue hosting the opening round of the NCAA Men’s Basketball Tournament through 2018. We also urge the NCAA to strongly consider expanding the community’s opportunities to host additional tournament games. The Dayton region’s exceptional capability to host nationally and internationally renowned events makes it the ideal area to continue hosting the “First Four.” Dayton is located within a day’s drive of sixty percent of the U.S. population and has three international airports within 100 miles (Dayton International, Cincinnati/Northern Kentucky International, and Port Columbus International), making it easily accessible for visitors and fans from around the country. UD and the surrounding community have also played a proud role in the NCAA Tournament’s history. UD Arena has hosted more tournament games – 105 – than any other site in the country and for the past fifteen years has served as the home for both the annual play-in game and the “First Four.” The city of Dayton has embraced these games, with UD Arena being filled to capacity each of the last two years and the community actively creating outstanding experiences for the fans who visit. The city of Dayton has also taken the additional step of holding welcome events for visiting schools and the fans attending the games. This past March, the tournament helped generate $4.5 million in revenue for the Dayton-area economy and the NCAA saw record ratings for the “First Four” portion of the tournament. The “First Four” in Dayton has been such a success that President Barack Obama hosted British Prime Minister David Cameron at the event in 2012 to provide the visiting head-of-state a front-row seat at the opening of the annual tournament. Prime Minister Cameron was on an official visit to the United States for important foreign policy discussions. We urge you to commit to continue hosting the opening round of the NCAA men’s basketball tournament in Dayton, and ask that you consider expanding the tournament’s presence in the area. The people of Ohio and the city of Dayton look forward each year to participating in this event. Thank you for your consideration.
11.12.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Rep. Mike Turner (OH-10) and U.S. Sens. Rob Portman (R-OH) and Sherrod Brown (D-OH) joined in a letter to NCAA President Dr. Mark Emmert in support of the University of Dayton’s bid to remain the host for the opening round of NCAA Men’s Division 1 basketball tournament through 2018. Dayton has hosted the First Four games since 2001 and has hosted more tournament games than any other site in the country. “The University of Dayton and our southwest Ohio community have demonstrated a track record of success in hosting the opening of the annual NCAA Division 1 men’s basketball tournament,” Turner said. "Dayton’s geographical location, proximity to international airports, and large committed fan base have been critical to the sizable attendance, fan experience, and record ratings the NCAA has received while Dayton has hosted the 'First Four.' Additionally, President Obama’s decision to bring a visiting head of state to the 2012 “First Four" in Dayton further establishes the wide recognition of the distinctive capability of our region to host internationally and nationally prominent events. I strongly urge you to continue hosting the “First Four” in Dayton and to further consider our region for additional opportunities to host tournament games,” Turner said. “Basketball fans know that March Madness starts in Dayton, Ohio,” Brown said. “For more than a decade, Dayton and the Miami Valley has hosted the opening round games. The tournament provides an economic boost for small businesses and showcases one of Ohio’s top cities. As the NCAA finalizes its site selections for coming years, I urge President Emmert to continue the NCAA’s investment in the City of Dayton.” “The City of Dayton has proven over the years that it is well positioned to host the NCAA Final Four tournament,” Portman said. “From its great universities, restaurants, to an arena for the games, Dayton offers an exceptional package.” In its letter, the delegation pointed to long-standing support of leaders and the community for the tournament. In 2013, the First Round games generated more than $4.5 million in revenue for the Dayton-area. The letter also urges the NCAA to consider expanding the tournament’s presence in Ohio. The full letter to the NCAA can be seen below. November 12, 2014 Dr. Mark Emmert President National Collegiate Athletic Association P.O. Box 6222 Indianapolis, Indiana 46206-6222 Dear Dr. Emmert: We write in support of the University of Dayton’s (UD) bid to continue hosting the opening round of the NCAA Men’s Basketball Tournament through 2018. We also urge the NCAA to strongly consider expanding the community’s opportunities to host additional tournament games. The Dayton region’s exceptional capability to host nationally and internationally renowned events makes it the ideal area to continue hosting the “First Four.” Dayton is located within a day’s drive of sixty percent of the U.S. population and has three international airports within 100 miles (Dayton International, Cincinnati/Northern Kentucky International, and Port Columbus International), making it easily accessible for visitors and fans from around the country. UD and the surrounding community have also played a proud role in the NCAA Tournament’s history. UD Arena has hosted more tournament games – 105 – than any other site in the country and for the past fifteen years has served as the home for both the annual play-in game and the “First Four.” The city of Dayton has embraced these games, with UD Arena being filled to capacity each of the last two years and the community actively creating outstanding experiences for the fans who visit. The city of Dayton has also taken the additional step of holding welcome events for visiting schools and the fans attending the games. This past March, the tournament helped generate $4.5 million in revenue for the Dayton-area economy and the NCAA saw record ratings for the “First Four” portion of the tournament. The “First Four” in Dayton has been such a success that President Barack Obama hosted British Prime Minister David Cameron at the event in 2012 to provide the visiting head-of-state a front-row seat at the opening of the annual tournament. Prime Minister Cameron was on an official visit to the United States for important foreign policy discussions. We urge you to commit to continue hosting the opening round of the NCAA men’s basketball tournament in Dayton, and ask that you consider expanding the tournament’s presence in the area. The people of Ohio and the city of Dayton look forward each year to participating in this event. Thank you for your consideration.
11.07.2014	Washington, DC: Following reports from the Kiev military that a "column of 32 tanks and truckloads of Russian troops” have moved into Ukraine, Congressman Mike Turner, Chairman of the House Armed Services Tactical Air and Land Forces Subcommittee, released the following statement: “If these reports are accurate, the significant number of troops and artillery that have moved across the Ukrainian border in the last twenty-four hours prove the Russian Federation has no intention of deescalating the current crisis in Ukraine. Putin continues to send troops, tanks, and weapons across the sovereign Ukrainian border. In response, the President has sent an international message of ambivalence. In order to take decisive action to counter Putin’s ongoing escalation of this already serious conflict, President Obama must first definitively call these movements what they are: a continued invasion." Following NATO reports on August 28th that Russian troops were operating inside Ukraine, Congressman Turner released a joint statement with House Armed Services Committee Chairman Howard P. "Buck" McKeon (R-CA) calling on the President to "definitively state whether or not Russia has invaded Ukraine and immediately condemn this overt escalation of an already serious conflict.” In response, the Obama administration failed to define that movement of over 1,000 Russian troops into Ukraine as an invasion. "President Obama continues to ignore the obvious. Ukraine has been and continues to be invaded by Russian troops. To counter this aggression, the President of the United States must at least be willing to acknowledge that Russia’s actions are an invasion and a violation of Ukraine’s sovereign territory. Today, the President must provide strong U.S. leadership and condemn Russia’s acts as an invasion of Ukraine,” said Congressman Turner.
11.06.2014	WASHINGTON, DC—Today, Representative Mike Turner, the Chair of the United States Delegation to the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) Parliamentary Assembly, joined a bipartisan group of law makers in writing to NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg urging that the NATO Alliance purchase or lease the Mistral-Class warships that France plans to sell to Russia. In the bipartisan letter, the lawmakers called for NATO to “purchase or lease the warships as a common naval asset. Such a decisive move by NATO is not without precedent and would show President Putin that our rhetorical resolve is matched by our actual resolve and that this Alliance will not tolerate or abet his dangerous actions in Europe.” “Just weeks ago, a Russian spy plane violated NATO airspace for the first time since the end of the Cold War," said Congressman Turner. "As Putin continues his efforts to intimidate our allies and destabilize the region, our NATO Alliance must demonstrate its resolve in the face of this aggressor state. We must ensure Putin is incapable of procuring these highly sophisticated assault ships and instead, take this opportunity to bolster our own capabilities." Copies of the letter were sent to the Secretary of State Kerry and Defense Secretary Hagel. Text of the letter follows. November 4, 2014 His Excellency Jens Stoltenberg Secretary General North Atlantic Treaty Organization Boulevard Leopold III, 1110 Brussels, Belgium Dear Mr. Secretary General: Congratulations on assuming one of the most important jobs in international security. We welcome your installation and look forward to your leadership during these challenging times for the NATO alliance. On May 29, 2014, we wrote your predecessor on the particular challenge posed by France’s contract to supply two advanced Mistral-class amphibious assault and helicopter carrier warships to the Russian Federation. In that letter, we proposed a solution to keep these warships out of the hands of a government that poses a clear and present threat to the security of certain NATO members, substantially enhance the Alliance’s capabilities at a moment when some members have been cutting defense expenditures, and mitigate any disparate financial burden to France for refusing to transfer the warships to the Government of Russia. Since we last wrote your office proposing that NATO purchase or lease these warships, Russian government actions have only heightened our concern over this potential transfer and strengthened our resolve to oppose it while exploring creative and constructive options to promote unity among our allies at a time when, to quote French President Francois Hollande, Russia’s actions “contravene the fundamental principles of European security.” Such a transfer should be unthinkable, at the moment, and for as long as Russia’s government maintains its threatening posture toward NATO and occupies territories in neighboring European countries in gross violation of international law. As we collectively confront the unacceptable actions of Russian President Vladimir Putin’s government, every effort must be made to maintain transatlantic unity. Sensitive to the financial burden that France may incur should it rightly refuse to transfer these warships to Russia, we renew our call that NATO purchase or lease the warships as a common naval asset. Such a decisive move by NATO is not without precedent and would show President Putin that our rhetorical resolve is matched by our actual resolve and that this Alliance will not tolerate or abet his dangerous actions in Europe. We, and many others, have repeatedly urged France to unequivocally refuse to transfer the Mistrals and we appreciate France’s willingness, in the wake of the downing of Malaysian Airlines Flight 17, to postpone a final decision on the fate of these warships until later this year. But we cannot be satisfied with any outcome that could see these ships sailing under the Russian flag—now or in the foreseeable future. While there was a period following the end of the Cold War when Russia was acting cooperatively and could be considered a partner in European stability, that era has sadly, and definitively, come to an end following the attempted illegal annexation of Crimea. We all look forward to a future when we can work constructively with a representative and democratic government in Moscow to secure a Europe, whole, free, and at peace, that day has not come and, for now, it is critical that NATO members cease providing President Putin the means to intimidate or invade countries on Russia’s periphery or even directly confront our allies. Mr. Secretary General, we would have liked to keep this note a short one of congratulations as you assume an awesome responsibility, but circumstances require timely and decisive action on this urgent matter. We appreciate your consideration of our proposal that NATO purchase or lease these warships, and look forward to your response. Sincerely, Eliot L. Engel (D-NY) Ranking Member Committee on Foreign Affairs Michael Turner (R-OH) Chairman U.S. Delegation to NATO Parliamentary Assembly William R. Keating (D-MA) Ranking Member Subcommittee on Europe, Eurasia, and Emerging Threats Committee on Foreign Affairs Mike Rogers (R-AL) Chairman Subcommittee on Strategic Forces Armed Services Gerald E. Connolly (D-VA) Committee on Foreign Affairs Steve Chabot (R-OH) Committee on Foreign Affairs Steve Cohen (D-TN) Commission on Security and Cooperation in Europe Jim Gerlach (R-PA) Co-Chair Congressional Ukrainian Caucus
10.30.2014	Washington, DC—Today, Congressman Mike Turner testified before the United States International Trade Commission to ensure that the duties he fought for and helped secure are extended and that the ability of American companies, like Appvion, to create and maintain American jobs is protected. On behalf of West Carrolton’s Appvion Paper Facility, Congressman Turner urged the Commission to keep the antidumping and countervailing duties on lightweight thermal paper from China and Germany in place for another five years. “Appvion’s investment in my southwest Ohio community has created hundreds of new jobs throughout our region. However, the expiration of current trade duty orders on dumped and subsidized imports threatens their ability to be successful in American markets. These duties have leveled the playing field and allowed Appvion to improve its sales and profitability. Good manufacturing jobs in Ohio are dependent on the extension of these duties and on the preservation of a fair trade environment. We must make certain that companies like Appvion who are willing to invest substantially in manufacturing in America are adequately protected from any unfair competition,” said Congressman Mike Turner. “Representative Turner has supported efforts to ensure fair competition for all producers of lightweight thermal paper in the U.S. since we filed our first petition in 2007. We appreciate his strong commitment to our company, our Ohio manufacturing operations and to ensuring a fair and level playing field on which to compete,” said Mark Richards, Chief Executive Officer of Appvion, Inc. “Appvion employs nearly 1,700 people across the United States in Wisconsin, Ohio, and Pennsylvania and the fair trading of lightweight thermal paper in the United States is vital to our bottom line. We know that our product can compete on a level playing field. However, keeping these duties in place is the only effective way to protect the domestic marketplace from foreign competitors who won’t play by the rules.” -- Timeline On October 22, 2014, Congressman Turner joined with U.S. Senators Sherrod Brown (D-OH) and Rob Portman (R-OH) and sent a letter to the Chairman of the ITC that called for the continuation of current dumping margins on lightweight thermal paper (LWTP) from China and Germany. In August 2014, Turner and U.S. Senators Brown and Portman joined with other congressional members, to urge the Commissioner of the U.S. Customs and Border Protection to ensure that companies who are importing LWTP from China and Germany are paying the requisite duties owed on such products. In February, 2014, Turner, Brown, and Portman called on the Commerce Department to use to use its legal authority under U.S. trade law to address fraudulent behavior by foreign companies dumping into domestic markets. According to Commerce, German exporter Papierfabrik August Koehler AG and Koehler America, Inc—known as Koehler—sold merchandise at a less than normal value and manipulated data to avoid paying antidumping duties for imports on LWTP. In April 2013, Turner, Brown, and Portman commended action by the Administration that upheld a decision to impose a duty on the manufacturer. In April 2008. Turner led a House letter to the Secretary of Commerce in support of Appleton Papers’ (now Appvion) unfair trade practices petition concerning LWTP from China and Germany. In 2008, Congressman Turner testified before the Commission regarding the original thermal paper investigation that led to the institution of the current antidumping and countervailing duties. In November, 2007, Turner wrote to the Chairman of the ITC in support of Appleton Papers’ (now Appvion) petition concerning LWTP from China and Germany.
10.29.2014	Washington, D.C.— In response to news reports that Secretary Hagel has approved the recommendation of the Joint Chiefs of Staff that all military personnel serving in Ebola afflicted areas of West Africa undergo a mandatory, 21-day 'controlled monitoring' period, Congressman Mike Turner, a senior member of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee, released the following statement: “Last Friday, I questioned General Lariviere regarding the Department of Defense’s Ebola guidance for service members being deployed to countries with Ebola outbreaks. I seriously recommended that these guidelines be revised in order to protect our men and women in uniform and ensure that the public isn’t unduly exposed. The previous DOD guidelines on monitoring returning troops stated that 'as long as individuals remain asymptomatic, they may return to work and routine daily activities with family members.' Today, I’m encouraged that Secretary Hagel shares my concerns and is taking action to impose a 21-day 'controlled monitoring' period for all returning troops. We are hopeful that this period is in effect a quarantine. This act will ensure that our service men and women, their families, and our communities have the confidence that every necessary precaution is taken to ensure their health and safety.”
10.29.2014	Washington, DC—In response to reports that NATO jets have intercepted more than two dozen Russian military aircraft in the past 24 hours and that this aircraft was conducting “significant military maneuvers” on the edges of NATO and European air space, Congressman Mike Turner, Chairman of the U.S. Delegation to the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, released the following statement: "Last week, a Russian spy plane violated NATO airspace for the first time since the end of the Cold War. Over the last 24 hours, we have seen increasingly adventuresome, unusual activity by the Russian military in international air space. Russia’s escalating provocative acts of intimidation and threats of destabilization are cause for concern—not just for our European allies—but for the entire NATO alliance. Putin shows no signs of letting up and today’s reports are another reminder of the necessity of a strong, united, and well-equipped NATO alliance in the face of an aggressor state."
10.24.2014	Click HERE to Watch MIKE TURNER: Mr. Chairman, I greatly appreciate that. I'm under a time constraint, having to return back to my district, and I greatly appreciate the Chairman doing that. On Tuesday, I had the opportunity to talk with Secretary Hagel about the Ebola mission and I believe he takes this very seriously. He's very concerned, both about the effect on our men and women in uniform, and also about protecting the American public. I am very concerned about the protocols of protecting the American public. And since I only get one question, my question is going to be about that. Although, I am too very concerned as I think all of the American public is about the protection of our men and women in uniform. I'm very skeptical of the DoD protocols and I think the American public is very skeptical. We have basically two threats, one of Ebola coming here or two individuals that have been exposed to Ebola, falling ill to Ebola. We've had four cases, two of came here, and two are the result of people being exposed to Ebola here and then falling ill. Three were healthcare providers. The American public is very concerned that individuals who have been exposed to the Ebola virus have had significant public access after being exposed. This is during the period while they were falling ill to Ebola. Now on October 10th, Ebola came to visit Ohio. Amber Vinson traveled from Dallas, Texas to Cleveland. While she was in Cleveland, she visited local businesses and of course she flew on a flight there. Almost 300 people had contact with her while she was falling ill to Ebola. Fortunately, Ohio doesn't have a report, at this time, of a case of Ebola. But on October 20th, the entire Ohio congressional delegation, on a bipartisan basis, sent a letter to the CDC challenging their protocols, with respect to people who have been known to have been exposed to Ebola. Now we all know the stories: trying on wedding dresses, flying, going on a cruise, bowling, riding on the subway. Although some of these issues are personal responsibility, they do go to the issue of protocols. If you look at the October 10th Department of Defense guidelines, in paragraph number four, it says that a commander has authority which means they may—they don’t have to—quarantine someone up to ten days if they are concerned about an individual who's been exposed. Now we all know the doctor in New York fell ill apparently after eleven days. Then it goes on to say no known exposure—that doesn't mean they weren’t exposed, it means there is no known exposure. That then there is a 21 day monitoring period, but it suggests that the individuals return to routine daily activities. Well, those routine daily activities would include going on cruises, flying, wearing wedding dresses, bowling and riding on the subway. So I think I’m very concerned—as the American public is—as the multiplier effect of the contacts that could occur in the public. And as we are learning in light of what has happened, I believe that both the CDC's rules and perhaps the DoD guidance should be revised. In light of what we now know and are seeing in the concerns of the multiplier effect, again of the three healthcare providers that had significant public contact, while falling ill to the Ebola virus, do you believe that this October 10th DoD guidance should be revised and Mr. Lumpkin, I would like your answer, too. MICHAEL LUMPKIN: I think the first thing I would like to say, as I mentioned in my opening statement, that we at the DoD in West Africa are not doing direct patient care. So our operations in support of USAID are focused on those lines of effort of the command and control, the logistics – MIKE TURNER: But that Mr. Lumpkin, that doesn't mean that no one is going to be exposed to the virus. I understand what you're saying about the distinction between health care providers and non- healthcare providers, but the gentleman that flew here first, patient number one, in the United States was not a healthcare provider either. MICAHEL LUMPKIN: Very true, but because—But I want to make sure you understand—we have different categories of risk and I would like to turn it over to my Joint Staff colleague here to explain the risk categories and the mitigation strategies with each one of them. MAJOR GENERAL LARIVIERE: Mr. Turner, thank you for the question. The protocols we've put in place we think excede the CDC's standards, as you mentioned. We will be testing personnel twice a day while they are deployed, take their temperature and to ensure that if they were exposed and did become infected, we could isolate them effectively. The zero to ten-day timeline that you discussed is the timeline that will take place in country and commanders will have the authority to remove that personal – MIKE TURNER: But General as we already know from the doctor in New York he indicated, if the news reports are correct, that his symptoms occurred at 11 days, so isn’t your ten days too short? MAJOR GENERAL LARIVIERE: Well the ten days were in country, the 21 days can't start until they are actually out of the affected areas. So the 21 day monitoring period will take place – MIKE TURNER: Which means they could be traveling on day 11 and no longer isolated. MAJOR GENERAL LARIVIERE: They could be traveling on day 11. MIKE TURNER: Which would result in an additional exposure. MAJOR GENERAL LARIVIERE: No sir, we will try to limit their exposure prior to their departure but the one 21 day timeline won't start until they're back in the United States. MIKE TURNER: Well my time is up. But I want to indicate, I am highly skeptical and the public is worried. I believe these need to be revised. The Ohio Delegation sent to CDC they believe there’s need to be revised. The American public is concerned people that are exposed are having too much contact with the American public and raising the risk to the United States citizens. Thank you Mr. Chairman.
10.22.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, U.S. Sens. Sherrod Brown (D-OH) and Rob Portman (R-OH) and Congressman Mike Turner (OH-10) called on the International Trade Commission to protect Ohio workers and domestic paper manufacturers like West Carrollton’s Appvion Papers, Inc. The letter calls for continuation of current dumping margins on lightweight thermal paper (LWTP) from China and Germany. "Enforcing our trade laws is absolutely essential to ensuring that American workers can compete on a level playing field in the global marketplace,” Turner said. “I was proud to join with Senator Portman and Senator Brown in a bipartisan request to extend the antidumping and countervailing duty orders on certain lightweight thermal paper from China and Germany. I am hopeful that the U.S. International Trade Commission will provide this extension and ensure that unfair trade practices do not hinder the ability of our companies to successfully create American jobs.” “We must stand up for workers and manufacturers in our domestic paper industry,” Brown said. “That means enforcing trade laws when foreign companies dump products into American markets and undercut domestic manufacturing. It’s vital that the ITC take action to ensure foreign companies don’t get a leg up by cheating the system.” “Ohio paper manufacturing workers, like those at West Carrollton’s Appvion Papers, can compete and win on a level playing-field, but we must enforce our trade laws to ensure that foreign competitors do not skirt the rules of the road,” Portman, a former U.S. Trade Representative said. In January, Brown, Portman and Turner called on the Commerce Department to use to use its legal authority under U.S. trade law to address fraudulent behavior by foreign companies dumping into domestic markets. According to Commerce, German exporter Papierfabrik August Koehler AG and Koehler America, Inc—known as Koehler—sold merchandise at a less than normal value and manipulated data to avoid paying antidumping duties for imports on LWTP. In April 2013, Brown, Portman and Turner commended action by the Obama Administration that upheld a decision to impose a duty on the manufacturer. Brown and Portman successfully led a similar effort in 2011, which caused the Commerce Department to reverse its previous ruling and provide needed protection to Appleton. Turner has been leading the effort on the House side in support of Appleton and their ability to compete fairly. A full copy of the letter can be found below. The Honorable Meredith Broadbent Chairman U.S. International Trade Commission 500 E Street, SW Washington, D.C. 20436 Dear Chairman Broadbent: We write to express support for the continuation of orders on lightweight thermal paper from China and Germany. These orders are critical to ensuring the domestic industry can compete on a level playing field, and a negative sunset review determination would lead to the dumping of imports in the U.S. market. The dumping orders on lightweight thermal paper from China and Germany have stopped the flood of imports from those two countries. Before the orders took effect, lightweight thermal paper imports grew rapidly from January 2005 to June 2008. The original investigation found that China undersold their product by more than 20 percent. After the dumping duties were imposed, Chinese exports of lightweight thermal paper dropped to negligible quantities. In the 2010-2011 annual review, the Department of Commerce imposed a 75.36 percent dumping margin on the German producer, Koehler, after finding that the German company misrepresented sales. This has forced Koehler to announce they are no longer shipping to the U.S. market. These orders have succeeded in ending unfair trade and should be continued. If the dumping orders were revoked, the domestic industry would face renewed material injury. China maintains excessive production capacity that is greater than the total Chinese consumption of lightweight thermal paper. German producers have also increased their thermal paper production capacity. In addition, Germany continues to fight the dumping orders aggressively, which reveals their ongoing interest in exporting to the U.S. The American market remains attractive for foreign producers of lightweight thermal paper, and both China and Germany would resume underselling in the U.S. if the orders were lifted. The Department of Commerce confirmed that the domestic industry would be injured by a revocation of the orders in its preliminary determination earlier this year. There is one other factor that we want to raise because it could affect your evaluation of data and information provided by Germany during the proceedings. The Department of Commerce found that Koehler had engaged in a transshipment scheme to avoid dumping margins and accordingly used adverse facts available to impose a high margin on their products, a finding that was upheld by the U.S. Court of International Trade in New York. We ask that you keep in mind their deceptive behavior and their desire to avoid the dumping duties as you evaluate this case. The dumping orders on lightweight thermal paper imports from Germany and China have been successful, and without them the domestic industry would suffer from unfair trade practices. We urge you to maintain the orders so that American companies can compete on a level playing field.
10.21.2014	Dayton, OH- Following Reports that Jeffrey Fowle has been safely released from North Korea, Congressman Mike Turner released the following statement: “Today, Jeffrey Fowle was safely released from North Korean captivity. Months ago, I contacted former Congressman and Ambassador Tony Hall for his expertise in dealing with North Korea and he agreed to offer any possible assistance to bring about Fowle's release. I would like to thank Ambassador Hall for his tireless efforts to free Jefrey Fowle. Further, I would like to thank the U.S. State Department for their diligent work in bringing Jeffrey home to his family. I look forward to welcoming him back to our Southwest Ohio Community." On June 19, 2014, Congressman Mike Turner sent a letter to the President expressing serious concerns regarding Jeffrey Fowle's detention and requesting that the United States take immediate action to resolve this issue and ensure that unlawful detention of American citizens abroad is not tolerated.
10.20.2014	Dayton, OH—Today, Congressman Mike Turner and members of the Ohio delegation took action to protect families in Southwest Ohio and throughout the state from the Ebola virus. The members sent a letter to to the Centers for Disease Control (CDC) Director, Dr. Tom Frieden, requesting support to the state of Ohio in determining any potential exposure, identifying those most at risk, and if necessary, containing and treating anyone that may have come in contact with the deadly disease. “Unfortunately, the President failed to take forward-thinking and decisive action to prevent the Ebola outbreak from spreading to the United States. Today, the entire Ohio House Delegation took bipartisan action to ensure that the families in our Southwest Ohio community and throughout our state are safe and adequately protected from this deadly disease. Together, we called upon the CDC to explain what changes have been made to guarantee that no other Ebola patient travels within our state and implored Director Frieden to consider any and all options for containment in the future—including travel bans and screenings. I will continue to work diligently to protect the safety and security of our families as we seek to eradicate the Ebola virus,” said Congressman Turner. Full text of the letter below: Director Frieden Centers for Disease Control and Prevention 1600 Clifton Road Atlanta, GA 30329 Director Friedan, The current Ebola epidemic in West Africa, and its subsequent arrival in the United States, has become a source of anxiety for many Americans. Over the past week, Ohioans in particular grew concerned about potential exposure to the virus when it was discovered that a nurse caring for an Ebola patient travelled within the state before subsequently testing positive for the virus. As elected Representatives of the people of Ohio, our primary concern is the health and safety of those we represent. It is our understanding that the Ohio Department of Health and the Governor’s office are working to ensure effective protocols are in place and medical professionals are prepared should any resident of Ohio present symptoms of Ebola. We also understand that strict quarantine procedures have been designed by the Ohio Department of Health that would effectively prevent the spread of the disease if it is found in the State. We are encouraged by these proactive steps and hope that they ultimately prove unnecessary. We write today to ask that the CDC provide any and all necessary support to the state of Ohio in determining any potential exposure, identifying those most at risk, and if necessary, containing and treating anyone that may have come in contact with the Ebola virus. We further ask for an explanation of the policies which allowed a direct caregiver to an infected person to travel to Ohio and what changes have been made to ensure the same does not happen in the future. Finally, we ask that the CDC keep all options for containment in mind moving forward, including travel screenings and restrictions, if appropriate. We appreciate the effort being put forward to effectively prevent widespread exposure by federal, state, and local entities and will continue to monitor the effect of the Ebola virus on the people of Ohio and the rest of the country.
10.16.2014	Yesterday, members of the Ohio Congressional delegation urged Secretary of the Air Force Deborah Lee James to establish the Air Force Installation & Mission Support Center (AFIMSC) at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base (WPAFB). The letter was signed by U.S. Senators Rob Portman (R-Ohio) and Sherrod Brown (D-Ohio) as well as U.S. Representatives Mike Turner (OH-10), Jim Renacci (OH-16), Jim Jordan (OH-4), Dave Joyce (OH-14), Marcia Fudge (OH-11), Bill Johnson (OH-6), Marcy Kaptur (OH-9), Tim Ryan (OH-13), Brad Wenstrup (OH-2), Steve Stivers (OH-15), Pat Tiberi (OH-12), Joyce Beatty (OH-3), Marcy Kaptur (OH-9), and Bob Gibbs (OH-7). “After careful examination of the Air Force’s approved AFIMSC basing criteria, it is clear that WPAFB meets, if not exceeds, all criteria currently being evaluated by the Air Force,” the lawmakers wrote in a letter to Secretary James. “While we can certainly make a strong case for each of the criteria, the delegation agrees that collocating AFIMSC with Air Force Material Command (AFMC) headquarters is a logical choice. Collocating the new center with AFMC would aid in the immediate realignment of resources, authorities, and responsibilities, while reducing costs and inefficiencies.” “Under the diligent direction of General Janet Wolfenbarger, the Air Force Material Command (AFMC) and its world-class work force continue to research and develop the innovative technology that has allowed our Air Force to maintain and strengthen its dominance in the air. Headquartering the Air Force Installation & Mission Support Center (AFIMSC) with the AFMC at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base just makes sense. Wright-Patt overwhelmingly meets the Air Force’s criteria and the instant unification of equipment, technology and authorities will ensure a cost-effective and responsible transition that is unrivaled by any other finalist,” said Congressman Mike Turner. Full text of the letter can be found below and here. Dear Secretary James, We write to express our support for the establishment of the Air Force Installation & Mission Support Center (AFIMSC) at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base (WPAFB). Based on the criteria included in the Air Force’s Strategic Basing Process, we are confident that WPAFB is the ideal location to host the AFIMSC. After careful examination of the Air Force’s approved AFIMSC basing criteria, it is clear that WPAFB meets, if not exceeds, all criteria currently being evaluated by the Air Force. While we can certainly make a strong case for each of the criteria, the delegation agrees that collocating AFIMSC with Air Force Material Command (AFMC) headquarters is a logical choice. Collocating the new center with AFMC would aid in the immediate realignment of resources, authorities, and responsibilities, while reducing costs and inefficiencies. WPAFB and the surrounding area is an ideal location to house the men and women that will eventually make up AFIMSC. As you know, this summer the Air Force Times recently ranked WPAFB as the top Air Force base in the country for airmen to live. According to the report, “Wright-Patterson Air Force Base in Ohio enjoys low housing costs, a large commissary, a huge 300-bed medical center, and a large exchange.” The report goes on to state that “an above-average crime score of 7 out of 10, and decent commute times… combined to help land Wright-Pat at the top of the list.” Furthermore, we believe the costs associated with the initial stand up of AFIMSC at WPAFB would be low compared to other potential candidate bases. Already available infrastructure along with competitive construction costs across the state would allow the Air Force to quickly make ready the facilities needed to operate AFIMSC. Thank you again for your consideration of Wright Patterson Air Force Base as the future home of the Air Force Installation & Mission Support Center. As you move forward with your strategic basing process, we stand ready to work with you and provide any additional details that may aid in the selection process.
09.25.2014	Dayton, OH—This week, Congressman Mike Turner (R-OH), Speaker John Boehner (R-OH), and Senator Rob Portman (R-OH) were joined by the entire Ohio Republican delegation in a letter that pushes for new answers on behalf of the Delphi Salaried Retirees. In 2009, more than 20,000 Delphi Salaried Retirees had their pensions unjustly terminated in the wake of the federal government’s bailout of General Motors. Since that time, Congressman Turner, Speaker Boehner, and Senator Portman have joined with the Ohio Republican Delegation to push for answers, accountability, and justice for these men and women. On June 26 of this year, the coalition signed a letter requesting that the Office of Inspector General conduct an inquiry into the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation’s (PBGC’s) lengthy delay in providing final benefit determinations for Delphi Salaried Retirees. The PBGC has a stated policy of issuing these determinations in three years; however, these retirees have waited in earnest for over five years for the PBGC to complete the basic documentation necessary to begin the benefit determination process. On September 2nd, the OIG for the PBGC issued the results of their inquiry, which outlined the PBGC’s failure to provide sufficient justification for the undue delays and yielded substantially more questions than answers. Most notably, the OIG inquiry uncovered that the PBGC has issued inconsistent responses to Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) requests, and waited two years to hire a public accounting firm to begin the process of verifying the assets of the Delphi Salaried Retirees’ Plan. This week, Congressman Turner, Speaker Boehner, and Senator Portman joined with the Ohio Republican Delegation to request additional information immediately and ensure that the PBGC is held accountable to the Delphi Salaried Retirees who have unjustly lost so much. “For five years, we have pushed for answers on behalf of the Delphi Salaried Retirees and we’re not backing down now," said Congressman Turner. "We will continue to hold the administration accountable and ensure that these men and women get the information they deserve.” “While I appreciate the PBGC’s response to the request that the Ohio Republican delegation made back in June on the extreme delay in the final benefit determinations for the Delphi Salaried Employees, let me just say we have even more questions now than we had before our request. We will, without a doubt, continue pressing the PBGC until we get the answers that these Salaried Retirees deserve, and I applaud Rep. Mike Turner for his persistence and leadership on this,” said Speaker Boehner. “I’m pleased to be able to join my colleagues in continuing our push for a solution for the Delphi Salaried Retirees,” said Senator Portman. “The retirees and their families have gone too long without adequate answers regarding their pensions and we must continue to hold the Administration accountable.” When Delphi’s defined benefit pension plan was terminated, 20,000 Delphi salaried retirees lost up to 70 percent in benefits, including 5,000 Ohioans. Of the 5,000 Delphi Salaried Retirees and their families in Ohio, about 1,500 are in the Mahoning Valley, 2,000 are in the Dayton area, and a majority of the remaining 1,500 are in Columbus and Sandusky.
09.24.2014	Washington, D.C.—Today, following President Obama’s remarks to the UN General Assembly, Congressman Mike Turner, Chairman of the U.S. Delegation to the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, released the following statement: “Today, I was very pleased to hear President Obama’s strong condemnation of Russian aggression in Ukraine. As Putin continues to pursue an expansionist and dangerously adventuresome worldview, these remarks come at a critical moment. Last week, Ukrainian President Petro Poroshenko appeared before a joint session of Congress to request increased aid to Ukraine, including bolstering its military capabilities. In his remarks, Poroshenko stated that, 'in Ukraine, you don’t have to build a democracy. It already exists. You just defend it.’ Lawmakers on both sides of the aisle were supportive of Poroshenko’s request and I hope that today’s statements from the President indicate that he too believes the time is now to provide the Ukrainians with the intelligence and the equipment necessary to protect and defend their democracy." On March 26, 2014, Congressman Turner sent a letter directly to Secretary Hagel, requesting that the Department of Defense immediately provide the Ukrainian government a detailed military assessment of Russian action and strategic military advice. On April 8, 2014, Congressman Turner introduced the Forging Peace through Strength in Ukraine and the Transatlantic Alliance Act that recognized the Russian reality, condemned Russian aggression, strengthened NATO and our Allies, and provided strategic military advice to Ukraine.
09.14.2014	Dayton, OH—Rep. Mike Turner, R-Ohio, Sen. Sherrod Brown, D-Ohio, David Williams, Vice President of Procurement for Airbus Americas, and the National Composite Center (NCC) today co-hosted a procurement conference for Ohio business representatives and state officials to promote and facilitate increased business between Ohio’s aerospace manufacturers and Airbus. The conference gave approximately 135 Ohio business representatives from 90 companies an opportunity to learn about contracting with Airbus and connect with Airbus and Airbus Tier-1 supplier representatives from companies such as GE, Parker Aerospace, RTI and United Technologies Aerospace Systems in one-on-one meetings. The event was held at the NCC in Kettering, Ohio. The National Composites Center is a proud partner of Airbus in their combined mission to further expand the use of made-in-America supply chains in the aerospace industry. Chairman Turner said, “Today’s cooperative effort between Airbus, the NCC and Ohio companies is indicative of the bright future of aerospace in our state. In 2008, I was proud to bring $1.6 million of government funding to the NCC, and an additional $1.6 million in 2010 that helped to advance the development of aerospace composite technologies. This $3.2 million was significant in developing the capabilities that have enabled and assisted the partnership between the NCC and Airbus. In my role as Chairman of the House Armed Services Tactical, Air and Land Forces Subcommittee, I continue to work diligently to ensure that the groundbreaking work taking place at the NCC and at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base is recognized and protected. Composites will continue to play a huge role in aerospace development and today’s conference was key to further strengthening Ohio’s aerospace industry.” Senator Brown said, “This procurement conference is an example of what can be achieved when government and the private sector work together to create opportunities for Ohio aerospace manufacturers. Our state prides itself on its ability to attract and retain key companies that aim to succeed in research, innovation, and technology sectors; our top-notch universities, research centers, and cutting-edge companies clearly have drawn Airbus’ interest.” Williams remarked, “Ohio is the highest ranked American state for Airbus spending—we spent $6.1 billion here in 2013 alone. It’s a clear indication to us that the state of Ohio is a magnet for entrepreneurs and innovators in the aerospace industry, which is why we keep coming back to explore the opportunities. Airbus has benefitted for years from Ohio’s robust network of aerospace supply businesses, and we believe that this conference will allow us to reinforce and advance our existing connections in the state and foster our outreach efforts by connecting us with new businesses in the industry.” Airbus spent $14.4 billion for aircraft-related procurement with U.S. companies in 2013. Ohio received $6.1 billion of that, making the state the highest ranked state for Airbus spending. The company intends to nearly double its procurement spend in the U.S. by 2020
09.05.2014	Washington, DC - House Armed Services Committee Chairman Howard P. "Buck" McKeon (R-CA) and Tactical Air and Land Forces Subcommittee Chairman Michael Turner (R-OH) made the following the joint statement following NATO reports of Russian troops operating inside Ukraine: "If reports prove accurate that Putin has in fact sent over 1,000 troops into Ukraine to support and fight alongside Russian-backed separatists, this is an act of war against the sovereign state of Ukraine." "This alleged invasion follows Putin’s aggressive armament of Russian-backed separatists, located in Eastern Ukraine's disputed territory, that resulted in the downing of Malaysia Airlines Flight 17 and killed hundreds of civilians last month." "The President needs to definitively state whether or not Russia has invaded Ukraine and immediately condemn this overt escalation of an already serious conflict.” *Congressman Turner also serves as Chairman of the U.S. Delegation to the NATO Parliamentary Assembly
08.28.2014	Washington, DC - House Armed Services Committee Chairman Howard P. "Buck" McKeon (R-CA) and Tactical Air and Land Forces Subcommittee Chairman Michael Turner (R-OH) made the following the joint statement following NATO reports of Russian troops operating inside Ukraine: "If reports prove accurate that Putin has in fact sent over 1,000 troops into Ukraine to support and fight alongside Russian-backed separatists, this is an act of war against the sovereign state of Ukraine." "This alleged invasion follows Putin’s aggressive armament of Russian-backed separatists, located in Eastern Ukraine's disputed territory, that resulted in the downing of Malaysia Airlines Flight 17 and killed hundreds of civilians last month." "The President needs to definitively state whether or not Russia has invaded Ukraine and immediately condemn this overt escalation of an already serious conflict.” *Congressman Turner also serves as Chairman of the U.S. Delegation to the NATO Parliamentary Assembly
08.27.2014	Dayton, OH— Today, Congressman Michael Turner toured the Women’s Recovery Center in Greene County, Ohio and saw first hand how Director Michele Cox and her team are acting to help both mothers and babies cope with heroin dependency. “Today, I was honored to visit the Women’s Recovery Center in Greene County Ohio. Director Michele Cox and her team have been able to offer life-changing assistance to mothers and babies throughout our community who are coping with heroin addition and its harmful effects. I look forward to continuing to partner with the experts at the Women’s Recovery Center as we develop a community response to combat this growing problem,” said Congressman Turner. The Dayton area has a growing and recognized issue with heroin use and overdose. However, until recently, little has been documented in the way of the heroin epidemic’s impact on infants being born to addicted mothers. In December, Terry Burns, President at Soin Medical Center, brought this growing and largely unrecognized problem to the attention of Congressman Turner. Since that time, Congressman Turner has taken a series of steps to confront this widespread and increasing problem. In March, Congressman Turner brought together regional medical experts for an initial, exculpatory meeting in his District Office. In May, Congressman Turner visited the NICU at Dayton Children’s to see the work their nurses were undertaking to combat and treat infant drug withdrawal. This June, Congressman Turner partnered with the Greater Dayton Hospital Association to host a Community Forum on Heroin Exposed Newborns that brought together relevant partners throughout southwest Ohio to begin to develop a community response to this issue. ###
08.26.2014	Click HERE to Watch MIKE TURNER: I think what the Administration needs to do is come forward with a plan. Right now, they have no coordinated plan. We have no stated goals and objectives. The Administration has made inconsistent statements as to whether or not even they see ISIS as a threat to the West or the United States. British Prime Minister Cameron has clearly stated ISIS is a threat to the West. This Administration seems to be waffling on what the threat is and how to approach it, so it's difficult to galvanize the American public or certainly Congress behind the Administration without a strategy and a plan. The Administration has made inconsistent statements as to whether or not even they see ISIS as a threat to the West or the United States.
08.18.2014	Dayton, OH –Today, Congressman Michael Turner (R-OH), Chairman of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Tactical Air and Land Forces, hosted Congresswoman Niki Tsongas (D-MA), at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base. “Today, I was glad to host my friend and colleague, Congresswoman Niki Tsongas, at Wright Patterson Air Force Base. We were both honored to meet with Mary Lauterbach and Merle Wilberding, two staunch advocates for the elimination of sexual assault from our armed forces," said Congressman Mike Turner. "In the most tragic of circumstances, the issue of military sexual assault was brought to my attention through the story of Mary's daughter, U.S. Marine Corps Lance Corporal Maria Lauterbach," said Congressman Mike Turner. Maria, who grew up in Vandalia, Ohio, was proudly serving her country when she was allegedly sexually assaulted by a senior enlisted member in her unit. After reporting her assault, Maria was forced to continue serving alongside her assailant. For eight months, Maria lived with the aftermath of her attack, and then her accused attacker struck again killing her and her unborn child. The tragic story of Maria Lauterbach demonstrated significant problems with the Department of Defense’s Sexual Assault policy. Thanks to the help of Maria’s family, her mother Mary, and the advocacy of Dayton attorney Merle Wilberding on their behalf, her story has not been forgotten and has helped shape the laws created in the House Armed Services Committee and policies within the DoD. "Since 2007, Congresswoman Tsongas and I have worked closely together to pass substantive, bipartisan legislation that would prevent a tragedy like Maria Lauterbach's from every happening again,” said Congressman Turner. “Today, I was very pleased to hear that the Air Force remains fully committed to preventing future sexual assault, protecting victims, and assuring that any perpetrators are prosecuted to fullest extent of the law. While Congresswoman Tsongas and I were glad to see the incredible dedication of the commanders and see evidence that the system is changing, our job is not done. We will continue to work closely together to protect our men and women in uniform,” said Congressman Turner. “For years Rep. Turner and I have built a foundation of respect and partnership, grounded in a mutual desire to do what’s right and what’s best for the men and women of the United States military,” said Congresswoman Tsongas. “I highly value our continued partnership to combat military sexual assault and change the military culture that has enabled those crimes to occur for too long. Military sexual assault is a critical, complex issue and I know both Mr. Turner and I are dedicated to furthering our work together to continue enacting meaningful reform. My sincerest thanks go out to Rep. Turner and the dedicated men and women at Wright Patterson for their hospitality, and for showing me an up close look at some of the important, cutting-edge work being done at their facility,” said Congresswoman Tsongas. As co-chairs of the Military Sexual Assault Prevention Caucus, Rep. Tsongas and Rep. Turner have worked closely together since 2007 to eliminate sexual assault from our military. Together, they have successfully passed meaningful reform that takes action to eradicate these crimes and that holds our military leaders, service members, and military justice system to the highest standard. Monday, Rep. Tsongas and Rep. Turner received a detailed overview of the Sexual Assault Prevention and Response (SAPR) Program at Wright Patterson Air Force Base from lawyers, investigators, medical professionals, and major commanders. Via a secure teleconference, their counterparts located at Hanscom AFB also provided a detailed description and overview of their response to sexual assault. Rep. Turner also ensured Congresswoman Tsongas had the opportunity to see the innovative research and technological development occurring at the Simulation and Analysis Facility (SIMAF) and the National Air and Space Intelligence Center (NASIC). On Tuesday, August 19, 2014, Rep. Niki Tsongas will host Rep. Turner in Massachusetts for a tour of Hansom Air Force Base and a series of meetings and roundtable discussions related to their work on the House Armed Services Committee. Topics will include their joint efforts to combat military sexual assault, ways to improve economic development in their respective regions and more.
07.31.2014	Washington, DC—Following reports that students throughout the country are losing their jobs and having their hours restricted because of an ObamaCare requirement, Congressman Michael Turner introduced the Student Job Protection Act. ObamaCare requires certain employers to provide health insurance to employees working 30 hours or more a week or pay a tax. This requirement imposes a financial burden on many colleges and universities, forcing them to restrict work hours for students seeking employment at their schools. The Student Job Protection Act would exempt full-time students who are also employed by the college or university from this requirement. “This legislation would remove a significant barrier for full-time students working at their colleges and universities and ensure that they are able to keep the jobs and the work hours necessary to help them afford the rising cost of higher education,” said Turner. ### “This legislation would remove a significant barrier for full-time students working at their colleges and universities and ensure that they are able to keep the jobs and the work hours necessary to help them afford the rising cost of higher education,” said Turner.
07.30.2014	Washington, D.C.—This week, in response to the escalating border crisis, Congressman Michael Turner (R-OH) partnered with Crime Subcommittee Chairman and former Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, Jim Sensenbrenner (R-WI), to introduce the UAC State Authority Act. This legislation would give states the right to reject federal government proposals to establish housing facilities for unaccompanied alien children (UAC) within their borders. The bill requires the Secretary of Health and Human Services (HHS) to notify a state governor prior to any transfer of UACs to his or her state. “The ability of the federal government to hand-pick a city, county, or state as a UAC receiver site without first consulting the governor’s office disregards the real impact these decisions have on regional communities and significantly diminishes states’ rights,” said Turner. Following this notification, HHS would be compelled to provide the states with a 90-day review period, allowing for open comment and input from key law enforcement, community, and regional stakeholders. At the end of the 90 days, the governor would then have a 10-day right-of-refusal period during which he or she could submit an objection to the proposed transfer to the Secretary of HHS. If a governor does object, then the Secretary is prohibited from implementing the proposed relocation. “As a law enforcement official, I am very thankful that Congressman Turner has taken action," said Montgomery County Sheriff Phil Plummer. “This legislation would allow the governor to make the decision and end local mayors unilaterally welcoming the federal government to place unaccompanied alien children within the state.” said Turner. “Governors must be the decision makers because the increased burden of housing these illegal immigrants ultimately falls to the states and extends across multiple agencies, communities, and jurisdictions." It has been widely reported that governors throughout the country have expressed frustration with the federal government’s unilateral placement of UACs in their states. For example, Gov. Paul Le Page of Maine stated that it is "wrong for the federal government to force a higher burden on the people of Maine to pay for those who come to our country illegally, especially when the government secretly places illegal aliens in our state without our knowledge,” following reports that eight children were placed in his state without his knowledge. Moreover, Gov. Mary Fallin of Oklahoma has expressed that “many of our public schools are already at capacity and need additional funding,” Fallin said. "Our health-care system is strained as it is. Now, instead of allowing us to address those needs for Oklahomans, President Obama is forcing us to add an unspecified number of illegal immigrants to our public education and public health systems.” “The UAC State Authority Act would give all governors the opportunity to advocate on behalf of their states and to ensure that an unsustainable burden isn’t placed on local law enforcement, education, healthcare, or housing,” said Turner. “As a law enforcement official, I am very thankful that Congressman Turner has taken action," said Montgomery County Sheriff Phil Plummer. "This legislation would prevent mayors from unilaterally offering to house illegal immigrants in our communities. We must protect the resources we have and use them to keep the citizens of our Dayton community safe," said Plummer. Congressman Turner is an original co-sponsor of the legislation. ###
07.22.2014	"This injustice will not be tolerated or forgotten and we will continue to move ahead until the Delphi Salaried Retirees receive the full and equitable treatment they deserve,” said Congressman Turner. share: f t Dayton, OH—Five years ago today, more than 20,000 Delphi Salaried Retirees had their pensions unjustly terminated in the wake of the Obama Administration's failed bailout of General Motors. Today, Congressman Mike Turner met with a group of Delphi Salaried Retirees from the Dayton-area in a closed door briefing to discuss the progress that has already been made and to identify what future action must be taken. “Five years ago today, a taxpayer-funded bailout picked winners and losers and unfairly cost the Delphi Salaried Retirees their futures. For the last five years, I have worked diligently alongside these retirees to hold the Obama Administration accountable. Today, I am pleased to announce our latest initiative,” said Congressman Turner. Recently, Josh Gotbaum, the director of the PBGC announced that he will retire in August. This morning, Congressman Turner sent a letter to the President urging him to fill that position with an individual committed to transparency, accountability, and to providing the Delphi Salaried Retirees with final benefit determinations as quickly and accurately as possible (attached). "For too long the PBGC has failed the Delphi Salaried Retirees. I am hopeful that the President will heed my request as considers a nominee," said Congressman Turner. "This injustice will not be tolerated or forgotten and we will continue to move ahead until the Delphi Salaried Retirees receive the full and equitable treatment they deserve,” said Congressman Turner. With both Ohio U.S. Senators on the Senate Finance Committee, Congressman Turner has also written to Senator Portman and Senator Brown to further highlight this issue (attached) ###
07.15.2014	Washington, D.C.—Today, following reports that Israel’s Iron Dome Missile Defense System has allowed Israel to endure more than 1,000 rocket attacks fired by Hamas without a single fatality, Congressman Michael Turner (OH-10), Chairman of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Tactical Air and Land Forces released the following statement: “The Iron Dome system has drastically changed the dynamic in the recent fight between Israel and Hamas, allowing Israel to successfully defended itself from over 1,000 relentless rocket attacks without a single fatality. I am proud to have a longstanding commitment to Israel’s air and missile defense systems. During my tenure as Chairman of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Strategic Forces, my subcommittee provided over $600 million to the Iron Dome short-range rocket defense system,” said Congressman Turner. While the exact percentage rate of successful intercepts by Iron Dome remains classified, the system has intercepted the overwhelming majority of rockets targeted for populated areas in Israel. According to reports by Israel Defense Forces (IDF), well over 160 rockets have been intercepted since this latest conflict first began. “The continued success of the Iron Dome Missile Defense System underscores the imperative of our continued partnership with Israel. The strength of the U.S.-Israel relationship is clearly demonstrated by the collaborative effort to successfully develop and field the Iron Dome system,” said Congressman Turner. To date, the House Armed Services Committee has authorized roughly $720 million for the development of Iron Dome. For FY15, President Obama has requested $176 million for the program. In response to a request for additional funding made by the Government of Israel, the House has passed language in the National Defense Authorization Act that would provide $351 million in FY15, an increase of roughly $175 million over the President’s request. “I continue to strongly support the House’s position on the Iron Dome Missile Defense System and am committed to working with my colleagues in the Senate to ensure the system remains fully funded The nation of Israel and its people have my full support as they withstand these most recent terrorist attacks," said Congressman Turner. ###
07.15.2014	WASHINGTON—A bipartisan group of Congressmen introduced a resolution today commemorating the 40th anniversary of Community Development Block Grants (CDBG). Led by Democrats Chaka Fattah (PA-02) and Republicans Michael Turner (OH-10), H. Res. 668 acknowledges the program’s success in strengthening local communities across the country. Since the program was created in 1974, the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) has invested over $145 billion in urban, suburban, and rural economies; creating jobs, building affordable housing, funding disaster relief efforts, and supporting economic development and infrastructure projects. “I was proud to join my Urban Caucus Co-Chair, Congressman Chaka Fattah, to author this resolution and highlight the success of the Community Development Block Grant program," said Congressman Mike Turner. "Over the last forty years, this bipartisan program has successfully developed key infrastructure, spurred private investment, and provided access to safe and affordable housing for countless Americans. CDBG will continue to equip state and local leaders with the tools, flexibility, and power necessary to confront the distinct economic challenges in their communities.” “Community Development Block Grants are an indispensable source of funding to state and local governments across our country,” Congressman Chaka Fattah said. “For four decades they have allowed communities to invest in the areas that need it most: revitalizing neighborhoods, creating jobs, and strengthening infrastructure. CDBG remains one of the most successful grant programs in our country’s history. It is important to reflect on the program’s success investing in America’s cities and towns, while committing our support to its continued impact.” Among the longest running grant programs in the country’s history, CDBG has been a reliable source for local governments, offering them a flexibility to steer funds where they are needed most based on the individual and unique circumstances of the community. HUD estimates that between 2005 and 2013 the program was responsible for creating or retaining approximately 330,500 jobs, providing public services to more than 100 million individuals, and assisting more than 1 million households. The resolution has been endorsed by the Community Development Block Grant Coalition, a group of national organizations representing local elected officials, state and local CDBG and HOME practitioners, and nonprofit organizations that receive CDBG and HOME funds locally. ###
07.14.2014	Washington D.C.—Today, the Air Force announced preliminary details of its Management Headquarters Review. This review was initiated following the Obama Administration’s decision to arbitrarily cut all military headquarters budgets and staff by 20%. “I continue to actively oppose any reductions in both civilian and military personnel stationed at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base,” said Congressman Mike Turner. Prior to today’s announcement, Congressman Turner held an emergency conference call with Under Secretary of the Air Force, Eric Fanning, to discuss the review and potential impacts to Wright-Patt. “Under Secretary Fanning assured me that the most affected jobs at Wright-Patt would have the opportunity to transition to other available positions on the base. The final net impact remains unclear, but I continue to work closely with Air Force leaders to mitigate any and all negative impacts to the base,” said Congressman Mike Turner. As part of the overall Management Headquarters Review, the Air Force will be reorganizing its Air Staff and Major Command (MAJCOM) structure. “We were initially concerned about this reorganization effort; however, I am pleased to have received assurances that, the Air Force Material Command (AFMC) headquartered at Wright-Patt will remain a four-star billet,” said Congressman Mike Turner. Additionally, the Air Force is announcing a drastic reorganization of its intelligence arm to include NASIC’s current parent organization, the Air Force ISR Agency (AFISRA). Today’s announcement includes a decision devalue AFISRA by moving it under the command of the Air Force’s Air Combat Command (ACC), headquartered at Langley AFB in Virginia. “I was honored to lead a significant effort to ensure that NASIC was protected and uniquely valued in the reorganization. I am proud to announce that after much determination, the Air Force has instead decided to elevate NASIC’s role by separating it from both the ACC and AFISRA command structures. Going forward, NASIC will report directly to the Deputy Chief of Staff of the Air Force for Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance,” said Congressman Mike Turner. ###
07.08.2014	Washington, DC—Following the passage of former Georgian President Eduard Shevardnadze, Congressman Michael Turner, Chairman of the U.S. Delegation to the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, released the following statement: "I am deeply saddened to learn of the passing of former Georgian President Eduard Shevardnadze. Georgia's movement towards integration with the West is owed in large part to the efforts of President Shevardnadze. Bold and sometimes difficult reforms were introduced because of his leadership and carried on by his successor because of the path he initiated. Georgia's friends in the United States will continue to work closely with Georgia to increase democracy, bolster respect for the rule of law, and ensure that the legacy of President Shevardnadze remains intact.”
07.01.2014	Dayton, OH – This morning, Dayton NAACP President Derrick L. Foward and Congressman Michael Turner hosted a joint press conference to discuss the importance of the Voting Rights Amendment Act of 2014 and the importance of preserving the right to vote. "The bipartisan Voting Rights Amendment Act (VRAA) of 2014 is a flexible, modern, nationwide solution to the problem of discrimination in voting. The legislation would provide new tools to get ahead of voting discrimination before it occurs and ensure that any proposed election changes are transparent," said Foward. "Failure to advance the VRAA gives a free pass to voting discrimination. As early as this November, there are Americans who will lose their right to vote solely because of their race or English language proficiency. This cannot be tolerated," said Foward. "There is nothing more important to a democracy than the constitutional right to vote. As a lifetime member of the NAACP, I am always proud to partner with Dayton NAACP President Derrick L. Foward and his team to ensure that voting rights are protected," said Congressman Turner. Congressman Turner is a cosponsor of the Voting Rights Amendment Act of 2014. The passage of this legislation would enact a new formula that would ensure the voting rights of all citizens receive substantial protection. This new formula would be based on current conditions and would establish a rolling nationwide trigger that covers states or jurisdictions that have a persistent record of violations in the last 15 years. The bill would also ensure greater transparency in elections so that voters are made aware of changes and allow for faster relief when voting rights are violated. "The provisions included in this critical legislation will protect Americans against any efforts to lessen, diminish, or impede the fundamental right to vote. I will continue to work closely with the NAACP until every American has the confidence that their vote will be counted,"said Congressman Turner. ###
06.30.2014	Dayton, OH—Today, Congressman Mike Turner partnered with the Greater Dayton Area Hospital Association (GDAHA) to host a community forum on the effects of the heroin epidemic on newborns. The forum brought together community leaders for a multi-faceted discussion on ways we can work together to prevent babies being born exposed to opiates and to develop a community response to treat the entire at-risk-population. Dayton region hospitals are reporting that 100 babies will be born in their hospitals exposed to heroin this year. “We have a clear community call to action. Today, we heard in detail about the increasing enormity of the effects of the heroin epidemic on newborns and what is at stake if we fail to act. Now, we must aggregate and cohesively deploy all of the necessary resources to ensure that our community response is collaborative, focused, measurable and strategic. These are our community’s children and we must do everything we can to protect them,” said Congressman Turner. Speakers at today’s forum included: Phil Plummer, Montgomery County Sheriff Michelle Cox, Women’s Recovery Center Lisa Jasin, Dayton Children’s Hospital Terry Burns, Soin Medical Center/Greene Memorial Hospital Bryan Bucklew, Greater Dayton Area Hospital Association Following the meeting, Congressman Turner sent the following letter to all the speakers thanking them for their ongoing efforts to counter infant addiction and for their willingness to speak out and work towards a community wide solution. To: Phil Plummer, Montgomery County Sheriff Michelle Cox, Women’s Recovery Center Lisa Jasin, Dayton Children’s Hospital Terry Burns, Soin Medical Center/Greene Memorial Hospital Bryan Bucklew, Greater Dayton Area Hospital Association From: Congressman Mike Turner (OH-10) Date: June 30, 2014 Re: Dayton Community Forum on Heroin Exposed Newborns I want to thank each of you for your leadership and for your informative discourse at this morning’s Community Forum on Heroin Exposed Newborns. Today’s meeting built on our initial discussion in March on the impact of the heroin epidemic on newborns. At that meeting we underscored the importance of identifying a community-wide goal and developing a partnership to treat the entire at-risk-population and help prevent infant addiction. Following this morning’s forum, we have a clear community call to action. Today, because of your willingness to take action and speak about your experiences, we were able to take a careful look at the multifaceted challenges and take a significant step forward in developing a fully integrated strategy. I look forward to working in close partnership with all of you to aggregate and take inventory of the resources we currently have and find specific ways we can use those resources to identify the at-risk-population, properly intervene, and provide the necessary treatment and ongoing support for both mothers and babies. Our community is grateful for your direction and persistence. ###
06.26.2014	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: Thursday, June 26, 2014CONTACTS:Annie Clark (Turner) 202-450-7398Kara Hauck (Boehner) 202-225-6205Caitlin Conant (Portman) 202-224-5190 Washington, D.C.—This week, Congressman Mike Turner (R-OH), Speaker John Boehner (R-OH), and Senator Rob Portman (R-OH) were joined by the entire Ohio Republican Delegation in a letter requesting that the Office of Inspector General conduct an inquiry into the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation’s lengthy delay in providing final benefit determinations for Delphi Salaried Retirees. In 2009, more than 20,000 Delphi Salaried Retirees had their pensions unjustly terminated in the wake of the federal government’s bailout of General Motors. Despite the PBGC’s stated policy of issuing these determinations in three years, these retirees have waited in earnest for nearly five years to the day for the PBGC to complete the basic documentation necessary to begin the benefit determination process. “This letter is a simple request for accountability," said Congressman Turner (R-OH). “Five years ago, the government picked winners and losers in a taxpayer-funded bailout that resulted in drastic reductions to the hard-earned pensions and benefits of the Delphi Salaried Retirees. Today, we continue to seek answers on behalf of these men and women and provide them with the information they deserve.” “I applaud Congressman Turner for leading this continued effort to press this administration for the truth on the Delphi Salaried Retirees. Here we are, almost five years later, with unanswered questions and a sheer lack of transparency from the president and his administration on the pensions and benefits that these retirees so rightly earned. They’ve lost so much, and we won’t let up until they get the straight answers they deserve,” said Speaker Boehner (R-OH). “The Delphi Salaried Retirees and their families have gone too long without adequate answers regarding their pensions,” said Senator Portman (R-OH). “It’s important we continue to hold the Administration accountable and work for answers for these Ohioans who lost their pensions through no fault of their own.” When Delphi’s defined benefit pension plan was terminated, 20,000 Delphi salaried retirees lost up to 70 percent in benefits, including 5,000 Ohioans. Of the 5,000 Delphi Salaried Retirees and their families in Ohio, about 1,500 are in the Mahoning Valley, 2,000 are in the Dayton area, and a majority of the remaining 1,500 are in Columbus and Sandusky. The letter was also signed by Ohio Republican Reps. Steve Stivers, Steve Chabot, Pat Tiberi, Bill Johnson, Bob Latta, Bob Gibbs, David Joyce, Brad Wenstrup, Jim Renacci, and Jim Jordan. ### June 25, 2014 Ms. Deborah Stover-Springer Acting Inspector General Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation 1200 K Street NW, Suite 480 Washington, D.C. 20005 Dear Acting Inspector General Stover-Springer: We are writing to express our concern regarding the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation’s (PBGC) extreme delay in processing the final benefit determinations for plan participants in the Delphi Retirement Program for Salaried Employees (the Salaried Plan), and ask the Office of Inspector General to conduct an inquiry into the matter. As you may know, the more than 20,000 Salaried Plan participants are Salaried Retirees of the Delphi Corporation, whose pensions were unjustly terminated in 2009 in the wake of the federal government’s bailout of General Motors. Years later, having suffered drastic reductions on their hard-earned pension benefits, these retirees continue to wait on final benefit determinations from the PBGC. Until those determinations are completed, the retirees have no way of confirming or challenging the PBGC’s interim reductions to their pensions. The PBGC has a stated policy of trying to complete final benefit determinations for plan participants within three years of a plan’s termination and trusteeship. It has now been almost five years to the day since the Delphi Salaried Plan was terminated; however, not only have benefit determinations not been completed, but it has also come to our attention that the PBGC has also not completed the basic documentation of plan assets and liabilities necessary to begin the benefit determination process. Specifically, our concerns stem from Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) requests dated January 7, 2013 and April 9, 2014, each requesting that the PBGC provide the requesting individual with the following documents relating to the Salaried Plan: (1) Actuarial Case Memo, (2) Actuarial Case Report, (3) Participant Data Report, (4) Recovery Valuation and Allocation Memo, and (5) Plan Asset Audit. In its response to the January 7, 2013 FOIA request, the PBGC responded on February 4, 2013, stating that “none of the items you requested have been completed.” In its response, the PBGC also estimated that the Participant Data Review would be completed “in the late Spring/early Summer of this year [2013], while all other reports are at least a year away from completion.” Similarly, in response to the April 9, 2014 FOIA request, the PBGC responded on May 28, 2014, stating “…we conducted a search of agency records and failed to locate responsive records.” PBGC went on to provide yet another estimate of when the documents would be completed. In its response, the PBGC provided the following estimated completion dates: Actuarial Case Memo – March 31, 2015; Plan Asset Evaluation – September 30, 2015; and Participant Data Report and Recovery Valuation and Allocation Memo – three to four months from the date of the PBGC response letter. Neither FOIA response contained any explanation or justification for the continued delays. We are extremely concerned that the PBGC’s delays will continue to impose unnecessary hardship on these retirees, with the PBGC having failed to meet its own estimated dates of completion, and having issued new estimates that extend six years after the date the PBGC terminated the Salaried Plan just to complete the basic documentation (with the final benefit determinations to presumably be issued years later). Clearly, the Administration has the ability to influence the pace at which agencies operate, having orchestrated one of the most expedited bankruptcies in American history. Unfortunately, it appears that it does not share that same sense of urgency in performing the work and providing these documents to the Salaried Retirees in a timely manner. Given these troubling facts, we respectfully request that the Office of Inspector General review PBGC’s undue delay in this matter. Specifically, we are requesting the inquiry: Identify the reasons for lengthy delays in the process of calculating final benefits determinations for participants in the Delphi Retirement Program for Salaried Employees. Determine the status of any preliminary work done by the PBGC to complete the five documents requested in the January 7, 2013 and April 9, 2014 FOIA requests. Thank you for your consideration of our request, and please do not hesitate to contact us if we may be of any assistance.
06.23.2014	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Michael Turner, Chairman of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Tactical Air and Land Forces, announces $29.5M for the construction of a new Foreign Material Exploitation (FME) facility for the National Air and Space Intelligence Center (NASIC) located on Wright-Patterson Air Force Base. “Today’s announcement is a huge win for NASIC, Wright-Patt, and Dayton as it reaffirms our community's place as a national leader in foreign aerospace intelligence gathering and dissemination. I authored language in the FY 2015 NDAA that demonstrated the urgent need for this new facility and encouraged the Air Force to move ahead with the project. The work done by the men and women of NASIC is a key piece of the broader intelligence community and its success is vital to U.S. national security. I look forward to continuing to work closely with NASIC, Air Force Leadership, and Wright Patterson Air Force Base to help facilitate the innovate and critically important work that will remain taking place in Dayton,” said Congressman Turner.
06.20.2014	The House has acted. We have the solution. We are waiting on the Senate to follow our leadership and protect and defend our servicemen and women share: f t Washington, D.C.— Navy Submariner Matthew Hindes is currently deployed on a nuclear submarine and is in danger of losing custody of his 6-year-old daughter Kaylee. Hindes is unable to appear at a custody hearing this Monday, June 23rd because of his deployment. The judge in this case, Lenawee Circuit Court Judge Margaret Noe, has threatened to hold Matthew Hindes in contempt of court and has refused to follow provisions of the Service Members Civil Relief Act. “In the case of Navy Submariner, Matthew Hindes, the law is not being followed,” said Turner. In 2008, Congressman Turner included a specific provision in the Service Members Civil Relief Act that grants service members a 90-day window to appear in court for cases related to child custody. “This law is directly intended to prevent cases like this,” said Congressman Turner. “But even when the law is followed to the letter, our service members are still placed at a severe disadvantage in child custody proceedings. We need a national standard that ensures the parental rights of our service men and women are properly safeguarded.” Congressman Turner successfully included protections in this year’s bipartisan National Defense Authorization Act that explicitly state that current and future deployment cannot be a factor in child custody decisions. The NDAA passed the House on May 22, 2014. “The House has acted. We have the solution. We are waiting on the Senate to follow our leadership and protect and defend our servicemen and women,” said Turner. The Department of Defense and Service reports link child custody disputes to the alarming amount of military suicides. “With every deployment, our men and women in uniform live in constant fear that their custody rights as parents could be in jeopardy due to their service. It’s hard to fathom the unimaginable stress that fear places on our military families. Our men and women in uniform sacrifice a great deal to serve our country. We owe it to them to provide them with national standard of protection,” said Congressman Turner.
06.19.2014	Washington, D.C.—Congressman Mike Turner, a senior Member of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee, released the following statement in response to reports that the IRS may have destroyed Lois Lerner’s hard drive, which held emails critical to the Committee’s investigation of the IRS targeting of Americans for their political beliefs: “This is staggering and unbelievable. The American people rightfully expect the highest standard of accountability from their government and its officials. The Administration has once again demonstrated a pattern of obstruction and made it clear that they do not share our commitment to transparency and accountability. Certainly, the enforcement arm of the federal government cannot expect the American people to accept this Administration’s continued non-compliance. We must appoint an independent counsel in order to ensure the protection of all additional evidence from any potential destruction or manipulation by the IRS. At this point, many critical questions remain unanswered and the public trust in the Executive Branch has been further undermined. As the Committee investigation moves forward, I will continue to pursue the answers and transparency the American people deserve from the Administration.”
06.19.2014	Washington, D.C.—Today, Congressman Mike Turner of Dayton Ohio officially announced his intent to run for Chairman of the Oversight and Government Reform Committee.“This is a critical time for our country,” said Congressman Turner. "Government must be held accountable to the people it serves. As a senior member of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee, I know that there is a tremendous opportunity for innovation and for the development of a more efficient, effective, and transparent government. We must conduct responsible oversight and adopt meaningful reform to eliminate and prevent waste, fraud, and mismanagement. I’m grateful to have received the support and encouragement from a large number of my colleagues. I greatly respect the work of the Committee and its diligent pursuit of answers on behalf of the American people. It is because of this that I am seeking to serve as the Chairman of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee.” ###
06.16.2014	Washington, D.C.—Today, in response to reports that Russia’s state-owned monopoly, Gazprom, cut gas supplies to Ukraine, Congressman Mike Turner, Chairman of the U.S. Delegation to the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, released the following statement: “This act of aggression further escalates the need for the U.S. to increase its exports of liquefied natural gas to our NATO and European allies. As tensions in the region continue to rise, Russia has demonstrated a consistent pattern of using its energy resource dominance as a political and economic weapon. "The time is now for the President to follow the leadership of the House and support critical legislation that helps our allies diversify their energy resources and bolsters security throughout the region,” said Congressman Turner. Next week, the House of Representatives will vote on H.R. 6, The Domestic Prosperity and Global Freedom Act, which would require the Department of Energy to make a decision within 90 days of enactment on pending permits to export U.S. natural gas to non-Free Trade Agreement countries. Currently, expedited approval is reserved exclusively for nations that have a free trade agreement with the United States. Congressman Turner has long worked to lift self-imposed restrictions on U.S. natural gas exports, authoring The American Job Creation and Strategic Alliances LNG Act to expedite the permit process to export U.S. natural gas to World Trade Organization countries.
06.12.2014	Turner Grills Secretary Hagel on Release of Taliban Leaders Click Here to Watch REP. TURNER: Oh, that's our footnote now. Now the new policy of this administration is, we don't negotiate with terrorists directly? SECRETARY HAGEL: Well, Congressman, you didn't let me finish. REP. TURNER: That’s what you said. SECRETARY HAGEL: I did say that. But you cut me off before I could say the other part, that we were dealing with the Taliban.
06.09.2014	Washington, D.C.—This evening, in a briefing provided to Congress by the Obama Administration regarding the negotiated release of five senior Taliban leaders, Congressman Turner asked the following question: "Beyond the issue of lack of notification of Congress and judgment about whether or not this was a good decision for America, I’m very concerned that this action signals a significant shift in the U.S. policy that we do not negotiate with terrorists. Can you tell me any time in the last 40 years when our country has undertaken a swap of this nature with any other non-sovereign state?" After a short discussion, briefers agreed that there was no precedent in the last 40 years for the kind of prisoner exchange that has been undertaken with the Taliban. Further, Turner pointed that the Taliban was a terrorist organization. “There has been a significant shift in U.S. policy. As a result of this administration’s negotiated swap with a non-sovereign, rogue terrorist organization, both American soldiers and civilians have been put at risk,” said Congressman Turner.
06.06.2014	Washington, D.C.—In response to reports that Miamisburg resident, Jeffrey Edward Fowle, has been detained by the government of North Korea, Congressman Michael Turner (OH-10), released the following statement: “I am deeply troubled by the the detainment of American and Miamisburg resident, Jeffery Edward Fowle, by the authoritarian government of North Korea. We have been in contact with the State Department and will continue to carefully monitor Fowle’s detainment as we await the release of additional information. “ ###
05.30.2014	Dayton, OH – Yesterday afternoon, Congressman Mike Turner stopped an effort to eliminate funding for an economic development program critical to the Dayton community. Earlier this week, the U.S. Department of Commerce announced that the Dayton-Cinncinati region had been designated a ‘manufacturing community,’ giving Dayton preferential application status for $1.3 billion in federal economic development assistance. Turner led his colleagues in successfully voting down an amendment that would have significantly jeopardized this $1.3 billion and severely limited the chances of Dayton receiving substantial funding for increased manufacturing and development. “As an advocate for this designation, I was proud to protect opportunities critical to our community’s business leaders, job creators and innovators. Preserving this funding ensures that Southwest Ohio can continue our tradition of leadership in manufacturing and innovation.” said Congressman Turner. ###
05.30.2014	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Mike Turner released a statement following the resignation of Veteran’s Affairs Secretary, Eric Shinseki: “General Shinseki gave 38 years of his life in service to his country and for that we are grateful. However, the problems at the Department of Veterans Affairs are astounding and entirely unacceptable. General Shinski’s resignation is the appropriate first step in correcting the injustice against the millions of men and women who have put their lives on the line to defend this country. But this problem is bigger than one person and bigger than one agency. The pressure remains on President Obama to take swift and decisive action that immediately fixes this deep and widespread disfunction and gives our veterans the care and protection they deserve." ###
05.27.2014	Dayton, OH – This morning, Congressman Mike Turner (OH-10) recognized the high school students in the 10th Congressional District who have received an appointment to the U.S. military service academies. “Today, it was an honor to recognize the students who will represent Ohio's Tenth Congressional District at the U.S. service academies this fall. At such a young age, these young men and women have raised their hands and volunteered to serve and protect this country. These future leaders deserve our congratulations and our gratitude.” said Congressman Turner. For a student to be considered for a military academy appointment, he or she must be recommended by an authorized nominating source. This could include the President, the Vice President, a Member of the Senate, or a Member of the House of Representatives. Receiving a nomination is only the first step in the process of receiving an offer of an appointment to a U.S. military service academy. In addition to the nomination, students must qualify academically and are subject to character, leadership, physical fitness, medical fitness, and motivation evaluations. Only after passing each of these evaluations are students offered an appointment to the service academies. The following list of students will be attending the U.S. service academies next year: Pictured above: Jordan Wiggins attending the United States Air Force Academy (Vandalia, OH) Zachary Jonhnson attending the United States Military Academy (Washington Court House, OH) Hannah Collins attending the United States Naval Academy (Bellbrook, OH) Conor Hickey attending the United States Naval Academy (Clayton, OH) Noah Beemon attending the United States Naval Academy (Dayton, OH Those students who received an appointment, but could not be present at today’s event: Lyle Plummer attending the United States Air Force Academy (Dayton, OH) Jarrod Hardrick attending the United States Air Force Academy (Huber Heights, OH) Hyo Jun Baek attending the United States Naval Academy (Fairborn, OH)Carmen Riazzi attending the United States Air Force Academy (Kettering, OH) ###
05.22.2014	Washington, D.C.—Today, Congressman Mike Turner, the Chairman of the Subcommittee on Tactical Air and Land Forces, successfully continued his fight against sexual assault in our military in the FY 2015 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA). This comprehensive legislation includes all provisions of the FAIR Military Act, which was originally authored and introduced in the House by Congressman Turner and Congresswoman Tsongas (MA-03). "This year’s NDAA reflects Congress’s ongoing, bipartisan effort to construct meaningful reforms aimed at eradicating sexual assault in our military. Congresswoman Tsongas and I were proud to have introduced the FAIR Military Act, which takes significant and powerful steps in the areas of prevention, prosecution, and protection. This legislation takes action to confront the pervasive and deep-rooted culture that has perpetuated this serious problem and ensures that the perpetrators of these terrible crimes and are no longer capable of using unrelated, subjective factors as evidence of innocence. These groundbreaking reforms included in the FY 2015 NDAA hold our military leaders to the highest standard and give our servicemen and women the protection they deserve. I urge my colleagues in the Senate to follow the leadership of the House, and I look forward to continuing the bipartisan, bicameral effort to eliminate sexual assault from our military. " Click here for a full text of the bill: http://docs.house.gov/billsthisweek/20140519/CPRT-113-HPRT-RU00-HR4435.pdf
05.22.2014	Washington, D.C.—Today, Congressman Mike Turner continued to fight for Southwest Ohio and Wright Patterson AFB in the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for fiscal year 2015. This comprehensive legislation includes major provisions authored by Congressman Turner that have a significant impact on WPAFB and our region. “It was an honor to advocate on behalf of Southwest Ohio and Wright Patterson Air Force Base in this year’s 53rd consecutive NDAA. This bill is a product of a truly bipartisan effort on the part of the House Armed Services Committee and I’m proud of the work we were able to accomplish for our military and for the American people. In addition to authorizing the funding necessary to provide our military with the certainty required to protect and defend our national security, the FY 2015 NDAA takes a series of important steps forward in both research and innovation and ensures that our service men and women have the protection they deserve,” said Congressman Mike Turner. Sexual Assault in the Military "This year’s NDAA includes all provisions of the FAIR Military Act, which I originally authored and introduced along with Congresswoman Tsongas. These provisions take unprecedented steps in our ongoing fight to eliminate sexual assault from our military and require specific action in the areas of prevention, protection, and prosecution." Military Child Custody "I was proud to include language in this year’s NDAA that ensures the parental rights of our servicemen and women are protected and that current and future deployment will not influence child custody decisions.” Unmanned Aerial Systems “Our region is an epicenter for innovative research in the expanding field of Unmanned Aerial Systems. I authored provisions included in this year’s NDAA that create the potential for the full airspace of our Ohio/Indiana UAS Test Center to be recognized and utilized to its maximum capacity." Abrams Tank "The FY 2015 NDAA recognizes the necessity of the Abrams Tank to our national security and authorizes an additional $120 million for Abrams Tank upgrades. This provision keeps the production lines open in Lima, Ohio and ensures that our skilled, technical workers are protected." NASIC "One of the NDAA’s most significant accomplishments recognizes the importance of NASIC’s location at Wright Patterson Air Force Base and supports the mission and vital intelligence NASIC provides for the Department of Defense." Click here for a full text of the bill: http://docs.house.gov/billsthisweek/20140519/CPRT-113-HPRT-RU00-HR4435.pdf ###
05.05.2014	Dayton, OH— Today, Congressman Mike Turner released the following statement following the shooting at the Dayton VA Medical Center. "I am deeply troubled by the events that took place today at the Dayton VA Medical Center. Thank you to Director Glenn Costie and our first responders from multiple jurisdictions who acted immediately to protect all veterans and employees from danger. Our thoughts and prayers go out to the injured and his family as well as the entire community at the Dayton VA.”
04.30.2014	Washington D.C. – Today, Congressman Mike Turner, the Chairman of the U.S. Delegation to the NATO Parliamentary Assembly (NATO PA), was made aware that the Armed Forces of Ukraine have provided the Obama Administration with an urgent needs list for both lethal and non-lethal equipment. In response, Congressman Turner called on the President of the United States to immediately brief Congress on the administration’s response to the Ukrainian request and to indicate which specific items the U.S. does or does not plan to supply to Ukrainian forces and why: “The Ukrainians’ urgent appeal for specific military aid further highlights the volatility of the ongoing situation along their border. Russia continues to escalate the situation in the region and Putin’s consistent pattern of aggression indicates that he will continue to purse a hostile worldview. The United States must act in order to affect Putin’s decision calculus. We can no longer observe as the threat to Ukraine intensifies. We must provide Ukrainian forces with further military assistance in order to significantly alter Russia’s military thinking and ensure that Ukraine is equipped to protect their homeland against the Russian threat.”
04.30.2014	Washington, DC –Today, Congressman Mike Turner, Chairman of the U.S. Delegation to the NATO Parliamentary Assembly (NATO PA), released a statement following the House Energy and Commerce Committee’s bipartisan approval of H.R. 6, The Domestic Prosperity and Global Freedom Act. “Today, the Energy and Commerce Committee took an important step to increase exports of U.S. liquefied natural gas (LNG) and help provide our allies with alternative and reliable sources of energy. It has become increasingly clear that many of our European partners are incredibly vulnerable toward Russian natural gas exports. As we have unfortunately seen in Ukraine, Russia will continue to wield its energy monopoly as a political and economic weapon. The Domestic Prosperity and Global Freedom Act sends a signal that the United States is serious about helping our allies diversify their energy resources and reach long-term energy security. Increasing U.S. natural gas exports will expand global supplies, enhance competition in the marketplace, and provide our allies with greater choice, helping to curb the use of energy as a political weapon. I urge the President and his Administration to follow the leadership of the House and support this critical legislation.”
04.10.2014	Congressman Michael R. Turner To Host United States Service Academy Day Saturday, April 19, 2014 9:00 a.m. Doors Open 9:30 a.m. – 10:00 a.m. Presentation of Academies 10:30 a.m. – Noon Breakout/Informational Sessions Centerville High School 500 E. Franklin Street, Centerville, Ohio 45459 Representatives from the United States Army (West Point), Navy, Merchant Marine, Air Force, and Coast Guard academies will be on hand to provide interested high school students and their families from the 10th Congressional District, with information on the general requirements and qualifications for the nomination process. For more information visit www.turner.house.gov or contact: Marty Heide, Dayton District Office (937) 225-2843
04.10.2014	Turner, Tsongas Unveil New Military Sexual Assault Legislation WASHINGTON, DC – April 10, 2014 – Today, Congressman Mike Turner (R-OH) and Congresswoman Niki Tsongas (D-MA) co-chairs of the Military Sexual Assault Prevention Caucus, introduced new legislation to combat military sexual assault. The Furthering Accountability and Individual Rights within the Military Act of 2014 (FAIR Military Act) supports survivors, eliminates a bias in the military justice system and increases accountability among all levels of the military. The FAIR Military Act: - Limits the use of the “good soldier” defense, which allows a defendant to cite unrelated, subjective factors during trial, such as military record; - Requires that commanders be assessed on their ability to create a climate where a victim can report a crime without fear of retaliation; - Requires that commanders and servicemembers be assessed on their support of sexual assault prevention and response policies; - Ensures that the changes and provisions regarding military sexual assault prevention from the FY14 Defense Authorization apply to the military service academies; - Requires the Government Accountability Office to issue a report on the implementation of sexual assault prevention policies put in place by Secretary of Defense Chuck Hagel as well as the sexual assault prevention provisions put in place by the FY13 and FY14 Defense Authorizations; - Ensures that an independent panel will look at how the mental health records of victims are admitted into evidence at trial and whether changes should be made to the military rules of evidence. “In 2007, the military did not recognize sexual assault as a crime," said Congressman Turner. “Since that time, Congresswoman Tsongas and I have diligently worked to pass reforms that change this deep-rooted and flawed culture. The FAIR Military Act is another powerful step toward the elimination of sexual assault in the military. This legislation confronts failures in our current system and takes specific action in the areas of prevention, protection, and prosecution." “Accountability begins at the top and must extend across the military, to every rank and position. This legislation ensures our military leaders, servicemembers and the military justice system, are held to the highest standard,” said Congresswoman Tsongas. “And no more will the ‘good soldier’ defense run interference for criminal behavior and prevent the finder of fact from arriving at justice. Military sexual assault is a multifaceted challenge that requires continued, meaningful reforms. The FAIR Military Act is another step towards eradicating these crimes and changing the toxic culture that has allowed them to continue for too long.” The Service Women’s Action Network voiced support for the FAIR Military Act. "Today, Representatives Michael Turner and Niki Tsongas introduced the FAIR Military Act because sexual harassment and assault do not belong in the workplace or our military," said SWAN policy director and former Marine Greg Jacob. "This legislation creates documented, professional repercussions for officers and enlisted members who create toxic climates in which these crimes are tacitly accepted and prevents those that commit these crimes from allowing facts such as their 'general military character' to let them off the hook." Several of the provisions in the FAIR Military Act passed the Senate 97-0 as part of a bill authored by Senator Claire McCaskill (D-MO) and Senator Kelly Ayotte (R-NH). #### Annie ClarkPress SecretaryRep. Mike Turner (OH-10)Office: (202) 225-6465Cell: (202) 450-7398Annie.Clark@mail.house.gov
04.09.2014	Putin threatens Ukraine Over Vital Gas Supplies Expedited LNG Exports Move Closer in the House Turner Continues to Press Administration to Increase Exports of LNG Washington, D.C. – Today, The Associated Press reported that Russian President Vladimir Putin has threatened to start charging Ukraine in advance for its vital gas supplies. This threat follows a series of attempts by Russia to use their natural gas monopoly to manipulate and intimidate Ukraine. Earlier this month, The New York Times reported that Gazprom. increased the price of natural gas on Ukraine by more than 40%. “This threat intensifies the need for the United States to immediately increase its exports of liquefied natural gas to our NATO and European allies,” said Turner. “Russia has proven that it will continue to use its energy resource dominance as a political and economic weapon. The United States must combat this mounting threat and help our allies diversify their energy resources in order to provide them with the security required for regional stabilization.” Congressman Turner authored H.R. 4139, the American Job Creation and Strategic Alliances LNG Act, to expedite the permit process to export U.S. natural gas to World Trade Organization countries. His bill was incorporated into to H.R. 6, the Domestic Prosperity and Global Freedom Act, which the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Energy and Power approved today. Currently, such expedited approval is reserved exclusively for nations that have a free trade agreement with the United States. Turner continued “I congratulate the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Energy and Power for taking an important step to increase the exports of U.S. natural gas to World Trade Organization countries. I urge the Obama Administration to follow the leadership of the House and support this critical legislation.” ###
04.08.2014	Washington, DC—Today, Congressman Michael Turner (R-OH), the Chairman of the House Subcommittee on Tactical Air and Land Forces and the Chairman of the U.S. Delegation to the North Atlantic Parliamentary Assembly (NATO PA), along with House Armed Services Committee Chairman Buck McKeon (R-CA), introduced legislation that takes serious action against Russian aggression. The legislation recognizes the Russian reality, condemns Russian aggression, strengthens NATO and our Allies, and provides strategic military advice to Ukraine. While Putin exacerbates his pursuit of a hostile world view, President Obama is still chasing a false narrative," said Turner. "Russia continues to actively intimidate Ukraine and threaten destabilization throughout the region. The Obama Administration has been unable to counter this escalation of Putin’s aggressive posture. Instead, they have been defensive, unsure, and unable to change Putin’s course of action. Today, Congress is providing the Obama Administration with a to-do list. This legislation outlines specific measures that can be taken up immediately and that will signal a fundamental shift in U.S. strategy. I urge the President and his administration to abandon their false narrative, recognize the Russian reality, and support this legislation,” said Turner. The bill will be introduced tomorrow. Please see below for a detailed summary. Congressman Mike Rogers (R-AL), Chairman of the Subcommittee on Strategic Forces is co-authoring the legislation. Summary of Proposed Legislation “Forging Peace through Strength in Ukraine and the Transatlantic Alliance” The Turner-Rogers legislation would condemn Russian aggression and illegal annexation of Crimea, while also seeking to reassure NATO allies and promote closer military cooperation with Ukraine: Recognizing The Russian Reality Illegal Occupation of Ukraine, INF, and CFE Treaty Violations: Prohibits U.S. military contact and cooperation with the Russian military until the Secretary of Defense certifies the Russian military is no longer illegally occupying Crimea, no longer violating the Intermediate-range Nuclear Force (INF) treaty, and is in compliance with the Conventional Armed Forces in Europe (CFE) treaty. NNSA Cooperation: Prohibits the contact, cooperation or transfer of technology between the National Nuclear SecurityAdministration and the Russian Federation until the Secretary of Energy certifies the Russian military is no longer illegally occupying Crimea, no longer violating the INF treaty, and in compliance with the CFE treaty. Renews the Russia MilPower Report on military and security developments of the Russian Federation with no termination date. Condemning Russian Aggression Condemns Russia for undermining regional stability, and more specifically, for intimidating Ukraine and reaffirms the U.S. commitment to the Budapest Memorandum and the Article V commitments to NATO allies. Strengthening NATO and our Allies NATO Enlargement: Supports enlargement and calls for The United States to seek immediate membership in NATO for Montenegro, a NATO Membership Action Plan (MAP) for Georgia, a diplomatic solution to disputes between Macedonia and Greece, and seeks a "Dayton II" agreement in order to resolve the constitutional issues of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Providing Military Advice and Assistance: Requires a plan to provide advice and assistance to the Ukrainian military to enhance their defensive preparations and posture. ###
04.04.2014	Washington, DC—Today, former Secretary of Georgia’s National Security Council, Giga Bokeria, was summoned to the Chief Prosecuter’s Office of Georgia for interrogation. This action follows ongoing attempts by Georgian Authorities to call President Saakashvili to appear for questioning in multiple criminal investigations. In response, Congressman Mike Turner, the Chairman of the U.S. Delegation to the NATO Parliamentary Assembly (NATO PA), released the following statement: “I am deeply concerned with the Republic of Georgia’s continued attempts to criminalize former elected government officials. Today's summons of Giga Bokeria follows repeated attempts by Georgian Authorities to call President Saakashvili into questioning. This pattern raises concerns that the Georgian Government is engaging in political retribution through the criminal justice system and draws into question its resolve to be a free and open democracy. The success of democratic government requires a fair and impartial justice system that purses valid criminal action and rejects any use of the legal system for political coercion or harassment. The Georgian Government must focus on economic prosperity, the rule of law, and the security of the Georgia people. It’s progress is key to integration with the European Union and receipt of a NATO Membership Action Plan (MAP). I urge the Government of Georgia to return its attention to its future and immediately halt the intimidation and persecution of former government officials.” ###
04.02.2014	Turner: Now is the Time for Decisive U.S. Action Russia Increases Natural Gas Price on Ukraine Secretary Kerry Welcomes U.S. Natural Gas Exports Washington, DC— Today, Congressman Mike Turner, the Chairman of the U.S. Delegation to the NATO Parliamentary Assembly (NATO PA), made the following statement in response to yesterday’s action by Russia’s state-owned monopoly, Gazprom, to significantly increase the price of natural gas on Ukraine and Secretary of State John Kerry’s joint statement with European energy leaders welcoming U.S. natural gas exports to help our European allies. "We are no longer dealing with hypotheticals. Russia has returned to actively using their monopoly on natural gas exports to inflict economic pain on Ukraine. Unfortunately, this blatant attempt at manipulation is merely an exacerbation of Russia’s routine usage of natural gas pricing as a political and economic weapon. I am encouraged that Secretary Kerry agrees that exporting U.S. natural gas to our European allies will bolster their independence and strengthen our transatlantic partnership. This follows President Obama’s joint statement with European leaders welcoming U.S. natural gas exports. However, delayed recognition and empty rhetoric alone will do nothing to counter Putin’s continued pursuit of a hostile world view. Now is the time for decisive U.S. action. The Obama Administration must order the Department of Energy to immediately approve the more than 20 pending natural gas export permits and he must work with Congress in a bipartisan fashion to eliminate restrictions to export U.S. natural gas to our allies. Helping our allies diversify their energy resources is vital to strengthening our strategic partnerships, bolstering security throughout the region, and providing a significant counterweight to an increasingly aggressive Russia." Yesterday, The New York Times reported that Russia’s state-owned monopoly, Gazprom, has increased the price of natural gas on Ukraine by more than 40%. “The price increase follows what analysts say is a long practice at Gazprom of punitive pricing for countries in the former Soviet Union and Eastern Europe that are at odds politically with Moscow, while offering discounts to governments seen as friendly. The policy is never stated openly, though, and the change on Tuesday was no exception.” -The New York Times, April 1, 2014 Last week, Congressman Turner urged Secretary Kerry to emphasize the United States’ commitment to exporting U.S. natural gas to our European allies when he co-chaired the EU-US Energy Council meeting on April 2. Today, following the Council meeting, Secretary of State John Kerry issued joint statement with EU energy leaders re-emphasizing the President’s comments welcoming U.S. natural gas exports to bolster energy security for our European allies. Specifically, the joint statement states: “The situation in Ukraine proves the need to reinforce energy security in Europe and we are considering new collaborative efforts to achieve this goal. We welcome the prospect of U.S. LNG exports in the future since additional global supplies will benefit Europe and other strategic partners.” ###
04.01.2014	Washington, DC—In response to increasing Russian aggression, Congressman Mike Turner, the Chairman of the U.S. Delegation to the North Atlantic Parliamentary Assembly (NATO PA), led other lawmakers in urging President Obama to emphasize the importance of global energy security as part of our transatlantic partnership when he attended the EU-US Summit in Brussels on March 26. Following the Summit, President Barack Obama and leaders of the European Union released a joint statement which included the following: “The situation in Ukraine proves the need to reinforce energy security in Europe and we are considering new collaborative efforts to achieve this goal. We welcome the prospect of U.S. LNG exports in the future since additional global supplies will benefit Europe and other strategic partner." “I am encouraged by the President’s joint statement welcoming U.S. natural gas exports to our European allies,” Turner said. “However, he can and must do more. The President must order the Department of Energy to immediately approve the more than 20 pending natural gas export permits and he must work with Congress in a bipartisan fashion to eliminate restrictions to export U.S. natural gas to our allies.” As Secretary of State John Kerry embarked on his European trip, Congressman Mike Turner, sent a letter to Secretary Kerry, pressing him to show support for initiatives that enhance global energy security, help our allies diversify their energy resources, and demonstrate the United States’ commitment to a strong NATO alliance. "As we continue to see, Russia will not hesitate to use military force and its energy resource dominance to intimidate and influence neighboring nations. Heeding the call of lawmakers in the House, this administration is slowly coming to the realization that there is a critical need for increasing U.S. natural gas exports to our European allies. But, this delayed recognition isn’t enough. It must be coupled with strong, decisive action that provides our allies with an alternative and reliable source of energy, helps them maintain their independence and that provides a counter weight to a increasingly aggressive Russia. I urge Secretary Kerry to affirm to our European allies the commitment of the United States to a strong NATO alliance and to increasing U.S. natural gas exports. ” said Turner.
03.28.2014	Dayton, OH—Today, Congressman Mike Turner (OH-10) spoke at the Groundbreaking Ceremony for Lyons Place II. This facility will provide access to high quality, energy efficient, safe, secure and affordable housing for independent seniors and veterans who have served our Nation. Congressman Turner has long been an advocate for providing access to affordable housing for Dayton’s veterans. In the course of his work with the Dayton Veterans Medical Center, he helped identify the need for additional senior low income housing for our veterans. Subsequently, Congressman Turner supported the efforts of St. Mary Development Corporation's, a non-profit housing developer headquartered in Dayton, to construct senior veteran housing on the Dayton VAMC grounds. St Mary sought to secure an enhanced use lease with the Department of Veteran’s Affairs in order to construct this housing on the Dayton VAMC. Additionally, they were awarded a $5.1 million grant from HUD (the Department of Housing and Urban Development) in order to help finance the project. However, there were conflicting rules and regulations between the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) and the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). In response, Congressman Turner was able to successfully include language in the Fiscal Year 2010 Consolidated Appropriations Act to ensure that such conflicting regulations would not stand in the way of this project. Following the Groundbreaking Celebration, Congressman Turner released the following statement. “I am proud to have authored an amendment that directly facilitated the creation of Lyons Place II. I have been a leader on this project from the beginning and I was glad to take part in an important step forward this afternoon. Our servicemen and women have risked their lives to serve this country and protect our national interests. The least we can do is ensure they have access to good housing, a good job, and the best healthcare when they come home. This facility will provide veterans in need with quality housing and easy access to the medical care they need. It has been an honor to advocate for Dayton’s veterans and I will continue to work to bring additional resources to the Dayton VAMC." ###
03.27.2014	Washington, DC—Today, Congressman Mike Turner, Chair of the U.S. Delegation to the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, released the following statement on recent Russian activity near Ukraine. "I am deeply concerned with the continued buildup of Russian forces along the Ukrainian border. Over the past week, we’ve seen the buildup of up to 80,000 additional Russian troops along with large amounts of armored ground vehicles, battle tanks, artillery systems as well as rotary and fixed wing aircraft. This buildup is significant and clearly indicates that President Putin is creating options to potentially capture much of Eastern Ukraine and move on Kyiv. While Putin may have indicated to President Obama that he has no intentions of advancing further into Ukraine, his actions clearly indicate the opposite. I call upon the Obama Administration to immediately provide the Ukrainian government a detailed military assessment of Russian action and strategic military advice. “
03.26.2014	Washington, DC—This afternoon, Congressman and proud alumnus Mike Turner, congratulated the University of Dayton's men’s basketball team on their advancement to the NCAA Tournament’s Sweet Sixteen for the first time in 30 years. View clip here: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OVe4qKVJ5oU&feature=youtu.be Rep. Mike Turner: Mr. Speaker, as a proud alumnus of the University of Dayton, I'm here today to wish good luck to the Dayton Flyers. The University of Dayton men's basketball team has advanced to the NCAA Tournament's Sweet Sixteen for the first time in 30 years. The Dayton Flyers are the only team this season to have upset two top 25 teams in the second and third rounds of the NCAA Tournament. But the city of Dayton has a history of being underestimated. Orville and Wilbur Wright started working on their so-called 'flying machine' in a Dayton garage. These pioneers of aviation went on to complete the first man flight, transforming the way we travel and engage in commerce. It's fitting that the University of Dayton bears the Flyer name in honor of the Dayton tradition of succeeding despite all odds. Congratulations to the Dayton Flyers and to Coach Archie Miller. You have a vast fan base of students, faculty and alumni throughout the country who will be cheering you on tomorrow night.
03.26.2014	Washington, DC—Today, Congressman Mike Turner, Chairman of the Subcommittee on Tactical Air and Land Forces, requested senior members of the House Armed Services Committee call on the President of the United States to immediately release information on the movement of Russian troops along the Ukrainian border. In light of the urgency of this situation, Congressman Turner has also sent a letter directly to Secretary Hagel, requesting direct and immediate action from the Department of Defense. "Currently, the Administration is in possession of information critical for the United States and its allies to adequately combat Russian aggression; however, President Obama and Secretary Hagel have dangerously chosen to withhold this information from the people of the United States, the Ukrainian government, and the rest of the international community,” said Turner. “Putin has proven he will continue to pursue a hostile world view. We cannot keep game changing information under wraps at the expense of our vulnerable allies. We must cooperate with the Ukrainian government so they understand the severity of what they’re facing and can make informed decisions based on full awareness of Russia’s recent activity along their border. It is imperative that the United States provide this information to the government of Ukraine and the public immediately." The full text of the letter is below. Read a signed copy attached and here. Today’s letter: March 26, 2014 Dear Secretary Hagel, I strongly request that the Department of Defense (DOD) do its part to comply with today’s call for immediate action on the situation in Ukraine sent by senior Members of the House Armed Services Committee (HASC) to the President. In particular, the Department should immediately provide Congress and make public known Russian military activity along the Ukrainian border. Despite recent comments made by Russian Federation President Vladimir Putin, it is my belief that Russian forces may intend to advance further into Ukraine. I am concerned that if this information is not presented to Congress or shared with the larger international community to include countries such as Ukraine, there will be little or no opportunity to deter or prepare for further Russian advances. Unlike the initial advance into Crimea in which the current Administration gravely misread the intentions of President Putin, we may still possess an opportunity to act in order to prevent further aggression from Russia. An immediate briefing to Members of Congress and the public release of certain information pertaining to the Russian military’s current force posture is needed to shed light on recent developments along the border. Any delay in this matter will only increase the likelihood of more violence as it allows Russian military forces to move freely and position themselves for additional advances. While not a member of NATO, Ukraine was a key component of the Bucharest Summit and was slated to eventually join the Alliance. As such, we must recognize Ukraine as a key ally to the United States. We call on the Department to immediately provide the United States Congress and Ukraine a detailed assessment on recent Russian actions. Thank you for your immediate attention to this matter and we look forward to working with you. ###
03.24.2014	Washington, DC—Congressman Mike Turner, Chairman of the House Subcommittee on Tactical Air and Land Forces, and House Armed Services Committee Member Jim Bridenstine, along with sixteen House colleagues, sent a letter to Secretary of Energy Moniz regarding the National Nuclear Security Administration’s (NNSA) FY15 proposal to provide the Russian Federation with the Multiple Integrated Laser Engagement System (MILES). Employed by the U.S. military for training purposes, the MILES is a tactical force-on-force trainer, which uses a system of lasers and dummy ammunition to simulate ground combat for soldiers. Both Turner and Bridenstine are concerned that the Administration’s planned supply to the Russian Federation is grave mistake given the recent invasion of Ukraine launched by Russian Federation President Vladimir Putin. “In the process of reviewing the Fiscal Year 2014 budget and the proposed Fiscal Year 2015 budget request, it has come to our attention that the National Nuclear Security Administration (NNSA) has been, and is planning to continue providing the Multiple Integrated Laser Engagement System (MILES) to the Russian Federation free of charge,” said Turner and Bridenstine. “Putin has proven that he has a brazen disregard for the sovereignty and stability of Eastern Europe and that he will continue to manipulate and disregard international law. Despite this overwhelming evidence that Putin is not our ally, it is astonishing that the Obama Administration would still provide superior, U.S. military technology to an aggressive and advancing Russia. The United States must seriously redirect its approach and immediately terminate all military aid to Russia,” said Turner. “It’s ludicrous that U.S. taxpayers are paying to give Russia free military equipment after President Obama announced a suspension in military engagement with Moscow. It’s just another example of how the President is hanging on to his failed “reset with Russia” policy despite Russia’s invasion and occupation of Ukraine. I expect Secretary of Energy Moniz to act quickly and stop irresponsible military equipment transfers,” said Bridenstine. ###
03.20.2014	Washington, DC—Earlier this week, Army Brig. Gen. Jeffrey Sinclair, accused of sexual assault, pled guilty to maltreatment of a subordinate, inappropriate relationships with junior female officers, soliciting illicit pictures from junior female officers, possessing pornography, misuse of a credit card and using derogatory language. On Thursday March 20, Sinclair was sentenced to pay a fine of $24,100, but did not receive jail time, reduction in rank or dismissal from the Army. Congressman Mike Turner (OH-10), Co-Chair of the Military Sexual Assault Prevention Caucus, released the following statement: “I am deeply disappointed by today’s verdict in the case of Army Brig. Gen. Sinclair. Even with a guilty plea, he received no reduction in rank, discharge or jail time for his substantial transgressions. This unfortunate outcome bolsters our call to increase mandatory minimum sentencing in cases of sexual assault and sexual misconduct. Imposing a mandatory minimum sentence would send a strong message to service members that this is a serious crime and guarantee that those who are convicted receive serious and appropriate sentences. We must make this meaningful change to the system in order to protect victims, hold perpetrators accountable and prevent future abuse."
03.16.2014	Washington, DC—On Sunday March 16, Congressman Mike Turner, Chairman of the U.S. delegation to the NATO Parliamentary Assembly (NATO PA), released the following statement in response to the seizure of a natural gas terminal near the Crimean border by Russian forces: "Putin's seizure of this terminal on the eve of the secession referendum in Crimea sent an international message of defiance. This act further entrenches what we have known for weeks: Russia is an aggressor state and the reset policies employed by the Obama Administration were sorely misguided. Putin has enjoyed a functional monopoly on natural gas exports in Europe for far too long and has used this monopoly to exert control. Putin's latest action highlights Europe's vulnerability and proves why the United States must help our allies diversify their energy resources. We cannot stand idly by as Putin continues this pattern of aggression and today's supposed referendum in Crimea cannot go without consequence. Regardless of the outcome, this vote is a sham and a flagrant violation of international law. The United States must take quick action to increase U.S. natural gas exports to our European allies, strengthen our ties with NATO, and support the Ukrainian people. U.S. action is uniquely critical to bolster security throughout the region and provide a counterweight to Russian aggression."
03.15.2014	Washington DC– On Saturday March 15, Congressman Mike Turner, Chairman of the U.S. delegation to the NATO Parliamentary Assembly (NATO PA), released the following statement in response to Ukrainian reports that Russia had sent troops outside the Crimean peninsula and onto the Ukrainian mainland for the first time: “Putin's actions are a deliberate violation of Ukraine's sovereignty, a breach of Russian agreements to honor Ukraine's territorial integrity and a violation of international law. This clearly shows that Russia is an aggressor state and Pres. Obama's reset policies were misguided. The United States must take swift action to support our NATO allies, support the Ukrainian people, and support the independent states that border Russia that are now fearful of future Russian aggression. In addition, the President should seek economic sanctions against Russia and seek the export of US natural gas to European markets.”
03.11.2014	Turner Partners with Dayton Hospitals to Confront Impact of Heroin Epidemic on Newborns Dayton, OH – On Monday, March 10, 2014, Congressman Tuner gathered leaders from local hospitals and the Greater Dayton Area Hospital Association (GDAHA) at his district office to discuss the impact of the heroin epidemic on newborns. The number of Ohio women identified as opiate addicted while pregnant or parenting has grown nearly 200 percent in the past seven years. The GDAHA reports that there was a 35-percent increase from 2011 to 2012 for drug withdrawal in infants. “The impact of the heroin epidemic on newborns affects all of us. Addiction is a terrible disease and beginning life as an addict, through no fault of your own, is really unimaginable. I look forward to partnering with Dayton area hospitals and other community leaders to develop and implement a community strategy that provides targeted intervention for opiate dependent women and takes significant steps to identify and treat the entire at-risk population. Now is the time for decisive, thoughtful action that seeks to provide the best possible start in life for our community’s children,” said Turner. Following the meeting, Congressman Turner sent the following letter to the attendees thanking them for their ongoing efforts to counter infant addiction and their willingness to partner on a community-wide initiative. To: Keith Achor – Grandview Hospital Bryan Bucklew – Greater Dayton Area Hospital Association Terry Burns – Soin Medical Center/Greene Memorial Hospital Deborah Feldman – Dayton Children’s Hospital Julie Liss-Katz – Premier Health Partners Dr. Tammy Lundstrom – Premier Health Mark Shaker – Miami Valley Hospital Russ Wetherall – Southview Medical Center From: Congressman Mike Turner (OH-10) Date: March 11, 2014 Re: Dayton Community Strategy to Combat Impact of the Heroin Epidemic on NewbornsThank you all for your leadership and for taking the time to meet with me Monday morning to discuss the impact of the heroin epidemic on newborns. This is a critical issue and I am grateful for the ability to work with all of you towards a solution. Last December, I met with Terry Burns, President at Soin Medical Center in Beavercreek. He told me that in the past year, six babies had been born addicted to heroin at his hospital alone. During our conversation I realized that this was a problem that was increasing in size. The Dayton area has a growing and recognized issue with heroin use and overdose, but little has been documented in the way of the heroin epidemic’s impact on infants being born to addicted mothers. Action had to be taken to fill this gap. The experience of Soin Medical Center was reinforced by all of you attendance. GDAHA confirmed that the medical code used to indicate infant withdraw had increased by 35% between 2011-2012 in the region. As we discussed, there must be a community-wide goal to identify and treat the at-risk population in order to help prevent infant addiction. While there are challenges in addressing the problem, we must use all resources available and consult all the relevant experts in our area to chart a course of action. I look forward to our next meeting on April 7, 2014 where we will bring together leaders in law enforcement, relevant community groups, and treatment professionals to establish how the community can partner together to develop a strategy for a targeted intervention program. I am pleased with what we were able to accomplish and look forward to partnering with you in the future to combat the impact of the heroin epidemic on newborns.
03.10.2014	“Without the HCTC, which expired on January 1, 2014, these salaried retirees face financial hardship with up to 50 percent of their remaining pension going to fund their health care premiums,” the lawmakers wrote. “Given the importance of the HCTC to these American families who have already lost so much, we urge that an extension of this valuable program be included in any bill reported out of your respective committees." share: f t Portman, Brown, Turner, Ryan Lead Bipartisan Letter to Committee Chairmen FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: Monday, March 10, 2014CONTACTS: Caitlin Dunn (Portman) 202-224-5190Meghan Dubyak/Yianni Varonis (Brown) 202-224-3978Annie Clark (Turner) 202-225-6465Pat Lowry (Ryan) 330-740-0193Washington, D.C. – Today, U.S. Senators Rob Portman (R-OH) and Sherrod Brown (D-OH), members of the Senate Committee on Finance, along with U.S. Reps. Mike Turner (R-OH) and Tim Ryan (D-OH) led a letter signed by 28 lawmakers to Congressional leaders pushing for the Health Coverage Tax Credit (HCTC) to be extended, an issue of particular importance to retired United Steelworkers and Delphi salaried retirees struggling to maintain affordable healthcare. Today’s letter was also signed by Ohio Reps. Steve Chabot (R-OH), Marcy Kaptur (D-OH), Bill Johnson (R-OH), Dave Joyce (R-OH) and Steve Stivers (R-OH). It calls for the leaders of the Senate Finance Committee and House Ways and Means Committee to attach the HCTC to any bill reported out of these committees. The HCTC, which assists struggling Americans with their health bills, expired on January 1, 2014.“Without the HCTC, which expired on January 1, 2014, these salaried retirees face financial hardship with up to 50 percent of their remaining pension going to fund their health care premiums,” the lawmakers wrote. “Given the importance of the HCTC to these American families who have already lost so much, we urge that an extension of this valuable program be included in any bill reported out of your respective committees.”This letter follows a December Finance Committee hearing where Portman and Brown introduced a bipartisan amendment to extend the HCTC for two years. After debate on the Portman-Brown amendment, the Chairman of the Senate Finance Committee committed to work toward extending the HCTC, which was the first such commitment from Senate leaders.The HCTC is a vital tool for many Americans who have experienced job loss and receive Trade Adjustment Assistance or have had their defined benefit pension plans taken over by the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (PBGC), such as thousands of Delphi salaried retirees in Ohio along with many retired United Steelworkers. Often the HCTC serves as an important bridge for Americans until they become eligible for Medicare benefits. When Delphi’s defined benefit pension plan was terminated, 20,000 Delphi salaried retirees lost up to 70 percent in benefits, including 5,000 Ohioans. Of the 5,000 Delphi salaried retirees and their families in Ohio, about 1,500 are in the Mahoning Valley, 2,000 are in the Dayton area, and a majority of the remaining 1,500 are in Columbus and Sandusky.The full text of the letter is below. Read a signed copy attached and here.Today’s letter:March 10, 2014Chairman Dave Camp Chairman Ron WydenCommittee on Ways and Means Committee on FinanceU.S. House of Representatives U.S. SenateWashington, D.C. 20515 Washington, D.C. 20510 Representative Sander Levin Senator Orrin HatchRanking Member Ranking MemberCommittee on Ways and Means Committee on FinanceU.S. House of Representatives U.S. SenateWashington, D.C. 20515 Washington, D.C. 20510 Dear Chairmen Camp and Wyden and Ranking Members Levin and Hatch:Thousands of families rely on the Health Coverage Tax Credit (HCTC), which helps some struggling American families pay their health bills. These families include thousands of Delphi retirees whose pensions were terminated during the GM bankruptcy and subsequently turned over to the Pension Benefit Guarantee Corporation. While the benefits of many Delphi retirees were restored, the 20,000 Delphi salaried retirees lost up to 70 percent of their pensions. Without the HCTC, which expired on January 1, 2014, these salaried retirees face financial hardship with up to 50 percent of their remaining pension going to fund their health care premiums.Given the importance of the HCTC to these American families who have already lost so much, we urge that an extension of this valuable program be included in any bill reported out of your respective committees. Thank you for your attention to this important issue.###
03.06.2014	Washington, DC –Today, Congressman Mike Turner, Chairman of the U.S. delegation to the NATO Parliamentary Assembly (NATO PA), partnered with the House Energy and Commerce Committee to introduce the Domestic Prosperity and Global Freedom Act. The recent events in Ukraine have highlighted Europe’s vulnerability toward Russian gas exports. Reaching these markets with U.S. natural gas will increase U.S. production, jobs, and grow our economy. For far too long, the Russian Federation, under President Vladimir Putin, has invested billions in infrastructure and energy subsidies in order to control and influence our allies in Europe. As a result, many European partners have been essentially held hostage due to a lack of alternative energy providers. Recognizing Russia’s tight hold on the European energy markets, Congressman Mike Turner has spent the last year working closely with American suppliers and overseas allies in order to find a solution to this problem. The Domestic Prosperity and Global Freedom Act would expedite the permit process to export U.S. natural gas to World Trade Organization (WTO) countries. This bipartisan legislation would provide our allies with an alternative and reliable source of energy, strengthen our strategic alliances, reduce the trade deficit, and create American jobs. “Helping our allies diversify their energy resources is vital to strengthening our strategic partnerships and bolstering security,” said Turner. “Many of our allies are heavily reliant upon natural gas supplies from either one country or from unstable regions, which poses a threat to their security and their independence. Recent events taking place in Ukraine have shed increasing light on Europe’s vulnerability toward Russian natural gas exports. We have seen in Ukraine that Russia will use its energy resource dominance to expand its sphere of influence. Increasing U.S. natural gas exports will provide our allies with an alternative an reliable source of energy, helping to strengthen their independence and creating jobs right here at home.” Currently, under section 3 of the Natural Gas Act, companies seeking to export natural gas must gain approval from the Department of Energy's Office of Fossil Energy, which determines if such exports are in the public interest. For countries with which the United States has a Free Trade Agreement (FTA) the approval is automatic. For non-FTA countries, there is a regulatory process to determine if such exports are in the public interest. The United States is one of the largest producers of natural gas in the world and is experiencing a surplus in production. A Department of Energy-commissioned report found that increasing exports of natural gas would have positive economic benefits for our country. “Today, I am proud to announce my most recent partnership on the issue of LNG exports. I look forward to working with Chairman Fred Upton and the House Energy and Commerce Committee to further this critical issue, “ said Turner. Click HERE to view a copy of the legislative text. See below for a comprehensive timeline on Rep. Turner’s leadership on the issue of LNG exports. Legislation H.R. 6699, the LNG for NATO Act (112th Congress – 12/20/2012) - Authors bicameral legislation with then-Senator Richard Lugar (R-IN) to expedite the permit process to export U.S. natural gas to NATO countries H.R. 580, the Expedited LNG for American Allies Act (113th Congress – 2/6/2013) - Authors bicameral and bipartisan legislation with Senator John Barrasso (R-WY) to expedite the permit process to export U.S. natural gas to NATO countries and Japan H.R. 4139, the American Job Creation and Strategic Alliances LNG Act (113th Congress – 3/4/2013) - Authors bipartisan legislation to expedite the permit process to export U.S. natural gas to World Trade Organization countries H.R. 6, the Domestic Prosperity and Global Freedom Act (113th Congress – 3/6/2014) - Co-authors bipartisan legislation to expedite the permit process to export U.S. natural gas to World Trade Organization countries Timeline of Key Activities 12/12/2012 - Authors H.R. 6699, the LNG for NATO Act with then-Senator Richard Lugar (R-IN) 1/23/2012 - Joins over 100 bipartisan House colleagues to urge then-Secretary of Energy Steven Chu to approve pending natural gas export applications 2/6/2013 - Authors H.R. 580, the Expedited LNG for American Allies Act with Senator John Barrasso (R-WY) 3/19/2013 -Participated in a House Oversight and Government Reform Subcommittee on Energy Policy, Health Care and Entitlements hearing entitled “The Department of Energy’s Strategy for Exporting Liquefied Natural Gas” 4/15/2013 - Keynote speaker at a roundtable event with European Ambassadors entitled “How American Natural Gas Exports Might Enhance European Energy Security” 4/16/2013 - Keynote speaker at an event hosted by the German Marshall Fund entitled “Strengthening Transatlantic Alliances: Potential Geostrategic Impacts of U.S. LNG Exports” 4/27/2013 - Questions Secretary of State John Kerry on the State Department’s views on the geopolitical benefits of U.S. natural gas exports - In response, Secretary Kerry states recognition of strategic benefits of U.S. natural gas production and overseas demand 5/7/2013 -Submits a statement for the record to a House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Energy and Power hearing entitled “U.S. Energy Abundance: Exports and the Changing Global Energy Landscape” 7/9/2013 -Keynote speaker at an event hosted by the Embassy of Hungary entitled “Prospects of U.S. LNG Exports: The Allies’ Perspective” 7/17/2013 -Authors an op-ed in the Hill entitled “More natural gas for Europe is good for U.S. alliances and jobs” 9/11/2013 - Keynote speaker at an event hosted by the American Enterprise Institute entitled “Natural Gas, Natural Allies: Energizing the U.S.-Japan Relationship” 10/10/2013 -Participated in the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Energy and Power forum with foreign officials entitled “Geopolitical Implications and Mutual Benefits of U.S. LNG Exports” 10/22/2013 -Authors an op-ed in the Hill entitled “Exporting American natural gas boosts economy and national security” 2/11/2014 - Keynote speaker at gathering of key foreign Ambassadors, embassy officials, and energy industry representatives on the strategic alliance benefits of U.S. natural gas exports 3/4/2014 - Authors H.R. 4139, the American Job Creation and Strategic Alliances LNG Act 3/6/2014 -Co-authors H.R. 6, the Domestic Prosperity and Global Freedom Act
03.06.2014	Washington, DC –Today, Congressman Mike Turner, Chairman of the U.S. delegation to the NATO Parliamentary Assembly (NATO PA), released the following statement on the Crimean referendum to make the Ukraine territory part of Russia. "I am deeply disturbed by the events that have taken place today in Crimea. Today's supposed vote to join the Russian Federation was nothing more than a sham and a flagrant violation of international law. No legislative body can take a vote of free will to join another nation when they are facing invading tanks from that nation. The Russian Federation has invaded the sovereignty of Ukraine and continues to influence events on the ground through the use of military force. Ukraine remains an occupied nation. The U.S. must stand in staunch opposition to Putin’s continued acts of aggression and move swiftly to put pressure on Russia strategically and economically through NATO expansion and increased exportation of U.S. natural gas."
03.01.2014	Rep. Mike Turner Statement on Russian Military Action in Ukraine Washington, D.C – Today, Representative Mike Turner (OH-10) made the following statement about the Russian military action in Ukraine: "As the President has sought secret deals with Russia, abandoned portions of our missile defense system, reduced our nuclear weapons capabilities and significantly cut our military through his sequester, Russia, China, Iran and North Korea see a weak United States. This is a very dangerous message to send to the world and especially to Russia, who seeks to regain lost territories from the former Soviet Union. When the United States is weak, freedom around the world suffers and we are witnessing this first hand today in the Ukraine."
02.26.2014	Washington, D.C. - Congressman Michael Turner released the following statement today in response to Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel's defense budget preview: "Secretary Hagel's comments should raise serious concerns that the President's delayed FY2015 budget will greatly impact our national security and not reflect the increased security risks around the world. The Obama administration's budget preview further demonstrates the massive strain that the President's sequestration has placed on our military forces." -Rep. Mike Turner (OH-10)
12.09.2013	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Mike Turner, Chairman of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Tactical Air and Land Forces, commends House and Senate Armed Services Committees colleagues on their continued efforts to pass the FY2014 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA). With the 2014 calendar year quickly approaching and the Senate currently in a stall, Committee leaders from both bodies have negotiated a comprehensive version of the bill intended to move through Congress this week. This year, Congressman Turner has continued his work with the House and Senate Armed Services Committees and the Military Sexual Assault Prevention Caucus to create further legislation to combat the issue of sexual assault within the military and ensure both that victims are cared for and that perpetrators are brought to justice and held accountable. Specifically, during the 113th Congressional Session, Congressman Turner along with co-sponsor Rep. Niki Tsongas introduced the BE SAFE Act and the Article 32 Reform Act as well as the No Tolerance Act with Rep. Joe Heck. Most of the provisions from these three bills have been incorporated into the House version of the FY2014 NDAA. “These legislative initiatives are unprecedented and powerful steps toward the eradication of sexual assault in the military,” said Congressman Turner. “These substantial bi-partisan reforms will enhance the rights of victims, strengthen military whistleblower protection laws, improve the ways in which the services respond to a sexual assault report, and ensure that perpetrators are appropriately held accountable and prosecuted for their crimes.” The provision in the FY2014 NDAA will: Eliminate a Convening Authority’s ability to dismiss or modify a court-martial conviction for serious offenses, including rape or sexual assault; Require the Services to provide a detailed military counsel to survivors of sexual assault within the military to assist through the investigation and criminal process; Guarantee that those convicted of sexual assault are, at a minimum, dishonorably discharged or dismissed from military service; Limit the Article 32 preliminary investigation to a probable cause determination; Abolish the five-year statute of limitations on Trial by Courts-Martial for sexual assault and sexual assault of a child; Affirm the commander’s authority to consider the need for and provide for the temporary reassignment or removal of a service member who is accused of committing a sex-related crime from a from a unit in which the victim also works or from position of authority. Enhance protections for prospective members of the Armed Forces against sexual assault and unwanted sexual contact during entry-level processing and training. “These significant reforms offer considerable momentum toward changing the deep-rooted and flawed culture that has allowed sex crimes to pervade our armed forces,” Turner continues. “But they will not be the last. This bill is not a ceiling but rather a robust foundation upon which we will continue to build.” “I am very optimistic that the negotiated NDAA, which both the House and Senate Armed Services Committee have put a lot of time and effort into, will receive a swift vote in both chambers,” said Turner. “It is critical that we pass this legislation in order to provide authority and funding for Department of Defense activities. Additionally, this bill takes steps to reform the UCMJ in order to better protect our service members against violent sex related crimes.” ###
11.06.2013	Washington, D.C. – Last week, Congressman Mike Turner, Chairman of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Tactical Air and Land Forces, introduced H.R. 3360, a bill to reform the Article 32 investigative process of the Uniform Code of Military Justice to protect military sexual assault survivors through meaningful reforms. “It is time to stop putting sexual assault victims on trial,” said Turner. “This legislation is long overdue and marks another positive and constructive step toward ensuring that survivors of sexual assault are protected from revictimization as they work through the process to have their attackers brought to justice. Recent cases have demonstrated that inadequacies in the current system leave military sexual assault survivors extremely unprotected and exposed to further revictimization and character assassination.” H.R. 3360 specifically aims to limit the scope of the investigation to a probable cause determination of the alleged offenses, require more experienced investigating officers preside over the investigation, and to provide stronger protections for trauma and sexual assault survivors so that they do not suffer more revictimization because of their willingness to participate in the military justice process. “The current Article 32 process is drastically in need of reform,” Turner continues. “Unfortunately, this pretrial hearing has turned into a “mini-trial” in which the victim is often victimized and discouraged from further participating in the prosecution process. Too often in military sexual assault cases, as evident from the recent United States Naval Academy case, survivors of sexual assaults are subjected to irrelevant, grueling and degrading cross-examinations and defense tactics designed to cause embarrassment and intimidate them from participating in the prosecution of these crimes.” Turner’s reforms to the Article 32 process will specifically achieve the following: (1) Limit the scope of the investigation to a probable cause determination of the alleged offense(s); (2) Require that an experienced judge advocate be assigned as the investigating officer; (3) Allow the victim of a crime to personally elect not to attend and subject themselves to questioning and cross-examination at the investigatory hearing; and (4) Establish a governmental discovery requirement to provide certain evidentiary materials and documents to the accused and defense counsel prior to the Article 32 hearing. Turner has worked tirelessly to combat the issue of sexual assault within the military and to ensure both that victims are cared for and that perpetrators are brought to justice and held accountable for their crimes.
10.08.2013	Congressman Mike Turner, Chairman of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Tactical Air and Land Forces, issued the following statement after his concerns over Department of Defense civilian personnel receiving furlough pay share: f t Turner: Wright-Patterson AFB Furloughed Workers Deserved to be Paid Washington, D.C. – Congressman Mike Turner, Chairman of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Tactical Air and Land Forces, issued the following statement after his concerns over Department of Defense civilian personnel receiving furlough pay. “Nearly 400,000 civilian workers were unnecessarily and unilaterally furloughed by The President. These hard working men and women should not be punished because the Administration was willing to use them as a bargaining chip in this political showdown. These civilian employees have returned to their jobs despite the fact the budget impasse continues, further underscoring they should not have been furloughed in the first place. Now that they are allowed to return to work, I want to make sure they receive all furlough pay and allowances they deserve. I have written to the President and Secretary Hagel, they must ensure all Department of Defense civilian personnel receive the compensation owed to them for the period of time in which they were subject to a Presidential furlough.” NOTE: A copy of the letter sent to President Obama is below and attached to this message. A Link to the Letter. ###
09.16.2013	Congressman Mike Turner, Chairman of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Tactical Air and Land Forces, has written to Acting Inspector General Lynne Halbrooks to request further information regarding the ongoing “Audit of the Navy Commercial Access Control System.” The goal of the audit which began in September 2012 is “to determine whether the Navy Commercial Access Control System (NCACS) is mitigating access control risks to Navy installations,” according to a October 2012 memorandum from the Department of Defense. “Given the disturbing events of today, I am highly concerned that the access control systems at our nation’s military installations have serious security flaws. It is my understanding the IG report indicates the Navy may have implemented an unproven system in order to cut costs. I also learned that potentially numerous felons may have been able to gain unrestricted access to several military installations across the country due to the insufficient background checks, increasing the risk to our military personnel and civilian employees.” writes Turner. NOTE: A copy of the letter sent to IG Halbrooks can be found HERE. NOTE: The DoD Memo can be found HERE. ###
09.10.2013	Congressman Mike Turner, Chairman of the Tactical Air and Land Subcommittee of the House Armed Services Committee, challenged Secretary of Defense Chuck Hagel on the effects of sequestration on personnel at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base and the cost for our military to enter a conflict in Syria. The exchange took place today during a House Armed Services Full Committee Hearing on the proposed Authorization to Use Military Force in Syria. A clip from today’s hearing is included. The clip can be viewed at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rQalwegnUvo ###
09.06.2013	Congressman Mike Turner (OH-10), a senior member of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee (OGR), released the following statement regarding the report released today by the Special Inspector General Troubled Asset Relief Program (SIGTARP) on “Treasury’s Role in the Decision for General Motors (GM) To Provide Pension Payments to Delphi Employees: “From the beginning, the Delphi salaried retirees and certainly my Congressional office have pushed the administration because we believe the Administration picked winners and losers. The Administration has repeatedly denied they were involved in the decision making for both General Motors and the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (PBGC) that resulted in Delphi salaried retirees losing their pensions.” “The report released today completely discredits the Administration's statement that they did not influence GM and were not involved in GM's or the PBGC's decision making,” added Turner. The SIGTARP report released today reveals that “Auto Team official [Matthew] Feldman negotiated with PBGC on behalf of GM.” This finding directly contradicts the testimony given by Vincent Snowbarger, Former Deputy Director of Operations at PBGC, in response to questions for the record presented to him by Rep. Turner. Snowbarger asserts in his response, “The Treasury Department played no role” in the decision to terminate the pension plan of the Delphi salaried workers. “The report clearly highlights Treasury stepping in and perverting the process of the bankruptcy, using their influence to make certain that the outcome was politically desirable to the Administration. That’s enough for us to continue to push on the congressional side for a resolution to this. I and my colleagues in Congress will continue our ongoing investigation into the unjust termination of these pensions and the hardship that this Administration has imposed on thousands of Ohioans and retirees across the country,” Turner continues on the findings. The Administration has failed to cooperate and has attempted to thwart the investigation by refusing requests to provide documents and answers to inquiries. Therefore, Congress issued subpoenas last week to the Treasury Department to intensify the investigation into the preferential treatment given to Delphi’s unionized employees during the bankruptcy resolution. ###
08.31.2013	Congressman Mike Turner, Chairman of the Subcommittee on Tactical Air and Land Forces, released the following statement following the President’s remarks today: "The President has failed to make the case to the American people. There are significant risks to launching an attack on Syria and we don't know who we are fighting for. The President has mishandled this situation from the very beginning and shown a complete lack of leadership with his imaginary redline. I will not support any funding request for an attack until the President acts to remove the burdens of sequestration from our military." ###
08.15.2013	Congressman Mike Turner, Co-Chair of the Military Sexual Assault Prevention Caucus, and co-sponsor of Better Enforcement for Sexual Assault Free Environments Act of 2013 (BE SAFE) Act, released the following statement following the Department of Defense briefing regarding the new sexual assault prevention and response initiatives: “I am pleased to see the Department of Defense’s announcement of seven initiatives to address sexual assault in our military. Additionally, I am pleased that Secretary Hagel has chosen to model these initiatives after the “BE SAFE ACT,” which I introduced along with Rep. Niki Tsongas (MA-03). While there is still much work to be done, these initiatives and the “BE SAFE ACT” serve as an important first step to ensuring the protection of victims, prosecution of those responsible, and prevention of future criminal acts. Of the seven initiatives included in the Secretary Hagel’s announcement, five were originally crafted as part of the “BE SAFE ACT” and House passed National Defense Authorization Act (HR 1960) for FY2014. These five initiatives include: - Creating a legal advocacy program in each military service that will provide legal representation to sexual assault victims throughout the judicial process; - Providing commanders with options to reassign or transfer a member who is accused of committing a sexual assault or related offense in order to eliminate continued contact while respecting the rights of both victims and the accused; - Requiring timely follow-up reports on sexual assault incidents and responses to be given to the first general or flag officer within the chain of command; - Standardizing prohibitions on inappropriate behavior between recruiters and trainers and their recruits and trainees across the Department, and; - Developing and proposing changes to the Manual for Courts-Martial that would allow victims to give input during the sentencing phase of courts-martial. I am glad to see that the Secretary is taking the issue of sexual assault seriously, and I look forward to working with him as we move forward.” ###
08.06.2013	Congressman Mike Turner (OH-10), Chairman of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Tactical Air and Land Forces, released the following statement as the Department of Defense has announced that civilian worker furloughs will be decreased from 11 to 6: “While any reduction in the unfair and demoralizing furloughs is welcomed, the uncertainty that still lingers in the DOD civilian worker community is unacceptable. The Defense Department cannot continue to play games with the professional and personal lives of these dedicated employees. Just yesterday, I heard from a number of these employees who are feeling the real impacts of sequestration cuts. These employees and our nation’s security cannot afford 9 more years of furloughs. It is time for the President and the Senate to join the House in enacting legislation which would avert sequestration and return normalcy to the operations of our Defense Department.” ###
08.05.2013	Yesterday, Congressman Mike Turner met with Defense Department civilian employees who have been impacted by furloughs as a result of sequestration. Turner, who voted against sequestration, has been sounding the alarm as to the devastating impact the cuts have had on both the Defense Department and its civilian workforce. “These are people who are dedicated to their mission of ensuring the security of our nation. The conditions being imposed on them are wrong and unfair. Not only are they being told to take a pay cut, but they are also subject to conditions which depress morale. The loss of confidence and pride suffered by these employees will take years to restore,” said Turner. The employees, all from Wright-Patterson Air Force Base, told of 5 foot high weeds, closed bathroom facilities and other workplace maintenance lapses. Many of these workers, who typically work 50-60 hours a week, have seen their work weeks cut to 32 hours under sequestration. The shortened work weeks along with the fact that employees are furloughed on different days, means that tasks aren’t being completed. Turner takes notes during his meeting with furloughed DOD civilian employees. ###
07.24.2013	Congressman Mike Turner, Chairman of the U.S. Delegation to the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, released the following statement after meeting with Tedo Japaridze, Chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee of the Georgian Parliament: “The House passed my amendment to demonstrate the shared concern by my colleagues that the political situation in Georgia has been plagued by allegations of persecutions, abuse, and violence. Georgia has many allies in Congress who expect the newly elected government to function as a strong democracy. The incidents of persecutions, abuse, and violence are very troubling. Democratic institutions must be treated with the dignity and honor that the Georgian and American people expect. This is the strong message I delivered to Georgia’s delegation, led by Foreign Minister of Georgia Maia Panjikidze, last week.” ###
07.24.2013	Congressman Mike Turner, Chairman of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Tactical Air and Land Forces, released the following statement after he joined the House in passing the FY 2014 Department of Defense Appropriations bill. The legislation contains a number of provisions blocking the implementation of civilian furloughs. “The furloughing of civilian Defense Department workers due to sequestration has been nothing short of shameful. I voted against sequestration, because I knew the impact on the over 12,500 hardworking Americans in our community would be devastating. Families have been severely impacted because the President and the Senate have refused to act on this issue. Once again, the House has taken significant action to halt these furloughs for the coming Fiscal Year. The Senate should act immediately to include similar language in their appropriations bill, and stop the punishment of workers who are focused on our nation’s security.” Specifically, the following provisions were included in the bill: - Cole (R-OK), Kilmer (D-WA), McCarthy (R-CA), Bishop (R-UT), Jones (R-NC), Loebsack (D-IA), McCollum (D-MN), Austin Scott (R-GA) - Amendment No. 42 - Provides that none of the funds appropriated by this Act shall be available to implement a furlough of Department of Defense federal employees who are paid from the Working Capital Fund (WCF) Account, which is a revolving fund and does not receive direct funding from Congressional appropriations to finance its operations. Adopted by voice vote. - Lamborn (R-CO), O'Rourke (D-TX), Barrow (D-GA), Jenkins (R-KS) – Amendment No. 53 -Prohibits the use of funds to implement sequestration-related furloughs of civilian Department of Defense employees. Adopted by voice vote. - Palazzo (R-MS), Nugent (R-FL) – Amendment No. 57 - Prevents any funds from being used to plan for or carryout furloughs of Dual Status Military Technicians.Adopted by voice vote. ###
07.23.2013	Congressman Mike Turner (R-OH) and Congressman Tim Ryan (D-OH) introduced H.R. 2783, legislation which provides the Delphi Salaried Retirees and other eligible individuals the choice of continuing within the Health Coverage Tax Credit (HCTC) program past the program’s December 31, 2013 termination date, or upon leaving the program. “The Delphi Salaried Retirees had their pensions unjustly slashed, and now are at risk of losing their healthcare coverage under Obamacare. This legislation takes an important step to ensure that they continue to receive current coverage,” said Turner. Obamacare terminates the HCTC program at the end of this year. This bipartisan bill extends the HCTC program for currently-enrolled participants, so long as the participants are receiving PBGC pensions and there are no breaks in their coverage. NOTE: A copy of the bill can be found here.
07.19.2013	Congressman Mike Turner, a senior member of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee, today joined Varney & Co. on the FOX Business Network to discuss the IRS’ targeting of conservative organizations and its direct link to Washington, D.C. Turner has introduced the Taxpayer Nondiscrimination & Protection Act of 2013. The bill would amend Title 18 of the U.S. Code to make it a crime for an Internal Revenue Service (IRS) employee to discriminate against an individual or group on the basis of their protected rights. In addition, it expressly clarifies that political speech and political expression are protected rights. Sen. Marco Rubio (R-FL) has introduced companion legislation in the Senate. ###
07.18.2013	Today at a hearing before the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, Congressman Mike Turner uncovered through questioning that Cincinnati IRS officials have been contacted by the Department of Justice following the revelation that IRS officials targeted conservative organizations. Turner’s questioning also revealed that the IRS targeting was not – as the Administration has claimed – the result of two rogue agents in the Cincinnati office. The testimony given to Turner indicated that IRS officials in Washington, D.C. were responsible for organizing the directing the efforts to delay and scrutinize Americans for their political beliefs. Turner has introduced the Taxpayer Nondiscrimination & Protection Act of 2013. The bill would amend Title 18 of the U.S. Code to make it a crime for an Internal Revenue Service (IRS) employee to discriminate against an individual or group on the basis of their protected rights. In addition, it expressly clarifies that political speech and political expression are protected rights. Sen. Marco Rubio has introduced companion legislation in the Senate. ###
07.17.2013	Congressman Mike Turner is announcing a grant of $355,000 in support of the Fayette County Airport in Washington Court House, Ohio. This grant will fund the construction of a new access road from the public use road to the airport terminal. “The Fayette County Airport is an important link for commerce in the region. Providing access to this facility is important to the local economy and to the residents of Fayette County,” said Turner. Fayette County Airport is a county-owned, public-use airport, located two nautical miles northeast of the central business district of Washington Court House. ###
07.11.2013	Congressman Mike Turner is announcing a grant of $757,000 to St. Vincent de Paul Social Services, Inc. to help combat veterans’ homelessness. St. Vincent de Paul is a nonprofit organization, annually serving over 100,000 people in need. The grant, which comes from the Department of Veterans Affairs Supportive Services for Veterans Families program, will serve approximately 254 participant households throughout southwest Ohio. Specifically, households in Dayton and Kettering in Montgomery County, as well as those in Clark, Greene, Preble, Darke, and Miami Counties will benefit from this grant. “Veterans often face a tough transition back to civilian life. Homelessness, unemployment, and other factors hit the veterans community harder than others. That’s why I’m proud to support organizations which seek to end veterans’ homelessness, and ensure we are supporting those who have given so much in service to our nation,” said Turner. Under this grant program, participating organizations provide a range of services that promote housing stability, as well as connect veterans and their families to VA services, including health care, behavioral health care, and other benefits. Organizations are authorized under this program to offer temporary financial assistance on behalf of veterans to make rent payments, utility payments, security deposits and moving costs. According to the Department of Veterans Affairs, a count conducted on a January night in 2012 found that there were at least 62,619 homeless Veterans nationwide. ###
07.10.2013	Congressman Mike Turner (OH-10), Chairman of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Tactical Air and Land Forces released the following statement as the National Air and Space Intelligence Center issued its Ballistic and Cruise Missile Threat Report today: “This report confirms what many in the intelligence community have been saying for years – the global threat of missile attack is increasing. Adversaries, including North Korea and Iran, are actively pursuing weapons systems which could have the ability to target the homeland. Those who say we don’t need a robust missile defense program cannot deny this expert analysis or ignore its warnings. For too long the Obama Administration has allowed our missile defense program to languish when they should have been working to prepare for these imminent threats.” ###
07.03.2013	Congressman Mike Turner (OH-10) released the following statement after the Obama Administration announced a decision to delay the implementation of the employer health care mandate until 2015: “This announcement proves what I have said all along about Obamacare – it is a flawed law which is nearly impossible to implement. Even in its earliest stages we have seen how this monstrosity has been a near total failure. Both in increased healthcare costs for Ohioans, and the reduction of hours for many workers, this is a law doing exactly the opposite of what we were all promised. We don’t need more delays and more red tape with the implementation of Obamacare. It must be repealed and replaced immediately.” ###
06.27.2013	Congressman Mike Turner (OH-10), Chairman of the US Delegation to the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) Parliamentary Assembly, has introduced a bipartisan resolution expressing the sense of the House of Representatives that it is in our national interest to support and enhance Europe’s energy security through opening of the Southern Gas Corridor. “The Southern Gas Corridor will contribute to regional energy security for our allies in Europe and Eurasia, and help to strengthen our strategic partnership. Many of our allies are reliant upon natural gas supplies from a single nation or unstable regions. Ensuring our allies have access to an alternative and reliable source of energy will help improve geopolitical stability in the region,” said Turner. The Caspian Sea region holds significant energy resources and proven natural gas reserves. In particular, the Shah Deniz field in Azerbaijan is one of the world’s largest gas fields, with over 30 trillion cubic feet of recoverable gas. The Southern Gas Corridor will help our European allies diversify their energy resources by providing an alternative and reliable source of natural gas. This will bolster their energy security and help improve geopolitical stability in the region. Specifically, the pipeline will route natural gas from Azerbaijan through Georgia and Turkey to Europe. Current and past Administrations have expressed support for the Southern Gas Corridor. At the U.S.-Azerbaijan Convention in late May 2013, U.S. Ambassador to Azerbaijan Richard Morningstar stated: “…Azerbaijan’s importance to European energy security will remain strong, helping to guarantee that our European partners are not overly reliant on any suppliers. Azerbaijan is now in the final stages of establishing a southern corridor for natural gas. “…our overriding interest is that Azerbaijani gas reaches vulnerable markets in Europe…” Additionally, a December 2012 report by Senator Richard Lugar’s Foreign Relations Committee staff entitled “Energy and Security from the Caspian to Europe” states: “…the Southern Corridor would advance several U.S. and NATO foreign policy objectives: it would further isolate Iran, assist in cultivating partners in the Caucasus and Central Asia and bolster their sovereign independence, and perhaps most importantly, curtail Russia’s energy leverage over European NATO allies.” Turner had previously introduced the Expedited LNG for American Allies Act. This measure, which is the bipartisan House companion to bipartisan legislation introduced by Senator John Barrasso (R-WY), seeks to help strengthen our strategic partnerships with key allies, reduce the trade deficit and boost job growth right here at home by streamlining the regulatory process to export natural gas to NATO countries, Japan and others. This bill is a modified version of the LNG for NATO Act, originally authored by Senator Richard Lugar (R-IN) and which Turner introduced as the House companion bill in the 112th Congress. NOTE: A copy of the resolution can be found here. Original Cosponsors include: David Scott (D-GA-13) Bill Shuster (R-PA-09) Steve Cohen (D-TN-09) Jim Bridenstine (R-OK-01) Leonard Lance (R-NJ-07) James Moran (D-VA-08) Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL-25) Sheila Jackson Lee (D-TX-18) Kay Granger (R-TX-12) Jeff Miller (R-FL-01) Joe Wilson (R-SC-02) Tom Cotton (R-AR-04) Tom Marino (R-PA-10) Ted Poe (R-TX-02) Brett Guthrie (R-KY-02) Steve Stivers (R-OH-15) Joyce Beatty (D-OH-03) Loretta Sanchez (D-CA-46) Gregory Meeks (D-NY-05) Madeleine Bordallo (D-GU-AL) ###
06.26.2013	Congressman Mike Turner, Co-Chair of the Military Sexual Assault Prevention Caucus, spoke on the House Floor today in support of bipartisan legislation (H.R. 1864), authored by Rep. Jackie Walorski (IN-2), which provides whistleblower protections for victims of military sexual assault. The legislation also strengthens existing protection laws to clarify that victims of sexual crimes are protected from punishment for reporting sexual assault. Turner is a co-sponsor of the legislation and voted in favor of the House passed National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) which included H.R. 1864 as a provision. H.R. 1864 follows a 2008 GAO report which stated that “many individuals do not come forward in the military out of fear of punishment because they have done something (i.e. drinking, leaving the barracks) that they could also get in trouble for.” The same report stated that some service members believe that there is no point in reporting the incident if the perpetrator is of a higher rank, for fear of not being believed, and that victims were reluctant to report attacks “for a variety of reasons, including the belief that nothing would be done or that reporting an incident would negatively impact their careers.” Turner has included a number of additional provisions in this year’s House passed NDAA to combat sexual assault in the military. ###
06.19.2013	Congressman Mike Turner (OH-10), Chairman of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Tactical Air and Land Forces, slammed President Barack Obama’s call in Berlin, Germany today for a unilateral reduction to the U.S. nuclear deterrent: “President Obama has taken to a foreign country to announce another round of unilateral disarmament, only to appease a foreign audience. The President seems only concerned with winning the approval of nations like Russia, who will applaud a weakened United States. Why else would he abandon his missile defense strategy and oppose the creation of an East Coast site? “Let's also not forget the many promises he has since failed to keep after the Senate ratified the New START Treaty. The President is undertaking these unilateral cuts on his own because he knows it would never earn Congressional approval or the support of the American people he has pledged to defend.” ###
06.19.2013	Congressman Mike Turner (OH-10), Chairman of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Tactical Air and Land Forces, congratulated Acting Secretary of the Air Force Eric Fanning after meeting with him yesterday. Fanning is a graduate of Centerville High School in Centerville, OH, which is located in Turner’s Congressional District: “I’d like to congratulate Eric Fanning on becoming Acting Secretary of the Air Force. In that capacity he will lead our Airmen and civilian Air Force employees who are dedicated to the defense of this nation. With this news our community can be proud to have two local high school graduates in the leadership of the Air Force: General Janet Wolfenbarger, who graduated from Beavercreek High School and Acting Secretary Fanning who graduated from Centerville High School. Our community is truly dedicated to serving this nation. I look forward to working with him in support of the Air Force and their mission at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base.” ###
06.18.2013	Congressman Mike Turner (OH-10), a senior member of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee, blasted Ranking Member Elijah Cummings’ announced intention to post the full investigative interview of IRS employee John Shafer on the internet: “Ranking Member Cummings’ decision to release this transcript will severely undermine the Oversight Committee’s ability to gain the full truth of what has transpired at the IRS. Since he called for an end to this investigation, we have learned that IRS officials in Washington had been more involved in the targeting of TEA Party and conservative groups than we initially were lead to believe. This maneuver will do nothing more than obstruct the Committee’s investigation. It’s clear that Ranking Member Cummings is concerned only with ending a highly embarrassing and troubling investigation before we learn the full truth of who was responsible and why.” Turner has introduced the Taxpayer Nondiscrimination & Protection Act of 2013. The bill would amend Title 18 of the U.S. Code to make it a crime for an Internal Revenue Service (IRS) employee to discriminate against an individual or group on the basis of their protected rights. In addition, it expressly clarifies that political speech and political expression are protected rights. Sen. Marco Rubio has introduced companion legislation in the Senate. ###
06.18.2013	Congressman Mike Turner has submitted the following statement for the Congressional Record honoring the legacy of the Buffalo Soldiers regiment and the leadership of Colonel Charles Young. Col. Young was a highly respected member of the U.S. military and a resident of Southwest Ohio. Turner’s statement comes in support of the House approving H.R. 520, the Buffalo Soldiers in the National Parks Study Act yesterday. Earlier this year, President Obama designated the Colonel Charles Young Buffalo Soldiers National Monument near Xenia, OH. This legislation seeks to further recognize the contributions made by Colonel Young and Buffalo Soldier regiments from across the country throughout the late 19th and early 20th century. Honoring Colonel Charles Young: Ohioan and Buffalo Solider Statement for the Congressional Record Submitted by Congressman Michael R. Turner June 17, 2013 Mr. Speaker, as we consider H.R. 520, the Buffalo Soldiers in the National Parks Study Act, I would like to recognize the important contributions of Colonel Charles Young. As a Member of the House Armed Services Committee and Co-Chair of the House Historic Preservation Caucus, I have the privilege of frequently working with our servicemembers as well as a great appreciation for our nation’s historic treasures. Additionally, Colonel Young’s home, located in my community in Southwest Ohio, was recently designated as a National Historic Monument. Colonel Young, the third African-American to graduate from the United States Military Academy at West Point in 1889, was a distinguished officer in the U.S. Army. He was a pioneer of military intelligence techniques, a commander of troops in combat in the Spanish-American War and the Mexican expedition against Pancho Villa. His first assignment after graduation was with the Buffalo Soldiers in the 10th Cavalry in Nebraska, and then with the 9th and 10th Cavalries in Utah. With the outbreak of the Spanish-American War, he was reassigned as Second Lieutenant to training duty at Camp Alger, Virginia. In 1903, then-Captain Young was in command of the 10th Cavalry stationed at the Presidio of San Francisco. That summer, with the Army responsible for its management, Colonel Young was assigned to serve as Acting Superintendent of Sequoia National Parks in California. Colonel Young was then awarded a commission as a Major in the Ninth Ohio Volunteer Infantry. Later, during the Spanish-American War, he commanded a squadron of the 10th Cavalry Buffalo Soldiers in Cuba. Throughout his military career, Colonel Young distinguished himself in service to our nation with the Buffalo Soldiers of the 9th and 10th Cavalries, and the 25th Infantry, as well as serving as Professor of Military Science at Wilberforce University, Ohio. Today the House will continue to honor the legacy and leadership of the Buffalo Soldiers. Colonel Charles Young stands out as a shining example of the dedication, service, and commitment of the Buffalo Soldiers throughout United States and world history. Mr. Speaker, I am glad to recognize the important historical contributions of Buffalo Soldiers such as Colonel Young. ###
06.14.2013	Congressman Mike Turner, Chairman of the House Armed Services Tactical Air and Land Forces Subcommittee, has included additional provisions in the House passed National Defense Authorization Act. These provisions stand to benefit the development of Unmanned Aerial Systems as well as for the Air Force Research Lab. “Every year, the NDAA is the vehicle for a number of provisions which have wide-reaching effect on not only our Department of Defense, but also our community of Southwest Ohio. I have continued my efforts of advocating for not only Wright-Patt and its important facilities, but for the development of Unmanned Aerial Systems. Those unmanned aircraft stand to be the future of our regional economy. I look forward to working with my colleagues in the Senate to ensure these provisions reach the president’s desk, and are signed into law,” said Turner. Unmanned Aerial Systems (UAS) This provision clarifies the authority of the Secretary of Defense to enter into a memorandum of understanding with applicable entities regarding non-regulatory special use airspace. Air Force Research Lab (AFRL) Sec 2801: MODIFICATIONS AND EXTENSIONS OF AUTHORITY FOR LABORATORY REVITALIZATION PROJECTS This provision would increase the authorization from $2M to $4M that the defense laboratories can spend on minor military construction. Provision modifies the Laboratory Revitalization (LRP) section 2805 of Title 10 regarding unspecified minor MILCON. The language is supported by the DoD as it originates from an FY14 DoD legislative proposal concerning minor milcon thresholds in general. ______ Turner had previously included a number of provisions in the FY 2014 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) which passed out of the full House Armed Services Committee last week. Those provisions stand to benefit servicemembers, Wright-Patterson Air Force Base, and Southwest Ohio and are part of the House approved bill. Those provisions follow below. Military Child Custody Protections Section 552—Protection of Child Custody Arrangements for Parents Who Are Members of the Armed Forces This section would amend title II of the Service Members Civil Relief Act (50 U.S.C. app. 521) to require a court that issued a temporary custody order based solely on the deployment or anticipated deployment of a service member to reinstate the custody order that was in effect immediately preceding the temporary order, unless the court finds reinstatement is not in the best interest of the child. This section would also prohibit a court from using deployment or the possibility of deployment as the sole factor when determining the best interest of a child. Air Force Institute of Technology (AFIT) AFIT Report StructureReport language has been included to encourage the Air Force to consider alternative organizational structures, including a closer alignment with Air Force or Department of Defense engineering and acquisition functions. Air Education and Training Command (AETC) provides basic military training, initial and advanced technical training, flying training, and professional military and degree-granting education. The committee recognizes the importance of defense and technical focused education and is concerned, that as budget pressures force the services to reevaluate its priorities, AETC may be forced to shift resources to training and reduce its commitment to professional and technical degree-granting education. Such action could have long term implications on the professionalism of the Air Force. Section 245 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013, Public Law 112-239, required the National Research Council to review specialized degree-granting graduate programs of the Department of Defense in science, technology, engineering, mathematics and management. The report required a review of existing organizational structures, including reporting chains, to manage the graduate education needs within the military departments. Until the committee receives this report, the committee encourages the Air Force to continue its traditional emphasis on education and maintain its Air Force education programs. Unmanned Aerial Systems (UAS) UAS Research and Development Report language has been included to encourage the Air Force to aggressively pursue development of technologies which will support advances in UAS and UAS countermeasures, to allow UAS operations in non-permissive environments, and working collaboratively with the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) and National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) to support the integration of UAS into the National Airspace System. The committee has long supported adequate investment for unmanned aerial system (UAS) acquisition and research and development. The committee notes that the U.S. military will continue to use UAS for intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance missions, as well as weapons delivery platforms. The committee also understands that current UAS platforms are primarily used in permissive environments, however future operations may require UAS platforms to operate in non-permissive environments. The committee is aware these systems have improved situational awareness and reduced many of the emotional hazards inherent in air and ground combat, thus decreasing the likelihood of causing civilian noncombatant casualties. The Subcommittee on Tactical Air and Land Forces held a field hearing on April 23, 2013 that reviewed UAS modernization and technology investment. As a result of the hearing, the committee notes that the migration of UAS aircraft and sensor technology to the civilian sector could provide for greater competition, innovations in technology for both civilian and military missions, and could eventually decrease costs for both the government and private sectors. The committee also notes with concern that the budget request is procuring 234 fewer UAS than fiscal year 2013. The committee encourages the Secretary of the Air Force to pursue development of technologies which would support advances in UAS development to include developing UAS for use in non-permissive environments, and encourage the Secretary of the Air Force to work collaboratively with the Federal Aviation Administration and National Aeronautics and Space Administration to support the integration of UAS into the National Airspace System. Trusted Autonomy for Unmanned systemsUnmanned Aerial Systems (UAS) have proven to be valuable tools for our nation’s military, but to achieve the full potential of existing systems, a more seamless environment and ConOps centered on trust must be developed. Building on the capabilities of the Air Force Research Laboratory, Trusted Autonomy will develop enabling virtual and physical verification and validation, inherent trust, autonomous collaboration, closed-loop human-machine awareness, and overall high confidence capabilities for autonomy-based systems. The committee is aware that the increasing congested national airspace will require the ability of unmanned aerial systems (UAS) of all sizes to operate in close proximity to other unmanned, as well as manned aircraft. As national security operations increasingly require expanded use of small, affordable UASs, the committee is concerned that the military with continue to be severely constrained from training in the National Airspace System due to the lack of a validated, effective Airborne Sense and Avoid (ABSAA) capability. The committee is aware that the services have demonstrated some recent advances in technology in which flight testing has demonstrated a highly reliable ABSAA capability. The committee encourages the Department to continue pursuing such technology efforts, such as those carried out by the Combating Terrorism Technology Support Office, in order to allow for significantly expanded ABSAA operational testing. UAS Report on Resource Requirements Necessary to Meet the Integration 5 Year RoadmapSection 1077—Reports on Unmanned Aircraft Systems This section would require the Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of Transportation, the Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration, and the Administrator of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, on behalf of the Unmanned Aircraft Systems (UAS) Executive Committee, to jointly submit a report on unmanned aircraft system collaboration, demonstration, use cases and data sharing to the appropriate committees of Congress within 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act. This section would also require the Secretary of Defense, on behalf of the UAS Executive Committee, to submit a report to the appropriate committees of Congress setting forth the resource requirements needed to meet the milestones for unmanned aircraft systems integration described in the 5-year roadmap under section 332(a)(5) of the FAA Modernization and Reform Act (Public Law 112-95). National Air and Space Intelligence Center (NASIC) NASIC Long Range Ballistic Missile FundingThe global threat environment involving long range ballistic missiles is increasing and the recent actions of North Korea demonstrate the continued need to fund long range ballistic missile intelligence. The National Air and Space Intelligence Center (NASIC) is the primary Department of Defense producer of foreign aerospace intelligence and is the Department expert on foreign aerospace system capabilities. The Committee directs the Department of Defense to fully support NASIC’s funding requirements, especially the long range ballistic missile intelligence function. Ballistic missile threat analysis The committee understands the global threat environment involving ballistic missiles is increasing, and the recent actions of the Democratic Republic of Korea, the Syrian Arab Republic, and the Islamic Republic of Iran demonstrate the continued need to fund ballistic missile intelligence. The National Air and Space Intelligence Center is the primary Department of Defense producer of foreign aerospace intelligence and is the Department's best resource on foreign long-range ballistic missiles. Likewise, the Missile and Space Intelligence Center is the primary intelligence component for the Department on the threat of short-range ballistic missiles to U.S. forces its allies, including the North Atlantic Treaty Organization. The committee directs the Director, Defense Intelligence Agency, in coordination with the Director of National Intelligence, to submit a report to the congressional defense committees and the congressional intelligence committees within 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, that identifies the ballistic missile threats to the United States, its allies, and its deployed forces, as well as the gaps in our understanding of those threats. The committee further directs the Director to include an explanation for how the Defense Intelligence Agency intends to close the gaps identified in the report. Foreign Material ExploitationDirective report language has been included to require the Department of Defense (DoD) to take all steps necessary to ensure the Services have all facilities and resources necessary to contradict and exploit current foreign military systems. Consistent with last year’s report, the committee notes the importance of the foreign materiel exploitation of the Department of Defense. According to Department of Defense Office of the Inspector General Report Number 98-005, foreign materiel exploitation involves analysis, testing, and evaluation of foreign materiel, to include testing against U.S. equipment. Foreign materiel exploitation supports Department of Defense acquisition programs, testing, threat simulator and target development, modeling and simulation, and training and tactics. The committee encourages the Department to ensure the military services have the necessarily facilities and resources to perform this critical mission. Unmanned Ground Vehicles Upgrades and Repairs A provision has been included to deal with the upgrades and repair of unmanned ground systems coming back from overseas war zones. The committee notes that over the past 10 years, the Army has procured more than 5,000 unmanned ground vehicles (UGVs) of various sizes and for numerous missions. The committee also notes that if modified, many of these UGVs could support engineering, military police, and chemical-biological-radiological-nuclear missions, as well as gives them uses in domestic support scenarios. However, the committee is concerned that the Army has not transitioned many of its UGV programs to base budget programs-of-record. For example, the PackBot and Talon systems continue to be managed primarily through Overseas Contingency Operations funding outside the Army’s normal upgrade programs. The committee believes that the continued ad hoc nature of the UGV programs will not allow for proper sustainment and upgrades in the future. Therefore, the committee encourages the Secretary of the Army to establish a formal acquisition program for fiscal year 2015 to properly facilitate repair, maintenance, and upgrades of the Army's UGVs. The program should comply with current Federal Acquisition Regulations and should be funded through budget lines for research, development, test, and evaluation, procurement, and modifications. ###
06.14.2013	Congressman Mike Turner, Co-Chair of the Military Sexual Assault Prevention Caucus, has included an amendment to the House passed National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) that would impose a mandatory minimum sentence of 2 years confinement and a dishonorable discharge for those convicted of rape and sexual assault. “Imposing a mandatory minimum sentence, which includes confinement and a discharge, sends a strong message to servicemembers that this is a serious crime. It also guarantees that those who are convicted will receive serious and more appropriate sentences. Servicemembers should know that if you’re convicted of this crime, you won’t have the privilege of serving our great nation, and you will go to jail,” said Turner. Approximately 22 states currently have mandatory minimum sentences for those convicted of rape and sexual assault. The only mandatory minimum punishments currently provided within the Uniform Code of Military Justice (UCMJ) are for premeditated and felony murder, and spying. ____ Turner had included a number of provisions in the House Armed Services Committee approved National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA). Those provisions remain as part of the now House passed legislation. The provisions in the FY 2014 NDAA enhances the rights of victims, establishes minimum sentences for those convicted of sexual assault, and looks at how commanders handle these cases. For several years, Turner has included provisions to put a stop to this crime which recent statistics show have impacted 26,000 of our men and women in uniform over the past year. Victims Counsel Amendment An amendment to Article 27, Uniform Code of Military Justice (10 USC 827) creating a detailing requirement for a special victim counsel to the alleged victim in a general court-martial or special court-martial where charges and specifications of a sex-related crime have been preferred. Adds clarifying language to 10 USC 1044 to ensure that all services within the Armed Forces have authority to provide a victim legal counsel to victims in sex-related cases. Section 536—Victims' Counsel for Victims of Sex-Related Offenses and Related Provisions This section would require Victims' Counsels, who would be qualified and specially trained lawyers in each of the Armed Forces, to be made available to provide legal assistance to victims of sex-related offenses, which include rape and sexual assault, stalking, and rape and sexual assault of a child. The legal assistance authorized by this section would include accompanying the victim at any proceedings related to the reporting, military investigation, and military prosecution of the sex-related offense, as well as legal consultation on the military justice system, the potential criminal liability of the victim stemming from the sex related offense, the Victim Witness Assistance Program, potential civil litigation by the victim, medical support, and mental health counseling. This section would allow the victim the option of declining the assistance without prejudicing a later decision to seek such assistance. This section would require Victim's Counsels to be available within 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act. This section would also require the Secretary of Defense, in coordination with the Secretary of Homeland Security, to provide the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives with a report on how the Armed Forces will implement this section. The report would be due within 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act. Furthermore, this section would require the independent Response Systems Panel, established by section 576(a)(1) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013 (Public Law 112-239) to assess whether the legal assistance authorized by this section should be expanded to include legal standing to represent the victim during investigative and military justice proceedings. Finally, this section would task the independent Judicial Proceedings Panel established by section 576(a)(2) of the cited public law to assess the implementation and effect of the Victims' Counsel program established by this section. Sexual Assault Mandatory Minimum Sentences Establishes mandatory minimum sentences for specific sex-related crimes within the Uniform Code of Military Justice. Section 533—Discharge or Dismissal for Certain Sex-Related Offenses and Trial of Offenses by General Courts-Martial This section would establish dismissal (for officers, commissioned warrant officers, cadets, and midshipmen) or dishonorable discharge (for enlisted personnel and warrant officers who are not commissioned) as the mandatory minimum sentence for a person subject to the Uniform Code of Military Justice who is convicted by court-martial of rape, sexual assault, forcible sodomy, or an attempt to commit those offenses. Given such mandatory minimum sentences, this section would also limit jurisdiction for trial of the cited offenses to only a general court-martial. The changes to the Uniform Code of Military Justice made by this section would be effective 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act and apply to offenses committed after that date. This section would also require the Independent Response Systems Panel established by section 576(a)(1) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013 (Public Law 112-239) to assess the appropriateness of establishing additional mandatory minimum sentences for other offenses under the Uniform Code of Military Justice. Furthermore, this section would require the independent Judicial Proceedings Panel established by section 576(a)(2) of Public Law 112-239 to assess the implementation and effect of mandatory minimum sentences established by this section. Reform Convening Authority Post-trial Review Amends Article 60, Uniform Code of Military Justice (10 USC 860) to: i. (1) repeal convening authority’s ability to (a) to dismiss any charge or specification by setting aside a finding of guilty thereto; or (b) to change a finding of guilty to a charge or specification to a finding of guilty to an offense that is a lesser included offense of the offense stated in the charge or specification except in cases of qualified offenses; and ii. (2)Require convening authority or other person acting on the case under section 860 of this title to provide written justification for any modifications or setting aside of any portion of the adjudged sentence; and iii. (3) Repeal the Convening Authority’s ability to modify an adjudged sentence beyond the minimum mandatory sentence for any charge or specification for which a minimum mandatory sentence exists. iv. B. Amend Article 71(d) to require convening authority or other person acting on the case under section 860 of this title to provide written justification for any decision to suspend the execution of any sentence or part thereof. Section 531—Limitations on Convening Authority Discretion Regarding Court-Martial Findings and Sentence This section would amend section 860 of title 10 of the United States Code, to remove the command prerogative and sole discretion of the court-martial convening authority with regard to the findings and sentence of a court-martial. Specifically, with regard to the findings of a court-martial, the section would prohibit the convening authority from dismissing a finding, or from reducing a guilty finding to guilty of a lesser included offense, except for minor offenses. This section would define a minor offense as any in which the adjudged court-martial sentence was not more than 30 days' confinement, or forfeiture of two-thirds pay per month for one month, or reduction to the lowest grade, or a combination of those. Regardless of the adjudged sentence, this section would exclude the offenses of murder, rape, sexual assault, rape or sexual assault of a child, or any other offense punishable by death from being considered a minor offense. With regard to sentences, this section would continue to authorize the convening authority to approve, disapprove, commute, or suspend a sentence in whole or in part, except where the offense had a mandatory minimum sentence. In such cases, this section would prohibit the convening authority from reducing, disapproving, commuting, or suspending an adjudged mandatory minimum sentence, except when, upon the recommendation of the trial counsel, the accused provided substantial cooperation in the investigation or the prosecution of another person who had committed an offense. Under such circumstances, the convening authority could impose a sentence below that of the mandatory minimum sentence, or disapprove, commute, or suspend the adjudged sentence in whole or in part. Furthermore, when an adjudged sentence includes punishments in addition to the mandatory minimum sentence, this section would permit the convening authority to modify, disapprove, commute, or suspend those additional punishments. Finally, this section would require that if the convening authority acted to change a finding or sentence, then the convening authority's written rationale for the action would be provided at the same time and made part of the record of trial. Coast Guard STRONG Amend 10 USC Chapter 39, §673 (put in place by section 582 of the FY12 of the NDAA) so that all services within the Armed Forces have a policy for the expedited consideration of a transfer request by a victim of sexual assault. Section 534—Regulations Regarding Consideration of Application for Permanent Change of Station or Unit Transfer by Victims of Sexual Assault This section would require the Secretary concerned to issue regulations to provide for timely determination and action on an application for consideration of a change of station or unit transfer submitted by a member of the Armed Forces serving on Active Duty who is a victim of sexual assault. Elimination of Five-Year Statute of Limitations on Trial by Court-Martial for Additional Offenses Involving Sex-Related Crimes Eliminates five-year statute of limitations on Trial by Courts-Martial for sexual assault and sexual assault of a child, pursuant to 10 U.S.C. 920 (b) and 920b (b) (Articles 120 (b) and 120b (b) of the Uniform Code of Military Justice. Section 532—Elimination of Five-Year Statute of Limitations on Trial by Court-Martial for Additional Offenses Involving Sex-Related Crimes This section would add sexual assault and sexual assault of a child, offenses covered respectively by section 920(b) and section 920b(b) of title 10, United States Code, to the list of offenses in the Uniform Code of Military Justice that may be tried and punished at any time without limitation. This section would apply to offenses committed on or after the date of the enactment of this Act. Temporary Administrative Reassignment or Removal of Military Personnel Accused of Committing Sexual Assault or Related Offense Affirms commanders ‘authority to consider the need for and provide for the temporary administrative reassignment or removal of a member on active duty who is accused of committing a sexual assault or other sex-related offense from a position of authority or assignment. Section 535—Consideration of Need for, and Authority to Provide for, Temporary Administrative Reassignment or Removal of a Member on Active Duty Who is Accused of Committing a Sexual Assault or Related Offense This section would authorize the Secretary concerned to provide guidance for commanders regarding authority for temporary reassignment or removal of an individual from a position of authority who is alleged to have committed a sexual assault or other sex-related offense under section 920, 920a, 920b or 920c of title 10 United States Code. Further, this section would require the Secretary of Defense to include information on the use of such authority as part of training for new and prospective commanders. SECDEF Report on Role of Commanders in Military Justice Process Requires the Secretary of Defense to submit a report to Congress containing an assessment of the current role of commanders in the administration of military justice and the investigation, prosecution, and adjudication of offenses under the Uniform Code of Military Justice. Specifically, the Secretary of Defense shall assess the post-trial authority of the commander as convening authority under 10 U.S.C. 860, and include a recommendation regarding whether this authority should be further modified or repealed. Section 538—Secretary Defense Report on Role of Commanders in Military Justice Process This section would require the Secretary of Defense to assess the current role and authorities of commanders in the administration of military justice and the investigation, prosecution, and adjudication of offenses under the Uniform Code of Military Justice. This section would also require the Secretary to report the assessment, together with his recommendation whether the role and authorities of commanders should be further modified or repealed, to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives within 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act. SECDEF Report on Role of Commanders in Military Justice Process Allow the victim an opportunity to provide additional matters to the convening authority for consideration prior to the convening authority taking action on the accused’s conviction or sentence. Prohibits Convening Authority from considering any character evidence about the victim which was not admitted for consideration at trial. Participation by the Victim in Clemency Phase of Courts-Martial Process Allow the victim an opportunity to provide additional matters to the convening authority for consideration prior to the convening authority taking action on the accused’s conviction or sentence. Prohibits the Convening Authority from considering any character evidence about the victim which was not admitted for consideration at trial. Defense Counsel Interview of Complaining Witnesses in Presence of Victim’s Counsel or Victim’s Advocate Upon notice of the trial counsel to the defense counsel, of the name and address of the victim(s) that trial counsel intends to call to testify at any portion of the investigation or a court-martial, defense counsel may not interview any such complaining witness without requesting such interview from trial counsel. This section does not limit the defense counsel’s access to the victim in any way, but simply requires the defense counsel to give notice to the prosecutor as they would with other witnesses. Upon the request of the victim, any interview of the witness by defense counsel shall take place only in the presence of counsel for the witness, or victim’s advocate. 8-Day Incident Reports Following Unrestricted Reports of Sexual Assault on Members of the Armed Forces Requires the Secretary of Defense to create a reporting requirement to ensure that the first 0-6 officer and first general of flag officer in the chain of command of the member filing the sexual assault report are notified of the incident and response measures taken to investigate and provide care to victim within 8 days of report. The No Tolerance Act Enhanced Protections for Prospective Members of the Armed Forces During Entry-Level Processing and Training Requires the Armed Forces to establish and maintain a policy to uniformly define and prescribe what constitutes an inappropriate and prohibited relationship, communication, conduct, or contact, including when such an action is consensual, between a member of the Armed Forces and a prospective member or new member of the Armed Forces. This policy will be punitive in nature and those in violation will be subject to the Uniform Code of Military Justice. Mandatory Processing for Administrative Separation for those in Violation of this Inappropriate Relationship Policy This provision will ensure that at a minimum, those servicemembers found to be involved in an inappropriate relationships with either a new member or prospective member of the Armed Forces will be processed for administrative separation from the Armed Forces. Proposed Uniform Code of Military Justice Punitive Article Requires the Secretary of Defense to submit to Congress a proposed punitive article for addition to the Uniform Code of Military Justice under which this type of inappropriate relationship with a new member or prospective member of the Armed Forces will be prosecuted. ###
06.13.2013	Congressman Mike Turner, a senior member of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee, has introduced The Stop Internal Resource Slush Fund (IRS) Act. The Stop IRS Act is a straightforward, commonsense measure that seeks to achieve two important policy goals – putting an end to government slush funds and reducing the federal deficit. “My bill prohibits the IRS from using back door budgeting to create the slush funds they used to throw themselves lavish parties at taxpayer expense. These are the public servants we entrust to safeguard taxpayer dollars, not to spend them on frivolous activities,” said Turner. Specifically, the Stop IRS Act would prohibit the IRS from transferring or reprogramming funds derived from: Congressional appropriations for salaries, expenses, and personnel; user fees; and reimbursable programs. Additionally, the Stop IRS Act would require that any unused funds from these sources are rescinded and returned to the Treasury Department for the sole purpose of deficit reduction. The Stop IRS Act would require that those funds be returned within ninety (90) days of the end of the fiscal year in which the funds were available to the IRS. “Like most Americans, I am appalled by the behavior we have seen at the IRS. From targeting to partying, the Administration has clearly allowed the IRS to spin wildly out of control,” added Turner. At a hearing last week, Turner took IRS officials to task for their mismanagement and waste of taxpayer dollars by the agency entrusted to collect them. In his line of questioning, Turner uncovered that a slush fund paid for the conference. The taxpayer dollars were actually intended to be used for personnel, not a party. The Treasury Inspector General noted that if the dollars weren’t used, it would have been returned to the Treasury Department. NOTE: A Copy of the text of the legislation can be found here. ###
06.10.2013	Congressman Mike Turner, a senior member of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee, announced on FOX News that he is preparing legislation to recapture government funds that are being used for purposes other than filling the personnel positions they were intended for. At a hearing last week, Turner took IRS officials to task for their mismanagement and waste of taxpayer dollars by the agency entrusted to collect them. In his line of questioning, Turner uncovered that a slush fund paid for the conference. The taxpayer dollars were actually intended to be used for personnel, not a party. The Treasury Inspector General noted that if the dollars weren’t used, it would have been returned to the Treasury Department. Turner has vowed to close this loophole, which across the U.S. Government, could result in the recapture of significant amounts of potentially wasted taxpayer dollars. ###
06.06.2013	Congressman Mike Turner, a senior member of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee (OGR), talked with Griff Jenkins last night on FOX News’ On the Record with Greta Van Susteren, regarding the IRS’ $64,000 swag bag handed out to employees at a lavish conference. Today, OGR is holding a hearing on the excessive conference spending. Turner highlighted the mismanagement and waste of taxpayer dollars by the agency entrusted to collect them. ###
06.06.2013	Congressman Mike Turner is announcing that the House Oversight & Government Reform Subcommittee on Government Operations will hold a field hearing in Dayton on Monday June 10th. The hearing, entitled “The Delphi Pension Bailout: Unequal Treatment of Retirees,” will take place at Sinclair Community College. “This field hearing will continue to highlight the shameful treatment of Delphi Salaried Retirees by the Obama Administration. They picked winners and losers during a failed bailout which has cost the taxpayers billions of dollars and these retirees their futures. I will continue to support the retirees in their efforts to have their pensions restored, as well as to hold this Administration accountable for their actions,” said Congressman Turner. “I stand with Congressman Turner in his fight to restore the pensions of Delphi retirees across Ohio and around the country. It is deplorable to see that the Administration has chosen to protect the pensions of their political allies while depriving others of the pension they earned. These hard-working Americans deserve to be treated fairly and to have their pensions restored immediately. I am pleased to hold this hearing in Dayton to bring further attention to what can only be described as preferential treatment by the Obama Administration,” said Congressman Mica. WHO: House Oversight & Government Reform, Subcommittee on Government Operations - Congressman John Mica (R-FL), Chairman - Congressman Mike Turner (R-OH), Co-Chair Auto Industry Pension Task Force Panel 1 - Tom Rose, Delphi Salaried Retiree - Mary Miller, Delphi Salaried Retiree - Bruce Gump, Delphi Salaried Retiree Panel 2 - James Sherk, Senior Policy Analyst in Labor Economics – The Heritage Foundation - Mr. Paul Dobosz, Former Manager - Delphi Engineering Research Group WHAT: House Oversight & Government Reform Subcommittee on Government Operations Field Hearing - “The Delphi Pension Bailout: Unequal Treatment of Retirees” WHERE: Sinclair Community College; Dayton, OH WHEN: June 10, 2013 - 10am - 12pm ###
06.06.2013	Congressman Mike Turner, Chairman of the House Armed Services Tactical Air and Land Forces Subcommittee, has included a number of provisions in the FY 2014 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) which stand to benefit servicemembers, Wright-Patterson Air Force Base, and Southwest Ohio. The annual defense authorization was approved by the full House Armed Services Committee and heads to the House floor for a vote in late June. “This legislation represents a number of opportunities for our community. I am proud to have included a range of provisions including those that would benefit our servicemembers, further opportunities for Southwest Ohio facilities like AFIT and NASIC, and strengthen efforts to develop Unmanned Aerial Systems. These are issues which go to the heart of our national security and ultimately our community. I am proud to see these provisions passed and look forward to joining the House later this month in sending this legislation to the Senate,” said Turner. Military Child Custody Protections Section 552—Protection of Child Custody Arrangements for Parents Who Are Members of the Armed Forces This section would amend title II of the Service Members Civil Relief Act (50 U.S.C. app. 521) to require a court that issued a temporary custody order based solely on the deployment or anticipated deployment of a service member to reinstate the custody order that was in effect immediately preceding the temporary order, unless the court finds reinstatement is not in the best interest of the child. This section would also prohibit a court from using deployment or the possibility of deployment as the sole factor when determining the best interest of a child. Air Force Institute of Technology (AFIT) AFIT Report Structure Report language has been included to encourage the Air Force to consider alternative organizational structures, including a closer alignment with Air Force or Department of Defense engineering and acquisition functions. Air Education and Training Command (AETC) provides basic military training, initial and advanced technical training, flying training, and professional military and degree-granting education. The committee recognizes the importance of defense and technical focused education and is concerned, that as budget pressures force the services to reevaluate its priorities, AETC may be forced to shift resources to training and reduce its commitment to professional and technical degree-granting education. Such action could have long term implications on the professionalism of the Air Force. Section 245 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013, Public Law 112-239, required the National Research Council to review specialized degree-granting graduate programs of the Department of Defense in science, technology, engineering, mathematics and management. The report required a review of existing organizational structures, including reporting chains, to manage the graduate education needs within the military departments. Until the committee receives this report, the committee encourages the Air Force to continue its traditional emphasis on education and maintain its Air Force education programs. Unmanned Aerial Systems (UAS) UAS Research and Development Report language has been included to encourage the Air Force to aggressively pursue development of technologies which will support advances in UAS and UAS countermeasures, to allow UAS operations in non-permissive environments, and working collaboratively with the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) and National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) to support the integration of UAS into the National Airspace System. The committee has long supported adequate investment for unmanned aerial system (UAS) acquisition and research and development. The committee notes that the U.S. military will continue to use UAS for intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance missions, as well as weapons delivery platforms. The committee also understands that current UAS platforms are primarily used in permissive environments, however future operations may require UAS platforms to operate in non-permissive environments. The committee is aware these systems have improved situational awareness and reduced many of the emotional hazards inherent in air and ground combat, thus decreasing the likelihood of causing civilian noncombatant casualties. The Subcommittee on Tactical Air and Land Forces held a field hearing on April 23, 2013 that reviewed UAS modernization and technology investment. As a result of the hearing, the committee notes that the migration of UAS aircraft and sensor technology to the civilian sector could provide for greater competition, innovations in technology for both civilian and military missions, and could eventually decrease costs for both the government and private sectors. The committee also notes with concern that the budget request is procuring 234 fewer UAS than fiscal year 2013. The committee encourages the Secretary of the Air Force to pursue development of technologies which would support advances in UAS development to include developing UAS for use in non-permissive environments, and encourage the Secretary of the Air Force to work collaboratively with the Federal Aviation Administration and National Aeronautics and Space Administration to support the integration of UAS into the National Airspace System. Trusted Autonomy for Unmanned systems Unmanned Aerial Systems (UAS) have proven to be valuable tools for our nation’s military, but to achieve the full potential of existing systems, a more seamless environment and ConOps centered on trust must be developed. Building on the capabilities of the Air Force Research Laboratory, Trusted Autonomy will develop enabling virtual and physical verification and validation, inherent trust, autonomous collaboration, closed-loop human-machine awareness, and overall high confidence capabilities for autonomy-based systems. The committee is aware that the increasing congested national airspace will require the ability of unmanned aerial systems (UAS) of all sizes to operate in close proximity to other unmanned, as well as manned aircraft. As national security operations increasingly require expanded use of small, affordable UASs, the committee is concerned that the military with continue to be severely constrained from training in the National Airspace System due to the lack of a validated, effective Airborne Sense and Avoid (ABSAA) capability. The committee is aware that the services have demonstrated some recent advances in technology in which flight testing has demonstrated a highly reliable ABSAA capability. The committee encourages the Department to continue pursuing such technology efforts, such as those carried out by the Combating Terrorism Technology Support Office, in order to allow for significantly expanded ABSAA operational testing. UAS Report on Resource Requirements Necessary to Meet the Integration 5 Year Roadmap Section 1077—Reports on Unmanned Aircraft Systems This section would require the Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of Transportation, the Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration, and the Administrator of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, on behalf of the Unmanned Aircraft Systems (UAS) Executive Committee, to jointly submit a report on unmanned aircraft system collaboration, demonstration, use cases and data sharing to the appropriate committees of Congress within 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act. This section would also require the Secretary of Defense, on behalf of the UAS Executive Committee, to submit a report to the appropriate committees of Congress setting forth the resource requirements needed to meet the milestones for unmanned aircraft systems integration described in the 5-year roadmap under section 332(a)(5) of the FAA Modernization and Reform Act (Public Law 112-95). National Air and Space Intelligence Center (NASIC) NASIC Long Range Ballistic Missile Funding The global threat environment involving long range ballistic missiles is increasing and the recent actions of North Korea demonstrate the continued need to fund long range ballistic missile intelligence. The National Air and Space Intelligence Center (NASIC) is the primary Department of Defense producer of foreign aerospace intelligence and is the Department expert on foreign aerospace system capabilities. The Committee directs the Department of Defense to fully support NASIC’s funding requirements, especially the long range ballistic missile intelligence function. Ballistic missile threat analysis The committee understands the global threat environment involving ballistic missiles is increasing, and the recent actions of the Democratic Republic of Korea, the Syrian Arab Republic, and the Islamic Republic of Iran demonstrate the continued need to fund ballistic missile intelligence. The National Air and Space Intelligence Center is the primary Department of Defense producer of foreign aerospace intelligence and is the Department's best resource on foreign long-range ballistic missiles. Likewise, the Missile and Space Intelligence Center is the primary intelligence component for the Department on the threat of short-range ballistic missiles to U.S. forces its allies, including the North Atlantic Treaty Organization. The committee directs the Director, Defense Intelligence Agency, in coordination with the Director of National Intelligence, to submit a report to the congressional defense committees and the congressional intelligence committees within 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, that identifies the ballistic missile threats to the United States, its allies, and its deployed forces, as well as the gaps in our understanding of those threats. The committee further directs the Director to include an explanation for how the Defense Intelligence Agency intends to close the gaps identified in the report. Foreign Material Exploitation Directive report language has been included to require the Department of Defense (DoD) to take all steps necessary to ensure the Services have all facilities and resources necessary to contradict and exploit current foreign military systems. Consistent with last year’s report, the committee notes the importance of the foreign materiel exploitation of the Department of Defense. According to Department of Defense Office of the Inspector General Report Number 98-005, foreign materiel exploitation involves analysis, testing, and evaluation of foreign materiel, to include testing against U.S. equipment. Foreign materiel exploitation supports Department of Defense acquisition programs, testing, threat simulator and target development, modeling and simulation, and training and tactics. The committee encourages the Department to ensure the military services have the necessarily facilities and resources to perform this critical mission. Unmanned Ground Vehicles Upgrades and Repairs A provision has been included to deal with the upgrades and repair of unmanned ground systems coming back from overseas war zones. The committee notes that over the past 10 years, the Army has procured more than 5,000 unmanned ground vehicles (UGVs) of various sizes and for numerous missions. The committee also notes that if modified, many of these UGVs could support engineering, military police, and chemical-biological-radiological-nuclear missions, as well as gives them uses in domestic support scenarios. However, the committee is concerned that the Army has not transitioned many of its UGV programs to base budget programs-of-record. For example, the PackBot and Talon systems continue to be managed primarily through Overseas Contingency Operations funding outside the Army’s normal upgrade programs. The committee believes that the continued ad hoc nature of the UGV programs will not allow for proper sustainment and upgrades in the future. Therefore, the committee encourages the Secretary of the Army to establish a formal acquisition program for fiscal year 2015 to properly facilitate repair, maintenance, and upgrades of the Army's UGVs. The program should comply with current Federal Acquisition Regulations and should be funded through budget lines for research, development, test, and evaluation, procurement, and modifications. ###
06.06.2013	Congressman Mike Turner, Co-Chair of the Military Sexual Assault Prevention Caucus, has included a number of provisions in the House Armed Services Committee approved National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) to combat sexual assault in the military. For several years, Turner has included provisions to put a stop to this crime which recent statistics show have impacted 26,000 of our men and women in uniform over the past year. The provisions in the FY 2014 NDAA enhances the rights of victims, establishes minimum sentences for those convicted of sexual assault, and looks at how commanders handle these cases. “I am proud of the bipartisan and bicameral work that has gone into these provisions. This is a crime which affects the morale and welfare of our men and women in uniform. Too often victims are re-victimized by the system. I look forward to joining my colleagues in the full House in approving these provisions and working with the Senate in crafting a final bill,” said Turner. Victims Counsel AmendmentAn amendment to Article 27, Uniform Code of Military Justice (10 USC 827) creating a detailing requirement for a special victim counsel to the alleged victim in a general court-martial or special court-martial where charges and specifications of a sex-related crime have been preferred. Adds clarifying language to 10 USC 1044 to ensure that all services within the Armed Forces have authority to provide a victim legal counsel to victims in sex-related cases. Section 536—Victims' Counsel for Victims of Sex-Related Offenses and Related Provisions This section would require Victims' Counsels, who would be qualified and specially trained lawyers in each of the Armed Forces, to be made available to provide legal assistance to victims of sex-related offenses, which include rape and sexual assault, stalking, and rape and sexual assault of a child. The legal assistance authorized by this section would include accompanying the victim at any proceedings related to the reporting, military investigation, and military prosecution of the sex-related offense, as well as legal consultation on the military justice system, the potential criminal liability of the victim stemming from the sex related offense, the Victim Witness Assistance Program, potential civil litigation by the victim, medical support, and mental health counseling. This section would allow the victim the option of declining the assistance without prejudicing a later decision to seek such assistance. This section would require Victim's Counsels to be available within 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act. This section would also require the Secretary of Defense, in coordination with the Secretary of Homeland Security, to provide the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives with a report on how the Armed Forces will implement this section. The report would be due within 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act. Furthermore, this section would require the independent Response Systems Panel, established by section 576(a)(1) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013 (Public Law 112-239) to assess whether the legal assistance authorized by this section should be expanded to include legal standing to represent the victim during investigative and military justice proceedings. Finally, this section would task the independent Judicial Proceedings Panel established by section 576(a)(2) of the cited public law to assess the implementation and effect of the Victims' Counsel program established by this section. Sexual Assault Mandatory Minimum SentencesEstablishes mandatory minimum sentences for specific sex-related crimes within the Uniform Code of Military Justice. Section 533—Discharge or Dismissal for Certain Sex-Related Offenses and Trial of Offenses by General Courts-Martial This section would establish dismissal (for officers, commissioned warrant officers, cadets, and midshipmen) or dishonorable discharge (for enlisted personnel and warrant officers who are not commissioned) as the mandatory minimum sentence for a person subject to the Uniform Code of Military Justice who is convicted by court-martial of rape, sexual assault, forcible sodomy, or an attempt to commit those offenses. Given such mandatory minimum sentences, this section would also limit jurisdiction for trial of the cited offenses to only a general court-martial. The changes to the Uniform Code of Military Justice made by this section would be effective 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act and apply to offenses committed after that date. This section would also require the Independent Response Systems Panel established by section 576(a)(1) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013 (Public Law 112-239) to assess the appropriateness of establishing additional mandatory minimum sentences for other offenses under the Uniform Code of Military Justice. Furthermore, this section would require the independent Judicial Proceedings Panel established by section 576(a)(2) of Public Law 112-239 to assess the implementation and effect of mandatory minimum sentences established by this section. Reform Convening Authority Post-trial ReviewAmends Article 60, Uniform Code of Military Justice (10 USC 860) to: i. (1) repeal convening authority’s ability to (a) to dismiss any charge or specification by setting aside a finding of guilty thereto; or (b) to change a finding of guilty to a charge or specification to a finding of guilty to an offense that is a lesser included offense of the offense stated in the charge or specification except in cases of qualified offenses; and ii. (2)Require convening authority or other person acting on the case under section 860 of this title to provide written justification for any modifications or setting aside of any portion of the adjudged sentence; and iii. (3) Repeal the Convening Authority’s ability to modify an adjudged sentence beyond the minimum mandatory sentence for any charge or specification for which a minimum mandatory sentence exists. iv. B. Amend Article 71(d) to require convening authority or other person acting on the case under section 860 of this title to provide written justification for any decision to suspend the execution of any sentence or part thereof. Section 531—Limitations on Convening Authority Discretion Regarding Court-Martial Findings and Sentence This section would amend section 860 of title 10 of the United States Code, to remove the command prerogative and sole discretion of the court-martial convening authority with regard to the findings and sentence of a court-martial. Specifically, with regard to the findings of a court-martial, the section would prohibit the convening authority from dismissing a finding, or from reducing a guilty finding to guilty of a lesser included offense, except for minor offenses. This section would define a minor offense as any in which the adjudged court-martial sentence was not more than 30 days' confinement, or forfeiture of two-thirds pay per month for one month, or reduction to the lowest grade, or a combination of those. Regardless of the adjudged sentence, this section would exclude the offenses of murder, rape, sexual assault, rape or sexual assault of a child, or any other offense punishable by death from being considered a minor offense. With regard to sentences, this section would continue to authorize the convening authority to approve, disapprove, commute, or suspend a sentence in whole or in part, except where the offense had a mandatory minimum sentence. In such cases, this section would prohibit the convening authority from reducing, disapproving, commuting, or suspending an adjudged mandatory minimum sentence, except when, upon the recommendation of the trial counsel, the accused provided substantial cooperation in the investigation or the prosecution of another person who had committed an offense. Under such circumstances, the convening authority could impose a sentence below that of the mandatory minimum sentence, or disapprove, commute, or suspend the adjudged sentence in whole or in part. Furthermore, when an adjudged sentence includes punishments in addition to the mandatory minimum sentence, this section would permit the convening authority to modify, disapprove, commute, or suspend those additional punishments. Finally, this section would require that if the convening authority acted to change a finding or sentence, then the convening authority's written rationale for the action would be provided at the same time and made part of the record of trial. Coast Guard STRONGAmend 10 USC Chapter 39, §673 (put in place by section 582 of the FY12 of the NDAA) so that all services within the Armed Forces have a policy for the expedited consideration of a transfer request by a victim of sexual assault. Section 534—Regulations Regarding Consideration of Application for Permanent Change of Station or Unit Transfer by Victims of Sexual Assault This section would require the Secretary concerned to issue regulations to provide for timely determination and action on an application for consideration of a change of station or unit transfer submitted by a member of the Armed Forces serving on Active Duty who is a victim of sexual assault. Elimination of Five-Year Statute of Limitations on Trial by Court-Martial for Additional Offenses Involving Sex-Related CrimesEliminates five-year statute of limitations on Trial by Courts-Martial for sexual assault and sexual assault of a child, pursuant to 10 U.S.C. 920 (b) and 920b (b) (Articles 120 (b) and 120b (b) of the Uniform Code of Military Justice. Section 532—Elimination of Five-Year Statute of Limitations on Trial by Court-Martial for Additional Offenses Involving Sex-Related Crimes This section would add sexual assault and sexual assault of a child, offenses covered respectively by section 920(b) and section 920b(b) of title 10, United States Code, to the list of offenses in the Uniform Code of Military Justice that may be tried and punished at any time without limitation. This section would apply to offenses committed on or after the date of the enactment of this Act. Temporary Administrative Reassignment or Removal of Military Personnel Accused of Committing Sexual Assault or Related OffenseAffirms commanders ‘authority to consider the need for and provide for the temporary administrative reassignment or removal of a member on active duty who is accused of committing a sexual assault or other sex-related offense from a position of authority or assignment. Section 535—Consideration of Need for, and Authority to Provide for, Temporary Administrative Reassignment or Removal of a Member on Active Duty Who is Accused of Committing a Sexual Assault or Related Offense This section would authorize the Secretary concerned to provide guidance for commanders regarding authority for temporary reassignment or removal of an individual from a position of authority who is alleged to have committed a sexual assault or other sex-related offense under section 920, 920a, 920b or 920c of title 10 United States Code. Further, this section would require the Secretary of Defense to include information on the use of such authority as part of training for new and prospective commanders. SECDEF Report on Role of Commanders in Military Justice ProcessRequires the Secretary of Defense to submit a report to Congress containing an assessment of the current role of commanders in the administration of military justice and the investigation, prosecution, and adjudication of offenses under the Uniform Code of Military Justice. Specifically, the Secretary of Defense shall assess the post-trial authority of the commander as convening authority under 10 U.S.C. 860, and include a recommendation regarding whether this authority should be further modified or repealed. Section 538—Secretary Defense Report on Role of Commanders in Military Justice Process This section would require the Secretary of Defense to assess the current role and authorities of commanders in the administration of military justice and the investigation, prosecution, and adjudication of offenses under the Uniform Code of Military Justice. This section would also require the Secretary to report the assessment, together with his recommendation whether the role and authorities of commanders should be further modified or repealed, to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives within 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act. SECDEF Report on Role of Commanders in Military Justice ProcessAllow the victim an opportunity to provide additional matters to the convening authority for consideration prior to the convening authority taking action on the accused’s conviction or sentence. Prohibits Convening Authority from considering any character evidence about the victim which was not admitted for consideration at trial. Participation by the Victim in Clemency Phase of Courts-Martial Process Allow the victim an opportunity to provide additional matters to the convening authority for consideration prior to the convening authority taking action on the accused’s conviction or sentence. Prohibits the Convening Authority from considering any character evidence about the victim which was not admitted for consideration at trial. Defense Counsel Interview of Complaining Witnesses in Presence of Victim’s Counsel or Victim’s AdvocateUpon notice of the trial counsel to the defense counsel, of the name and address of the victim(s) that trial counsel intends to call to testify at any portion of the investigation or a court-martial, defense counsel may not interview any such complaining witness without requesting such interview from trial counsel. This section does not limit the defense counsel’s access to the victim in any way, but simply requires the defense counsel to give notice to the prosecutor as they would with other witnesses. Upon the request of the victim, any interview of the witness by defense counsel shall take place only in the presence of counsel for the witness, or victim’s advocate. 8-Day Incident Reports Following Unrestricted Reports of Sexual Assault on Members of the Armed ForcesRequires the Secretary of Defense to create a reporting requirement to ensure that the first 0-6 officer and first general of flag officer in the chain of command of the member filing the sexual assault report are notified of the incident and response measures taken to investigate and provide care to victim within 8 days of report. The No Tolerance Act Enhanced Protections for Prospective Members of the Armed Forces During Entry-Level Processing and TrainingRequires the Armed Forces to establish and maintain a policy to uniformly define and prescribe what constitutes an inappropriate and prohibited relationship, communication, conduct, or contact, including when such an action is consensual, between a member of the Armed Forces and a prospective member or new member of the Armed Forces. This policy will be punitive in nature and those in violation will be subject to the Uniform Code of Military Justice. Mandatory Processing for Administrative Separation for those in Violation of this Inappropriate Relationship PolicyThis provision will ensure that at a minimum, those servicemembers found to be involved in an inappropriate relationships with either a new member or prospective member of the Armed Forces will be processed for administrative separation from the Armed Forces. Proposed Uniform Code of Military Justice Punitive ArticleRequires the Secretary of Defense to submit to Congress a proposed punitive article for addition to the Uniform Code of Military Justice under which this type of inappropriate relationship with a new member or prospective member of the Armed Forces will be prosecuted. ###
06.05.2013	Congressman Mike Turner is announcing an Empowering Women Career Fair in conjunction with Montgomery County’s Workforce Development Division and the International Women’s Ministerial Alliance. The event will take place on Tuesday, June 11th at noon at Sinclair Community College. “Finding opportunities for employment and getting our economy back on track are top priorities for members of our community. I’m proud to host this event in conjunction with Montgomery County’s Workforce Development Division and the International Women’s Ministerial Alliance to help make that happen. This event will help improve the skills of area women seeking to start new jobs or advance their careers,” said Congressman Turner. The fair will have multiple education, training, and resource organizations that provide personal and professional development to residents. In addition, a number of area employers in attendance actively looking to hire area residents. “Montgomery County is committed to working with our citizens so that they are better prepared for jobs now and in the future,” said Dan Foley, President - Montgomery County Commission. “We are hopeful that this targeted event will help women from our area secure a broad range of jobs.” NOTE: Event details follow below. EMPLOYERS: Cintas, Lowes, Wright-Patt Credit Union, GE Aviation, On Time Staffing (Caterpillar), Maple Leaf Home Healthcare, ViaQuest, 1st Advantage Security & Investigations, Cirrus Consulting, Colorcraft Family Portraits, Dayton Civil Service Board, Code Blue, Halo Resource Management, Kable Staffing, State Farm Insurance, Premier Health Partners, Payless, New Horizons Miami Valley, Infocision, Department of Public Safety – Highway Patrol, Horizon Home Healthcare, Montgomery County Child Development Center EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTIONS: Miami University, Indiana Wesleyan, Wilberforce University, Sinclair Community College, Covenant Transport RESOURCE ORGANIZATIONS Avanulo (Self Defense Training Company), Ex-offender Reentry Program, Life Transition for Me, Clothes That Work, About My Sisters, Montgomery County Workforce Development WHAT: Empowering Women Career Fair 2013 WHERE: The Great Hall, Sinclair Community College – 444 W. Third Street, Dayton, OH WHEN: Tuesday, June 11, 2013 - 12pm-4pm ###
06.04.2013	Congressman Mike Turner, a senior member of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee (OGR), submitted the following statement for the record as the House Ways and Means Committee held a hearing on “Organizations Targeted by Internal Revenue Service for Their Personal Beliefs.” In his statement, Turner criticizes the Internal Revenue Service after revelations exposed a failure of leadership when agents at the IRS began targeting organizations based their personal beliefs. In the statement, Turner also hopes that leadership from the targeted groups can help expose the tactics taken by the IRS. Congressman Turner has introduced the Taxpayer Nondiscrimination & Protection Act of 2013. The bill would amend Title 18 of the U.S. code to make it a crime for Internal Revenue Service (IRS) employees to discriminate against individual or group based on the protected rights. U.S. Senator Marco Rubio (FL) introduced companion legislation in the Senate. Statement for the RecordHouse Ways and MeansFull Committee Hearing“Organizations Targeted by Internal Revenue Service for Their Personal Beliefs”June 6, 2013Congressman Michael R. Turner (OH-10) Mr. Chairman, Thank you for holding today’s hearing to further examine the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) targeting organizations for their personal beliefs. It is my hope that hearing directly from the leadership of these organizations will shed further light on the discriminatory tactics and actions taken by the IRS. No matter which party controls the White House, taxpayers deserve to be treated fairly. As the facts surrounding this scandal continue to unfold, we are learning more about this conduct, who may have ordered it, and who may be held responsible. What we know now though, is that the IRS has failed to act in a fair, nonpartisan, and nondiscriminatory manner. In targeting an individual or group for audits and investigation on the basis of their beliefs – and not a legitimate tax-related purpose – the IRS has weakened its level of trust among both the American public and Congress. In response to this undermining of trust, I have introduced H.R. 1950, the Taxpayer Nondiscrimination and Protection Act of 2013. With the support of nearly one-hundred of our colleagues in the House, and a companion measure introduced by Senator Marco Rubio in the U.S. Senate, this bill is aimed at preventing this type of biased, politically-motivated discrimination, and seeks to strengthen taxpayer protections in current law by making this conduct a crime. This bill would take the important step of increasing the maximum penalty for discrimination from mere termination to a criminal punishment. The criminal punishment would allow the federal government to impose a fine, up to five years imprisonment, or both - which is identical to the maximum imprisonment for a member of the President's cabinet who directs an employee to take that sort of action. Moreover, H.R. 1950 expressly states that political speech and political expression are rights guaranteed by the U.S. Constitution. Fairness is neither partisan, nor political; and H.R. 1950 seeks to restore those concepts of fairness to the federal government’s tax collectors, so that no individual or group is so wrongly discriminated against in the future. It is my hope that you will consider taking swift action on this measure and put the IRS on notice that this conduct simply cannot be tolerated. ###
05.31.2013	U.S. Senator Roger Wicker (R-MS) and Congressman Mike Turner (R-OH) are leading a bicameral, bipartisan letter to Sen. Tom Carper (D-DE) and Congressman Darell Issa (R-CA), Chairmen of the Senate and House Oversight Committees respectively, urging them to continue their Committees’ examinations of matters pertaining to the unjust termination of Delphi salaried retiree pensions. “Since the Committees are responsible for government oversight, we ask that you investigate the disparities in the treatment of pensions between Delphi Corporation’s hourly- and salary-based employees. We request that you pursue information from the Department of the Treasury, the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (PBGC), the Office of the Special Inspector General for the Troubled Asset Relief Program (SIGTARP), and all other interested parties,” write the lawmakers. In the course of President Obama’s bailout of General Motors, more than 20,000 salaried retirees of the Delphi Corporation had their pensions wrongfully terminated and drastically reduced, whereas hourly retirees were made whole with generous “top-up” agreements. The Administration’s decision to deny these salaried retirees their hard-earned retirement has left some retirees with their pensions reduced by up to seventy percent and faced with the Administration’s continued refusal to provide information in a thorough and transparent manner. “Congress should hold the Treasury and the PBGC accountable for their actions, and we hope the Committees’ efforts will help resolve this longstanding issue. We ask that you work to provide greater clarity and transparency into actions that lead to this unfortunate outcome,” added the lawmakers. Wicker and Turner are joined by Sens. Rob Portman (R-OH), Dan Coats (R-IN), Thad Cochran (R-MS), Ron Johnson (R-WI), and Reps. Mike Kelly (R-PA), Alan Nunnelee (R-MS), Steven Palazzo (R-MS), Susan Brooks (R-IN), J. Randy Forbes (R-VA), Gregg Harper (R-MS), David Joyce (R-OH), Luke Messer (R-IN), Beto O’Rourke (D-TX), and Austin Scott (R-GA).
05.23.2013	Today, U.S. Senators Claire McCaskill (D-Mo.) and Susan Collins (R-Maine.) and U.S. Representatives Mike Turner (R-Ohio) and Niki Tsongas (D-Mass.) introduced bipartisan, bicameral legislation to combat sexual assaults in the military by better holding perpetrators accountable and better protecting survivors. The updated version of the group’s legislation includes additional provisions to protect and enhance the rights of victims. The lawmakers are working to include the legislation in this year’s National Defense Authorization Act. “The problems the U.S. military have had dealing with this issue—whether it’s aggressively prosecuting perpetrators or effectively protecting survivors—are well chronicled and have gone on far too long,” said U.S. Senator Claire McCaskill, a former county prosecutor and a senior member of the Senate Armed Services Committee. “It’s time for the reforms contained in this bill, and I’m going to work with my colleagues in both chambers and in both parties to ensure that they’re enacted.” “The Department of Defense has a no-tolerance policy towards sexual assault, but the culture does not match that policy,” said U.S. Senator Susan Collins, a senior member of the Senate Defense Appropriations Subcommittee. “Individuals who commit acts of rape or sexual assault have no place in the United States Armed Forces, an institution that depends upon the high standards, ethics, and character of its service members. This is an unacceptable situation and we must work together to address it.” “With more outrageous revelations regarding sexual assault in the military, it’s clear further action is needed on this issue. By updating the BE SAFE Act, which we have included in this year’s House NDAA, we will be taking those additional steps. Specifically, enhanced rights for victims provided in this bill will ensure they not being re-victimized and are treated with respect through the judicial proceedings. I’d like to thank my colleagues, Sens. Susan Collins and Claire McCaskill, as well as Rep. Niki Tsongas for their continued dedication to combating sexual assault in our nation’s military,” said Congressman Mike Turner, Co-Chair of the Military Sexual Assault Prevention Caucus. “I became involved in this issue six years ago when a female soldier told me she was more afraid of her fellow soldiers than she was of the enemy. She carried a knife in her waistband on-base in case she ever needed to fight back. That’s why we introduced this legislation – to fight back. Our bill is an important first step at looking to change the power of commanders and bring power back to those who have had it ripped away. Thanks to the hard work of my colleagues here this morning, we are seeing bipartisan support in the House and Senate and have put this bill on a good path to becoming law,” said Congresswoman Niki Tsongas, Co-Chair of the Military Sexual Assault Prevention Caucus The bill contains reforms to better address sexual assault prosecutions and aid survivors including provisions that: · Remove the convening authority’s ability to change or dismiss an adjudged court-martial conviction for any charge or specification except for a charge or specification for a minor offense. · Require a convening authority to provide written justification for any modifications made to a sentence, and require that they receive input from the victim. · Require that a person found guilty of an offense of rape, sexual assault, forcible sodomy, or an attempt to commit any of those offenses receive a punishment that includes, at a minimum, a dismissal or dishonorable discharge · Eliminate the five-year statute of limitations on Trial by Courts-Martial for sexual assault and sexual assault of a child. This group of lawmakers had previously sponsored the Coast Guard STRONG Act, which applies protections enacted in other branches of the military to the United States Coast Guard. The text of the legislation is available HERE, and a section-by-section breakdown of the bill is attached. ###
05.22.2013	Congressman Mike Turner, Chairman of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Tactical Air and Land Forces, has lead 121 of his colleagues in writing to Army Secretary John McHugh in support of funding for the upgrading of the M1A1 Abrams tanks that our National Guard uses. The President’s budget has once again failed to adequately fund the program, leaving the responsibility of maintaining this critical capability to Congress. “We are deeply concerned to learn that the Army has once again failed to fund production of the M1A2 SEP (Abrams) tank. This decision neglects the Army’s responsibility to modernize the National Guard units, and undervalues the damaging impact to the highly specialized industrial base that supports the program,” the lawmakers write in their letter. Upgrading the Army National Guard fleet to the M1A2-SEP variant would accomplish multiple objectives. It would keep the production lines running and would allow our troops to train on the tanks they will take to war, reducing post mobilization training time and insuring better trained, more lethal and survivable crews. Our troops in the Army National Guard can be called upon at anytime to deploy for combat operations as they have done in Iraq. We cannot afford to send our troops to combat with the second best tank available. The National Guard should be afforded the same protections and capabilities as their active duty counterpart. “The industrial base cannot be turned on and off like a light switch. Failing to fund the program in fiscal year 2014 would likely result in a production break in 2016 that would significantly impact the skilled workforce as well as drive many small companies out of business; leaving our Nation without the necessary industrial capacity to produce tanks when we need them,” write the lawmakers. The Abrams program is supported by nearly 900 suppliers; Seventy-five percent of these suppliers are small business. Twenty-one percent of the suppliers will have to be re-qualified if there is a production break. This means that if there is production break, most of these small businesses will go away and when the Army needs them the Army may have to go overseas to find replacements. NOTE: A copy of the letter follows below. May 21, 2013 The Honorable John McHugh Secretary of the Army 101 Army Pentagon Washington, DC 20310 - 0101 Dear Mr. McHugh, We are deeply concerned to learn that the Army has once again failed to fund production of the M1A2 SEP (Abrams) tank. This decision neglects the Army’s responsibility to modernize the National Guard units, and undervalues the damaging impact to the highly specialized industrial base that supports the program. The Congressional Defense Committees have repeatedly recognized that funding the Abrams is necessary to maintain a critical core capability. The M1A2 is unquestionably the most lethal battle tank in the world, yet the National Guard still uses the less capable M1A1 Abrams tanks. The National Guard has played a very large part in the contingencies operations in Iraq and Afghanistan. They should be using the same variant of tanks as our active duty forces. The Army has a responsibility to maintain the critical infrastructure that produces these vehicles. The Joint Systems Manufacturing Center is a government owned contractor operated facility and is the only domestic facility with the capability to manufacture these vehicles. By failing to adequately plan for future years and eliminating funds for tank productions, the Army has defaulted to a plan that will shutter the plant and drive away its highly skilled employees. It is our understanding that the Army believes that Foreign Military Sales (FMS) alone are enough to keep the facility at minimum levels of production until the next major upgrades to the Abrams tank take place in the 2019 timeframe. Congress has consistently taken the position that FMS alone is an unacceptable level of risk. FMS combined with a minimum level of United States based tanks for the National Guard is the most rational path forward until the next series of upgrades begin. The industrial base cannot be turned on and off like a light switch. Failing to fund the program in fiscal year 2014 would likely result in a production break in 2016 that would significantly impact the skilled workforce as well as drive many small companies out of business; leaving our Nation without the necessary industrial capacity to produce tanks when we need them. The Army must manage these facilities in a responsible manner that does not require Congress to annually consider whether or not they are being properly funded. We ask that you work with Congress to sustain this unique and critical capability and look forward to discussing this issue with you at future congressional hearings. Sincerely, 1. Mike Turner 2. Jim Jordan 3. Tim Ryan 4. Mario Diaz-Balart 5. Rep. Leonard Lance 6. Steve Stivers 7. Trent Franks 8. Richard Nugent 9. Marcy Kaptur 10. Candice Miller 11. Morgan Griffith 12. Mike Simpson 13. Steve Chabot 14. André Carson 15. Bob Gibbs 16. Robert E. Latta 17. Tom Marino 18. Nick Rahall 19. Brad Wenstrup 20. Steve Southerland 21. Pat Tiberi 22. Jim Renacci 23. Peter King 24. Bill Johnson 25. Tim Griffin 26. William Keating 27. David Joyce 28. Corrine Brown 29. Lou Barletta 30. Mike Fitzpatrick 31. Ander Crenshaw 32. Doug LaMalfa 33. Tom Rooney 34. Devin Nunes 35. Bill Shuster 36. Jon Runyan 37. Jim Bridenstine 38. Bill Huizenga 39. Rob Bishop 40. Peter J. Roskam 41. Adam Kinzinger 42. Kerry Bentivolio 43. Tom Rice 44. Marc Veasey 45. Richard Hanna 46. Roger Williams 47. Mike Pompeo 48. Tim Walberg 49. Jim Gerlach 50. John Carter 51. Ed Pastor 52. Mike McIntyre 53. Mike Rogers (MI) 54. Paul Cook 55. Tom Latham 56. Matt Cartwright 57. Rob Wittman 58. Frank Lobiondo 59. Marcia L. Fudge 60. Joe Wilson 61. Pat Meehan 62. James P. McGovern 63. Vicky Hartzler 64. Paul A. Gosar 65. David McKinley 66. Ron Barber 67. Howard Coble 68. Joyce Beatty 69. Sam Johnson 70. Doug Lamborn 71. Bennie G. Thompson 72. Lee Terry 73. Bruce Braley 74. Carolyn McCarthy 75. Hank Johnson 76. Scott Rigell 77. Gerry Connolly 78. Dan Benishek 79. Charles W Dent 80. Patrick McHenry 81. Blaine Luetkemeyer 82. Erik Paulsen 83. George Holding 84. Grace F. Napolitano 85. Rob Andrews 86. Rosa DeLauro 87. William L. Enyart 88. G. K. Butterfield 89. Rick Crawford 90. Mike Doyle 91. Ralph Hall 92. Dave Loebsack 93. Sanford Bishop 94. Dave Camp 95. Matt Salmon 96. Steve Israel 97. Gary C Peters 98. Sander Levin 99. John D. Dingell 100. Dan Kildee 101. David Schweikert 102. Dutch Ruppersberger 103. Kyrsten Sinema 104. Bill Owens 105. Mike Kelly 106. Robert Pittenger 107. Pete Sessions 108. Suzanne Bonamici 109. Collin Peterson 110. Joe Heck 111. Tom Cole 112. Keith Rothfus 113. Doc Hastings 114. Robert Hurt 115. Bob Goodlatte 116. Cheri Bustos 117. Austin Scott 118. Walter Jones 119. Frank Lucas 120. Lois Capps 121. Rodney Davis 122. Niki Tsongas ###
05.22.2013	Congressman Mike Turner, a senior member of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee, today directly questioned IRS officials at a hearing on the IRS targeting taxpayers for their political beliefs. Turner is seeking to find answers as to who undertook this action, who approved it, and who orchestrated it. In response to his questioning, Former IRS Commissioner Doug Shulman refused to answer Turner “Yes” or “No” if the actions of the IRS were against our nation’s democratic values. Turner has introduced the Taxpayer Nondiscrimination & Protection Act of 2013. The bill would amend Title 18 of the U.S. Code to make it a crime for an Internal Revenue Service (IRS) employee to discriminate against an individual or group on the basis of their protected rights. In addition, it expressly clarifies that political speech and political expression are protected rights. Sen. Marco Rubio has introduced companion legislation in the Senate. ###
05.17.2013	Today at a hearing before the House Committee on Ways and Means, outgoing Internal Revenue Service Commissioner Steve Miller, stated that the actions of IRS employees targeting conservative organizations was “absolutely not illegal.” Turner in the following statement calls on fellow lawmakers to join him in making it an illegal act: “Unfortunately, Commissioner Miller is right. The actions by the IRS bureaucrats who targeted conservative groups aren’t illegal. In fact the most punishment they could stand to receive is termination if their supervisor approves it. Targeting Americans for their political beliefs should absolutely be an illegal act. If you’re an employee of the IRS, and use the government for partisan political purposes, you should receive the same punishment as if a member of the president’s cabinet had undertaken that action: 5 years in jail, a $5,000 fine, or both. That’s why I introduced legislation to ensure that there is a deterrent for those who seek to abuse the role of our government. I’m proud to have the support of 86 of my colleagues and am calling on my fellow legislators to add their names to this common sense bill.” This week, Turner introduced the Taxpayer Nondiscrimination & Protection Act of 2013. The bill would amend Title 18 of the U.S. Code to make it a crime for an Internal Revenue Service (IRS) employee to discriminate against an individual or group on the basis of their protected rights. In addition, it expressly clarifies that political speech and political expression are protected rights. Sen. Marco Rubio has introduced companion legislation in the Senate. ###
05.14.2013	Congressman Mike Turner (OH-10) released the following statement upon Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel announcing that Defense Department civilian employees would be furloughed 11 days as a result of sequestration: “Today’s announcement is exactly why I voted against sequestration – it will severely impact hardworking civilian DOD employees and put further strain on our community. I have heard from business owners, restaurant employees, local leaders, and everyone in between who has told me how sequestration has impacted their lives. The president promised Ohioans that sequestration wouldn’t happen. Unfortunately, he and the Senate have failed to meet the House on a solution to this mess that I opposed from the beginning. We cannot do it alone. We need the leadership of the president and the Senate to halt these furloughs and to inject stability back into our community.” ###
05.13.2013	Congressman Mike Turner (OH-10), today will introduce the Taxpayer Nondiscrimination & Protection Act of 2013. The bill would amend Title 18 of the U.S. Code to make it a crime for an Internal Revenue Service (IRS) employee to discriminate against an individual or group on the basis of their protected rights. In addition, it expressly clarifies that political speech and political expression are protected rights. “Americans of all political beliefs have been rightly outraged by the revelation of the IRS’ efforts to target certain political organizations. The fact that this could occur with little to no corrective action against those who seek to silence their fellow citizens is unacceptable. That’s why I’m taking immediate action and introducing this bill,” said TurnerCurrently, IRS employees who discriminate against taxpayers may be subject to termination. However that is at the discretion of their supervisors. Turner's bill would increase the maximum penalty to a $5,000 fine, 5 years in prison, or both - which is the same maximum penalty for a member of the president's cabinet who directs an employee to take that sort of action. “Americans should not have to wonder if their government is actively looking to subvert them or their political views. We live in a nation where respect for differing beliefs and a vibrant political discourse play an important role in shaping our government. This is about protecting the rights of all Americans, and their ability to freely express their political thoughts,” added Turner. NOTE: A copy of the legislation is available here. ###
05.09.2013	Congressman Mike Turner (OH-10), Co-Chair of the Military Sexual Assault Prevention Caucus, has been invited to the White House today to discuss the issue of sexual assault in the military. The meeting, today at 10:30am, will be with President Obama’s senior adviser Valerie Jarrett and Tina Tchen, the first lady's chief of staff. Turner yesterday teamed with Congresswoman Niki Tsongas (MA-3) to introduce the BE SAFE Act. The legislation addresses issues with Article 60 of the UCMJ’s convening authority, and creates an automatic discharge for conviction in major sexual assault cases. “I look forward to today’s discussion at the White House. The president, as commander-in-chief has a responsibility to ensure the safety and morale of our men and women in uniform. This issue strikes at the heart of our servicemember’s ability to successfully carry out their duties. The president must lead and demonstrate to the leaders of our Department of Defense that sexual assault is not just bad behavior or a small problem, but a crime that must be taken seriously,” said Turner Previously, Turner and Tsongas co-authored the STRONG Act and were successful in getting many of its provisions passed through the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) in recent years. ###
05.09.2013	Congressman Mike Turner, Co-Chair of the Military Sexual Assault Prevention Caucus, released the following statement after meeting with White House officials and a group of bipartisan, bicameral lawmakers on the issue of sexual assault in the military: “Today’s meeting was a positive discussion about the path forward legislatively on the issue of sexual assault in the military. The White House and Congressional members in attendance were in agreement on the need to change the culture in the military which discourages the reporting of sexual assaults. In addition, with the legislative proposals that are seriously being discussed, there are opportunities to further collaboration to create an overarching effort in the coming House and Senate National Defense Authorization Acts. I feel that there is positive momentum on this issue. I’d like to thank the White House for listening to us today. It is my hope they continue to play an active role in this issue which has a direct impact on the safety and morale of our men and women in uniform.” ###
05.09.2013	Congressman Mike Turner (OH-10) and Congressman Matt Cartwright (PA-17), along with 30 original co-sponsors, joined in introducing the bi-partisan Foreign Manufacturers Legal Accountability Act (FMLAA). The FMLAA would require foreign manufacturers doing business in the U.S. to identify a registered agent authorized to accept service of process on behalf of the manufacturer. Registering an agent would constitute an acceptance of jurisdiction of the state in which the agent is located. “A level playing field ensures that American consumers and businesses have recourse when a foreign manufacturer’s products cause them harm. Currently, our laws allow foreign businesses and their products not to avoid being held to the same standards as those made by American businesses. This bill would change that,” said Turner This FMLAA will allow Americans to overcome the current procedural hurdles and delays by serving legal papers on registered agents of foreign manufacturers in the United States. Under the bill, relevant federal agencies will require that foreign manufacturers of products regulated by their agencies register an agent who will accept service of process. “This bipartisan legislation is a commonsense solution to an issue which is affecting manufacturers in Ohio and across the country. Our consumers deserve the peace of mind that they have an means to address injuries brought on by the harmful, defective products of a foreign manufacturers. When businesses are required to compete fairly across marketplaces, and when Americans can hold bad actors accountable, Ohio businesses succeed, and so does America,” added Turner. The bill also ensures that, at a minimum, courts in the state where the registered agent is located will have personal jurisdiction over the foreign manufacturer. Currently, some foreign manufacturers are able to avoid the jurisdiction of every state and federal court even though they sell their products in the United States market. The bill applies to major product categories including consumer goods, drugs, cosmetics and chemicals, and it authorizes a study of how to apply similar rules to foreign food producers as well as to component parts contained within products imported into the United States. ###
05.08.2013	Congressman Mike Turner (OH-10) and Congresswoman Niki Tsongas (MA-3), Co-Chairs of the Military Sexual Assault Prevention Caucus, have introduced the Better Enforcement for Sexual Assault Free Environments Act of 2013 (BE SAFE) Act. This legislation continues the lawmakers’ bipartisan effort to combat the issue of sexual assault in the military. Previously, they co-authored the STRONG Act and were successful in getting many of its provisions passed through the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) in recent years. Specifically, this bill takes on the convening authority’s unfettered discretion and authority under Article 60 of the Uniform Code of Military Justice by removing the convening authority’s ability to change or dismiss an adjudged court-martial conviction for any charge or specification except in the case of minor offenses. It also limits the convening authority’s discretion to commute or lessen the adjudged sentence determinations of a military court-martial. “Since taking on this issue over 7 years ago, I have grown more troubled by the military’s resistance to change its culture. With the unilateral decision by Lt. Gen. Franklin to overturn a sexual assault conviction and rob a victim of justice, it was clear further legislative action was needed. This issue and many others remain to be resolved. However, only so much can be done by Congress. It is up to the military and its leadership to come to the realization that this is not an issue of bad behavior, but that it is a crime,” said Turner In addition, the BE SAFE Act requires that a person found guilty of an offense of rape, sexual assault, forcible sodomy, or an attempt to commit any of those offenses receive a punishment that includes, at a minimum, a dismissal or dishonorable discharge. The bill also builds upon Turner and Tsongas’ efforts to take care of the victim and instill confidence in the system by eliminating the five-year statute of limitations on trial by Court-Martial for sexual assault and sexual assault of a child, and expanding the legal assistance services available to military sexual assault victims. “The disturbing prevalence of sexual assault in the military undermines the trust and shatters the confidence needed for a military unit to succeed. In recent months we have seen reports rise, commanders and supervisors abuse their authority, and an officer in charge of prevention efforts allegedly commit the crimes he swore to stop. This is clearly a systemic problem and accountability is needed at every level, from everyone – officer and enlisted alike. This legislation will take steps to correct some of the recent alarming issues that have arisen due to failures of the military justice system. It will also continue our push to provide victims of sexual assault access to legal counsel, which is a critical step in the process of creating an environment that encourages victims to report these crimes and in bringing those responsible to justice. This legislation is one step, and I am committed to continuing to work with Congressman Turner and our colleagues in Congress on this critical national security issue,” said Tsongas. NOTE: A section by section breakdown follows below. Section 1: Short Title and Table of Contents Section 2: Limitations on Convening Authority Discretion Regarding Court-Martial Findings and Sentence · Removes the convening authority’s ability to change or dismiss an adjudged court-martial conviction for any charge or specification except for a charge or specification for a minor offense. · Limits the convening authority’s discretion to modify or lessen an adjudged sentence. · Requires the convening authority to provide a detailed written explanation for any decision disapproving, commuting, or suspending an adjudged court-martial conviction or sentence for any charge or specification. Section 3: Mandatory Discharge or Dismissal for Certain Sex-Related Offenses under the Uniform Code of Military Justice and Trial of Such Offenses by General Courts-Martial · Requires that a person found guilty of an offense of rape, sexual assault, forcible sodomy, or an attempt to commit any of those offenses receive a punishment that includes, at a minimum, a dismissal or dishonorable discharge. · Establishes that if court-martial is warranted, only general courts-martial have jurisdiction over an offense of rape, sexual assault, forcible sodomy, or an attempt to commit any of those offenses. Section 4: Elimination of Five-Year Statute of Limitations on Trial By Court-Martial for Additional Offenses Involving Sex-Related Crimes · Eliminates five-year statute of limitations on Trial by Courts-Martial for sexual assault and sexual assault of a child, pursuant to 10 U.S.C. 920 (b) and 920b (b) (Articles 120 (b) and 120b (b) of the Uniform Code of Military Justice. Section 5: Consideration of Need For, and Authority to Provide For, Temporary Administrative Reassignment or Removal of a Member on Active Duty Who is Accused of Committing a Sexual Assault or Related Offense · Affirms commanders’ authority to consider the need for and provide for the temporary administrative reassignment or removal of a member on active duty who is accused of committing a sexual assault or other sex-related offense from a position of authority or assignment. Section 6: Victims’ Counsel For Victims of Sex-Related Offenses and Related Provisions · Creates 10 USC 1044e to establish the authority for military legal counsel to provide legal assistance services to victims of sex-related offenses. · Requires enhanced training for all military and civilian attorneys assigned to provide legal assistance to victims of sex-related offenses. · Establishes Reporting Requirements for Secretary of Defense and the Sec. 576 Independent Review Panel to assess: (1) the Services’ implementation of the 1044e Victim Counsel provision; (2) the roles, responsibilities, and authorities of the Victims’ Counsel to provide legal assistance to victims of sex-related offenses; and (3) whether the Victims’ Counsel roles and authorities should be expanded to provide additional service and/or legal standing on behalf of the victim in criminal proceedings. Section 7: Secretary of Defense Report on Sentencing Reform · Requires the Secretary of Defense to provide Congress with a report on sentencing guidelines and mandatory minimum sentencing provisions under the Uniform Code of Military Justice. Section 8: Secretary of Defense Report on Role of Commanders in Military Justice Process · Requires the Secretary of Defense to submit a report to Congress containing an assessment of the current role of commanders in the administration of military justice and the investigation, prosecution, and adjudication of offenses under the Uniform Code of Military Justice. Specifically, the Secretary of Defense shall assess the post-trial authority of the commander as convening authority under 10 U.S.C. 860, and include a recommendation regarding whether this authority should be further modified or repealed. ###
05.07.2013	Congressman Mike Turner, Co-Chair of the Military Sexual Assault Prevention Caucus, released the following statement upon being briefed by the Defense Department on their Annual Report on Sexual Assault in the Military: “The latest number released by the Department of Defense represent the continuation of a troubling trend. We have learned of an increase in the amount of servicemembers experiencing unwanted sexual contact and a decrease in the rate that those incidents are reported. The exact opposite direction of what would indicate a cultural and statistical shift on a problem that effects mission readiness and overall morale of our forces. Once again, I plan to act on this issue through the NDAA and standalone legislation. It’s clear that much more needs to be done both legislatively and structurally, to root out this problem.” ###
05.07.2013	Congressman Mike Turner (OH-10), who has introduced the Expedited LNG for American Allies Act (H.R. 580), submitted the following statement for the record as the House Committee on Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Energy and Power held a hearing on “U.S. Energy Abundance: Exports and the Changing Global Energy Landscape.” Turner’s legislation seeks to help strengthen our strategic partnerships with key allies, reduce the trade deficit and boost job growth right here at home by streamlining the regulatory process to export natural gas to North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) countries, Japan and others. This bill is a modified version of the LNG for NATO Act, originally authored by Senator Richard Lugar (R-IN) and which Turner introduced as the House companion bill in the 112th Congress. Turner serves as the Chairman of the U.S. Delegation to the NATO Parliamentary Assembly. House Committee on Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Energy and Power “U.S. Energy Abundance: Exports and the Changing Global Energy Landscape” Statement for the Record The Honorable Michael R. Turner Chairman Whitfield, Ranking Member Rush, and Members of the subcommittee, thank you for the opportunity to submit a statement for the record for this important hearing. Helping our allies diversify their energy resources is important to strengthening our strategic partnerships and bolstering security. That is why I authored H.R. 580, the Expedited LNG for American Allies Act, which seeks to help bolster our alliances, reduce the trade deficit and boost job growth right here at home. Specifically, the bill streamlines the regulatory process to export natural gas to NATO countries, Japan and possibly others. H.R. 580, the House companion measure to Senator John Barrasso’s (R-WY) S. 192, is an updated version of legislation from the 112th Congress introduced by Senator Richard Lugar (R-IN) and myself. Over the last several years, exploration and development of U.S. natural gas, particularly shale gas, has increased significantly. The United States is one the largest producers of natural gas in the world, and according to the U.S. Energy Information Administration (EIA), has nearly a 100-year supply. In fact, last week, the Department of the Interior announced that there is three times the amount of shale gas in North Dakota, South Dakota and Montana than previously estimated. As a result of increased production, the price of U.S. natural gas has fallen, making it competitive in the global market place. This presents significant opportunities to export U.S. natural gas and create American jobs. A recent Department of Energy-commissioned report found that increasing exports of natural gas would have positive economic benefits for our country. In my home state of Ohio, exploration and development in the Utica Shale would have a $5 billion economic impact and create or support nearly 66,000 jobs in Ohio by 2014. As energy security continues to play an important role in global relationships and dialogue, increased U.S. natural gas production also stands to benefit our strategic allies abroad. In my role as Chairman of the U.S. Delegation to the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, many foreign leaders and officials have expressed to me the need to diversify energy resources away from one source or from unstable regions. Several of the largest natural gas importers are also NATO members with strong national security ties to the United States. In recent years, various disputes have caused several European countries to experience natural gas supply disruptions from Russia, the largest supplier of natural gas to Europe. Turkey relies on 20 percent of its natural gas from Iran. Earlier this year, Islamist militants attacked a natural gas facility in Algeria, which is the third largest exporter of natural gas to Europe. Japan, a strategic ally in Asia and already the world's largest importer of natural gas, may need to seek greater imports of natural gas as a result of its 2011 nuclear plant disaster. Japan already relies on 42 percent of its natural gas from Russia, the Middle East and North Africa. According to recent press reports, Japan is negotiating with Russia to import more natural gas. Increasing natural gas exports would not only help reduce our trade deficit and create jobs for American workers, but also help our key allies diversify their energy resources, bolster their energy and national security, and strengthen our strategic alliances. There have been several studies examining the geopolitical impact of exporting U.S. natural gas. A recent report by the Brookings Institute entitled “Liquid Markets: Assessing the Case for U.S. Exports of Liquefied Natural Gas” states: “The risk of high reliance on Russian gas has been a principal driver of European energy policy in recent decades. Among central and eastern European states, particularly those formerly aligned with the Soviet Union such as Poland, Hungary, and the Czech Republic, the issue of reliance on imports of Russian gas is a primary energy security concern and has inspired energy policies aimed at diversification of fuel sources for power generation. From the U.S. perspective such Russian influence in the affairs of these democratic nations is an impediment to efforts at political and economic reform. The market power of Gazprom, Russia’s state-owned gas monopoly is evident in these countries.” “…the addition of a large, market-based producer will indirectly serve to increase gas supply diversity to Europe, thereby providing European consumers with increased flexibility and market power.” On our key partnerships in Asia, the Brookings Institute report states: “Increased LNG exports will provide similar assistance to strategic U.S. allies in the Pacific Basin.” “…the ability of the United States to provide a degree of increased energy security and pricing relief to LNG importers in the region will be an important economic and strategic asset.” A study by Deloitte entitled “Exporting the American Renaissance – Global Impacts of LNG Exports from the United States” states: “Maintaining market share and oil-indexed prices are major concerns for Russia.” “Russia has jealously guarded its European market share through control of its pipeline transit capacities. By restricting access to its pipelines, Russia is able to prevent supplies from other countries…from reaching lucrative European markets and competing with Russian supplies.” “U.S. LNG exports will likely apply greater pressure on Russia and other gas exporters to transition to competitively set prices.” The surplus of U.S. natural gas production is already having an impact on global natural gas markets. Natural gas previously destined for the United States, but no longer needed as a result of increased production, was diverted to other markets. In 2012, nearly half of natural gas supplied to Europe was purchased under spot contracts. A recent article in the Wall Street Journal entitled “In Reversal, Neighbors Squeeze Russia’s Gazprom Over Natural Gas Prices” states: “In Europe, where Gazprom once had a reputation for hardball tactics and dictating prices, customers are tapping new sources. Booming shale-gas production in the U.S. has freed up vast quantities of other fuel from around the world, including American coal no longer needed at home. With that new leverage, Gazprom's European customers have squeezed billions of dollars in discounts from the company, and they are pressing for more.” Under section 3 of the Natural Gas Act, companies seeking to export natural gas must receive permits from the Department of Energy, which determines if such exports are in the public interest. Export permits to countries with which the United States has a Free Trade Agreement (FTA) are automatically approved. For non-FTA countries, there is a regulatory process to determine if such exports are in the public interest. In general when it comes to exporting U.S. goods, we often talk about barriers in other countries our U.S. producers must overcome to sell their products overseas. In this case, we have, in fact, placed regulatory barriers on ourselves to sell natural gas to consumers willing and eager to buy. There are currently 20 applications before the Department of Energy from companies seeking approval to export natural gas to non-FTA countries. As the Department of Energy evaluates these applications, I hope it takes into consideration not only the domestic economic benefits, but also the opportunities to strengthen our strategic partnerships with key allies and bolster our national security. At the same time, I believe we can do more to help our allies diversify their energy resources while creating job opportunities right here at home. My bill, H.R. 580, the Expedited LNG for American Allies Act, would make approval of export licenses to NATO countries and Japan automatic. The measure also creates a process that allows the addition of other foreign countries to this list if the Secretary of State, in consultation with the Secretary of Defense, determines that it would be in our national security interests. Mr. Chairman, exporting U.S. natural gas presents opportunities to create American jobs while helping to bolster our strategic alliances. Thank you again for the opportunity to submit a statement for the record. I look forward to continuing to work with you on this important issue. ###
05.06.2013	Congressman Mike Turner (OH-10) has lead the Ohio Congressional Delegation in a letter of support for the selection of the Ohio/Indiana Unmanned Aircraft Systems (UAS) Center & Test Complex to be selected as one of the six UAS Test Sites required by the FAA Modernization and Reform Act of 2012 (Public Law 112-95). The selection of Ohio and Indiana as a UAS Test Site would be a boost to research endeavors in the region as well as local economies. Turner helped co-author the language establishing the test ranges and included several complimentary provisions in the NDAA. Turner’s provisions, which were included in the FY12 National Defense Authorization Act and the long-term FAA reauthorization, also require that the FAA consult with DoD and NASA on site selection. In the letter, the Delegation pointed to the logistical and technical advantages of selecting the Ohio/Indiana bid for a test site: “With access to restricted airspace, existing Memorandums of Agreement (MOA) and certificates of waiver or authorization (COA), the Ohio and Indiana region currently hosts robust UAS operations, with more than 1,000 sorties flown in the proposed airspace last year alone. The knowledge base of area pilots, researchers and engineers already operating in the UAS aeronautical specialties brings extraordinary understanding, commitment and a proven track record of performance and safety.” In addition, the Ohio/Indiana bid is bolstered by existing FAA partners conducting research and development work for UAS integration in those states. This includes the Air Force Research Laboratory (AFRL), the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) Glenn Research Center, and the Naval Surface War Center Crane Division (NSWC Crane). These facilities and their extensive contractor base hold key technologies needed for the integration of UAS into the national airspace, including sense and avoid technology at AFRL, secure command, control and communication technology at NASA Glenn Research Center, and intelligence and information technology at NSWC Crane. NOTE: A copy of the letter sent to Secretary LaHood is below. May 3, 2013 The Honorable Ray LaHood Secretary of Transportation Washington, D.C. 20590 Dear Mr. Secretary: We are writing to express our strong support for the selection of the Ohio/Indiana Unmanned Aircraft Systems (UAS) Center & Test Complex to be selected as one of the six UAS Test Sites required by the FAA Modernization and Reform Act of 2012 (Public Law 112-95). The Ohio/Indiana proposal fully meets the Federal Aviation Administration’s (FAA) requirements to ensure the safe and responsible operation of UASs in the national airspace system. This effort will be carried out in close proximity to a unique and powerful team of FAA partners already conducting research and development work for UAS integration, including the Air Force Research Laboratory (AFRL), the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) Glenn Research Center, and the Naval Surface War Center Crane Division (NSWC Crane). These facilities and their extensive contractor base hold key technologies needed for the integration of UAS into the national airspace, including sense and avoid technology at AFRL, secure command, control and communication technology at NASA Glenn Research Center, and intelligence and information technology at NSWC Crane. The decision to locate significant UAS research and development in proximity to these test facilities represents a new and efficient aerospace national model. Our states are dedicated to strengthening existing partnerships with the FAA in seeking solutions to the integration of UAS into the national airspace. With access to restricted airspace, existing Memorandums of Agreement (MOA) and certificates of waiver or authorization (COA), the Ohio and Indiana region currently hosts robust UAS operations, with more than 1,000 sorties flown in the proposed airspace last year alone. The knowledge base of area pilots, researchers and engineers already operating in the UAS aeronautical specialties brings extraordinary understanding, commitment and a proven track record of performance and safety. The Ohio and Indiana region also represents a broad array of weather conditions, allowing for adequate testing of aircraft and equipment in any weather conditions they may experience anywhere in the national airspace. Moreover, the diverse conditions among the test locations in the American heartland provide testing under conditions that will yield valuable data that will efficiently translate through most parts of our Nation. Because academic involvement is vital to maintaining next generation technology, the Center has partnered with 11 universities within the two states—most of the major institutions of higher education within Ohio and Indiana. Protecting privacy is paramount to the successful introduction of commercial UASs into the national airspace. Our states are prepared to be the national pathfinder in understanding and developing the concepts of UAS law in privacy, liability, and airspace access. The Ohio/Indiana UAS Center and Test Complex will work with partners in industry and local colleges and universities to develop innovative approaches to privacy law, public policy and community awareness. This strategy of integrating legal policy development acknowledges that UAS access into the national airspace is more than a technical matter, but also requires thoughtful consideration of policy and legal dimensions. The Ohio/Indiana UAS Center and Test Complex is poised to develop these dimensions in a mutually supported approach. Finally, the expansion of a UAS industry in Ohio and Indiana will contribute to significant economic development and job creation not only in our states but the entire Midwest region. Through deliberate cultivation of industry and research partners, and planned investment in early commercialization, we are confident that major UAS industrial growth can be achieved through our selection as an FAA Test Site. With key research and development activities associated with a test site taking place in the region, we expect to attract the rest of the supply chain, including manufacturing and assembly. Because of the large aerospace manufacturing sector already present in Ohio and Indiana, the selection of our proposal stands to provide high job gains in the region. While the greatest impact will be in the Midwest, this growth will also stimulate a national competitiveness in the UAS aerospace industry. The United States can be the leader as these technologies emerge, and Ohio and Indiana want to lead the way. As you know, the FAA Modernization and Reform Act of 2012 establishes a tight schedule for the development of plans to integrate UASs into the National Airspace System. The selection of the Ohio/Indiana UAS Center & Test Complex will significantly enhance the FAA’s ability to create the policies needed to meet the diverse national interests associated with these aircraft in a safe and timely manner. Thank you for your consideration. ###
04.30.2013	Congressman Mike Turner and 15 other House Armed Services Committee members wrote to Congressman Bill Young, Chairman of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Defense, to urge him to include funding in the FY2014 Defense Appropriations Mark for the East Coast missile defense site. The lawmakers requested that funding be at least $250.0 million for expenses related to site design, missile complex development and installation of hardware and software, and GBI procurement for the site. These funds are based on budget recommendations from the Missile Defense Agency’s presentation of March 5, 2012. The lawmakers vowed to take similar action in the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2014. “Specifically, in light of the recent cancellation of the SM-3 Block IIB program, it is incumbent upon the Congress, in the absence of aggressive action by the President, to deploy an East Coast site to defend the United States from the rising threat of ballistic missile development from the Islamic Republic of Iran,” wrote the HASC lawmakers. In 2007-2008, the then-Commander of NORTHCOM conducted a study of options to further strengthen the missile defense posture of the United States. As NORTHCOM’s 2007-2008 “GBI study” concluded, an East Coast Site will have a clear and specific benefit to the defense of the United States, in particular, the Eastern-third of the United States not now protected with shoot-look-shoot capability from the extant sites in Alaska and California. “The missile defense of the United States must be made one of our highest national defense priorities. We urge you to take the necessary steps to modernize the United States’ missile defense system and make it capable of defending against future missile and nuclear threats,” added the lawmakers. NOTE: A copy of the letter sent to Chairman Young a can be found here.
04.25.2013	Congressman Mike Turner (OH-10), today on the House Floor highlighted his Expedited LNG for American Allies Act. The bill, which is the House companion to bipartisan legislation introduced by Senator John Barrasso (R-WY), seeks to help strengthen our strategic partnerships with key allies, reduce the trade deficit and boost job growth right here at home by streamlining the regulatory process to export natural gas to North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) countries, Japan and others. This bill is a modified version of the LNG for NATO Act, originally authored by Senator Richard Lugar (R-IN) and which Turner introduced as the House companion bill in the 112th Congress. Turner serves as the Chairman of the U.S. Delegation to the NATO Parliamentary Assembly. Increased natural gas exports would help reduce our trade deficit and create job opportunities for American workers. A recent Department of Energy-commissioned report found that increasing exports of natural gas would have positive economic benefits for our country. ###
04.25.2013	Congressman Mike Turner (OH-10) has introduced the Prohibiting Taxpayer-Funded Monuments to Members of Congress Act. This legislation expands the prohibition Turner authored in the FY12 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) to put an end to the senseless waste of taxpayer dollars for pet projects bearing the name of a Member of Congress. Turner’s provision, which passed the House with strong bipartisan support, applied only to buildings and infrastructure controlled by the Department of Defense. “This bill would simply expand that logical prohibition to cover all federal agency-funded projects and apply a uniform, government-wide standard. As Members of Congress, we have a responsibility to our constituents to be good stewards of tax dollars. Using those funds to glorify and advertize ourselves is a breach of that responsibility, and American taxpayers deserve better,” said Turner. This legislation will also address an inconsistency in the rules governing the House and Senate. While the Rules of the House of Representatives include a prohibition on considering legislation which would designate a federally-funded project in honor of a sitting Member, the Rules of the Senate do not. Moreover, current law does not prohibit an agency or recipient of federal funds from taking action to designate or redesignate a federally-funded project after a sitting Member of Congress. “This commonsense bill would stop these ‘monuments-to-me’ and ensures that these projects are recognized as funded by the taxpayers and not by Members of Congress. It is my hope that Congress will come together and put an end to these Congressional ‘monuments-to-me,’” added Turner. ###
04.24.2013	Congressman Mike Turner, a senior member of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee (OGR), submitted the following statement for the record as the Committee held a hearing on “Broken Promises: the Small Business Lending Fund’s Backdoor Bank Bailout.” In his statement Turner, criticizes the Small Business Lending Fund (SBLF), which was created by the Democrat-controlled House as part of the so-called “Small Business Jobs Act of 2010.” The intent of the fund was to increase “the availability of credit to small businesses.” However, the resulting program was simply a slush fund for bailed-out banks to use in avoiding repayment of their debts to the taxpayer. Statement for the Record House Committee on Oversight & Government Reform Full Committee Hearing “Broken Promises: the Small Business Lending Fund’s Backdoor Bank Bailout” April 24, 2013 Congressman Michael R. Turner (OH-10) Mr. Chairman, today’s hearing continues our Committee’s important work to investigate waste, fraud, and abuse in the federal government. The topic of discussion today, the Small Business Lending Fund (SBLF), was created by the Democrat-controlled House as part of the so-called “Small Business Jobs Act of 2010” with the stated goal of increasing “the availability of credit to small businesses.” However, the resulting program was simply a slush fund for bailed-out banks to use in avoiding repayment of their debts to the taxpayer. As some of our colleagues stated during debate on the bill that created this $30 billion account, the SBLF was no more than another unwise, taxpayer-funded bailout – “this is TARP, plain and simple” as now-Chairman of the Financial Services Committee, Mr. Hensarling, described it at the time. Moreover, we saw strong opposition by Democrats and the Administration as to placing responsibility for oversight of the SBLF with the Special Inspector General for the Troubled Asset Relief Program (SIGTARP). However, we are here today because, at least in part, of the failures of the Treasury Department to properly administer the SBLF and using it to let TARP recipients off the hook. As noted in the SIGTARP audit entitled Banks that Used the Small Business Lending Fund to Exit TARP, two-thirds of the $4 billion disbursed by Treasury from the SBLF went to TARP banks. Rather than using those funds to create jobs or institute a meaningful expansion of small business lending, Treasury allowed these TARP banks to use eighty percent of their SBLF funds to pay-off – or more accurately, refinance – the debts they owed to taxpayers under TARP. The lower interest rates for the SBLF when compared to the interest rates of TARP, as well as the absence of restrictions on luxury expenditures, executive compensation, and governance in the SBLF allowed bailed-out banks to skirt oversight safeguards in TARP and short change the taxpayer on their debt. Mr. Chairman, thank you for holding this important hearing today to examine this clear mismanagement of taxpayer dollars and to hear from SIGTARP experts on the failures of the Treasury Department in administering this multi-billion dollar bailout. I would also like to thank Christy Romero, the Special Inspector General for TARP and our witness here today, for her continued work on behalf of the American people to bring accountability and transparency to these programs. ###
04.24.2013	Congressman Mike Turner (OH-10), Chairman of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Tactical Air and Land Forces took to the House Floor today to criticize the Administration’s failure to articulate a consistent missile defense strategy. The Obama Administration last month announced that it would be abandoning its failed Phased Adaptive Approach and place ground-based interceptors at missile silos in Alaska and California. Turner for years has been advocating for the placement of missiles in those silos to counter the threat of a missile attack on the homeland. Turner had offered an amendment to the National Defense Authorization Act which would have accomplished this. It was opposed by the Obama Administration and the Senate. ###
04.17.2013	Congressman Mike Turner (OH-10), Chairman of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Tactical Air and Land Forces, wrote to President Barack Obama criticizing his Administration’s failure to articulate a consistent missile defense strategy. The letter comes as Secretary of State John Kerry flew to China and offered to remove our recently added defenses in the Pacific to encourage them to counter the increasingly belligerent tone and actions by North Korea. This is the same failed strategy that the Administration offered to the Russians in exchange for reining in Iran. “I am greatly concerned that your missile defense strategy is languishing, resulting in increased risk to the United States, increased cost to the taxpayer and needless alienation of our allies. Our enemies around the world have sought nuclear weapons and missile technology, yet your Administration has consistently reduced missile defense funding, abandoned previous Bush Administration strategies that sought to respond to these emerging threats and has compromised the implementation of missile defense programs, while seeking elusive Russian approval of the right of the United States to defend itself,” wrote Turner. The Obama Administration last month announced that it would be abandoning its failed Phased Adaptive Approach and place ground-based interceptors at missile silos in Alaska and California. Turner for years has been advocating for the placement of missiles in those silos to counter the threat of a missile attack on the homeland. Turner had offered an amendment to the National Defense Authorization Act which would have accomplished this. It was opposed by the Obama Administration and the Senate. “…The Administration's failure to recognize the significance of the emerging threats from North Korea and Iran places the United States at risk. I ask that you immediately inform Congress of the effects of the abandoned and failed Phased Adaptive Approach and of your plan to complete the Bush Administration's Alaska missile defense strategy. Further, since completion of the Alaska Missile Field alone is insufficient for full protection of the United States, I am calling upon you to support the site selection and completion of an East Coast Missile Field to complement the Alaska site,” added Turner. NOTE: A copy of the letter sent to President Obama is below. April 17, 2013 President Barack Obama The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue Washington, D.C. 20500 Dear Mr. President: Once again, you and your Administration have offered up America’s missile defense shield as a bargaining chip. Just this weekend, Secretary of State John Kerry flew to China and offered to remove our recently added defenses in the Pacific to encourage them to counter the increasingly belligerent tone and actions by North Korea. This is the same failed strategy that your Administration offered up to the Russians in exchange for reining in Iran. If it failed to work then, how could it possibly work now? At a time when our missile defense system is the only defense that we have to the threat from North Korea, and the emerging threats from Iran, I am greatly concerned that your missile defense strategy is languishing, resulting in increased risk to the United States, increased cost to the taxpayer and needless alienation of our allies. Our enemies around the world have sought nuclear weapons and missile technology, yet your Administration has consistently reduced missile defense funding, abandoned previous Bush Administration strategies that sought to respond to these emerging threats and has compromised the implementation of missile defense programs, while seeking elusive Russian approval of the right of the United States to defend itself. Your Administration has most recently abandoned your own missile defense strategy, known as the Phased Adaptive Approach, in favor of a stopgap measure of finally placing the additional ground-based missiles in Alaska that you had previously cancelled. Although I welcome the Administration finally completing the missile field which you attempted to close, this has me even more concerned that your Administration has no plan to reasonably respond to the real and foreseeable threats from North Korea and Iran. Unproven TechnologiesFrom your initial announcement of the Phased Adaptive Approach, I was gravely concerned that your new missile defense strategy relied upon unproven technologies. The SM3-2B missile, which still does not exist and upon which you based defense of the United States in 2020, was acknowledged by then-Sen. Joseph Lieberman (D-CT) as a "paper system." Initial analysis today suggests that the SM3-2B will not be available within the time period you specified and that the missile would be unsuitable for the defense of the continental United States. The previous U.S. missile defense strategy relied upon proven technologies. Your shift to unproven technologies greatly increased the cost and risk associated with responding to emerging threats and has resulted in needless delay. Abandoning our AlliesIn addition to placing the United States at greater risk, your haphazard approach to a missile defense strategy has significantly alienated the United States' European allies. Your Administration's abrupt cancelation of the Bush Administration missile defense commitments, and now the abrupt cancellation of your own missile defense commitments, have left our allies abandoned in the face of domestic criticism and Russian opposition. Our relationship with the Polish government has yet to fully recover from the affront of abruptly abandoning the missile defense commitments to that key ally. I am concerned that your Administration may repeat the same relationship-straining affront with our Romanian allies. When your Administration clumsily rolled out the abandonment of the Bush Administration's planned Third Site, many voiced concern that your Administration did not value the importance of a commitment made by the United States. Your Administration responded that commitments made by the United States could still be relied upon; insisting that the Bush plan was the wrong plan. Now we have the Obama Administration having walked away from the missile defense commitments of the Obama Administration. I am concerned that your Administration may have made it more difficult to obtain future cooperation for important missile defense deployment and implementation. Using our Nation’s Security as a Gambling ChipYour Administration has repeatedly downplayed the emerging threats from Iran and North Korea. In adopting the Phased Adaptive Approach, your Administration publicly stated that the potential ICBM threat from North Korea and Iran would not arrive until 2020, providing ample time for the invention of an SM3-2B missile. The intelligence community has never walked away from its initial public assessment that North Korea and/or Iran could represent a threat to the continental United States from ICBM attack as early as 2015, and possibly sooner. Not surprisingly, new unclassified estimates indicate that today the United States may be at risk from such an attack, contrary to your Administration’s assertion that the threat is "slow to emerge." Your Administration's policy was viewed as a gamble then and the American people should not be shocked that your Administration has now admitted as much. Dr. James Miller, Undersecretary for Defense Policy, recently stated on behalf of your Administration, "I think it was – at the time, based on the intelligence assessment that we had, it was a good bet." A bet? No Administration should be gambling with our national security. I am concerned that your administration does not recognize that we have no margin of error in responding to the potential threats of a nuclear and ICBM armed North Korea and Iran. Underfunding of Missile DefenseYour Administration has consistently underfunded missile defense. While using the pursuit of the unproven technologies of the Phased Adaptive Approach as an excuse to underfund Ground Based Missile Defense, your Administration also underfunded the Phased Adaptive Approach. The House of Representatives has consistently sought to add funding to the missile defense programs, while your Administration and the Democrat-controlled Senate have repeatedly cut and reduced funding. As a result of this underfunding, these programs will now experience exorbitant cost increases to implement the Bush Administration's missile defense strategy in Alaska that you had previously abandoned. Russian and Chinese Approval of Defense of the HomelandIn abandoning proven technologies to protect the homeland and in abandoning our allies, your Administration routinely cites its attempts to achieve an agreement with the Russians concerning United States missile defense. Our missile defense systems or policies should not be used as bargaining chips in pursuit of an elusive Russia reset policy. In addition, our ability to protect ourselves from the emerging threats of North Korea and Iran should not be subject to Russian approval. This policy has failed to engage Russia and has failed to dissuade Iran. So why is your Administration now repeating a failed policy initiative by offering to China the same deal in trying to dissuade North Korea?No Quid Pro QuoAlthough your Administration claims to be pursuing negotiations with the Russians concerning missile defense, no apparent achievements on behalf of the United States are evident. However, Russian demands appear to be winning. Frequently, the Administration states that you did not receive any quid pro quo for abandoning the Bush Administration's Ground Based Missile Defense site intended for Poland. I agree, since your Administration appears to have received no concessions from the Russians for abandoning the Polish site. Of concern is that, similarly, your Administration appears not to have received any concessions from the Russians for the announcement that Phase Four of the Phased Adaptive Approach has been abandoned. So far, your Administration has abandoned both the Bush plan and the Obama plan for forward-basing missile defense architecture intended for the protection of the United States. And yet, your Administration continues to negotiate with the Russians and now has added the Chinese. I am greatly concerned that the United States interests are not being served by your Administration continuing these unproductive and poorly executed negotiations that will significantly reduce our missile defense capability. I ask that you immediately inform Congress of the substance of your offers to the Russians and the Chinese to abandon and weaken our missile defense systems.A Failed StrategyMr. President, your recent announcement to abandon Phase 4 of the Phased Adaptive Approach leaves the United States without an articulated missile defense strategy. This deficiency is compounded by the effects of the Administration's clumsy handling of our relationship with our NATO allies. I ask you to address the damage done to our relationships with our NATO allies as a result of your Administration's failed missile defense strategies. In addition, I am concerned that the Administration's failure to recognize the significance of the emerging threats from North Korea and Iran places the United States at risk. I ask that you immediately inform Congress of the effects of the abandoned and failed Phased Adaptive Approach and of your plan to complete the Bush Administration's Alaska missile defense strategy. Further, since completion of the Alaska Missile Field alone is insufficient for full protection of the United States, I am calling upon you to support the site selection and completion of an East Coast Missile Field to complement the Alaska site. Mr. President, the world is not becoming a safer place. Offering to weaken our defenses in hopes of irrational nations suspending their weapons programs is not an effective security strategy. Simply put – these offers are of greater benefit to our adversaries and to the detriment of the American people. Sincerely, Michael R. Turner Member of Congress ###
04.16.2013	Congressman Mike Turner, Chairman of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Tactical Air and Land Forces, today at a hearing held by the House Armed Services Committee questioned leaders of the U.S. Navy and Marine Corps on the impact of sequestration on their operations. The Commandant of the Marine Corps warned that battalion numbers would diminish as well as their ability to conduct their mission, stating they would become a “go to war and come home when it’s over force.”###
04.15.2013	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Mike Turner (R-OH) today joined in introducing the Revitalize America Act, which seeks to help reinvigorate and reinvest in America’s older industrial cities by freeing up $1.9 billion in federal aid to help remove blight and repurpose abandoned properties to productive use. The bill, which has bipartisan support and is sponsored by Rep. Dan Kildee (D-MI), would give 18 states and the District of Columbia greater flexibility to spend up to 25 percent of previously allocated money under the “Hardest Hit” program to demolish and repurpose vacant units. The legislation, if passed, would free up funding for states to use on removing blight in communities. “Abandoned homes and structures hurt communities and drive down property values. Many of these buildings are uninhabitable and won’t be purchased by prospective buyers. Allowing states to use money for demolition, that’s already been allocated to them, makes sense for communities and the American taxpayer,” said Congressman Turner. The bill does not spend any new money or add to the national deficit; rather it repurposes already allocated money to the states. Under the original “Hardest Hit” program, many states received significant funding, yet money has not been authorized to be spent on removing blight and demolishing abandoned houses. According to the Brookings Institution, from 2000 to 2010, the total number of vacant housing units in the U.S. grew by over 4.5 million, an increase of 44 percent. “The Revitalize America Act will help reinvest in our nation’s cities and towns by making sure they have the resources necessary to help remove and repurpose abandoned homes and commercial properties,” Congressman Kildee said. “Over the past half century, cities like Flint and Detroit have lost population and been left with an oversupply of vacant and abandoned housing, which drives down property values for all homeowners in the region. Removing blight from our communities will help to increase property values for homeowners and make our neighborhoods safer by reducing crime and decreasing the number of arsons.” There are various negative impacts of vacant and abandoned properties that undermine the strength and quality of life of neighborhoods and communities across the U.S. Many of these vacant buildings and homes are health and safety hazards to the community. Additionally, abandoned houses and commercial buildings also diminish adjacent property values, contributing to a loss for both property owners as well as local municipalities. ###
04.12.2013	Following a U.S. Department of Commerce ruling today, U.S. Sens. Sherrod Brown (D-OH) and Rob Portman (R-OH) and Congressman Mike Turner (OH-10) commended the Obama Administration decision to defend manufacturing workers and jobs at Appleton Papers, Inc. in West Carrollton. Last month, Brown and Portman led a bipartisan group of eight senators and representatives in calling on the U.S. Department of Commerce to impose duties on a foreign paper producer. Today’s ruling upholds the decision to impose a duty on the manufacturer that has manipulated data to avoid paying antidumping duties—hurting domestic manufacturing at companies like Appleton, Inc. “This is good news for Ohio workers and Ohio manufacturers,” Brown said. “Too many jobs have been lost and factories shuttered because we allow foreign companies to evade trade law. Today’s decision shows that the Commerce department is committed to keeping jobs in Ohio and supporting American businesses.” “I am pleased that the Commerce Department has decided to stand up for Ohio workers and push back on foreign competitors attempting to skirt trade rules and manipulate prices,” said Portman. “American manufacturers, like those at Appleton, can compete and win on a level playing field, and I welcome the Commerce Department’s ruling to protect Ohio’s workers.” “Ohioans help make the products that fuel our nation’s economy and trade. When other nations don’t play by the rules it hurts our manufacturing base and the Ohioans who make it possible. This action by the Commerce Department will help ensure Ohioans can continue to compete fully and fairly around the world,” said Turner. According to the Commerce Department, German exporter Papierfabrik August Koehler AG and Koehler America, Inc—known as Koehler—sold its merchandise at a less than normal value and had deliberately manipulated data to avoid paying antidumping duties for imports on lightweight thermal paper (LWTP). Today’s ruling upholds the preliminary determination that a 75.36 percent duty will be imposed on all LWTP imports from Koehler. Brown and Portman successfully led a similar effort in 2011, which caused the Commerce Department to reverse their previous ruling and provide needed protection to Appleton. Turner has been leading the effort on the House side in support of Appleton and their ability to compete fairly. A full copy of the March letter can be found below. March 15, 2013 The Honorable Rebecca M. Blank Acting Secretary U.S. Department of Commerce Washington, DC 20230 Dear Acting Secretary Blank: We are writing in regard to the pending final determination by the Department of Commerce in its current administration review of dumping margins for imports of lightweight thermal paper (“LWTP”) from Germany. As the Department clearly stated in its preliminary review of this matter, the German exporter Papierfabrik August Koehler AG and Koehler America, Inc. (referred to collectively as “Koehler”) deliberately manipulated data submitted to the Department regarding sales of LWTP, and we commend the Department for holding this company accountable for its actions. We take note that the Department found that Koehler’s actions are consistent with the company’s pattern of price manipulation to evade antidumping duties. We consider it appropriate that the Department has decided to use adverse facts available to calculate duties in the third administrative review, which we understand were preliminarily set at 75.36%. We applaud the strong stance that the Department has taken to preserve jobs and manufacturing investments here in the United States by aggressively working to curb unfair trading practices by overseas competitors that could, if unchecked, continue to harm our U.S. paper industry, and its jobs, and investments in our home states. Thank you for your consideration of our views. We look forward to hearing more about the Department’s actions. Sincerely, Senator Sherrod Brown Senator Rob Portman United States Senator United States Senator Senator Bob Casey, Jr. Senator Tammy Baldwin United State Senator United States Senator Representative Bill Shuster Representative Ron Kind Member of Congress Member of Congress Representative Reid Ribble Representative Michael Turner Member of Congress Member of Congress ###
04.12.2013	Congressman Mike Turner (OH-10) has written to President Barack Obama, urging him to show leadership on averting sequestration – something he promised Americans would “not happen.” Turner voted against the Budget Control Act of 2011, because he knew we’d be right where we are today – trillions more in debt and no leadership on solving our government’s long-term spending problem. “Nevertheless, as recently as last month I remained hopeful that your visit to the Capitol to meet with Members of the House of Representatives signaled a renewed effort to produce a bipartisan plan to address the arbitrary sequestration cuts and put our country on a path to fiscal responsibility. Unfortunately, that was not the case,” wrote Turner. While allowing sequestration to go into effect, the president has missed another opportunity to put real solutions on the table to avert the impact of sequestration and rein in out-of-control spending. However, the budget request offers sketchy details with phantom savings, and includes previously offered tax increases that have been rejected by both the House and Senate. Further, the budget does not restore the sequestration cuts, but instead leaves twenty percent of the reductions in place, risking our national security - while adding $8.2 trillion to our national debt. “I assure you, Congress is not alone in awaiting your leadership. As a result of sequestration our servicemembers, defense civilian employees, and their families are facing great uncertainty. Mr. President, it is my hope that you will put forth credible solutions and work with Congress to deal with sequestration, and restore stability to the lives of the thousands of Department of Defense civilian workers,” added Turner. NOTE: A copy of the letter sent to President Obama can be found here.
04.11.2013	Congressman Mike Turner, Chairman of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Tactical Air and Land Forces, today at a hearing held by the House Armed Services Committee, highlighted the impact of sequestration on Wright-Patterson Air Force Base and questioned Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel and Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, Martin Dempsey on missile defense.###
04.11.2013	Congressman Mike Turner (OH-10) announced his annual U.S. Service Academy Day. The event, which will take place on April 13th, is an opportunity for students and parents from the Tenth Congressional District to learn more about our nation’s service academies. Representatives from the United States Army (West Point), Navy, Merchant Marine, Air Force, and Coast Guard academies will be on hand to provide attendees with information on the general requirements and qualifications for the nomination process. “Our community has a legacy of volunteering to serve in the defense of our nation. While in Congress I have had the honor of nominating some of the best and brightest from Ohio to attend our nation’s service academies. These institutions of high learning have molded and trained a number of America’s leaders and heroes,” said Turner. Date: Saturday, April 13th, 2012 Schedule: 9:00 a.m. Doors Open 9:30 a.m. – 10:00 a.m. Presentation of Academies 10:30 a.m. – Noon Breakout/Informational Sessions Location: Centerville High School 500 E. Franklin Street, Centerville, Ohio 45459 Note: For more information visit www.turner.house.gov or contact Marty Heide at the Dayton District Office at (937) 225-2843 ###
04.10.2013	Congressman Mike Turner (OH-10) and Congresswoman Niki Tsongas (MA-3), Co-Chairs of the Military Sexual Assault Prevention Caucus, sent a letter to Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel in response to a letter made public from Lt. General Craig Franklin, the convening authority who dismissed the adjudged General Court-Martial conviction and sentence of 31st Fighter Wing Inspector General, Lt. Col. James Wilkerson. The letter was released today during a briefing by Lieutenant General Richard Harding, Air Force Judge Advocate General, to Caucus members as requested by the Co-Chairs. “LTG Franklin’s written explanation reinforces the importance of reforming the role of convening authority. His letter highlights just how dangerous and detrimental the convening authority’s central role in the military justice system can be…. Accordingly, this letter raises many questions, but in particular, about the experience and training a convening authority has to make this decision,” wrote the lawmakers. The Caucus Co-Chairs took issue with a number of the factors that LtGen Franklin based his reversal of the Wilkerson decision. LtGen Franklin stated that he attempted to reconcile some matters of evidence and differences in witnesses’ respective versions of events, even though he did not participate in any of the judicial proceedings. Other issues the lawmakers cite in criticism of Franklin’s rationale include: - Consideration of LtCol Wilkerson’s willingness to waive his right to remain silent when speaking to investigators as proof of innocence even though LtCol Wilkerson chose not to testify under oath before the court-martial, preventing cross examination by the Prosecution. - His decision was influenced by witness statements and evidence that was either inadmissible or not offered at the trial. - Citing Wilkerson’s polygraph as an element he considered in determining Wilkerson’s innocence, even though, Wilkerson failed his polygraph. - Relying on the views of children staying as guests in the Wilkerson’s home and neighbors and other individuals who claimed to have observed the Wilkersons as evidence that there was no “tension” in their marriage. - Franklin’s statement that the victim turned down offers of a ride home prior to the alleged assault perpetrating the “blame the victim” culture that inhibits effective prevention and prosecution of sexual assaults in the military. NOTE: A copy of the letter sent to Secretary Hagel can be found here. ###
04.10.2013	Congressman Mike Turner, Chairman of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Tactical Air and Land Forces, released the following statement as President Barack Obama announced his FY 2014 Budget proposal: “The President has doubled down on slashing critical funding for our national defense in his latest budget proposal. He insists on slashing defense spending an additional $100 billion and on pushing two new rounds of BRAC. This follows the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs stating that the military couldn’t sustain a dollar more in cuts without doing less, and the President himself called further rounds of BRAC unwise. The president also ignores the growing threat and instability in the Pacific by eliminating over $550 million in additional funding for missile defense. This shows the depth of his inability to recognize that the world is not becoming a safer or more stable place. From Asia to the Middle East to Stateside – our forces are already stretched thin. How much more will the president ask of our military, while simultaneously cutting the resources they need to defend this nation?” ###
04.08.2013	Congressman Mike Turner, Co-Chair of the Military Sexual Assault Prevention Caucus released the following statement as the Department of Defense has completed a review of Article 60 of the Uniform Code of Military Justice (UCMJ) after a commander dismissed an Air Force officer's court-martial conviction for sexual assault, using the authority provided by Article 60: “The dismissal of the court martial of Lt Col. Wilkerson was a blow to the progress made by the military in their fight against sexual assault within its ranks. The Department rightly undertook a review of that action and I agree that changes must be made to Article 60. A single commander who was not involved in the proceedings should not have the ability to reverse a decision reached by a fair and impartial jury. That sends the wrong message to victims and to their accused. Victims should know that justice won’t be subverted, but will be served.” ###
03.22.2013	Congressman Mike Turner (OH-10) released the following statement following reports that President Obama plans to announce that he would designate the Charles Young Buffalo Soldiers National Monument in Xenia, OH. Turner joined the House in January of 2012 in approving H.R. 1022, the Buffalo Soldiers in the National Parks Study Act. The legislation directed the Secretary of the Interior to study alternatives for the commemoration and interpretation of the role of the Buffalo Soldiers in the early years of the National Parks. African-American troops, in the late 19th century and early 20th century, came to be known as the Buffalo Soldiers. This act in part recognizes the invaluable contributions of southwest Ohio resident Colonel Charles Young. “The president has rightly taken the step of officially designating the Charles Young Buffalo Soldiers National Monument here in Southwest Ohio. Colonel Charles Young stands out as a shining example of the dedication, service, and commitment of the Buffalo Soldiers throughout United States and world history. We should continue to honor the legacy and leadership of the Buffalo Soldiers and this monument will not only tell their story for generations to come, but will also inspire young Americans to achieve a sense of duty and honor.” ###
03.21.2013	Congressman Mike Turner announced a final decision by the U.S. Department of Commerce on recent scope ruling requests, which ensures that antidumping duties are applied to certain petroleum wax candles from China, helping to protect domestic candle manufacturers. The Department ruled that a majority of the imported Chinese candles are subject to antidumping duties. “I want to thank the Department of Commerce for their decision clarifying that antidumping duties on certain petroleum wax candles from China will continue to be applied. American manufacturers can compete with anyone in the world when the playing field is level. This decision ensures that they will not continue to be at a disadvantage due to unfair trade practices,” said Turner. Last year, Turner led the effort, with a bipartisan group of House colleagues, urging the Department of Commerce to strictly enforce the definitions of candles subject to the antidumping order. Although the Department had previously clarified in August 2011, which types of candles were subject to the order, there were several requests to challenge the Department’s narrow exclusions. This decision will have a positive impact on a local Ohio candle manufacturer, Candle-Lite. “We are very happy Commerce sided with the U.S. candle manufacturers and we are very appreciative of the tremendous support we’ve received from Congressman Turner and his staff in helping us make our argument to the Commerce Department thus this very favorable decision,” said Anton Katrus, Executive Vice President at Candle-Lite. Turner added, “Unfortunately many more instances of imbalanced trade exist in the market place. I look forward to continuing to work with American job creators like the candle industry to ensure they have the ability to compete in a fair marketplace.” ###
03.19.2013	Congressman Mike Turner, a senior member of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee (OGR), submitted the following statement for the record as the OGR Subcommittee on Energy Policy, Health Care & Entitlements held a hearing on “The Department of Energy’s Strategy for Exporting Liquefied Natural Gas.” OnFebruary 6, Turner introduced the Expedited LNG for American Allies Act. This measure, which is the bipartisan House companion to bipartisan legislation introduced by Senator John Barrasso (R-WY), seeks to help strengthen our strategic partnerships with key allies, reduce the trade deficit and boost job growth right here at home by streamlining the regulatory process to export natural gas to North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) countries, Japan and others. This bill is a modified version of the LNG for NATO Act, originally authored by Senator Richard Lugar (R-IN) and which Turner introduced as the House companion bill in the 112th Congress. House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform Subcommittee on Energy Policy, Health Care & Entitlements “The Department of Energy’s Strategy for Exporting Liquefied Natural Gas” Statement of the Honorable Michael R. Turner March 19, 2013 Chairman Lankford, thank you for welcoming my participation at today’s hearing on the Department of Energy and liquefied natural gas (LNG) exports. As we all know, over the last several years, exploration and development of U.S. natural gas, particularly shale gas, has increased significantly. The United States is one the largest producers of natural gas in the world, and according to the U.S. Energy Information Administration (EIA), has nearly a 100 year supply. This has created opportunities for job creation and economic growth, particularly in my home state of Ohio. According to an economic study commissioned by the Ohio Shale Coalition, exploration and development in the Utica Shale would have a $5 billion economic impact and create or support nearly 66,000 jobs in Ohio by 2014. As a result of increased production, the price of U.S. natural gas has fallen over the last few years, making it competitive in the global market place. This presents significant opportunities to export U.S. natural gas. In fact, EIA estimates that by 2016 the United States will be a net exporter of natural gas. As the Department of Energy works to determine if pending applications to export natural gas to non-Free Trade Agreement countries are in the public interest, I hope it takes into consideration not only the domestic economic benefits, but also the opportunities to strengthen our strategic partnerships with key allies and bolster our national security. In my role as Chairman of the U.S. Delegation to the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) Parliamentary Assembly, many foreign leaders and dignitaries have expressed to me the need for energy diversification and its importance to strengthen our strategic partnerships. It should be noted that several of the largest natural gas importers are also NATO members with strong national security ties to the United States. Many of our allies are heavily reliant on natural gas from either one country or from unstable regions. For example, several European countries have experienced natural gas supply disruptions from Russia, the largest supplier of natural gas to Europe, over various disputes. Also, Turkey relies on 20 percent of its natural gas from Iran. Recently, Islamist militants attacked a natural gas facility in Algeria, which is the third largest exporter of natural gas to Europe. In addition, Japan, a strategic ally in Asia and already the world's largest importer of natural gas, may need to seek greater imports of natural gas as a result of the fallout from its 2011 earthquake/tsunami/nuclear plant disaster. Japan already relies on 42 percent of its natural gas from Russia, the Middle East and North Africa. Increasing natural gas exports to key allies would help them diversify their energy resources, bolster their energy and national security, and strengthen our strategic alliances. This would also help reduce our trade deficit and create job opportunities for American workers. In fact, a recent Department of Energy-commissioned report found that increasing exports of natural gas would have positive economic benefits for our country. Two of the witnesses here with us today, Dr. Charles Ebinger of the Brookings Institute, and Mr. Thomas Choi of Deloitte MarkPoint LLC, have already written about the foreign policy implications of U.S. natural gas exports. The Brookings Energy Security Initiative report, entitled “Evaluating the Prospects for Increased Exports of Liquefied Natural Gas from the United States,” states: “The risk of high reliance on Russian gas has been a principal driver of European energy policy in recent decades. Among central and eastern European states, particularly those formerly aligned with the Soviet Union such as Poland, Hungary, and the Czech Republic, the issue of reliance on imports of Russian gas is a primary energy security concern and has inspired energy policies aimed at diversification of fuel sources for power generation. From the U.S. perspective such Russian influence in the affairs of these democratic nations is an impediment to efforts at political and economic reform. The market power of Gazprom, Russia’s state-owned gas monopoly is evident in these countries.” “…the addition of a large, market-based producer will indirectly serve to increase gas supply diversity to Europe, thereby providing European consumers with increased flexibility and market power.” On our key partnerships in Asia, it states: “Increased LNG exports will provide similar assistance to strategic U.S. allies in the Pacific Basin.” “…the ability of the United States to provide a degree of increased energy security and pricing relief to LNG importers in the region will be an important economic and strategic asset.” In the study by Deloitte entitled “Exporting the American Renaissance – Global Impacts of LNG Exports from the United States,” the report states: “Maintaining market share and oil-indexed prices are major concerns for Russia.” “Russia has jealously guarded its European market share through control of its pipeline transit capacities. By restricting access to its pipelines, Russia is able to prevent supplies from other countries…from reaching lucrative European markets and competing with Russian supplies. “U.S. LNG exports will likely apply greater pressure on Russia and other gas exporters to transition to competitively set prices.” Mr. Chairman, helping our allies diversify their energy resources is important to strengthening our strategic partnerships and bolstering security. That is why I authored bipartisan and bicameral legislation, H.R. 580, the Expedited LNG for American Allies Act, which seeks to help strengthen our strategic partnerships with key allies, reduce the trade deficit and boost job growth right here at home by streamlining the regulatory process to export natural gas to NATO countries, Japan and others. This is the House companion bill to legislation authored by Senator John Barrasso (R-WY). Under section 3 of the Natural Gas Act, companies seeking to export natural gas must gain approval from the Department of Energy's Office of Fossil Energy, which determines if such exports are in the public interest. For countries with which the United States has a Free Trade Agreement (FTA) the approval is automatic. For non-FTA countries, there is a regulatory process to determine if such exports are in the public interest. The Expedited LNG for American Allies Act would treat NATO countries and Japan similar to FTA countries, making the public interest determination automatic for natural gas exports to our key allies. The bill also creates a process that allows the addition of other foreign countries to this list if the Secretary of State, in consultation with the Secretary of Defense, determines that it would be in our national security interests. It should be noted that companies seeking to export natural gas must still seek approval from the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission. Mr. Chairman, exporting U.S. natural gas presents opportunities to create American jobs while helping to bolster our strategic alliances. Again, thank you for holding this hearing and for the opportunity to be with you here today. ###
03.18.2013	In a letter sent to Senator Susan Collins (R-ME) and Reps. Mike Turner (R-OH) and Niki Tsongas (D-MA), Admiral Robert Papp, the Commandant of the U.S. Coast Guard, has committed the Coast Guard to update its policies regarding sexual assault to ensure they are in alignment with the STRONG Act. The STRONG Act requires the development of sexual assault prevention and response training at every level of professional development in the armed services. In addition, it affords victims of sexual assault in the military the protection of expedited transfer away from the geographic location of their alleged attacker. On February 14, the lawmakers wrote to Admiral Papp expressing concern that the Coast Guard had not yet adopted the expedited transfer policy. "We are encouraged by the responsiveness of the Coast Guard to this important matter, and we thank Admiral Papp for making sexual assault prevention and response a top priority for the Coast Guard,” said the lawmakers in a joint statement. “It is critically important that the Coast Guard moves quickly to align its policies with the STRONG Act, including the provision of expedited consideration of a request for transfer. We will closely follow the implementation of these policy changes to ensure that the victims of sexual assault are fully protected and that more assaults can be prevented before they even occur.” # # #
03.15.2013	Congressman Mike Turner, Chairman of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Tactical Air and Land Forces, released the following statement after reports have emerged that the Obama Administration will reverse course and place ground-based interceptors at missile silos in Alaska and California. Turner for years has been advocating for the placement of missiles in those silos to counter the threat of a missile attack on the homeland. Turner had offered an amendment to the National Defense Authorization Act which would have accomplished this. It was opposed by the Obama Administration and the Senate. “After wasting years and millions of taxpayer dollars, the Obama Administration apparently has begun to realize the shortcomings of its missile defense strategy. Simply slashing funding of a key part of the defense of our homeland doesn’t actually make us safer. Our missile defenses need to be expanded now to counter the long-apparent threats from around the globe. Nations like North Korea and Iran are committed to building long-range ballistic missiles and are undertaking robust nuclear weapons programs. No longer can the Administration ignore these threats. The building of a missile defense site on the East Coast is the next logical and prudent step to ensure we can counter the rising threat to the homeland.” ###
03.13.2013	Congressman Mike Turner (OH-10) and Congresswoman Niki Tsongas (MA-3), Co-Chairs of the Military Sexual Assault Prevention Caucus, sent a letter to Air Force Secretary Michael B. Donley expressing their deep dismay regarding a recent decision by a military convening authority to disapprove and dismiss the adjudged General Court-Martial conviction and sentence of 31st Fighter Wing Inspector General, Lt Col James Wilkerson. The lawmakers have stated that they are “struggling to understand” how this decision could come to pass. Turner and Tsongas intend to address this matter in the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2014. In preparation for that, the Caucus Co-Chairs have requested a thorough briefing on this matter for Caucus members. That briefing would cover: - The facts and issues surrounding the U.S. vs. LtCol James Wilkerson case - The necessity or appropriateness of the convening authority’s broad post-trial review authority - How a convening authority’s ability to overturn the adjudged sexual assault conviction and sentence of a General Court-Martial could possibly contribute to good order and discipline, and the Department of Defense’s sexual assault prevention and response policies and programs. “Over the last several months, we had become optimistic that the Air Force was making some notable progress in investigating, prosecuting, and adjudicating sexual assault crimes. Unfortunately, this decision seems to be a step backward,” wrote the lawmakers. NOTE: A copy of the letter sent to Secretary Donley is below. March 13, 2013 Secretary Michael B. Donley 1670 Air Force Pentagon Washington, D.C. 20330-1670 Dear Secretary Donley, We are writing to express our deep dismay regarding a recent decision by a military convening authority to disapprove and dismiss the adjudged General Court-Martial conviction and sentence of 31st Fighter Wing Inspector General, Lt Col James Wilkerson. We are struggling to understand how and why a commander would dismiss a jury conviction against Lt. Colonel Wilkerson, after a panel of senior Air Force officers at a General Court-Martial had found him guilty beyond a reasonable doubt of aggravated sexual assault, abusive sexual contact and three violations of conduct unbecoming an officer, and sentenced him to a Dismissal and 1 year of confinement. Over the last several months, we had become optimistic that the Air Force was making some notable progress in investigating, prosecuting, and adjudicating sexual assault crimes. Unfortunately, this decision seems to be a step backward. Given the intense Member interest in this issue, we intend to work closely with the House Armed Services Committee and anticipate that this matter will be addressed in the committee’s deliberations on the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2014. As co-chairs of the Military Sexual Assault Prevention Caucus, we would like to request a thorough briefing for the members of our Caucus, who represent a broad bipartisan coalition across Congress, on the U.S. vs. LtCol James Wilkerson case. We would like to gain a solid understanding of the necessity or appropriateness of the convening authority’s broad post-trial review authority, under Article 60 of the Uniform Code of Military Justice. We would also like an explanation of how a convening authority’s ability to overturn the adjudged sexual assault conviction and sentence of a General Court-Martial, as in the case of Lieutenant Colonel James Wilkerson, is appropriate and consistent with justice, good order and discipline, and the Department of Defense’s sexual assault prevention and response policies and programs. We appreciate your attention to this matter. Sincerely, Niki Tsongas Michael Turner Member of Congress Member of Congress ###
03.12.2013	Congressman Mike Turner, Chairman of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Tactical Air and Land Forces delivered the following remarks today at the McAleese/Credit Suisse Defense Program Conference: McAleese/Credit Suisse Defense Forum - Remarks as Prepared for Delivery Congressman Michael R. Turner (OH-10) Chairman of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Tactical Air and Land Forces March 12, 2013 Good afternoon - I am honored to be here with you at today’s conference. With our servicemembers using some of the oldest equipment ever deployed, modernization of our force is key to the Department of Defense’s ability to fight and win our nations’ future wars. Negative long-term impacts on our National Security, will stem from the short term decisions caused by budget uncertainty and constrained resources. We are in the midst of budget season, and our military Service Chiefs will soon come to testify before Congress, including the Armed Services Committee on which I serve. Our senior military leaders are constantly faced with difficult decisions, and are required to give Congress their best military judgment based on the finite resources that they are allocated. Today’s extreme budget uncertainties, compounded by a vague National Security Strategy, presents senior military leaders and defense civilians with unprecedented challenges in effectively planning for future year readiness. Right now, some of the budget uncertainties the Pentagon is facing include: - cuts levied by Secretary Gates and President Obama, - the Budget Control Act of 2011 and its attached sequester, which I opposed, - the constraints of continuing resolutions, - and a shortfall in overseas and contingency operations funds for Afghanistan. Let’s be clear - these cuts are not a result of a peace dividend. The security environment is more dangerous and more uncertain than ever before. Simply, the world is not becoming a safer place. Much of our equipment is old or aging fast. We’re still dealing with the impacts from the so-called “procurement holiday” of the 1990s. From that era, we transitioned into protracted, sustained combat operations in Iraq and Afghanistan. Our equipment needs to be reset and repaired. Our challenge is to effectively modernize the right capabilities that can mitigate the threats facing this nation, both in the present and in the future. This must be done while maximizing our buying power in a time of fiscal austerity. The way to keep costs down is to have predictability and continuity - the exact opposite of what we have right now. Sadly, I’m aware this budget uncertainty may force the military services to significantly restructure acquisition strategies, and also terminate modernization programs in order to fund current operations and maintenance. What if these terminated modernization programs impact capabilities that may be needed in support of our national defense 5 to 10 years from now? What long term impacts will these decisions have on the viability of the industrial base to address these needs in the future? What capabilities will be lost by these short sighted decisions? These are all questions we must address. I would like to take a few minutes to share a story which I believe will add a bit of historical perspective to this budget and modernization dilemma that we are currently facing. As a nation, we have found ourselves here before. Many years ago, then-Army Chief of Staff John Collins, came to Congress and provided the following testimony: - “We have the best men in the Army today that we have ever had in peacetime. And although we have a number of critical equipment problems yet to solve, I can assure you that our troops, with the equipment they have, would give a good account of themselves if called upon.” - “Within a fixed budget, the Army can obtain greatest effectiveness only by maintaining a delicate balance between personnel and equipment.” - “We are supporting this budget that will provide only 10 divisions because we realize the necessity to integrate Army requirements with those of the other services within our national budget. And we will, of course, do everything within our power to lessen the risk that such a reduction must by necessity entail.” These statements were made in January 1950 immediately before the Korean War. Just six months later the 24th Infantry Division under Lieutenant Colonel Charles Smith, also known as Task Force Smith, was rushed to Korea on transport planes to block the North Korean advance. I am sure many of you here today have heard of Task Force Smith. At around 7:30 a.m. on July 5th, Task Force Smith spotted a column of North Korean T-34 tanks moving south toward them. At around 8:00 am the artillery battery fired its first rounds at the advancing North Korean tanks. The tanks, which were around a mile from the infantry force, were hit with numerous howitzer rounds, but were unaffected. When the tanks closed to 700 yards the 75mm recoilless rifles fired, scoring direct hits on the forward tanks but did not damage them. Once the tanks reached the infantry line, Second Lieutenant Ollie Connor fired rockets at a range of 15 yards. The warheads failed to penetrate the armor and the North Korean tanks continued their advance. Think about that for a minute. Your country just sent you to fight an enemy far from home and the equipment that you were provided just bounced off of the enemy. Although they were outnumbered 10 to 1, Task Force Smith was able to delay the advancing North Koreans, but they eventually were overrun and suffered hundreds of causalities and wounded. It is important to note that toward the end of World War II a more advanced bazooka was developed, which would have aided American troops in Korea. However, because of the peace dividend following the war and the belief that ground forces would play a minor role based on the National Security Strategy, the modernized bazooka program was terminated. Just five years after the United States led the world to victory in World War II, the force was hollowed to the extent that it was very nearly driven into the sea by the North Korean Army. To this day the Korean War provides a stark reminder of the consequences of sending an under-trained and poorly equipped force into battle. Similarly, who could have imagined then, that in the year 2013 we’d be facing a nuclear capable North Korea, who just last week threatened to strike our nation’s capitol? The defeat of this Task Force by the North Koreans was later encapsulated within the military vernacular to mean a defeat due to a failure in leadership combined with poor training and poor equipment. Task Force Smith is synonymous with a “hollow” force and provides a modern example of how complacency following the drawdown from major contingencies can result in death and defeat on the battlefield. It has often been sited that leadership, here in Washington, not on the ground, was a factor leading to that particular defeat in Korea. The Service Chiefs have a responsibility to provide a national security strategy based on their assessment of threats to the United States, not a regurgitation of the administration’s political agenda. The nation depends on these men and women to provide us the facts and analysis without politics. I say this with a deep concern for the direction of our national security based on well documented historical examples. None of us want to find ouseleves in 5, 10 or maybe 20 years from now staring at the hulks of burning buildings on a television screen, wondering whether if we had done the right thing at the right time, or provided the force of leadership that our nation expected of us, that we could have avoided the next disaster. The modern battlefield is more complex and dynamic than ever before. No longer does an enemy have to mass great power, an army, and travel thousands of miles to attack our country or our allies. Advances in technology have fused personal, government and business spheres into one interdependent global community that communicates in real time. This newer and smarter world is dramatically changing geo-political dynamics by opening portals to information in previously walled off segments of the globe. While these changes have unquestionable advantages, they bring with them no shortage of risk. Interconnectivity on the battlefield and in everyday life requires us to rethink our approach to national security to incorporate cyber-security factors, economic factors, and energy security to name a few. What threats do traditional armies or small terrorist organizations pose to our nation and what tools are they using to attack us? Are we building the right defenses to keep our nation safe? Finally, do we have the right acquisition strategy to provide for national defense in an era when threats evolve at such a rapid pace? Given the current budget environment, what level of risk should we assume and where should we assume it? These are all questions I intend to confront as the Chairman of the House Armed Services Tactical Air and Land Subcommittee. General Martin Dempsey, the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff has stated that sequestration would put our military on a path where the "force is so degraded and so unready" that it would be "immoral to use the force.” This, and the reasons I’ve outlined, are why it is so important for Congress to exercise its responsibilities under Article 1 section 8 of the United States Constitution: “The Congress shall have the power to raise and support Armies.” We in Congress must challenge the assumptions and assertions made by any Administration. This ensures that our men and women in uniform have the necessary equipment, training, resources and leadership they need to carry out their mission and return home safely. We must never again allow our warfighters to be deployed underprepared. During a recent House Armed Services Committee hearing, General Dempsey quoted General Omar Bradley. In his memoirs, Bradley said that the biggest mistake he ever made was that he knew that the Army was on the wrong path and wouldn't be able to fight its way out of a paper bag in the early 1950’s. That was his greatest mistake – one we have the prospect of facing today. Turning to sequestration – I must reiterate that I voted against this mess. We must not let the sequester, which the President and Congressional leadership promised would not happen, to further jeopardize our national security. If Sequestration remains law, it will be 10 years of arbitrary, across the board reductions that will unquestionably limit modernization funding. For some that may be an acceptable risk; for me it is not. The Subcommittee will examine all of the existential and disruptive threats facing this nation. Examine the current capabilities we have in the inventory to address these threats. Identify any gaps in this capability, and then determine the policy and modernization strategies and programs that will be required across the Future Years Defense program. Tough decisions will undoubtedly have to be made, but a balance must be struck. I can assure you that we will continue to provide the necessary oversight required to best protect this country, and to maintain a viable industrial base. Simply, we will have to learn the lessons of history – and not repeat them. Never again should there be another Task Force Smith. ###
03.08.2013	Congressman Mike Turner (OH-10), Chairman of the House Armed Services Tactical Air and Land Subcommittee, lead fellow House Armed Services Committee members in sending a letter to President Obama focused on responding to the most recent provocative actions by North Korea. The letter is signed by Reps. Mike Rogers (AL-3), Joe Wilson (SC-2), Mike Coffman (CO-6), Mo Brooks (AL-5), Rob Bishop (UT-1) and Jim Bridenstine (OK-1). “In 2011, Secretary Gates warned that…North Korea was ‘in the process of becoming a direct threat to the United States.’ Today, this reality is upon us; the North Koreans are deploying [a] new road mobile ICBM. This capability combined with the recent, apparently successful, nuclear test may enable the Pyongyang regime to deploy a nuclear warhead that could threaten the continental United States,” write the lawmakers. The members urged the president to reassess his administration’s defense and security posture toward the Kim regime and its ballistic missile and nuclear weapons programs. They also call upon the president to strengthen the nation’s defensive and offensive cooperation with its allies. The administration has allowed the Proliferation Security Initiative, a worldwide effort to stop trafficking of weapons of mass destruction and their delivery systems, to languish. This coupled with the administration’s annual slashing of our missile defense program has emboldened the North Korean regime. “Each and every entity violating international sanctions on North Korea, must immediately be frozen out of global commerce. Urgent action must be taken to undo your devastating reductions to our missile defenses,” they added. NOTE: The full letter follows below. President Barack Obama The White House Washington, DC Dear President Obama: In view of the North Korean government’s apparent abrogation of the armistice agreement and threats to launch a pre-emptive nuclear attack on the American people, I am writing to urge you to reassess your administration’s defense and security posture toward the Kim regime and its ballistic missile and nuclear weapons programs. In view of its reckless actions, your Administration can no longer ignore the threat of a nuclear-armed North Korea. In 2011, Secretary Gates warned that, with its continued development of long-range missiles, a potentially road-mobile intercontinental ballistic missile, and nuclear weapons, North Korea was “in the process of becoming a direct threat to the United States.” Today, this reality is upon us; the North Koreans are deploying this new road mobile ICBM. This capability combined with the recent, apparently successful, nuclear test may enable the Pyongyang regime to deploy a nuclear warhead that could threaten the continental United States. It is not enough, however, to reverse the significant cuts on our missile defenses since you came to office in 2009. It is also time to strengthen our defensive and offensive cooperation with allies. The Proliferation Security Initiative, which has languished under your Administration, must be strengthened with increased interdiction. And, of course, now is plainly not the time for more arbitrary reductions to U.S. nuclear forces, especially when our allies have made abundantly clear, they will deploy their own nuclear weapons if they no longer feel protected by ours. We must stand unwaveringly with our South Korean, Taiwanese and Japanese allies, and deepen our military cooperation in every practical way in the face of this threat from North Korea. Each and every entity violating international sanctions on North Korea, must immediately be frozen out of global commerce. Urgent action must be taken to undo your devastating reductions to our missile defenses. Your administration must respond to these explicit and obvious threats to the American People. ###
03.05.2013	Congressman Mike Turner, Co-Chair of the Auto Industry Pension Task Force was joined by fellow Task Force members in writing to request that the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (PBGC) provide them with an update on the status of final benefit determinations for the Delphi Salaried pension plan. “As you know, over 20,000 salaried retirees had their hard-earned retirement drastically reduced when the PBGC terminated their pensions in July 2009….For too long, these retirees have withstood undue delays on the part of the PBGC to produce this determination,” wrote the lawmakers. Since having their pensions slashed in 2009, the PBGC has not yet produced final benefit determinations for plan participants. Delphi Salaried Retirees are entitled to being informed of final benefit determinations for the benefits they earned. NOTE: The full letter follows below. March 5, 2013 Mr. Joshua Gotbaum Director Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation 1200 K St., NW Washington, D.C. 20005 Dear Mr. Gotbaum: We are writing to request that the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (PBGC) provide us with an update on the status of final benefit determinations for the Delphi Salaried pension plan. As you know, over 20,000 salaried retirees had their hard-earned retirement drastically reduced when the PBGC terminated their pensions in July 2009. However, since that time, your agency has not yet produced final benefit determinations for plan participants. For too long, these retirees have withstood undue delays on the part of the PBGC to produce this determination. Swift, thorough, and accurate action is required to remedy this undue delay and to provide these individuals with the information and certainty they deserve. Thank you for your timely attention to this matter, and please do not hesitate to contact us with any questions you may have. Sincerely, _________________ _________________ Michael R. Turner Tim Ryan Member of Congress Member of Congress _________________ _________________ David Joyce Steve Stivers Member of Congress Member of Congress _________________ _________________Jim Jordan Brian Higgins Member of Congress Member of Congress _________________ Bill Johnson Member of Congress ###
02.28.2013	By Steve Bennish Staff Writer http://www.daytondailynews.com/news/business/congressman-turner-to-host-forum-on-trade-taxation/nWbkj/ Congressman Mike Turner will host a forum for business people and others on trade and taxation reform aimed at building a stronger climate for manufacturing and exporting in the Miami Valley. The forum will be Monday at 8:30 a.m. on the Sinclair Community College campus in Building 12, the Ponitz Center, 444 W. Third Street. Turner will deliver opening remarks, followed by a short presentation by Michael Stumo of the Coalition for a Prosperous America, a Washington D.C.-based nonprofit that advocates for domestic manufacturing and balanced international trade. A panel discussion follows with representatives from GEMcity Engeneering and Manufacturing, Yasotay, Inc., Harco Industries and NewPage Corp. Representatives are also expected from Dayton area chambers of commerce. Topics include the relative international competitiveness of U.S. trade and taxation policies, the impact of export and other tactics employed by China, Asian and other nations on the U.S., and longterm economic issues. Several state legislators are also expected to attend, including Sen. Bill Beagle, R- Tipp City. In January, Beagle was named Chairman of the newly-created Senate Standing Committee on Workforce & Economic Development. Trade and manufacturing made headlines throughout the 2012 presidential election in Ohio, and the issues figured prominently in President Obama’s State of the Union Address. Obama discussed a potential trade pact with Eurozone nations. There’s no cost to attend and admission is open, but organizers would like RSVPs. To RSVP, telephone (937)225-2843.
02.28.2013	Congressman Mike Turner, Chairman of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Tactical Air and Land Forces, held a hearing on the Impacts of a Continuing Resolution and Sequestration on Acquisition, Programming and the Industrial base. Turner made the following opening statement:
02.27.2013	Congressman Mike Turner, Co-chairman of the Historic Preservation Caucus, reintroduced the Historic Homeownership Revitalization Act of 2013. Enactment of this legislation would create jobs in the hard hit housing and construction sectors by incentivizing the preservation of our nation’s historic homes and communities. The Historic Homeownership Revitalization Act is supported by all of the major historic preservation groups including the National Trust for Historic Preservation, the National Conference of State Historic Preservation Officers, and Preservation Action. “Families and communities are strengthened through home ownership. With our real estate sector teetering on the edge of recovery, this legislation would provide a boost to jobs in the housing and construction markets while improving our nation’s historic neighborhoods,” said Turner. Established by Congress over thirty years ago, the current Historic Preservation Tax Credit (HTC) encourages private investment, spurs economic growth and creates jobs while revitalizing our communities and protecting our nation’s cultural heritage. According to a recent study by the Rutgers University Center for Urban Policy Research, the HTC has helped create 2.2 million jobs, incentivized nearly $100 billion in private investment, and renovated more than 38,000 buildings. “Investing in the real estate sector has been part of the fabric of America for generations. Preserving communities and incentivizing economic growth builds on that legacy,” added Turner. Currently, the HTC is not available to owner-occupied historic housing. The Historic Homeownership Revitalization Act builds upon the success of the HTC and further incentivizes job creation and historic preservation by creating a non-refundable tax credit of up to $60,000 for owners of historic homes that make qualified rehabilitations. To qualify, the taxpayer must make qualified rehabilitation expenditures over a 2-year period that exceed the greater of $5,000 or the taxpayer’s basis in the property, and must use the home as his/her principal residence. The credit is also available for developers who rehabilitate homes and sell them to individuals who use them as their principal residence. Expenditures to enlarge properties are not qualified rehabilitation expenditures. ###
02.26.2013	Congressman Mike Turner, a senior member of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee (OGR), submitted the following statement for the record as the OGR Subcommittee on Economic Growth, Job Creation & Regulatory Affairs began its hearing on “Bailout Rewards: The Treasury Department’s Continued Approval of Excessive Pay for Executives at Taxpayer-Funded Companies.” Statement for the Record Congressman Michael R. Turner (OH-10) House Committee on Oversight & Government Reform Subcommittee on Economic Growth, Job Creation & Regulatory Affairs Hearing “Bailout Rewards: The Treasury Department’s Continued Approval of Excessive Pay for Executives at Taxpayer-Funded Companies” Tuesday, February 26, 2013 Mr. Chairman, today the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, through the Subcommittee on Economic Growth, Job Creation & Regulatory Affairs, is gathered to continue our work in identifying waste, fraud, and abuse in the administration of the Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP). This hearing will shed light on President Obama’s Administration approving lucrative salaries, paid for with taxpayer funds, to executives of companies still owned, at least in part, by the federal government and the American people. The topic of today’s hearing, the Administration’s egregious violations of their own rules for approving excessive corporate salaries, highlights what I believe is the President’s marked failure to prioritize the needs of hardworking Americans impacted by the auto bailout. The President’s bailout of General Motors (GM) and its effect on Delphi Salaried Retirees illustrate the Administration’s unwarranted deviation from both the rule of law and tenets of basic fairness. In the course of the President’s bailout of GM, more than 20,000 salaried retirees of the Delphi Corporation had their pensions wrongfully terminated and drastically reduced, whereas hourly retirees were made whole with generous “top-up” agreements. The Administration’s decision to deny these salaried retirees their hard-earned retirement has left some retirees with their pensions reduced by up to seventy percent and faced with the Administration’s continued refusal to provide information in a thorough and transparent manner. Therefore, we have on the one hand, the Treasury Department approving salaries in excess of $500,000 for forty-eight of the sixty-nine executives whose compensation was subject to the Administration’s approval in 2012. And on the other hand, we have tens of thousands of retirees being denied both the pensions they earned, and access to the information and documents the Administration used in making this decision. The gross inequity imposed on Delphi Salaried Retirees is, by itself, unacceptable. The same is true of the information recently uncovered by the Special Inspector General for the Troubled Asset Relief Program (SIGTARP) on executive compensation. However, when we view these items together, I believe it demonstrates the Administration’s blatant disregard for taxpayers and wrongly prioritizing excessive bonuses over transparency and fairness. Mr. Chairman, it is my hope that we will continue our work together to investigate the unjust treatment of these retirees and uncover the truth behind the Administration’s actions. ###
02.19.2013	Congressmen Sam Johnson (R-TX), Mike Turner (R-OH), and Mike McIntyre (D-NC) announced that they will serve as the bipartisan Co-Chairs of the Congressional Air Force Caucus for the 113th Congress. Founded in September of 1998, the Caucus was formed to focus solely on the issues confronting our nation’s Air Force. Congressman Sam Johnson: “As an original co-founder of the Air Force Caucus, one of my top priorities is to protect and defend the men and women who wear the uniform. Forty years ago yesterday, I returned home to Texas as a part of ‘Operation Homecoming’ after nearly seven years of captivity in Hanoi, Vietnam. My 29 years in the Air Force shaped the person I am today, and it is my great privilege to give back to those who selflessly serve to keep our people safe. I am proud to work with my fellow co-chairs, Mike Turner and Mike McIntyre, to strengthen our national defense, promote advancements in aerospace technology, and preserve the honor of the United States Air Force.” Congressman Mike Turner: “As Chairman of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Tactical Air and Land Forces, I am focused on the important issues confronting our national security and needs of our nation’s Air Force. The Air Force Caucus is a bicameral and bipartisan forum for the discussion and formulation of policy which will have a direct impact on our men and women in uniform. I am honored to serve as the Co-Chair of the Caucus this Congress with Congressmen Johnson and McIntyre. I know they share my concern and dedication to the success of the Air Force.” Congressman Mike McIntrye: “The men and women of the U.S. Air Force play a pivotal role in the defense of our nation. Ensuring they have the resources and tools to help them do their job is a top priority, and I am honored to serve as Co-Chairman of the Air Force Caucus. Working in a bipartisan way, we will do all we can to support their important mission.” Originally the Caucus was founded with 19 members and has since grown to over 60. Its membership is comprised of a bipartisan group of lawmakers from across the nation. Many have served in the Air Force, Air National Guard or Air Force Reserve.
02.15.2013	Sen. Susan Collins (R-ME), Reps. Mike Turner (R-OH) and Niki Tsongas (D-MA) wrote to the Commandant of the U.S. Coast Guard to express their concern that the Coast Guard has not yet adopted an expedited transfer policy for victims of sexual violence as have the military departments under the authority of the Department of Defense. The STRONG Act requires the development of sexual assault prevention and response training at every level of professional development. In addition, it affords victims the protection of expedited transfer away from the geographic location of their alleged attacker. “While we understand the Coast Guard is not under the authority of the Department of Defense absent a formal declaration of war, the spirit and intent of this law are to eliminate impediments to preventing sexual assault and provide for the protection of sexual violence victims throughout our nation’s Armed Services, including the Coast Guard,” wrote the lawmakers. In the event that there are policies that cannot be implemented to align Coast Guard policy in a manner consistent with the provisions of the STRONG Act absent legislation, the lawmakers have requested that the Commandant provide a list of such necessary changes to statute. “We respectfully request, therefore, a briefing no later than March 8, 2013 on the sexual assault response regulations, programs, and services that exist in the Coast Guard and how these policies align with the requirements of the STRONG Act….We also specifically request that the Coast Guard implement new policies to provide for the provision of expedited consideration of a request for transfer,” added the lawmakers. NOTE: The full letter follows below. February 14, 2013 Admiral Robert J. Papp, Jr. U.S. Coast Guard Headquarters 2100 2nd St SW Stop 7000 Washington DC 20593-7000 Dear Admiral Papp: As the original sponsors of the Defense Sexual Trauma Response Oversight and Good Governance Act (STRONG Act) signed into law as part of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2012, we write to express our concern that the United States Coast Guard has not yet adopted an expedited transfer policy for victims of sexual violence as have the military departments under the authority of the Department of Defense. The STRONG Act requires the development of sexual assault prevention and response training at every level of professional development. In addition, it affords victims the protection of expedited transfer away from the geographic location of their alleged attacker. While we understand the Coast Guard is not under the authority of the Department of Defense (DOD) absent a formal declaration of war, the spirit and intent of this law are to eliminate impediments to preventing sexual assault and provide for the protection of sexual violence victims throughout our nation’s Armed Services, including the Coast Guard. We respectfully request, therefore, a briefing no later than March 8, 2013 on the sexual assault response regulations, programs, and services that exist in the Coast Guard and how these policies align with the requirements of the STRONG Act. In the event that there are policies that cannot be implemented to align Coast Guard policy in a manner consistent with the provisions of the STRONG Act absent legislation, we request that you provide a list of such necessary changes to statute as a part of that briefing. We also specifically request that the Coast Guard implement new policies to provide for the provision of expedited consideration of a request for transfer. Thank you for your time and attention to this important matter and for your prompt consideration of these concerns. We cannot, and will not, rest until the policy of zero tolerance is matched by the reality of zero tolerance. ###
02.14.2013	Congressman Mike Turner released the following statement as the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) issued a Screening Information Request for six Unmanned Aircraft System (UAS) test sites. This announcement is similar to a request for proposals and is the next step towards the final selection of test sites. “This latest step is welcome news to our community. Together we have been planning and positioning our region as a logical choice for one of the six UAS test sites. A selection of a location in our community for one of these sites will mean new jobs, untold economic development, and a foothold in an emerging industry. I look forward to continuing to work with the FAA and regional leaders as this process continues,” said Turner. In December, Turner met with FAA leadership to discuss the timeline on FAA selection of six UAS test sites. The site selection process was established by language which Turner and fellow lawmakers included in the FAA Modernization and Reform Act of 2012. Moreover, Turner included language in the FY 2013 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA), which promotes collaboration among government agencies on UAS. Specifically, Turner’s language requires collaboration among scientific and technical personnel and resource-sharing from the Department of Defense, FAA, and the National Aeronautics and Space Administration. Turner is a member of the Congressional Unmanned Systems Caucus. ###
02.13.2013	Congressman Mike Turner, Chairman of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Tactical Air and Land Forces, today at a House Armed Services Committee hearing, questioned the Joint Chiefs of Staff and Defense Department leadership on the impacts of sequestration: ###
02.12.2013	Congressman Mike Turner (OH-10), release the following statement after the president delivered his State of the Union Address to a joint session of Congress this evening: “With the conclusion of the 2012 election and the start of a new Congress, the president had an opportunity this evening to bridge the gap between elected officials in Washington. I was hopeful that he would present a bipartisan plan for putting Americans back to work, eliminating our massive budget deficit, and averting the devastating sequestration cuts to our national security. Tonight I was disappointed to hear more partisan rhetoric from the president. What should have been an address to finding common ground, instead turned to divisiveness. Despite this, the work of the people must be done. I urge the president to come to the table and help Congress solve the problems confronting all Americans. It is what the people expect us to do.” ###
02.12.2013	Congressman Mike Turner, Chairman of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Tactical Air and Land Forces, released the following statement as the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea (North Korea) has undertaken a test of a nuclear weapon: “Once again the North Korean regime has shown that they are committed to the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. This latest development adds to the Obama Administration’s record of failure on halting the regime’s provocative attitude towards its neighbors and the greater global community. It is even more disturbing to learn that while North Korea is expanding its weapons programs, the president is contemplating unilateral disarmament. This is the wrong time to say to the North Koreans: ‘we’ll lay down our weapons, while you raise yours.’ It is no coincidence that this test has occurred hours before the president’s State of the Union Address.” ###
02.07.2013	Congressman Mike Turner, Chairman of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Tactical Air and Land Forces, released the following statement after a report has surfaced that President Obama is planning further reductions to our nuclear deterrent: “The President believes that cutting our nuclear deterrent results in stopping the proliferation of nuclear weapons around the world. This thought process is dangerous and naïve. The president’s reported plans for further reductions to our nuclear arsenal will only harm the security of our nation and our allies. It will do nothing to counter the threat of states seeking nuclear weapons, including North Korea and Iran. If the president wants to show that he is serious on this issue, he would undertake the modernization of our deterrent that he promised the Senate during the New START Treaty.” ###
02.07.2013	Congressmen Mike Turner (OH-10) and Tim Ryan (OH-13) have founded the Auto Industry Pension Task Force for the 113th Congress. The Congressional Auto Industry Pension Task Force will serve as an informal group of Members dedicated to issues related to the termination of Delphi Salaried Retiree pensions and educating other Members on the subject. Turner and Ryan will serve as bipartisan Co-Chairs of the Task Force. “The Delphi Salaried Retirees for too long have been denied the answers and resolution to the issue of their pensions being unjustly slashed. This Task Force will help amplify their voice in the halls of Congress. Already several committees are investigating how this could have occurred, and who made the decisions to pick winners and losers amongst hardworking American taxpayers. It is my hope that the Task Force will be able to build upon the efforts currently underway and provide an avenue for constructive dialogue to remedy this situation,” said Congressman Turner. Turner and Ryan have long worked together on this issue important to working Ohioans and their families. Thousands of Ohio Delphi Salaried Retirees had their pensions slashed by up to 70 percent in some cases. “I remain committed to helping Delphi retirees get the benefits they deserve, and the Delphi Pension Task Force will help advance that goal. The work of the Task Force will be to build a coalition of members that will help us ensure that the Delphi retirees can continue their retirement knowing that they will have the benefits promised to them while they were working. I am grateful to Congressman Turner for his commitment and look forward to working with him and my House colleagues in making this situation right,” said Congressman Ryan. ###
02.06.2013	Congressman Mike Turner (OH-10) reintroduced the First Responder Medical Device Tax Relief Act – legislation to repeal the tax on medical device manufacturers. On January 1, 2013, Obamacare began imposing a 2.3 percent excise tax on the sale of medical devices by manufactures, providers, and importers. This tax will place yet another burden on American businesses, stifling development of innovative life-saving products and costing jobs when our economy is struggling to recover, and will result in higher costs and inferior care for patients. “Southwest Ohio has long been known as an incubator for advanced manufacturing. The gains and jobs medical device manufacturers have made in our state will not continue with the implementation of this tax. This tax is prohibitive to the type of growth Ohio and the nation needs in these difficult economic times,” said Congressman Turner. Turner has visited Mound Laser & Photonics Center (MLPC), a company headquartered in Miamisburg, which specializes in laser-based micro and nano-fabrication and provides services to a number of markets, including the medical device industry. He has also met with business leaders from Ferno-Washington Inc., a global leader in manufacturing and distribution of professional emergency and healthcare products based in Wilmington, Ohio. Both MLPC and Ferno say the tax increase may cause them to pass the tax increase on to customers through the sales price. “The medical device tax will most definitely stifle research, development and growth in a field that represents one of America’s last great manufacturing bases. As a small business owner that works directly with a number of medical device manufacturers, I have already witnessed the unfortunate results from this tax; since the introduction of this tax, I have had to reconsider my investment options, reassess forecasted growth projections and was forced to temporarily lay off a portion of my workforce,” said Dr. Larry Dosser, President of MLPC. Proponents of the excise tax, set to go in effect in 2013, argue that medical device revenue will go up as insurance coverage expands, but that reasoning does not apply to emergency services. Increases in the number of people insured will not substantially increase the number of emergency medical service transports. In addition, the 2.3 percent tax may well be passed on by manufacturers to consumers – including state and local governments. “As a former Mayor, I know the difficult budget decisions localities will have to make in the face of increased costs for emergency medical equipment. State and local governments may not be able to afford the equipment they need, or will have to shift scarce dollars away from other badly needed services. Leaving this tax in place will increase the cost of emergency care and inhibit development of innovative emergency medical equipment,” added Turner. NOTE: A letter from BioOhio supporting this legislation can be found HERE. ###
02.06.2013	Congressman Mike Turner (OH-10) introduced the Expedited LNG for American Allies Act. This measure, which is the bipartisan House companion to bipartisan legislation introduced by Senator John Barrasso (R-WY), seeks to help strengthen our strategic partnerships with key allies, reduce the trade deficit and boost job growth right here at home by streamlining the regulatory process to export natural gas to North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) countries, Japan and others. This bill is a modified version of the LNG for NATO Act, originally authored by Senator Richard Lugar (R-IN) and which Turner introduced as the House companion bill in the 112th Congress. Turner serves as the Chairman of the U.S. Delegation to the NATO Parliamentary Assembly. “The United States is one of the largest producers of natural gas in the world and is experiencing a surplus in production, helping to drive down prices compared to global rates. Increasing natural gas exports to key allies would help them diversify their energy resources, bolster their energy and national security, and strengthen our strategic alliances,” said Turner. Increased natural gas exports would help reduce our trade deficit and create job opportunities for American workers. A recent Department of Energy-commissioned report found that increasing exports of natural gas would have positive economic benefits for our country. “Helping our allies diversify their energy resources is important to strengthening our strategic partnerships and bolstering security. Many of our allies are heavily reliant on natural gas supplies from either one country or from unstable regions. It’s simple – increased production of energy in America will help increase the security of our allies around the world,” added Turner. Several European countries have experienced natural gas supply disruptions from Russia, the largest supplier of natural gas to Europe, over various disputes. Also, Turkey relies on 20 percent of its natural gas from Iran. Recently, Islamist militants attacked a natural gas facility in Algeria, which is the third largest exporter of natural gas to Europe. In addition, Japan, a strategic ally in Asia and already the world's largest importer of natural gas, may need to seek greater imports of natural gas as a result of the fallout from its 2011 earthquake/tsunami/nuclear plant disaster. Under section 3 of the Natural Gas Act, companies seeking to export natural gas must gain approval from the Department of Energy's Office of Fossil Energy, which determines if such exports are in the public interest. For countries with which the United States has a Free Trade Agreement (FTA) the approval is automatic. For non-FTA countries, there is a regulatory process to determine if such exports are in the public interest. The Expedited LNG for American Allies Act would treat NATO countries and Japan similar to FTA countries, making the public interest determination automatic for natural gas exports to our key allies. The bill also creates a process that allows the addition of other foreign countries to this list if the Secretary of State, in consultation with the Secretary of Defense, determines that it would be in our national security interests. It should be noted that companies seeking to export natural gas must still seek approval from the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission. NOTE: This legislation has the support of the following Members as Original Cosponsors – Reps. John Shimkus (IL-15), Sam Johnson (TX-03), Lynn Westmoreland (GA-03), Tom McClintock (CA-04), Mike Pompeo (KS-04), Bill Johnson (OH-06), James Lankford (OK-05), Robert Latta (OH-05), Lou Barletta (PA-11), Cynthia Lummis (WY-AL), Jim Renacci (OH-16), and Tim Ryan (OH-13). ###
02.06.2013	Congressman Mike Turner, Chairman of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Tactical Air and Land Forces, released the following statement on the Air Force’s draft proposal to implement sequestration cuts: “The draft proposal from the Air Force outlining sequestration cuts is highly troubling news. Sequestration will affect mission readiness and our deployed personnel around the globe. Civilian furloughs will delay systems testing – ultimately increasing end costs to the taxpayer and the amount of time it takes to deliver equipment to our warfighters. The President’s plan to gamble with our national security has turned out to be a losing bet – one I predicted when voting against sequestration in August of last year. The deficit of leadership from the President and the Senate will ultimately be paid back by those who have already sacrificed so much: our men and women in uniform.” ###
02.06.2013	Congressman Mike Turner, Chairman of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Tactical Air and Land Forces joined fellow Republicans on the House and Senate Armed Services Committees, to present a plan to avert the President’s devastating sequestration cuts to our nation’s military. NOTE: A Fact sheet on the proposed legislation can be found on the House Armed Services Committee website. ###
02.05.2013	Congressman Mike Turner, Chairman of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Tactical Air and Land Forces, released the following statement as President Barack Obama offered a proposal on averting the sequestration cuts to our nation’s military: “The President’s plan for sequestration has left our nation’s military and the supporting defense industry with an uncertain future. I voted against his proposed plan to further slash our national security spending by $500 billion, because we cannot afford to gamble with the defense of our nation. Our military leaders in the Pentagon have been warning Congress and the President that these cuts would be ‘devastating.’ Finally, the President has decided to come to the table to avert these cuts. However, he will have to provide a more serious proposal than warmed over tax increases to fix this mess. I look forward to working with my colleagues in Congress and the President as we seek a solution to sequestration. ###
02.05.2013	Congressman Mike Turner, Chairman of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Tactical Air and Land Forces, released the following statement on a Democratic People’s Republic of Korea (North Korea) government produced video depicting an attack on the U.S. homeland: “This video is beyond the typical provocations of the North Korean regime. They are offering a preview in graphic terms of the type of destruction and violence they dream of inflicting on the United States and its allies. All the while, the Administration stands idly by while North Korea pursues weapons of mass destruction and advances its missile technology. Time is running out in countering this rising threat. It’s time the Administration wakes up from their own dream-like trance and realizes that the threats from the North Korean government are real and they will not stop until they have reached their goal of inflicting harm upon our nation. This video evidences clear intent that the nuclear weapons programs and missile programs of North Korea are directed at the United States.” ###
01.25.2013	U.S. Senators Rob Portman (R-OH) and Sherrod Brown (D-OH), along with the entire Ohio Congressional delegation, sent a letter to Secretary of the Air Force Michael Donley and Air Force Chief of Staff General Mark Welsh expressing their “strong support for the Ohio National Guard’s 121st Air Refueling Wing based at Rickenbacker Air Guard Station (AGS)” to be selected as the primary site for the new KC-46A refueling aircraft. Earlier this month, the Air Force announced that Rickenbacker Air National Guard Base near Columbus is one of five Air National Guard bases selected as a finalist for eventual receipt of 12 of the new KC-46A refueling aircraft set to replace the KC-135. Those five bases will now be compared to one another and a final decision will then be made. A preferred base and alternative base will be announced by May 1, 2013, and after further analysis a final decision will be made by Spring 2014. In the letter, the Senators and Congressmen tout the value of the men and women of the 121st Air Refueling Wing and the capabilities at Rickenbacker Air National Guard Base, stating, “The men and women of the 121st Air Refueling Wing continue a lineage of proud service to our national defense spanning over seventy years. These Guardsmen stand ready to fulfill any mission assigned to them, and have a proven track record of exemplary performance in the air refueling mission. The Guardsmen have provided superior support to operations in Iraq, Afghanistan, and elsewhere around the world. Following the Libya no-fly zone UN resolution, the 121st was among the first units to respond within hours to rapidly developing tanker requirements.” In addition, they highlight the geographical advantage the 121st has to offer, pointing out that, “Rickenbacker AGS is well located to provide responsive support to the significant demand for aerial refueling in the eastern United States and in particular the heavy concentration of fighter and cargo aircraft in the southeast states.” Even more, Rickenbacker AGS’ existing infrastructure and strong support from the local community make it well-suited to accept the 12 KC-46A aircraft.
01.23.2013	Congressman Mike Turner, Co-Chair of the Military Sexual Assault Prevention Caucus, questioned Air Force leaders Gen. Mark A Welsh III, Chief of Staff of the Air Force, and Gen. Edward A. Rice, Jr., Commander of the Air Education and Training Command, at a House Armed Services Committee hearing on the sexual misconduct by basic training instructors at Lackland Air Force Base. Prior to today’s hearing, Turner had received briefings from Gen. Rice on the allegations and investigation at the Texas base. Video: Watch Turner at today’s Ho use Armed Services Committee hearing on the sexual assault investigation at Lackland Air Force Base ###
01.16.2013	Congressman Mike Turner (OH-10) and Congresswoman Niki Tsongas (MA-3), Co-Chairs of the Military Sexual Assault Prevention Caucus, sent a letter to Defense Secretary Leon Panetta commending the United States Air Force for implementing programs aimed at combating sexual assault in the military, in particular their new Special Victims’ Counsel Pilot Program. Lieutenant General Richard Harding, Air Force Judge Advocate General, recently briefed the lawmakers on the Special Victims’ Counsel Pilot Program, which provides military sexual assault survivors with a dedicated attorney to walk them through the often cumbersome and confusing investigative and prosecutorial process. This new pilot program builds upon “right to legal counsel” requirements that were originally part of Defense STRONG, legislation authored by Turner and Tsongas. The bill also granted victims the right to a base transfer if they felt threatened and the right to confidentiality when seeking assistance from an advocate. Defense STRONG was included in the FY2012 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA), which was signed into law in 2011. Originally, the Air Force believed the Defense STRONG language gave victims very limited access to a lawyer. After urging from Turner and Tsongas this past summer, Secretary of the Air Force Michael Donley agreed to reexamine the interpretation of the counsel provision. The lawmakers followed with several letters to the Air Force andSecretary of Defense Leon Panetta urging full implementation of the counsel provision as it was intended by the bill’s authors. The Air Force’s recent announcement, that Lt. General Harding shared with both Turner and Tsongas, resolves the differences in interpretation and ensures that victims will be afforded these important protections. The Special Victims’ Counsel Pilot Program will initially consist of 60 specially-trained attorneys. Each of the sixty judge advocates is a certified trial counsel who has expressed a desire to help victims of sexual assault. To ensure autonomy and accountability, they will be in a separate chain of command from the victim and from the attorneys prosecuting the case. During the recent briefings, Lt. General Harding said the program will officially begin January 28, 2013, though some victims of sexual assault have already received assistance. NOTE: A copy of the letter sent to Secretary Panetta can be found in the related documents at the top of this release. ###
01.08.2013	Congressman Mike Turner, Chairman of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Tactical Air and Land Forces issued the following statement upon President Obama's nomination of former Sen. Chuck Hagel for Secretary of Defense: "Senator Hagel, as a leading advocate and member of Global Zero, has taken positions that are fundamentally at odds with mainstream thinking and the President's stated policies. This includes calls for drastic, and possibly unilateral, reductions in U.S. nuclear forces, eliminating the ICBM leg of our nuclear deterrent and canceling our other nuclear modernization programs. These cuts serve no purpose other than to satisfy a dangerous ideological agenda, and they would occur while virtually every nuclear weapons state is growing and modernizing their nuclear forces. In addition, the Senator appears to believe that in the event of an attack on the American people from a state like Russia or China, the President should be technically forced to ride it out and wait up to 72 hours before responding; these are views that are so troubling, that they ought to cause Senators alarm over his nomination. “In Senator Hagel's view, enacting sequestration would not damage the Pentagon. This runs counter to the thinking of Defense Department leaders, including Secretaries Gates and Panetta, who have rightly described their implementation as 'devastating.' As Defense Secretary one of his top priorities would be to advocate the needs and realities of a Pentagon feeling the effects of 10 years of war and already self imposed cuts. Instead his first priority would be to gut the Department, and with it, our national security. “These issues deserve discussion and examination. I would encourage the Senate Armed Services Committee to reconcile these critical issues before considering moving forward with confirmation.” ###
01.03.2013	Congressman Mike Turner (OH-10), Co-Chair of the Military Sexual Assault Prevention Caucus, received word from Secretary of the Air Force Michael B. Donley that the Air Force will implement language offered by Turner in the FY12 National Defense Authorization Act (H.R. 1540) requiring the Department of Defense (DoD) to guarantee that victims of sexual assault have access to a military or civilian lawyer. Turner was joined by his fellow Co-Chair, Niki Tsongas, in an August 10th letter expressing concern about the Air Force’s failure to implement this provision. “It is critical that we create an environment that punishes criminals and encourages victims to come forward. Providing legal counsel is a critical step in that process and should not be further delayed,” wrote Turner and Tsongas in their letter. Since receiving the bipartisan letter, Lt Gen. Rich Harding, the Air Force’s Judge Advocate General, engaged DoD’s General Counsel, Mr. Jeh Johnson in a discussion on authorization for broader legal services for sexual assault victims. Johnson has since concluded that the provision offered by Turner authorizes legal assistance to those victims, including attending interviews of the victim and interfacing with military prosecutors, defense counsel, and investigators. “The lessons that we learn will inform us about how to improve the availability and delivery of legal services to victims of sexual assault. This in turn should improve victim satisfaction and cooperation…and believe it will help us strengthen or Sexual Assault Prevention program,” wrote Donley in his letter to Turner. The Air Force’s Special Victims’ Counsel Program is a pilot program that will be applied across the Air Force. At the end of one year, the service will assess its effectiveness in providing legal assistance to victims of sexual assault. ###
01.03.2013	Congressman Mike Turner released the following photograph and statement after he was sworn in by fellow Ohioan, Speaker John Boehner (OH-8). Turner was sworn in for his sixth term in office and as the Representative for the new 10th Congressional District of Ohio. The district includes all of Montgomery, Greene, and part of Fayette counties. Jessica Turner, House Speaker John Boehner, Carolyn Turner, and Congressman Mike Turner “I am proud to continue my service to the people of southwest Ohio. It has been an honor to represent them and their interests in the ‘People’s House.’ The 113th Congress will have to tackle many difficult issues including a path towards a balanced budget, incentivizing job creation, and dealing with the devastating impact of sequestration. Much work remains to be done, and I look forward to working with Speaker Boehner in the new Congress,” said Congressman Turner. ###
12.21.2012	Congressman Mike Turner, Co-Chair of the Military Sexual Assault Prevention Caucus, issued the following statement as the Department of Defense released its Annual Report on Sexual Assault in the Military Service Academies: “On the surface, this latest report and its statistics are troubling. However, the increased rate of reporting is in response to efforts combating this issue, both by leadership at the Defense Department, and by Congress. Historically, sexual assault is an underreported crime. This year’s National Defense Authorization Act continues to address this, and senior leadership at the Defense Department are working with lawmakers and within the Department to right its course. It’s time our servicemembers down the chain of command – all the way to cadets and midshipmen take note as well.” ###
12.20.2012	Following the work of Congressman Mike Turner, who co-chairs the Military Sexual Assault Prevention Caucus, the FY 2013 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA), includes several provisions strengthening prevention and response policies concerning sexual assault in the U.S. military. ”These additional protections in this legislation are victim-focused, and continue the bipartisan approach we in the House and Senate have taken on this issue. This year’s NDAA includes several additional provisions as we seek to preserve and enhance the rights of those affected by sexual assault,” said Turner. The FY13 NDAA continues a concerted bipartisan effort to provide significant regulations and procedures for combating sexual assault within the military, as well as deterring potential sexual predators. Included is language which requires new commanders to assess the climate of their organizations with regard to sexual assault shortly after assuming command and then annually. In addition, it requires the Department of Defense to make information widely available that can be used to report and respond to sexual assaults. Provisions in this year’s NDAA include: - Sec. 570. Armed Forces Workplace and Gender Relations Surveys. - Sec. 571. Authority to retain or recall to active duty reserve component members who are victims of sexual assault while on active duty. - Sec. 572. Additional elements in comprehensive Department of Defense policy on sexual assault prevention and response. - Sec. 573. Establishment of special victim capabilities within the military departments to respond to allegations of certain special victim offenses. - Sec. 574. Enhancement to training and education for sexual assault prevention and response. - Sec. 575. Modification of annual Department of Defense reporting requirements regarding sexual assaults. - Sec. 576. Independent reviews and assessments of Uniform Code of Military Justice and judicial proceedings of sexual assault cases. - Sec. 577. Retention of certain forms in connection with Restricted Reports on sexual assault at request of the member of the Armed Forces making the report. - Sec. 578. General or flag officer review of and concurrence in separation of members of the Armed Forces making an Unrestricted Report of sexual assault. - Sec. 579. Department of Defense policy and plan for prevention and response to sexual harassment in the Armed Forces. “The leadership at the Department of Defense has begun to see the seriousness of this issue. Secretary Panetta has taken a number of steps to change the culture and course of the Department, and it is my hope that the next Secretary of Defense continues his work,” added Turner. Earlier this year Defense Secretary Leon Panetta announced Department of Defense policy changes enhancing the Pentagon’s ability to investigate military sexual assault cases. In the House, Turner included provisions that elevated the disposition authority of sexual assault cases to the O-6 level in order to have sexual assault cases investigated outside of the immediate chain of command. That provision was immediately incorporated into Department policy.
12.19.2012	Congressman Mike Turner, Chairman of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Strategic Forces, released the following statement as the FY13 National Defense Authorization Act Conference Report was signed by conferees last night: “Throughout this Congress, my subcommittee has highlighted the need for increased missile defense for the homeland. In spite of the concerns raised by my subcommittee, and the full House Armed Services Committee, the Administration has continuously cut funding to counter the threat of ballistic missile attack on the United States. The planning and study for an additional U.S. missile defense site is welcome news because it signals agreement that it is time to put the missile defense of the homeland as our top priority. "The events of this month should serve as a warning - North Korea's ballistic missile success is Iran's success as well. We can no longer afford that Administration's disregard of homeland missile defense.
12.13.2012	House Armed Services Committee Chairman Buck McKeon announced that Congressman Mike Turner will be appointed the Chairman of the Tactical Air and Land Forces Subcommittee for the 113th Congress. Currently, Turner chairs the Subcommittee on Strategic Forces, and will retain a slot on the subcommittee in the coming Congress. The new subcommittee leadership role makes Turner responsible for oversight of a broad portfolio of Army, Navy, Marine Corps and Air Force acquisition programs. This is key to such Ohio military facilities as Wright-Patterson Air Force Base, the Lima Tank Plant, as well as Army and Air National Guard Bases. “I’d like to thank Chairman McKeon for his leadership on the committee, and for appointing me to this new position. With looming defense cuts and the potential of another round of BRAC in the coming years, this subcommittee places me in a role to continue my strong advocacy for the men and women at Wright-Patt, the Lima Tank Plant, and a number of other facilities which preserve the safety and security of our nation,” said Turner. The Subcommittee conducts oversight over a broad portfolio of procurement programs, as well as their research and development. This includes: Army, Navy and Air Force Unmanned Aerial Systems (UAS); Navy, Marine Corps, and Air Force combat aircraft (F-35, F-22, F-15, F-16, F-18, A-10, E-2, E-3, E-8, EA-6 V-22); Navy and Air Force Munitions (JDAM, Air to Air); Army and Marine Corps Munitions (Surface to Air, Surface to Surface); Army, Navy and Marine Corps Rotorcraft (AH-64, CH-47, UH-60, OH-58, Presidential Rotorcraft); Army and Marine Corps Tracked Vehicles (Bradley, M-1 Abrams, Stryker, Future Combat Systems); Army and Marine Corps Tactical Wheeled Vehicles; in addition to a number of other programs. “Mike Turner is a strong advocate for our men and women in uniform. His energy, insight, and dedication on their behalf makes him a terrific choice for Chairmanship of the Tactical Air and Land Forces Subcommittee. In this role, he will be responsible for oversight of many of the most vital programs like F-22, F-35, and Global Hawk Predators, systems that will give our troops the combat edge they need as they face the dangers ahead,” stated House Armed Services Committee Chairman Buck McKeon.
12.12.2012	Congressman Mike Turner joined with Congressman Frank LoBiondo, fellow members of the Unmanned Systems Caucus and Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) leadership to discuss the timeline on FAA selection of six Unmanned Aircraft System (UAS) test sites. The site selection process was established by language which Turner and fellow lawmakers included in the FAA Modernization and Reform Act of 2012. Moreover, Turner also included language in this year’s National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA), which promotes collaboration among government agencies on UAS. Specifically, Turner’s language requires collaboration among scientific and technical personnel and resource-sharing from the Department of Defense, FAA, and the National Aeronautics and Space Administration. “Today’s meeting was encouraging. The process is moving forward and southwest Ohio continues to have a great opportunity to expand on the development of Unmanned Aerial Systems. I look forward to working with the FAA and other government agencies as they move towards a final decision,” said Turner. Turner meets with Rep. Frank LoBiondo (NJ-2) and FAA leadership. Recently, the FAA postponed the site selection timeline. Members of the Unmanned Systems Caucus, including Turner, sent a letter to FAA Acting Administrator Michael Huerta expressing their concerns with achieving the integration timelines as required by both the NDAA and FAA bills. “We are seeing progress by the FAA as they move to fully integrate Unmanned Aircraft Systems into national airspace. Unmanned aircraft are an evolving technology that will play an increasingly larger role in modern aviation. However, lack of special use airspace to research UAS technologies and detection techniques is a potential impediment to the nation’s ability to develop this important tool, and we cannot afford further delay,” added Turner.
12.12.2012	Congressman Mike Turner, Chairman of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Strategic Forces, released the following statement as the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea (North Korea) successfully launched a long-range missile: “This successful missile launch by North Korea demonstrates its commitment to developing weapons of mass destruction to threaten the United States and its allies. More concerning is that the Kim regime illegally continues to develop nuclear weapons. Together, these behaviors should serve as a warning to both the Administration, and the international community, that a renewed effort must be undertaken to halt these destabilizing ambitions. “Moreover, now is not the time to continue cutting the only missile defense program that protects the American homeland--the ground-based midcourse defense system--as the Obama administration has each year it has been in office. It would be the height of irresponsibility to simply ignore the stated goals of the North Korean regime, and leave the American people and our allies open to attack.”
12.11.2012	Washington D.C. - Congressman Mike Turner (OH-3) honored his fellow Ohioans who will be leaving the House of Representatives at the end of this Congress: The text of Turner’s remarks follows below: Mr. Speaker, I am here today to extend my sincere best wishes as five of my fellow Ohioans will be leaving the House at the adjournment of this Congress. Ohioans have benefitted greatly from the dedication and service of Representative Steve LaTourette, who occupies the Speaker’s Chair today, Representatives Dennis Kucinich, Jean Schmidt, Betty Sutton, and Steve Austria. On a personal note, I want to thank Representative Steve LaTourette for his mentorship, guidance, and leadership in Congress. I have had the privilege of working across the aisle and side by side with these lawmakers in support of our fellow Buckeyes and Americans. Their service to our home state of Ohio, and to our nation, will not end with this Congress. Their innovative ideas and selfless service will be felt long after they leave the People’s House. I look forward to their future roles as Ohioans committed to advancing the interests of our communities, our state, and our great country. Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time. ###
11.28.2012	Congressman Mike Turner commended the news that the Dayton City Commission voted in favor of an agreement that moves the Wright Company Factory towards development and inclusion in the Dayton Aviation National Historical Park. The historic building is located on the grounds of the former Delphi Home Avenue Plant in West Dayton. “Preservation of these buildings and including them in the Dayton Aviation National Historical Park will not only tell the story of our lead in flight, but will educate and inspire future generations to expand on the legacy of the Wright Brothers. As Aviation History Month comes to a close, this is much welcomed news,” said Turner. As part of the Omnibus Public Land Management Act of 2009, Turner successfully included language which he authored, to expand the boundary of the Park to include the building as well as Hawthorn Hill. “This historic factory is at the heart of Dayton’s legacy of flight and commitment to the nation’s security. During World War I, Daytonians worked at this plant to produce aircraft to support the war effort. Afterwards, it continued our community’s legacy of manufacturing by producing our military’s first aircraft with retractable landing gear,” added Turner. In Congress, Turner serves as the Co-Chair of the Historic Preservation Caucus. This Caucus promotes historic preservation efforts amongst Members of Congress, preservation organizations and stakeholders.
10.17.2012	Congressman Mike Turner commended the news that the Secretary of the Interior has approved the Central Branch, National Home for Disabled Volunteer Soldiers/Dayton Veterans Administration Home, as a National Historic Landmark (NHL). This marks the end of a long approval process. The designation recognizes that the Central Branch possesses exceptional value and quality in illustrating or interpreting the heritage of the United States. Currently there are 2,527 designated national historic landmarks and 592 national natural landmark sites that have been designated across the country. “The designation of the Dayton VAMC as a National Historic Landmark ensures that its rich history and contributions to our nation’s veterans will be recognized for years to come. This is welcome news as we approach Veterans Day next month,” said Turner. Congressman Turner has long supported the Dayton VAMC to be designated as a National Historic Landmark. In 2003, Turner authored the Veterans National Heritage Preservation Act (H.R. 1762), which included a provision requiring the National Park Service (NPS), in consultation and cooperation with the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA), to conduct a NHL study to identify sites that commemorate key facilities managed by the National Home for Disabled Volunteer Soldiers between 1865 and 1930. Dayton was specifically included as a site to be studied. At the same time, Turner worked closely with the NPS and the VA to move forward with such a study. “This designation came about from a significant amount of work on the part of our community and my office. I am glad to have played a significant role in bringing the community together to honor the work and legacy of the Dayton VAMC to our nation’s veterans,” added Turner. On October 21, 2004, the VA, NPS, and Congressman Turner signed an agreement to conduct a theme study to assess the significance of the National Homes and prepare NHL nominations. The signing ceremony was held at the Putnam Library on the Dayton VA Campus. ###
10.10.2012	Congressman Mike Turner, a senior member of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee, submitted the following statement for the record today as the Committee began its hearing: “The Security Failures of Benghazi.” House Oversight and Government Reform Hearing: “The Security Failures in Benghazi” I would like to thank Chairman Issa for holding this important hearing to investigate the events surrounding the September 11th attack on the United States consulate in Benghazi that led to the murder of Ambassador Stevens and a number of embassy staff. The attack was performed on the anniversary of the worst terrorist attack in our nation’s history and is the first time a U.S ambassador has been killed since Adolf Dubs, the former ambassador to Afghanistan, was murdered in 1979. It is a stark reminder that terrorist groups continue to actively plan attacks against the United States and will exploit any opportunity when our guard is down. The concern for terrorist activity has been particularly prevalent in Libya, which has a history of harboring known terrorist groups and top leaders of terrorist activity against the United States. Libya is reported to be the source of numerous terrorist training grounds and has produced such top ranked Al Qaeda commanders as Abu Yahya Al Libi. Anti-American sentiment is a prevalent theme in the region and requires a careful diplomatic and military strategic engagement plan to ensure the promotion of a healthy democratic state. Achieving this goal places a great onus on the American diplomats and field agents operating in these dangerous environments, and our government has a responsibility to enact and adhere to safety policies that protect the lives of our agents. However, in the case of the September 11th attacks in Benghazi, it appears that State Department officials not only ignored security policies but, on numerous occasions, directed their agents not to file reports that would trigger the very safety measures that could have prevented the tragic loss of life. Witnesses at today’s hearing, including the Regional Security Officer (RSO) of the U.S. Mission in Libya, Eric Nordstrom, shared with the committee evidence to suggest that the State Department intentionally kept the number of security agents assigned to Libya artificially low in order to give the appearance that the situation in Libya had “normalized.” This conclusion is consistent with an internal Embassy document from February 2012 that refers to an effort underway to “transition from emergency to normalized security operations,” including the “transition to a more locally based security team.” It appears that the State Department’s goal to achieve this false perception took priority over the safety of the Ambassador and embassy staff. Evidence collected by the committee paints a chaotic and violent picture of Libya that starkly contrasts the “normalized” environment the State Department intended to project. According to this information, in the 13 month period preceding Ambassador Stevens’ death, the Embassy’s RSO, Mr. Nordstrom, reported over 230 security incidents in Libya and made numerous requests for additional security personnel. These incidents included IED attacks, kidnappings and gun battles. Despite these circumstances and repeated embassy requests for additional security personnel, the State Department systemically reduced security forces to dangerously low levels. The evidence provided to the committee raises serious questions as about the Administration’s policy in Libya and whether their strategic plan places a premium on promoting a false perception of the region at the expense of American citizens. However, there are many reasons to believe that the situation in Libya is disintegrating. The country remains dangerously splintered and infested with extremist groups. Authorities in Egypt, Niger, Algeria, Israel, and Tunisia, have repeatedly expressed concerns about weapons smuggling across their borders and into the hands of terrorist groups. These weapons could include the innumerous shoulder fired anti-aircraft missiles (MANPADS) that are known to exist in Libya. While it is estimated that Gadafi had an estimated 20,000 MANPADS before the collapse of his regime, only 5,000 have been recovered. These weapon systems pose a real threat to the United States military and civilian aircraft, and our inability to account for them in this extreme, terrorist diaspora is reason for great concern. Of equal concern is the Administration’s apparent attempt to hide these realities from the American public despite the grave threat they pose. If September 11th, 2012 and September 11th, 2001 have demonstrated anything, it is that the terrorist threat to our nation is real and we cannot let down our guard. Our government has a constitutional responsibility to protect its citizens and must adopt policies that achieve that end. I hope this hearing will aid in ensuring that safety of American’s at home and abroad and will influence a policy shift that better serves that objective. ###
09.28.2012	House Oversight and Government Reform Chairman Darrell Issa and Congressman Mike Turner, a senior member of the Committee, wrote to Treasury Secretary Tim Geithner demanding that his Department comply with document requests related to the Delphi pension scandal. Recent media reports have indicated that Treasury was directly involved in decisions that resulted in approximately 20,000 salaried Delphi retirees from across the country taking a severe cut in their pension benefits following the Auto Bailout process. Despite requests of over a year ago, Treasury has yet to fully comply with the Oversight Committee’s investigation, and its effort to shed light on a decision overseen by the Department which picked winners and losers amongst American taxpayers. “We have written to you multiple times on this matter and have yet to receive a sufficient response…Despite our repeated requests for all responsive documents and communications, the Treasury Department has only proffered a limited number of documents, many of which were already publicly available. Documents recently made public under the Freedom of Information Act, however, demonstrate that the Treasury Department was “the driving force” behind the decision to terminate the pensions of Delphi’s salaried employees. Although the Treasury Department has maintained that PBGC alone made the decision to terminate the pensions of Delphi’s salaried employees, these documents appear to indicate that Treasury Department officials and members of President Obama’s Auto Task Force played a large role in this decision,” write Issa and Turner. Specifically, the Committee is seeking all records and communications between the U.S. Department of the Treasury and the President’s Automotive Task Force, the United Auto Workers, the Pension Benefits Guaranty Corporation, GM, Delphi Corporation and Holding, or any other public official, referring or relating to retirement or pension benefits for GM or Delphi Corporation employees, between November 1, 2008, and September 19, 2012. “If the Department does not produce all the requested material by October 9, 2012, the Committee will be forced to consider use of compulsory process. The Committee on Oversight and Government Reform is the principal oversight committee of the House of Representatives and may at “any time” investigate “any matter” as set forth in House Rule X,” added the lawmakers.
09.27.2012	Congressman Mike Turner released the following statement today, after the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (PBGC) rejected non-binding mediation with the Delphi Salaried Retirees. Recent media reports have indicated that the U.S. Treasury Department and PBGC made decisions that resulted in approximately 20,000 salaried Delphi retirees from across the country taking a severe cut in their pension benefits. “I am disappointed to learn that the PBGC has rejected the request of Delphi Salaried Retirees to engage in non-binding mediation. With countless retirees throughout Ohio and across the county, PBGC’s refusal of the Delphi Salaried Retirees’ good faith offer to discuss the rightful restoration of their pensions is disheartening, but not surprising. For years now, this Administration has denied these retirees, Congress, and American taxpayers the transparency and answers they deserve. I remain committed to uncovering the truth behind the Administration’s backroom deal to slash the hard-earned pensions of these Delphi Salaried Retirees.” ###
09.21.2012	Congressman Mike Turner, Chairman of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Strategic Forces, introduced the Securing Our Nuclear Weapons and Facilities Act, legislation that would transfer responsibility for providing security at certain National Nuclear Safety Administration (NNSA) nuclear weapons facilities to the Department of Defense (DOD). Under the bill, the military would provide security for nuclear weapons and special nuclear material at NNSA’s sites in the same manner as it does for nuclear weapons in military custody. In addition, responsibility for securing transportation of nuclear weapons would also shift to DOD. “Last week my Subcommittee heard directly from NNSA officials and experts on the Y-12 incident and the alarming lapse of security. On a bipartisan basis we were stunned by the series of failures, at all levels, that enabled this incident to occur. We were also dismayed by the lack of accountability in responsible federal officials. It is clear that the NNSA is broken and we must take immediate action to ensure the security of the nation’s nuclear materials,” said Turner. In May of this year, the House passed the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013 (H.R.4310). The bill contained a series of reforms sponsored by Turner that would overhaul the governance, management, and oversight of the nuclear security enterprise. The bill would shift NNSA from focusing on paperwork and overly bureaucratic processes to ensuring NNSA’s mission is performed safely, securely, and effectively. “Shifting security to the military provides a number of advantages over the current system. Our military has the capabilities, training, and cultural mindset needed to secure the nation’s most powerful weapons. NNSA was originally created by Congress because of major security and mismanagement problems at DOE. For 12 years DOE and NNSA have been saying they will get things right—this latest incident proves once again that they haven’t. I am not willing to risk having security for our nuclear weapons continue to reside inside this broken system,” added Turner. Cosponsors of Turner’s bill include: Reps. Trent Franks (AZ-02), Mo Brooks (AL-05), Austin Scott (GA-08), Doug Lamborn (CO-05), Mike Rogers (AL-03), and Jon Fleming (LA-04). NOTE: A copy of the legislation can be found at the top of this page. ###
09.20.2012	Congressman Mike Turner introduced H.Res. 799 expressing the sense of the House of Representatives that it is not a violation of the Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment for a state to extend particular consideration to members of the uniformed services and overseas citizens to ensure that they are able to exercise their rights to vote in elections for public office. Turner’s effort to highlight this important issue comes as a number of organizations and campaigns in Ohio are working to limit the voting rights of Servicemembers deployed overseas. “Our men and women in uniform are putting their lives on the line overseas to protect our rights to liberty and freedom to freely cast our ballots. The least we can do is assure them that their voting rights are not limited here at home,” said Turner. Specifically the resolution affirms that it is the policy of the United States to provide for the ability of members of the uniformed services to exercise their Constitutional right to vote and acknowledges that particular consideration be given them due to restrictions, uncertainties, and risks, such as deployment, that present a challenge in voting. The bill also recognizes the legislative and judicial precedent of granting particular consideration to members of the uniformed services and overseas citizens regarding absentee voting. In addition, it affirms that the Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment “protect(s) against arbitrary classifications, and requires that similarly situated persons be treated equally.” “The Government has an obligation to protect Servicemember voting rights. Laws affording those special protections should be celebrated as a reflection of democratic principles rather than viewed with political suspicion. There is nothing arbitrary about serving our nation. This resolution reaffirms the protections afforded under the Fourteenth Amendment and sends a strong message to Servicemembers that their sacrifices will not go unnoticed,” added Turner. Ohio Reps. Steve Chabot, Jean Schmidt, Jim Jordan, Bob Latta, Bill Johnson, Steve Austria, Pat Tiberi, Steve LaTourette, Steve Stivers, Jim Renacci, and Bob Gibbs have joined Turner in an effort to highlight this important issue by co-cosponsoring his resolution. ###
09.14.2012	Congressman Mike Turner responded to the White House’s report detailing what would be cut if sequestration goes into effect. Turner, who voted against the Budget Control Act which set up these cuts, has been sounding the alarm on how it will impact both jobs and our nation’s defense. “What this report details is what we have all feared and have been hearing for months – these cuts are real and would be absolutely devastating to both jobs and our national security. Facilities like Wright-Patt, the Lima Tank Plant, and many more across Ohio will be indiscriminately slashed by nearly 10 percent. It is time for the President to lead and come to the table and negotiate with Congress,” said Turner. As indicated by the report, there would be a 9.4 percent cut to most defense programs, except those exempted by the law. Further, there is a 10 percent cut to other Pentagon accounts that are not subject to annual appropriations by Congress. Turner has joined the House in passing two bills to stave off these cuts. In May, Turner voted in favor of the Sequester Replacement Reconciliation Act (H.R. 5652). This bill would have replaced the FY 2013 sequestration with legislation that would, save $55 billion over five years, and save $237 billion over ten years. This week, Turner joined the House in passing the National Security and Job Protection Act (H.R. 6365). This legislation would eliminate the Budget Control Act’s sequester upon enactment of the House-passed reconciliation bill or an alternative bill that achieves the same (or greater) level of savings over five years. The bill also requires the President to submit to Congress, no later than October 15th of this year, legislation that replaces the sequestration with equal or greater spending cuts over five years. “This report doesn’t detail the specifics about what will be cut out of accounts. What we do know is that budgets will be arbitrarily cut by up by nearly 10 percent by the White House. In the meanwhile, the Pentagon will have to scramble to implement these cuts, and the defense business community will have to continue to take a wait and see approach to what might happen. What the President has failed to do is to lead on how these would be implemented and what will be impacted inside of these accounts,” added Turner. This past month, Turner hosted a Community Forum on Sequestration at Sinclair Community College in Dayton. The event brought together local and state elected officials to hear directly from business leaders and area trade groups focused on promoting the defense community. At the forum, the concern surrounding these looming cuts was palpable: “We are drowning in a sea of uncertainty,” said Sam Greenwood of the Greentree Group in his opening statement. ###
09.12.2012	Congressman Mike Turner, Chairman of the U.S. Delegation to the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, released the following statement today on the attacks on American Foreign Officers in Libya, which resulted in the death of our Ambassador and three other personnel: “Today’s attack on our fellow Americans selflessly serving their nation is a stark reminder that there are forces at work around the world who seek to stifle liberty and spread extremism. My thoughts and prayers are with the family of Ambassador Stevens and those of his colleagues who were cowardly attacked. In this difficult time we must remain vigilant and stand firm in our resolve to continue fighting for freedom.” ###
09.11.2012	Congressman Mike Turner, Chairman of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Strategic Forces, released the following statement today on the National Research Council’s report regarding the nation’s missile defense system: “Today’s report by the National Research Council highlights that we as a nation have much work to do in countering the threat of long-range missiles to the homeland. As we have seen in report after report, the President’s European phased adaptive approach was ill-conceived and prematurely rolled out by a President more focused on Russia’s concerns than defense of the United States. “The President has invested years and billions of dollars in this system, which leaves us at a strategic disadvantage in countering what is the ultimate goal of nations like Iran and North Korea – missiles that could carry weapons of mass destruction to threaten the American people. “The report validates, and informed, the provision of the FY13 National Defense Authorization Act which calls for the development of an East Coast site to improve the defense of the United States.” ###
09.07.2012	Congressman Mike Turner, Chairman of the House Armed Services Strategic Forces Subcommittee, cited the President for failing to lead on the sequestration crisis he created. The President will miss a key deadline of the Sequestration Transparency Act (H.R. 5872), a bill he signed into law. The legislation allowed the President 30 days to outline how he would implement the defense cuts that he insisted upon in the Budget Control Act passed last year. Despite the devastating impacts, the Administration has repeatedly ignored requests from Congress on how these cuts would be enacted on January 2, 2013. “I voted against these cuts and the attached debt limit increase because I knew we’d be right where we are today - over $16 trillion in debt, $417 billion away from the debt limit, and zero leadership from our Commander in Chief. As a result of his inaction, uncertainty is spreading throughout the Pentagon and back in Ohio amongst Wright-Patt and the supporting defense business community,” said Turner. Turner has joined the House in passing legislation to stave off these cuts and according to the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office would reduce the deficit by an additional $242.8 billion. The bill would replace the draconian cuts to our national security structure with common-sense spending reductions and reform. Specifically, the reforms include eliminating government slush funds, stopping waste, fraud, and abuse in federal programs, and reducing waste and duplication in government agencies. “If the President and the Senate would come to the table we could stop these cuts today. Jobs and livelihoods are on the line throughout the country and Ohio. A study by George Mason University shows that sequestration would result in Ohio losing over 21,000 jobs. At a time of anemic economic growth and stagnant unemployment numbers, the last thing Ohioans and businesses need is more uncertainty and avoidable doom on the horizon” added Turner. This past month, Turner hosted a Community Forum on Sequestration at Sinclair Community College in Dayton. The event brought together local and state elected officials to hear directly from business leaders and area trade groups focused on promoting the defense community. At the forum, the concern surrounding these looming cuts was palpable: “We are drowning in a sea of uncertainty,” said Sam Greenwood of the Greentree Group in his opening statement. ###
09.04.2012	Congressman Mike Turner released the following statement today as the National Debt passed the $16 trillion mark: “Since taking office President Obama has saddled every American with an additional $17,000 owed towards paying off the National Debt. Today he has reached another milestone – setting a record $16 trillion in outstanding Debt. When he came to Congress this time last year, and asked for an extension in the Debt Limit, I voted against it because I knew we would be right where we are today. We can no longer continue to kick the can down the road, and further burden our children and grandchildren with the task of repaying this sum. The President must come to the table and work with Congress to begin balancing the budget and stop the unchecked rise of our National Debt.” ###
08.25.2012	Congressman Mike Turner released the following statement today on the passing of Astronaut Neil Armstrong: “As a boy, born and raised in Ohio, the legends of the Wrights have been in my memories as long as I can remember. Neil Armstrong has gone to join them in heaven, and will live on as a legend as well.” ###
08.24.2012	Congressman Mike Turner released the following statement today mourning the passing of Dr. Benjamin Schuster: “My family and I were deeply saddened to learn of the passing of a champion of our community – Dr. Benjamin Schuster. Dr. Schuster’s contributions to Dayton span his professional work as a cardiologist, to him and his late wife Marian’s dedication to the promotion of the arts. I had the honor of working with them as our community built the Schuster Performing Arts Center. Saying that he and his commitment to the betterment of Dayton will be missed is an understatement. Our thoughts and prayers are with his family as we grieve his loss.”
08.15.2012	Today, the Department of Agriculture announced that several Ohio counties including Montgomery and Warren have been designated Natural Disaster areas due to the drought affecting much of the State of Ohio. This designation makes farms in those counties eligible to be considered for certain assistance from the Farm Service Agency (FSA), including FSA emergency loans. Farms have 8 months, starting today, to apply for emergency loan assistance. Montgomery County FSA Office MONTGOMERY COUNTY FARM SERVICE AGENCY10025 AMITY RDBROOKVILLE, OH 45309-9399(937) 854-7646(937) 854-3305 Fax Warren County FSA Office WARREN COUNTY FARM SERVICE AGENCY777 COLUMBUS AVE STE 7ALEBANON, OH 45036-1682(513) 695-1336(513) 695-1749 Fax Ohio FSA OfficeSTATE OFFICE OHIO STATE FARM SERVICE AGENCY200 N HIGH ST 5TH FLCOLUMBUS, OH 43215-2463(614) 255-2441(614) 255-2542 Faxhttp://turner.house.gov/district/fsa.htm#
08.09.2012	Today, a bipartisan group of Senators and Representatives wrote to the Chairmen of the House and Senate’s committees with broad oversight of the federal government’s activities, seeking requests for additional documents in the ongoing investigation into the decision to slash the pensions of 20,000 Delphi Salaried Retirees during the bailout of General Motors. The group, led by Congressman Mike Turner (OH-3), includes, Sens. Rob Portman (OH), Roger Wicker (MS), and Thad Cochran (MS), as wells as Reps. Pat Tiberi (OH-12), Mike Kelly (PA-3), Steve Stivers (OH-15), Dan Burton (IN-5), Bill Johnson (OH-6), Paul Gosar (AZ-1), Marcy Kaptur (OH-9), and Gregg Harper (MS-3). “We are writing to request that the Committees which you chair submit additional requests for documents from the Department of the Treasury and the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (PBGC) on matters pertaining to the unjust termination of Delphi Salaried Retiree pensions in the federal government’s bailout of General Motors,” wrote the bipartisan group of lawmakers to Chairmen Issa and Lieberman. The letter comes as email correspondence between U.S. Treasury and PBGC officials revealed that the decision to slash salaried retiree pensions was made solely by Treasury, contrary to testimony provided by Congress. Already, the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee has held three hearings in the 112thCongress focusing on the issue of the Auto Bailout and the decision surrounding the Delphi pensions. In addition, the Special Inspector for the Troubled Asset Relief Program (SIGTARP) is actively pursuing an investigation. “Given the nature of the correspondence made public at the House Committee’s hearing on July 10, 2012, and in recent press reports, it is our hope that these additional requests will yield a thorough production from the Treasury and the PBGC. We believe that these requests will ensure that Congress is provided full and complete disclosure and that these agencies are held accountable to the American taxpayers,” added the lawmakers. The pensions of Delphi Salaried Retirees were significantly reduced in the aftermath of the bailout, while their union counterparts were made whole. This decision of the Auto Task Force, Treasury, and the PBGC continues to affect roughly 20,000 current and future retirees across the nation. NOTE: The full letter can be found here.
08.02.2012	Today, Congressmen Mike Turner congratulated Kayla Harrison upon her becoming the first American to ever win an Olympic gold medal in judo. Turner has also joined Members of the House and Senate in sponsoring legislation which would eliminate the tax on Olympic medals won by U.S. athletes. “I’d like to congratulate Kayla on this tremendous accomplishment. Her hard work and determination will be an enduring example to both members of our community and our nation as a whole. As the first American, man or woman, to ever win a gold medal in judo she has earned a place in sports history,” said Turner. Unfortunately for athletes like Kayla Harrison, upon returning to the United States, she will be greeted by not only her fans, but also the Internal Revenue Service. Currently, U.S. Olympians must pay taxes on their Olympic medals and prizes because the U.S. imposes taxes on worldwide income earned overseas. To end this tax on our hero-athletes, Turner has cosponsored H.R. 6267. The legislation would exempt U.S. Olympic athletes from having to pay taxes on the medals and awards they win competing on behalf of the U.S. in the Olympics. “Our hero-athletes should be greeted with applause and cheers when returning home, not a tax bill. After years of preparation and expense to win an Olympic medal, the last thing Americans competing on behalf of their nation need is the additional burden of paying Uncle Sam for their success,” added Turner. More than 500 U.S. athletes are representing our country this summer in the Olympic Games, including 17 from the state of Ohio and 2 from the Miami Valley region. Medal winners receive honorariums that accompany the medals themselves – and pay taxes on those amounts as follows: Medal Medal Tax Honorarium Honorarium Tax Gold $236 $25,000 $8,986 Silver $135 $15,000 $5,385 Bronze $2 $10,000 $3,500 According to research performed by Americans for Tax Reform, U.S. athletes are virtually the only athletes subject to having their Olympic awards and prizes taxed as income. ###
08.01.2012	Washington D.C. - Congressman Mike Turner released the following statement after joining a bipartisan group of House Members in supporting H.R. 8, the Job Protection and Recession Prevention Act. The legislation halts scheduled tax increases at the end of the year by extending current income tax rates for one year. “Ohio families have spent the last four years struggling in what has been called the ‘worst economic recovery America has ever had.’ Now they are faced with the uncertainty of increased taxes that they and our fragile economy cannot afford. This bill provides that certainty for families, and the ability for Congress to work together on meaningful long-term tax reform. Playing politics with the financial future of families and job creators is not something Ohioans support.” The legislation provides for a one-year extension of the low-tax policies originally enacted in 2001 and 2003 and then extended again in 2010. Specifically the bill would: Maintain existing tax rates and thus prevent a tax hike on Jan. 1, 2013. Continue marriage penalty relief. Maintain the $1,000 child credit. Maintain a 15 percent top rate on dividends and capital gains. Maintain the estate tax at its 2011 and 2012 parameters (indexed for inflation). Provide higher Sec. 179 small business expensing limits. Preserve certain education-related benefits. Provide a two-year AMT patch (covering 2012 and 2013). ###
07.19.2012	Today, Congressmen Mike Turner (OH-3) and Russ Carnahan (MO-3), Co-Chairs of the Historic Preservation Caucus, introduced the bipartisan Rehabilitation of Historic Schools Act (H.R. 6151). The legislation would incentivize private investment to help rehabilitate our country’s older K-12 public school buildings. Under current law, a restriction on the prior use of a property limits the ability of local governments to partner with private developers to rehabilitate older public schools through the use of the Historic Tax Credit (HTC). This bipartisan and bicameral bill (S. 1685) would remove this barrier, incentivizing the renovation of older K-12 public schools, improving the learning environment for our nation’s youth and helping spur local job creation. “Our communities must have the ability to provide our children with the premier, 21st Century education they deserve. By allowing this incentivized private investment, school districts can rehabilitate their facilities at lower costs and dedicate more funding to educating their students,” said Turner. According to the Department of Education’s National Center for Education Statistics, 28 percent of all public K-12 schools were built before 1950. In addition, a study by the American Society of Civil Engineers gave the quality of our nation’s public school facilities a “D” rating. As state and local governments continue to feel pressure in this difficult economy, Congress must remove red tape that hinders private investment in our public schools. “Providing new schools to replace the thousands of older institutions would require money that most communities simply do not have,” said Carnahan. “However, the physical infrastructure of our schools, particularly in the inner cities, must be upgraded. Better energy efficiency, more effective climate control, power grids that are able to handle the energy needs of digital classrooms and other major changes are necessary to turn mid-Century lecture halls into the multi-media, globally connected classrooms that our students need. This legislation will allow government to work with the private market to make these needs a reality in communities throughout our nation while we create American jobs that can never be outsourced.” Established by Congress over thirty years ago, the HTC has helped create 2.2 million jobs, incentivized nearly $100 billion in private investment, and renovated more than 38,000 buildings, while helping to revitalize our communities and protect our country’s cultural heritage. In 2011, the HTC leveraged more than $4 billion in private investment and helped create nearly 56,000 jobs to rehabilitate 937 projects. NOTE: The National Trust for Historic Preservation, Preservation Action, Heritage Ohio and First Focus Campaign for Children have all endorsed this legislation. Letters of support from those organizations are attached to this email. ###
07.17.2012	Congressman Mike Turner, Chairman of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Strategic Forces, released the following statement upon news that an Aerospace Industries Association report found that the impending sequestration cuts will result in the loss of over 2 million American jobs: “I voted against the Budget Control Act for precisely the reasons we are now seeing develop – uncertainty throughout the defense industry, the potential of massive layoffs, and a significant impact to both Ohio’s economy and our national security. The President as Commander in Chief, and who requested these cuts be included, has yet to offer a solution to this draconian action. While he is unwilling to come to the negotiating table, a key sector of our fragile economy swings in the balance. Rather than spending time on the campaign trail in Ohio, he ought to be focused on the thousands of Ohioans who will lose their jobs because of his inaction.” ###
07.16.2012	House Armed Services Committee Chairman Howard P. “Buck” McKeon (R-CA) and House Subcommittee on Strategic Forces Chairman Michael Turner (R-OH) sent a letter Friday to Secretary of Defense Leon Panetta expressing concern over the Obama Administration’s plans to continue a sharp decline in the attention and resources invested in U.S. national missile defenses. According to the Letter: “In 2009, the Administration justified a significant shift in U.S. missile defense policy on the basis of what was labeled 'new intelligence assessments.' Secretary Gates, in a September 17, 2009, press conference, stated, 'our intelligence assessments also now assesses that the threat of potential Iranian intercontinental ballistic missile capabilities has been slower to develop to than was estimated in 2006.' It therefore follows that a shift in intelligence could justify a further change in U.S. missile defense strategy.”The recently released unclassified 2012 Report of Military Power of the Islamic Republic of Iran may be one such piece of evidence that such a shift may be at hand.Read the full letter here.
07.11.2012	Congressman Mike Turner and Congresswoman Niki Tsongas, Co-Chairs of the Sexual Assault Prevention Caucus have written to Air Force Secretary Michael B. Donley to request an immediate briefing for their Caucus on the widespread sexual assault allegations at Lackland Air Force Base in San Antonio, TX. This is particularly alarming because it was perpetrated by military training instructors (MTIs) on recruits “We were both alarmed to learn that our military has uncovered rampant misconduct including a reported rape and multiple sexual assaults at Lackland Air Force Base. The behavior at Lackland is particularly disturbing because it was perpetrated by military training instructors on recruits. As co-chairs of the Military Sexual Assault Prevention Caucus, we would like to request a briefing for the members of our Caucus on the sexual assault response capabilities of the Air Force,” wrote Turner and Tsongas. Last month, Turner wrote to General Edward A. Rice Jr., Commander of Air Education and Training Command, to request an immediate briefing regarding widespread sexual assault allegations at Lackland Air Force Base in San Antonio, TX. Turner was briefed by the General in the days following that request. “In light of the incidents at Lackland Air Force Base it is important that Members of Congress have a solid understanding of the investigative, prosecutorial, and survivor support capabilities available in the Air Force, and how they are being implemented, both across the force, and in the cases that are under investigation at Lackland AFB,” added the lawmakers. As a senior member of the House Armed Services Committee Turner has focused this important issue which impacts our servicemembers. This Congress, he introduced the Defense Sexual Trauma Response and Good Governance (STRONG) Act. Many of this bill’s provisions were included in the FY 2012 National Defense Authorization Act and have become law. NOTE: The letter to Secretary Donley can be found here.
07.10.2012	Congressman Mike Turner (OH-3) grilled former Auto Task Force officials at the House Oversight and Government Reform’s Subcommittee on TARP, Financial Services, and Bailouts of Public and Private Programs hearing entitled - The Administration’s Auto Bailouts and the Delphi Pension Decisions: Who Picked the Winners and Losers? The hearing follows a May 14th letter sent by Turner requesting a hearing with testimony from those who allegedly made the decisions within the Pension Benefit Guarantee Corporation (PBGC) that resulted in approximately 20,000 salaried Delphi retirees from across the country taking a severe cut in their pension benefits. Turner’s letter to Chairman Issa requested that the Committee interview three former Auto Task Force members who have refused to meet with the Special Inspector General for TARP (SIGTARP) on the treatment of Delphi pensions. During the hearing the officials agreed to meet with SIGTARP within the next two months. Previously, the former Administration-appointed officials had avoided providing answers sought by taxpayers and Congress. This was brought to Turner’s attention in a May 9, 2012 letter from SIGTARP stating that the individuals had refused to meet, and that it was SIGTARP’s belief that they were involved with the decision to terminate the pensions. Watch Turner’s Opening Statement Watch Turner Questioning Former Auto Task Force OfficialsWatch Turner Questioning Ron Bloom, Who has Avoided Responding to Turner’s Questions from an Oversight Committee Hearing on June 22, 2011 ###
07.10.2012	Congressman Mike Turner submitted the following statement for the Congressional Record upon joining the House in voting to approve H.R. 6079, the Repeal of Obamacare Act. The bill fully repeals Obamacare and its billions in new taxes upon Americans and American businesses: H.R. 6079, the Repeal of Obamacare Act Statement of the Honorable Michael R. Turner Mr. Chairman, the flawed Obamacare law adversely affects American families, small businesses and millions of seniors. Even before the law is fully implemented, Obamacare already increases costs on hard-working American families and businesses. For example, healthcare premiums have already increased by $1,200 for the average American family. Two weeks ago, the U.S. Supreme Court ruled that the individual mandate of the President’s healthcare law is a tax. This tax will have tremendous consequences on individuals, working families, businesses, and local governments. In fact, the most recent Congressional Budget Office estimate indicates that the individual mandate will impose $54 billion in new taxes on Americans over 10 years. We have heard from many businesses across the country that the employer mandate will be devastating for them and their employees. For example, the employer mandate to provide healthcare coverage will penalize American firms by $113 billion over 10 years and could eliminate 1.6 million jobs. At a time when the economy is still struggling to recover, we should be focused on reducing taxes on hardworking Americans and providing incentives for businesses to grow and create jobs. That is why last week I authored H.R. 6048, the Healthcare Tax Relief and Mandate Repeal Act, with 125 of my colleagues, to repeal the Obamacare individual and employer mandates, providing relief for American families and businesses. Mr. Chairman, I am also troubled by the Obamacare 2.3 percent tax on medical devices. Mound Laser and Photonics Center, headquartered in Miamisburg, Ohio in my district, specializes in laser-based micro and nano-fabrication. The majority of its workers have backgrounds in science and engineering, critical fields our country needs to compete in the global economy. Unfortunately, the company reported it was forced to lay off 10 employees due to the loss of business from one of its medical device clients. Another company in my community, Ferno-Washington Inc., a global leader in manufacturing and distribution of professional emergency and healthcare products based in Wilmington, Ohio, says the tax increase will cause the company to scale back research, development, and production of new products, hampering the company’s ability to compete. The executives at Ferno estimate the cost of the tax is equivalent to 23 jobs. This Congress, I authored H.R. 1310, a bill to repeal this tax for first responder medical devices and co-sponsored a bill to eliminate this unfair tax altogether. Mr. Chairman, now is not the time to impose extra burdens on American families and businesses when our economy is struggling to get back on track. I strongly support repeal of Obamacare and am committed to working with my colleagues to carefully and thoughtfully implement real healthcare reform. ###
07.06.2012	Today, Congressman Mike Turner (OH-3) announced that the House Oversight and Government Reform’s Subcommittee on TARP, Financial Services, and Bailouts of Public and Private Programs will hold a hearing entitled - The Administration’s Auto Bailouts and the Delphi Pension Decisions: Who Picked the Winners and Losers? The hearing will be held on Tuesday, July 10th at 10:00am in 2247 of the RayburnHouse Office Building. The hearing follows a May 14th letter sent by Turner requesting a hearing with testimony from those who allegedly made the decisions within the Pension Benefit Guarantee Corporation (PBGC) that resulted in approximately 20,000 salaried Delphi retirees from across the country taking a severe cut in their pension benefits. “As former employees of the taxpayers, these individuals have a responsibility to answer as to how these decisions were made. The money they used to pick winners and losers wasn’t Obama Administration funds, or PBGC funds – those are taxpayer dollars. Taxpayers have rightfully been demanding an account for how those dollars were used,” stated Turner. Turner’s letter to Chairman Issa requested that the Committee interview three former Auto Task Force members who have refused to meet with the Special Inspector General for TARP (SIGTARP) on the treatment of Delphi pensions. This latest attempt by Administration officials to avoid providing answers sought by taxpayers and Congress was brought to Turner’s attention in a May 9, 2012 letter from SIGTARP stating that the individuals had refused to meet, and that it was SIGTARP’s belief that they were involved with the decision to terminate the pensions. “These individuals earned taxpayer-funded salaries for taxpayer-funded actions, and are now denying those taxpayers the transparency and answers they deserve. Because SIGTARP does not possess testimonial subpoena authority, I am requesting that the Committee on Oversight & Government Reform interview these individuals concerning the role they played in the decision to take the retirement and health benefits of these retirees. It is my hope those these interviews will provide information relevant to the Committee’s ongoing efforts, and hold these individuals accountable to the American taxpayers,” Turner wrote in his letter to Issa. ###
06.28.2012	Following today’s Supreme Court ruling that the President’s healthcare mandates are taxes on the American public, Congressman Mike Turner has introduced the Healthcare Tax Relief and Mandate Repeal Act (H.R. 6048). Turner’s bill repeals the taxes on individuals and employers mandated by the President’s healthcare law. Both the employer and individual mandates are to take effect in 2014 under the law. The bill has the support of 119 original cosponsors. “This tax will have tremendous consequences on individuals, working families, businesses, and local governments. According to the non-partisan Congressional Budget Office, the individual mandate alone will result in $4 billion in increased taxes a year on Americans by 2017. While Ohio families are still struggling under this economy, the President aims to place additional tax burdens on them that they simply cannot meet,” said Turner. The employer mandate tax is estimated by the non-partisan Congressional Budget Office to add approximately $10 billion in new taxes once it’s fully implemented. Those dollars instead of going towards hiring new employees would be paid to the government. Companies with at least 50 workers, which have a full-time employee who participates in a federally-subsidized insurance “exchange,” must pay a penalty for failing to offer that worker acceptable insurance on the job. Those companies which do not offer any insurance, have more than 50 employees, and have at least one employee receiving insurance subsidies, must pay a tax of $2,000 per subsidized employee. The employer mandate tax is applied to all of a company’s employees, excluding the first 30 employees, not just those that are subsidized. “We have also heard from many businesses across Ohio and the country that the employer mandate will be devastating for them and their employees. At a time when the economy is still struggling to recover, we should be focused on reducing taxes on hardworking Americans and providing incentives for businesses to grow and create jobs. This mandate will in fact act as a disincentive to hire new employees, as it may cost companies additional taxes,” said Turner. NOTE: A copy of Turner’s legislation can be found here. ###
06.28.2012	Today, Congressman Mike Turner gave remarks at the International Assessment and Strategy Center’s luncheon on Capitol Hill. Turner, who is Chairman of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Strategic Forces, focused on the need to counter efforts by the People’s Republic of China’s efforts to expand their nuclear stockpile and their continued construction of thousands of miles of underground tunnels dubbed the “Underground Great Wall.” Note: The full text of Congressman Turner’s remarks can be found here. ###
06.28.2012	Today, Congressman Mike Turner released the following statement upon the U.S. Supreme Court handing down their decision on the President’s healthcare reform bill – the Affordable Care Act: “Today the Court ruled that the individual mandate is a tax. This tax will have tremendous consequences on individuals, working families, businesses, and local governments. At a time when the economy is still struggling to recover, we should be focused on reducing taxes on hardworking Americans. There are many things which are considered legal or constitutional, but are not good ideas. Obamacare is one of them. “I have heard from many businesses across southwest Ohio, this law will be devastating for them and their employees. I voted against this bill because of these effects and the closed process which shut the door on many of the reforms which will open access to care and make it more affordable. I will join with my colleagues in the House in repealing portions of this law which will stifle job creation and place undue burdens on Ohioans. Following that we can begin an open and transparent process where real reforms can be enacted which will make healthcare more accessible and affordable.” ###
06.28.2012	Today, Congressman Mike Turner released the following statement upon the U.S. House of Representatives approving a report holding Attorney General Eric Holder in contempt of Congress for his failure to produce documents specified in the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee’s October 12, 2011 subpoena. Turner is a senior member of the committee which has broad oversight and investigational responsibility. “Attorney General Holder has had a number of opportunities to turn over the documents as requested by the Oversight Committee. However, while taxpayers and Congress have repeatedly asked for answers, the Attorney General has failed to provide them. Today’s vote is another unfortunate event in a series which has resulted in only more unanswered questions about what occurred during Operation Fast and Furious and the death of a federal law enforcement officer.” ###
06.27.2012	Congressman Mike Turner announced that the Department of Defense has officially implemented a new prohibition on the naming of Department of Defense (DoD) property after a sitting Member of Congress. Turner included the language in the FY 2012 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) to prevent conflicts of interest between Members and projects funded by taxpayers. Turner had written to Defense Secretary Leon Panetta requesting an update on how the Department is implementing in April of this year. “I am glad to hear that the Defense Department has finally implemented this policy. Taxpayer’s dollars should not be going towards monuments for currently serving elected officials,” said Turner. In a letter to Turner, Under Secretary of Defense Frank Kednall stated that policy officially went into effect on June 17, 2012. The language (Sec. 2863) as passed by the FY 2012 NDAA applies to structures, buildings, or other infrastructure of a military installation, roadways and defense access roads, and any other area on the grounds of a military installation. “Naming infrastructure after sitting Members is a clear conflict. These are taxpayer’s dollars and it gives the wrong impression if the buildings or operations are affiliated with an elected official who’s currently still in office. It gives the appearance that the Member has funded the infrastructure rather than the taxpayer,” added Turner.Note: Letters from the DoD indicating that the policy has gone into effect can be found in the related documents section of this page.
06.26.2012	Today, Congressman Mike Turner announced that The Dayton Art Institute will be participating in the Blue Star Museums program this summer. The program is a collaboration between the National Endowment for the Arts, Blue Star Families, the Department of Defense, and more than 1,800 museums across America. From Memorial Day, May 28, through Labor Day, September 3, 2012, the participating museums offer free admission to all active duty military personnel and their families. “The Dayton Art Institute is a significant cultural asset in our community. They are opening their doors and supporting our servicemembers and their families. I’d like to thank them for participating in this program and encourage our military community to take advantage of this opportunity,” said Congressman Mike Turner. The free admission program is available to any bearer of a Geneva Convention common access card (CAC), a DD Form 1173 ID card, or a DD Form 1173-1 ID card, which includes active duty U.S. military (Army, Navy, Air Force, Marines, Coast Guard, active duty National Guard and Reserve members, active duty U.S. Public Health Service Commissioned Corps, active duty NOAA Commissioned Corps), and up to five family members. “Our military personnel and their families have given – and continue to give – so much to protect our country,” said Michael R. Roediger, Executive Director of The Dayton Art Institute. “This program is an important way for us to say ‘thank you’ and give something back to them.” ###
06.26.2012	Today, Congressman Mike Turner wrote to General Edward A. Rice Jr., Commander of Air Education and Training Command, to request an immediate briefing regarding widespread sexual assault allegations at Lackland Air Force Base in San Antonio, TX. This is particularly alarming because it was perpetrated by military training instructors (MTIs) on recruits. “The nature of their position grants MTIs a great deal of authority over young and impressionable recruits,” wrote Turner. “During this process recruits should be learning the leadership values requisite to build the finest Air Force in the world. Instead, it appears that a systemic breakdown led to the creation of an environment that harbored the basest level of criminal activity at an unimaginable scale.” Turner is a Co-Chairman of the Sexual Assault Prevention Caucus in Congress. As a senior member of the House Armed Services Committee he has focused this important issue which impacts our servicemembers. This Congress, he introduced the Defense Sexual Trauma Response and Good Governance (STRONG) Act. Many of this bill’s provisions were included in the FY 2012 National Defense Authorization Act and have become law. “Sexual assault has tremendous detrimental effects on both the victim and the unit. Its presence impacts readiness and morale while degrading the reputation of the Servicemembers that defend our nation. Over the past several years I have worked diligently with my colleagues in the House Armed Services Committee to implement laws to prevent sexual assault and protect the Servicemembers victimized by this violent crime,” added Turner. ###
06.25.2012	Today, Congressman Mike Turner (OH-3) released the following statement upon the change of command at the Department of Defense’s Sexual Assault Prevention and Response Office (SAPRO). Major General Mary Hertog will transition out of the role of director. Hertog was the first flag officer to hold the post, following language authored by Turner in the FY 2011 National Defense Authorization Act, which requires a flag officer to lead the Department’s office charged with combating sexual assault within its ranks. Major General Gary Patton will oversee the office headquartered at the Pentagon. “I would like to thank Major General Hertog for her work on this important issue affecting our men and women in uniform. As the first flag officer to oversee this office, she has been an important part of changing how the Defense Department responds to sexual assault within its ranks. Her work was integral to maintaining the safety and morale of our servicemembers.“I welcome the appointment of Major General Patton to be director of SAPRO. As an infantry officer, combat veteran and principal director of the Office of Military Personnel and Policy, he has played a significant role in managing many issues facing our nation’s military. I look forward to working with him in this new role, and know that he will build upon the progress the Department has made on sexual assault under the leadership of Secretary Panetta and Chairman Dempsey.” ###
06.22.2012	Reacting to reports that President Obama is seeking possible further unilateral reductions to U.S. nuclear weapons, sharply below the number required under a 2010 arms treaty, House Armed Services Committee Chairman Howard P. “Buck” McKeon (R-CA) and Strategic Forces Subcommittee Chairman Michael Turner (R-OH) made the following joint statement: “As the President sits down with President Putin this week, we continue to have concerns about reports of possible unilateral reductions in our nuclear arsenal. “To be clear, The White House has yet to announce how it plans to implement the unilateral reductions of the New START Treaty. At the same time, the President’s promised modernization plan isn't being delivered. “While the President seems willing to compromise with Russia, he doesn't seem equally disposed where Congress is concerned; maintaining a veto threat over legislation that would protect the US military from devastating automatic cuts. The result of this dual approach is unilateral disarmament of the United States. “While Iran, North Korea, India, Pakistan, Russia and China remain committed to nuclear weapons, and in some cases are expanding and modernizing them, this President has thus far succeeded in only reducing the nuclear arms of one country: the United States.” ###
06.22.2012	Today, Senator Rob Portman and Congressman Mike Turner announced their support of a decision by the U.S. Marine Corps to maintain their Hull Machining Line at the Joint Services Manufacturing Center (JSMC) in Lima, Ohio. Following the Obama Administration’s cancellation of the Expeditionary Fighting Vehicle (EFV) Program, the Marine Corps' Program Manager began reviewing the future use of all EFV-associated equipment procured as part of that program. Although there was a preliminary determination to relocate that equipment to a Marine Corps facility, further consideration determined that this was not a time-sensitive decision and the disposition of this equipment will not happen until after the issue can be more thoroughly studied. Portman and Turner, members of the Senate and House Armed Services Committees, worked with the Marine Corps to ensure proper consideration was given before a final decision was made. This follows successful efforts by both members on their respective committees to stop attempts to defund the JSMC, a decision that would have a long-term impact on our nation’s security and defense supply chain. “When it comes to manufacturing combat vehicles, the skills and expertise at Lima are unparalleled anywhere in the world. I’m pleased to see the Marines have agreed to work with us, to make sure we maintain the proper resources at the plant and avoid negatively impacting this critical capability,” said Senator Portman. The Marines will undertake a Business Case Analysis (BCA) that will allow them to compile a cost/benefit analysis of all potential disposition alternatives. The BCA will focus on maintaining the Defense Industrial Base, of which the Lima facility is a key part. “This decision is important for the continued success and strength of the Lima Tank Plant. Having visited the facility a number of times, I know the workforce is dedicated to producing vehicles for the defense of our nation and our allies around the world. I am glad the Marine Corps is conducting this analysis, and understands the significant importance of our defense industrial base, not only to Ohio, but the United States,” stated Congressman Turner. “We’d like to thank Senator Portman, Congressman Turner, and the entire Ohio delegation for their constant work on behalf of the Joint Services Manufacturing Center at Lima. They know that the work done there is important to the defense of this country and helps ensure our manufacturing base remains strong,” added Keith Deters, General Dynamics’ plant manager in Lima, Ohio. ###
06.22.2012	Today, Senator Rob Portman and Congressman Mike Turner announced their support of a decision by the U.S. Marine Corps to maintain their Hull Machining Line at the Joint Services Manufacturing Center (JSMC) in Lima, Ohio. Following the Obama Administration’s cancellation of the Expeditionary Fighting Vehicle (EFV) Program, the Marine Corps' Program Manager began reviewing the future use of all EFV-associated equipment procured as part of that program. Although there was a preliminary determination to relocate that equipment to a Marine Corps facility, further consideration determined that this was not a time-sensitive decision and the disposition of this equipment will not happen until after the issue can be more thoroughly studied. Portman and Turner, members of the Senate and House Armed Services Committees, worked with the Marine Corps to ensure proper consideration was given before a final decision was made. This follows successful efforts by both members on their respective committees to stop attempts to defund the JSMC, a decision that would have a long-term impact on our nation’s security and defense supply chain. “When it comes to manufacturing combat vehicles, the skills and expertise at Lima are unparalleled anywhere in the world. I’m pleased to see the Marines have agreed to work with us, to make sure we maintain the proper resources at the plant and avoid negatively impacting this critical capability,” said Senator Portman. The Marines will undertake a Business Case Analysis (BCA) that will allow them to compile a cost/benefit analysis of all potential disposition alternatives. The BCA will focus on maintaining the Defense Industrial Base, of which the Lima facility is a key part. “This decision is important for the continued success and strength of the Lima Tank Plant. Having visited the facility a number of times, I know the workforce is dedicated to producing vehicles for the defense of our nation and our allies around the world. I am glad the Marine Corps is conducting this analysis, and understands the significant importance of our defense industrial base, not only to Ohio, but the United States,” stated Congressman Turner. “We’d like to thank Senator Portman, Congressman Turner, and the entire Ohio delegation for their constant work on behalf of the Joint Services Manufacturing Center at Lima. They know that the work done there is important to the defense of this country and helps ensure our manufacturing base remains strong,” added Keith Deters, General Dynamics’ plant manager in Lima, Ohio. ###
06.20.2012	Today, Congressman Mike Turner released the following statement upon the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee approving a report holding Attorney General Eric Holder in contempt of Congress for his failure to produce documents specified in the Committee’s October 12, 2011 subpoena. Turner is a senior member of the committee which has broad oversight and investigational responsibility. “It is unfortunate that the Committee had to take this action today. Attorney General Holder was given a number of opportunities to provide documents which could shed light on the Justice Department operation which lead to the murder of a federal law enforcement officer. Taxpayers and Congress alike have been stonewalled by the Attorney General in our efforts to bring transparency to the executive department responsible for law enforcement. Today’s vote is a signal that transparency and accountability as a federal office holder are requirements of the position, not options. As the full House has yet to approve the resolution, there is still time for the Attorney General to act. I encourage him to do so.” ###
06.18.2012	Today, Congressman Mike Turner responded to the release of the RAND Corporation’s analysis of the reorganization of Air Force Materiel Command (AFMC) and the Air Force decision to proceed with the process. In late January 2012, the Secretary of the Air Force asked RAND to conduct the required independent review of AFMC’s proposed reorganization. In an effort to streamline the AFMC, the Air Force decided to restructure the major Command headquartered at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base from 12 Centers to 5. The 5-Center construct was announced in November 2011 as a major part of AFMC's response to a Department of Defense challenge to find efficiencies and save taxpayer dollars. “This report offers encouraging news for both the Air Force and the future of Wright-Patterson Air Force Base. Congress and the Department of Defense realize that we can no longer continue to run business as usual and changes need to be made in order to gain efficiencies. Wright-Patt has always served as a model for other bases in our uniformed services. This study demonstrates that that role will continue, as the AFMC reorganization is a step in the right direction and the establishment of the Life Cycle Management Center will be critical in realizing savings for the taxpayer,” said Turner. The analysis confirms that “AFMC would retain all critical line functions.” The reorganization creates opportunities to improve operations and support efficiencies through standardization across supply chains. “Our analysis of the reorganization indicates that the Air Force has recognized [the] challenges [to the AFMC reorganization] and has taken several steps to mitigate their potential effect… the Air Force has addressed issues of career and leadership development for those involved with operations support,” states the analysis. “In times of tough budget outlooks, I applaud the Air Force for taking these steps to ensure the long-term viability and cost effectiveness of AFMC. I look forward to working with General Wolfenbarger and Air Force leadership as we continue this process, and look for ways to improve operations, and save taxpayer dollars,” added Turner. ###
06.18.2012	Today, Congressman Mike Turner, Chairman of the House Armed Services Subcommittee in Strategic Forces, released the following statement in response to the meeting between U.S. President Barack Obama and Russian President Vladimir Putin today at the G-20 Summit in Mexico: “As the President meets with Putin to transmit his thoughts, I'd like to know if he followed up on his discussion with former President Medvedev. Our missile defense systems at home and abroad are not open to compromise. The safety of the American people and our allies are not something to be negotiated upon. I note that the President has thus far refused to respond to my questions about just what he's been offering Russia in his discussions the past three and a half years.”###
06.11.2012	Congressman Mike Turner released the following statement upon the announcement that on Wednesday, June 20th, the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee will convene to consider a report holding Attorney General Eric Holder in contempt of Congress for his failure to produce documents specified in the Committee’s October 12, 2011, subpoena. Turner is a senior member of the committee which has broad oversight and investigational responsibility. “Attorney General Holder has been given ample time and a number of opportunities to present the documents in question. The time for stalling has passed. If the Attorney General does not provide the documents as requested by the time of Wednesday’s vote, I will join my colleagues in voting in favor of the contempt resolution. Americans expect their Government to be open, honest, and forthright both in times of success, and as in this case, deep failure. This vote is one which seeks to provide the accountability required of those who serve in public office.” ###
06.08.2012	Today, the House approved language in the FY 2013 Legislative Branch Appropriations bill offered by Congressman Mike Turner (OH-3) which would require unspent Congressional office funds to be returned to the Treasury Department and allocated towards debt reduction. Without this provision, these funds could have instead be “reprogrammed” for other budget purposes. Turner has teamed up with Ways and Means Committee Chairman Dave Camp on the issue. In a February 23rd letter, Turner and Camp requested that the language of H.R. 297 be included in the annual bill approving funds for Congressional operations. H.R. 297 would require that any unspent funds in Members’ Representational Allowances (MRA) be used for deficit reduction or to reduce the federal debt. Turner is a co-sponsor of H.R. 297. “When this nation is $15.4 trillion in debt, we should be using every unspent dollar to close the deficit and pay down the debt. When families are budgeting, they pay their bills, not add new ones. Congress would do well to take a lesson from them,” said Turner. Turner earlier this year had announced that his office saved roughly $165,000 of his 2011 MRA and that he would be returning those funds to the U.S. Treasury. Turner’s office MRA as designated by the U.S. House of Representatives for 2011 was just over $1.4 Million. This means that Turner did not spend all of the funds allotted to his office and has returned 11.6% of his MRA. “These leftover dollars don’t need to be turned into additional government spending. With another trillion dollar deficit on the horizon, the last thing we need is for saved dollars, to be turned into spent dollars,” added Turner. ###
06.07.2012	Congressman Mike Turner gave remarks at the Air Force Association’s Breakfast Seminar Series. Turner, who is Chairman of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Strategic Forces, focused on the need for reform at the National Nuclear Security Administration (NNSA) and the need for sound and effective management of our nuclear security enterprise. The full text of Congressman Turner’s remarks follow below. KEY EXCERPTS: The President Needs to Offer a Plan “It was clear when we saw the President’s FY13 budget request and we saw the proposed delays in key programmatic promises by the President that the NNSA wasn’t able to deliver on the President’s promises. Let me say that again, the President’s promises. Yet, when HASC offered ideas for how to help the President get those promises fulfilled, all we get are ‘strong objections’ from the President’s senior advisors. The result is the President is walking away from his promises, without a fight, other than his fight with those who are trying to help him.” The Need for Reform at the NNSA “According to the myriad reports, studies, and experts the subcommittee has consulted, the overwhelming conclusion is: no, it has not worked. Many of the same problems still exist, and many have gotten worse. The bipartisan Perry-Schlesinger Commission stated, for example, that ‘…the governance structure of the NNSA is not delivering the needed results. This governance structure should be changed…, the original intent of the legislation creating the NNSA has not been realized. The desired autonomy has not come into being. It is time to consider fundamental changes.’ Ultimately, the Commission recommended that Congress re-constitute NNSA as a wholly independent agency reporting to the President through the Secretary of Energy. Others have begun thinking about moving NNSA over to the DOD, since DOD is increasingly funding the NNSA’s activities, and, DOD is of course the customer of the NNSA.” Bipartisan Support for NNSA amongst House Members “I believe this reform package is both comprehensive and prudent. Each part is interdependent with the others, and collectively they address nearly all of the most critical problems identified by the various studies. Most of the studies and experts have recommended full autonomy for NNSA. I believe the NDAA takes a more measured approach that also has a significant chance for success—if robustly implemented. However, if these reforms don’t work—or vested interests stand in the way—I and many of my colleagues may become receptive to the more drastic reforms we have heard talked about, such as full autonomy or shifting NNSA to DOD. One way or another, we will not allow DOE’s suffocating, entrenched bureaucracy or other special interests to continue to slowly strangle the weapons program.” The Imperative of Reform and Presidential Leadership“Thus, for a second consecutive year, the President will have failed to fully fund the modernization program. This is unacceptable, and should be unacceptable to any American that believes our nuclear deterrent still plays a role in our national security and global stability. Even if you don’t support the U.S. nuclear deterrent, like many in the arms control community, surely, you don’t just want U.S. nuclear disarmament. You of course want the Russians, Chinese and others to reduce as well. That isn’t happening now – only the U.S. is failing to modernize. Only the U.S. is reducing nuclear forces. And when the House passed a bill to attempt to fix all of these problems, what support do we get from the President? In its “Statement of Administration Policy” on the NDAA, the Administration said it “strongly objects” to the NNSA reforms contained in the bill. But where are the President’s solutions? Nowhere – he doesn’t have any.” Remarks at the Air Force Association’s Breakfast Seminar Series – As Prepared for DeliveryThe Honorable Michael R. TurnerChairman, Strategic Forces Subcommittee, House Armed Services Committee June 7, 2012 This President, more than any other I can think of, has a habit of blaming others who try to offer constructive solutions, especially when he isn’t bold enough to offer his own solutions, and his habit for attacking those who hold him to his own commitments. Look at the budget standoff today: the President threatens to veto the legislation introduced by Chairman McKeon to prevent defense sequester for one year, and to pay for it, without offering his own solution, making sequester far more likely. His own Defense Secretary has warned repeatedly just how dangerous this is. And we’ve all seen with disbelief the President’s practice of putting up budgets, like his past two, that even his own party can’t support when they come to a vote in the House or Senate. For example, this year, the President’s budget request did not get a single vote from a single member of his or my party. Frankly, I’m not sure if these are examples of the President’s leading from behind, or just failing to lead. But today I’d like to view this habit through the recent example of how the House Armed Services Committee has tried to help the President to honor his commitments and promises to nuclear modernization that he made while seeking ratification of the New START treaty. The Subcommittee I lead, the Strategic Forces Subcommittee of the House Armed Services Committee, decided early on this year that the time had come to reform the NNSA. It was clear when we saw the President’s FY13 budget request and we saw the proposed delays in key programmatic promises by the President that the NNSA wasn’t able to deliver on the President’s promises. Let me say that again, the President’s promises. Yet, when HASC offered ideas for how to help the President get those promises fulfilled, all we get are “strong objections” from the President’s senior advisors. The result is the President is walking away from his promises, without a fight, other than his fight with those who are trying to help him. I think it’s a logical question to ask, was the President serious about these promises in the first place? If so, where are his alternative ideas? What is it about this President that his gut reaction is to attack those who offer solutions? Why Reform NNSA? As everyone in this audience knows, a very long series of reports over the past ten years have documented major problems with DOE and NNSA’s governance of the nuclear security enterprise. The reforms in the recent HASC bill are drawn directly from the recommendations and findings of these reports, including those by the Strategic Posture Commission, the National Academies of Science, the Defense Science Board, the Henry L. Stimson Center, the National Laboratories Directors Council, the GAO and others. In 1999 and 2000, the Strategic Forces Subcommittee spearheaded creation of the semi-autonomous NNSA to address major problems at DOE—an organization that one 1999 investigation called a “dysfunctional bureaucracy that has proven it is incapable of reforming itself.” A 1995 commission: “revealed a counterproductive federal system of operation” for DOE’s national labs, citing “increased overhead cost, poor morale, and gross inefficiencies as a result of overly prescriptive…and excessive oversight by the Department,” and “inordinate internal focus at every level of these laboratories on compliance issues and questions of management processes, which takes a major toll on research performance.” NNSA was created to enable the nuclear security enterprise to address these problems and be more effective, more focused, and more efficient. Twelve years after the creation of NNSA, the question we’ve been asking this past year is: Has it worked? According to the myriad reports, studies, and experts the subcommittee has consulted, the overwhelming conclusion is: no, it has not worked. Many of the same problems still exist, and many have gotten worse. The bipartisan Perry-Schlesinger Commission stated, for example, that “…the governance structure of the NNSA is not delivering the needed results. This governance structure should be changed…, the original intent of the legislation creating the NNSA has not been realized. The desired autonomy has not come into being. It is time to consider fundamental changes.” Ultimately, the Commission recommended that Congress re-constitute NNSA as a wholly independent agency reporting to the President through the Secretary of Energy. Others have begun thinking about moving NNSA over to the DOD, since DOD is increasingly funding the NNSA’s activities, and, DOD is of course the customer of the NNSA. Of course, the HASC took a more reserved initial approach to reform of the NNSA in its bill this year. Yet, even these modest reforms have met opposition, mostly from entrenched interests at DOE and in federal employee unions. Based on the Statement of Administration Position on the House-passed FY13 National Defense Authorization bill, the Administration is stuck in the status quo, apparently captive to a major constituency in an election year. What happens if these reforms are stymied by a lack of Presidential leadership and the inertia of bureaucratic self-interest I can’t say just now. But if it’s clear that NNSA can’t be fixed within DOE, there is only really one alternative, move it. Let me review the HASC action briefly. Reform in the Bipartisan House-passed NNSA The HASC reforms are broken down into several discrete sections, and I’d like to describe to you what they are and why we went in this direction on the Committee. Section 3133 (thirty-one thirty-three) strengthens the semi-autonomous nature of NNSA. This is done by clarifying that the NNSA Administrator is responsible for all programs, policies, regulations, and rules of the NNSA—Other than authority to disapprove any action of the Administrator—the neither the Secretary of Energy (nor his staff) can interfere in the operations or management of NNSA. This provision implements the original intent of the NNSA Act. As a special panel of the House Armed Services Committee found in 2000 and 2001, DOE has been undercutting the intent of the NNSA Act since the very beginning. It is time for this to end. Section 3113 (thirty one thirteen) requires NNSA to eliminate transaction-based oversight of the enterprise and conduct performance-based oversight wherever possible, all while holding contractors accountable for fulfilling clear, high-level performance goals. Transaction-based oversight is strangling the innovation and efficiency of the labs and plants. As many studies have found, it is unnecessary in most if not all areas. NNSA needs to set clear, high-level standards and goals in both mission and operations. Then will audit those standards and goals. If the contractor fails to meet them, NNSA must hold them accountable. Section 3111 (thirty one eleven) caps the number of employees in the NNSA Office of the Administrator, resulting in a total reduction of 15% within 2 years. This reduction is an important forcing function for ensuring the shift to performance-based oversight actually occurs. With fewer federal employees, NNSA will simply be unable to do detailed transaction-based oversight any longer. This will help force the move to performance-based oversight. It will also save, ultimately, hundreds of millions of dollars that can be invested in the mission: providing the nuclear deterrent for the U.S. and its allies. Section 3115 (thirty one fifteen) mandates that authority for establishing and overseeing policies and regulations regarding health, safety, and security resides with the NNSA Administrator. It also enables flexibility regarding non-nuclear health and safety standards while providing incentives for using OSHA-based standards. The Strategic Posture Commission and many others have recommended almost exactly this provision. Contrary to criticism we’ve heard from those with vested, bureaucratic interests in preserving the status quo, this provision would strengthen safety. In military operations, we know that confused and duplicative lines of authority and responsibility lead to bad outcomes—sometimes to disaster. It is the same with safety. I believe this reform package is both comprehensive and prudent. Each part is interdependent with the others, and collectively they address nearly all of the most critical problems identified by the various studies. Most of the studies and experts have recommended full autonomy for NNSA. I believe the NDAA takes a more measured approach that also has a significant chance for success—if robustly implemented. However, if these reforms don’t work—or vested interests stand in the way—I and many of my colleagues may become receptive to the more drastic reforms we have heard talked about, such as full autonomy or shifting NNSA to DOD. One way or another, we will not allow DOE’s suffocating, entrenched bureaucracy or other special interests to continue to slowly strangle the weapons program. The Imperative of Reform and Presidential Leadership This reform effort comes at a critical time for NNSA. The scope of work on the nuclear weapons stockpile that lays before NNSA over the next two decades is enormous. And because it is the nuclear weapons stockpile, there is no room for failure. We have to make NNSA effective and efficient if it is going to perform as the nation requires. As I stated at the outset, why is all of this necessary now? Simply put, in this budget environment, the nation’s security can no longer afford the waste and mismanagement we see at the NNSA and DOE. For example, in the President’s FY13 budget request, the B61 life extension program (LEP) would be delayed by two years. The CMRR facility in Los Alamos would be “deferred by at least five years”—which effectively means canceled. And, the W76 LEP would be slowed to the point that the Navy isn’t sure it will meet their needs. In fact, the NNSA can’t even now tell us how much it needs in FY13 for the W76 LEP. Think about this: the agency that is responsible for ensuring the Navy can go to sea with the nuclear weapons required for our country’s security cannot tell us how much taxpayer money it needs to perform that mission this year, after the President’s budget has been submitted and after all four committees have marked up. What’s more, NNSA currently has no multiyear budget plan, neither the 1251 plan, nor even a five year budget proposal that every other agency can put together and NNSA has to put together according to the law. If you look at what the FY13 budget cancelled or delayed – the B61 LEP, the W76 LEP, the W78/W88 common warhead LEP, the Chemistry and Metallurgy Research Replacement facility – these were all things the President’s policy, since his 2010 Nuclear Posture Review, called for, often with specific timeframes based on military advice. It was his NPR. It was his 1251 plan that stated funding levels. It was his certification in February of 2011 that reaffirmed the commitment to modernizing the triad and to accelerating CMRR and UPF. The NNSA’s failure to perform, or be able to perform, isn’t to let the Administration off-the-hook for the President’s failure to request what he promised for the New START treaty. Don’t forget, the fiscal year 2013 budget request was significantly below what he promised in November 2010 and as much as $4 billion below what is projected for just the next five years in the section 1251 plan. And now, in a May 18, 2012 “Memorandum for the Heads of Departments and Agencies” from the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) there appears fresh evidence that the President’s promise isn’t being kept. The Acting Administrator of OMB instructed every federal agency, presumably including the NNSA that, “your overall agency request for 2014 should be five percent below…the 2013 budget.” Thus, for a second consecutive year, the President will have failed to fully fund the modernization program. This is unacceptable, and should be unacceptable to any American that believes our nuclear deterrent still plays a role in our national security and global stability. Even if you don’t support the U.S. nuclear deterrent, like many in the arms control community, surely, you don’t just want U.S. nuclear disarmament. You of course want the Russians, Chinese and others to reduce as well. That isn’t happening now – only the U.S. is failing to modernize. Only the U.S. is reducing nuclear forces. And when the House passed a bill to attempt to fix all of these problems, what support do we get from the President? In its “Statement of Administration Policy” on the NDAA, the Administration said it “strongly objects” to the NNSA reforms contained in the bill. But where are the President’s solutions? Nowhere – he doesn’t have any. Conclusion But, just like on the budget, just like on stopping sequestration from hollowing out the U.S military, the President throws stones at those who have taken bold first steps, but his Administration has offered no solutions of its own. On May 18—the day the House passed the FY13 NDAA in a resounding and bipartisan 299 to 120 vote—Chairman McKeon and I sent a letter to President Obama. Chairman McKeon and I recognize that the reforms in the NDAA are just one set of ideas—and in our letter we invite the President to put his own ideas on the table and work with us to find the right solution. Regardless of whether or not the Administration decides to be constructive and work with us going forward, reform is needed and will happen. I assure you that my subcommittee will continue to conduct thorough oversight of these matters in the months and years ahead, and take vigorous action if required. In a letter to the President yesterday, concerning the instruction from his acting OMB director, I made a simple point: Mr. President, the American people deserve better, and the Congress deserves constructive alternatives when you and your Administration disagree with its proposals. I ask you to start by fully funding your promises to modernize the U.S. nuclear deterrent and to stick to the schedule you promised for fielding a modernized nuclear triad and plutonium production facilities. Finally, I urge you to provide your own alternative for how to fix the broken management and governance system of the nation’s nuclear weapons enterprise instead of simply throwing stones at those who have taken the first steps. Time will tell if the President will step up and, in this election cycle, take a bold stand. We need the President to honor his commitments. Now is not the time for timidity in the face of self-interested special interest groups. Failure by the President to offer up his own bold solutions will lead the American people to ask whether all of this was what the President was really intending. Is this all a convenient opportunity for the President to back out of things he didn't want to do, like modernize the U.S. nuclear deterrent? Will he choose the security of the American people and his promises to the Congress, or the taking the U.S. alone on the Road to Zero? Either way, the impact is clear, Congress will fix these things, and until they’re fixed, future reductions should be off the table. Whether these are the New START reductions or the reductions in the President’s ongoing mini-NPR, which were likely presaged by Obama’s former favorite General, James “Hoss” Cartwright, in his Global Zero “report” two weeks ago. Thank you for inviting me to speak today, and I look forward to your questions. ###
06.07.2012	Today the House passed the Health Care Cost Reduction Act (H.R. 436) by a vote of 270-146, which would repeal the Obamacare excise tax on manufacturers of medical devices. Congressman Mike Turner last year introduced H.R. 1310 which would repeal the tax on manufacturers of medical devices for first responder. Turner introduced the bill in response to the burdens the tax places on medical device manufacturers in the Third Congressional District and across the nation. “We’ve all heard of a cradle-to-grave government, well this is a cradle-to-grave tax. From the incubators used for prematurely born children to the rollers which move caskets, and every item in between you would use to provide care, would be subject to this tax,” said Turner. NOTE: You can watch Turner speak on the House Floor today on the repeal here. Beginning in 2013, a 2.3 percent excise tax will be imposed on the sale of medical devices by manufacturers, providers, or importers. This tax will place yet another burden on American businesses, stifling development of innovative life-saving products and costing jobs when our economy is struggling to recover, and will result in higher costs and inferior care for patients. Turner visited Ferno-Washington, Inc. on March 23, 2011 to announce the reintroduction of his legislation. Based in Wilmington, OH the company is the global leader in the manufacture and distribution of professional emergency, mortuary, and healthcare products sold primarily first responders. “While I was visiting Ferno- Washington, Inc. CEO Joe Bourgraf articulated just how this tax would affect his business. It would drive up the cost of products, discourage budget strained municipalities from investing in new equipment, and stunt the growth of our struggling economy. The company’s executives estimate the cost of the tax is equivalent to 23 jobs - jobs states like Ohio cannot afford to lose,” added Turner. Earlier this year, Mound Laser & Photonics Center (MLPC) headquartered in Miamisburg, OH in Turner’s District, wrote to Turner about the negative effect of this new tax. MLPC specializes in laser-based micro and nano-fabrication and provides services to a number of markets, including the medical device industry. The firm is a tremendous research and development success story in southwest Ohio, growing from three employees to over forty. The majority of these workers have backgrounds in science and engineering, critical fields our country needs to compete in the global economy. However, MLPC recently scaled back its operations and was forced to lay off 10 employees due to the loss of business from one of its medical device clients. “As a small business owner working for the medical device industry, I am extremely concerned over the detrimental affects that this unjust tax will have on the future of my company. We have always strived to be a great employer for our workers and community partner for our region, but this new excise tax has forced tremendous uncertainty and delayed investment, which are further unfortunate results of the healthcare reform. This repeal effort is imperative to the continued success of one of America’s most solid manufacturing bases—medical manufacturing—and I applaud Congressman Turner for his support on the bill,” said Mound Laser & Photonics Center President & CEO Dr. Larry Dosser. ###
06.07.2012	Congressman Mike Turner (OH-3) released the following video which highlights debate in the House regarding President Obama’s secret deal with the Russian Federation over our nation’s missile defense system. On March 26th, the President was caught stating to then-President Dmitry Medvedev that “This is my last election,” meaning the one coming in just a few months, after which he would have more “flexibility” surrounding our missile defense system which is opposed by the Russians. Following those comments, Turner wrote to the President asking just what he meant. As of yet, the President has declined to state exactly what deal he has secretly offered the Russian Federation. According to an article in the Russian media, then-Prime Minister Vladimir had stated that “we agree” with the terms of the deal offered by the Administration. The article can be found here. See some of the places where U.S. and Russian officials have met: ###
06.06.2012	Congressman Mike Turner has written to President Barack Obama calling on him to follow through on the promises that he made to the Senate during the ratification of the New START Treaty in 2010. Without the modernization program and the President’s promises to fund and implement it, concerns in the Senate about the treaty would have prevented it from being modified. “For the first time, the U.S. has signed a treaty that required it to undertake unilateral reductions…there is a growing concern, including by your former Secretary of Defense, about the safety, security, reliability, and credibility of the U.S. nuclear deterrent…,” writes Turner. The President in December of 2012 had stated about the modernization plan “[t]hat is my commitment to the Congress-that my Administration will pursue these programs and capabilities for as long as I am President.” The fiscal year 2013 budget request was significantly below what Obama promised in November 2010 and as much as $4 billion below what is projected for just the next five years in the section 1251 plan. Now, the OMB appears to be further cutting back on the promises made to secure ratification of New START. In a May 18, 2012 memo from the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) entitled, “MEMORANDUM FOR THE HEADS OF DEPARTMENTS AND AGENCIES,” the Acting Director of the OMB stated, “overall agency request for 2014 should be five percent below…the 2013 budget.” “Mr. President, the American people deserve better, and the Congress deserves constructive alternatives when you and your Administration disagree with its proposals. I ask you to start by fully funding your promises to modernize the U.S. nuclear deterrent and to stick to the schedule you promised for fielding a modernized nuclear triad and plutonium production facilities. Finally, I urge you to provide your own alternative for how to fix the broken management and governance system of the nation’s nuclear weapons enterprise…,” noted Turner. NOTE: The letter to President Obama can be found here.
06.06.2012	Congressman Mike Turner announced that the Dayton Aviation Heritage National Historical Park has been selected as one of 49 National Parks participating in the 2012 America’s Best Idea program sponsored by the National Park Foundation. Inspired by the critically-acclaimed Ken Burns documentary The National Parks: America’s Best Idea, the America’s Best Idea grant program funds park projects designed to connect diverse, under-engaged populations throughout the United States with their National Parks. “I am glad that the National Park Foundation has identified Dayton Aviation Heritage, in our community, as one of America’s great treasures. Our National Parks have and will continue to inspire Americans of all ages. This program continues that tradition, and I’m glad the youth of our community will have an opportunity to participate in this unique project,” said Turner. This grant, in the amount of $14,350, will help support the teaching of underserved Title 1 youth in West Dayton and at-risk youth in Greene County a methodical approach to scientific research, emphasizing the collection of measurements and observations according to state standards. The park expects to reach 400 participants this year at two venues incorporating six different summer camps with 25 youth each; and ten different schools with 25 youth in each class. The grant will allow the park to provide bus transportation to enable schools to reach its facilities. “We are proud to provide the much needed support to create unique opportunities for all Americans to personally connect with their national parks,” said Neil Mulholland, President and CEO of the National Park Foundation. “The America’s Best Idea grants are often the catalyst for extraordinary experiences that develop into lifelong relationships with our national parks for the program participants.” Chartered by Congress, the National Park Foundation is the official charity of America’s national parks. They work hand in hand with the National Park Service to connect Americans to their parks, and to make sure that they are preserved for the generations who will follow. ###
06.05.2012	Today, Congressman Mike Turner (OH-3) released the following statement upon the change of command at the Air Force Materiel Command (AFMC). General Donald J. Hoffman, who has honorably served the country for 38 years, will transition out of the role of commander. General Janet Wolfenbarger, a native of Southwest Ohio, will oversee the major command headquartered at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base. “I would like to congratulate General Hoffman for his work at Wright-Patt. Throughout the time of his service he has been someone the community and its leaders could count on. I wish him well in his future work, and look forward to a chance to work together again.“I've had the opportunity to meet with General Wolfenbarger on many occasions in her different capacities at Wright -Patt, and I know she will follow in General Hoffman's legacy of service and commitment to the success of the base. With looming sequestration cuts and tightening budgets, her work will be all the more important. Furthermore, her commissioning as the first female four-star General in the Air Force is a model for the daughters of our community to follow.” ###
05.30.2012	Today, the House of Representatives overwhelmingly passed the Servicemember Family Protection Act (H.R. 4201) by a vote of 390-2. The bill, which protects the child custody rights of our deployed men and women in uniform, was introduced by Congressman Mike Turner. This is the seventh occasion that legislative language addressing this issue has passed the House. The bill is cosponsored by a bipartisan group of 72 House Members. “With every deployment, our men and women in uniform live with the constant fear that their custody rights as parents could be in jeopardy due to their service. This legislation would ensure that being deployed, or the possibility of deployment is not used against them when child custody decisions are made by the courts,” said Turner. “Deployments are tough on families. And when things are not right at home, it adds to the stress of the servicemember stationed overseas. This legislation would alleviate some of that stress by ensuring child custody decisions cannot be influenced by a current, or future, deployment. Servicemembers should be assured that their chosen career in the military will not impact their relationship with their children, and this bill is a step in the right direction,” said Jeff Miller, Chairman of the House Veterans Affairs Committee. Miller’s Committee, which has jurisdiction over Turner’s legislation, had passed the bill on to the full House unanimously. This past month, Turner was joined by Congressman Rob Andrews (NJ-1) in sending a letter to Defense Secretary Leon Panetta, requesting his support for protecting the child custody rights of our men and women in uniform. The lawmakers were joined by every member of the House Armed Services Committee in supporting the request. In 2011 both Defense Secretary Robert Gates and Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness Clifford Stanley, provided letters of support for the legislation. “I urge the Senate to act on this important legislation for our nation’s war fighters. They have seen some of the longest and toughest deployments our military has ever undertaken. The least we can do is to ensure that their children aren’t taken away from them, while they are defending us overseas,” added Turner. Watch Turner speaking on the House Floor today in support of the bill here.
05.24.2012	Congressman Mike Turner commended the news that the National Park System Advisory Board has unanimously approved the nomination of the Central Branch, National Home for Disabled Volunteer Soldiers/Dayton Veterans Administration Home, as a National Historic Landmark. This marks that final portion of the formal approval process before it goes to the Secretary of the Interior, who will make the actual designation. “Since its establishment, the Central Branch has provided healthcare and rehabilitation services for generations of our veterans and played a significant part in shaping the rich history of the Dayton region,” said Turner. Congressman Turner has long supported the Dayton VAMC to be designated as a National Historic Landmark. In 2003, Turner authored the Veterans National Heritage Preservation Act (H.R. 1762), which included a provision requiring the National Park Service, in consultation and cooperation with the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA), to conduct a National Historic Landmark (NHL) study to identify sites that commemorate key facilities managed by the National Home for Disabled Volunteer Soldiers between 1865 and 1930. Dayton was specifically included as a site to be studied. At the same time, Turner worked closely with the NPS and the VA to move forward with such a study. “If designated by the Secretary of the Interior, this will ensure that current and future generations develop a greater understanding and appreciation for the sacrifices made by the brave men and women of our Armed Forces and the dedicated professionals providing them care. With Memorial Day celebrations occurring in Dayton throughout this week, this will be welcome news throughout our community,” added Turner. On October 21, 2004, the VA, NPS, and Congressman Turner signed an agreement to conduct a theme study to assess the significance of the National Homes and prepare NHL nominations. The signing ceremony was held at the Putnam Library on the Dayton VA Campus.
05.24.2012	Congressman Mike Turner was joined by a bipartisan group of House lawmakers in writing to Secretary of Commerce John Bryson to express their concerns regarding recent scope ruling requests with the U.S. Department of Commerce that could undermine the antidumping duty order on petroleum wax candles from China. “The 108.3 percent antidumping duty on petroleum wax candles from China is critically important to the preservation of the U.S. candle manufacturing industry. If the Department does not maintain and strictly enforce its specific definitions for the excluded candles, we fear that the effectiveness of the antidumping duty order will be negatively impacted,” wrote the lawmakers. Last year, Turner wrote to then- Commerce Secretary Gary Locke requesting that he support an inclusive interpretation of the antidumping duty order to ensure effective enforcement against unfair trade practices from China. In a win for American candle manufacturers, a statement by the Department clarified that the scope of the order covers candles of all shapes, sizes, styles and types, excluding birthday, utility, and figurine candles. However, just four months after the publication of the final results, there are a number of requests to challenge the Department’s narrow exclusions and erode the scope of the order. “We respectfully urge the Department to uphold the scope of the order and strictly apply the definitions of excluded candles,” concluded the lawmakers. Note: The letter to Commerce Secretary Bryson can be found here.
05.24.2012	Congressman Mike Turner has written to President Barack Obama regarding his concern about what the President meant in what he stated to Russia’s former President, Dmitri Medvedev during a recent meeting. Obama had stated that after his “last election” this coming November, he “would have greater flexibility” to make a deal with Russia concerning U.S. missile defenses. The issue was a significant point of contention during recent House debate over the FY 2013 National Defense Authorization Act. Recently, one of the President’s aides, Mr. Nabors, wrote to Turner stating “[i]t is no secret that this effort [referring to the effort to negotiate an agreement with Russia about U.S. missile defense] will be more complicated during election years in both the United States and Russia.” “The inference is that the American people may not like the deal your Administration is planning to negotiate. If that is the case, why make it at all? What is it you and your administration are concerned the American people would object to in such a deal with Russia? Would it be limitations, unilateral or bilateral, with Russia on the speed, range, or geographical deployment of U.S. missile defense interceptors?” wrote Turner in his letter to the President. The President may be able to put to rest such concerns if he would simply direct his Administration to share with Congress the draft agreements that have been offered to Russia. For example, according to President Putin in a March 2, 2012 interview with RIA-Novosti: “They [referring to your Administration] made some proposals to us which we virtually agreed to and asked them to get them down on paper…They made a proposal to us just during the talks, they told us: we would offer you this, this and that. We did not expect this, but I said: we agree. Please put it down on paper…We were waiting for their answer for two months. We did not get it, and then our American partners withdrew their own proposals, saying: no, it’s impossible,” he added. This is not the first such reference to a secret deal the Obama Administration offered to Russia. The Russian newspaper Kommersant reported last October that it obtained the copy of a deal that was to be agreed to at the May 2011 G8 summit in Deauville, France. “I encourage you to direct your Administration to provide to the Congress the draft agreements provided to the Russian Federation. Such transparency would be the best way to resolve concerns in the Congress about your statement to President Medevedev,” concluded Turner.Note: The letter to President Obama can be found here.
05.18.2012	Congressman Mike Turner has successfully included several provisions in the House passed National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) which will have a far reaching impact on Southwest Ohio and Wright-Patterson AFB if approved by the Senate and signed into law by the President. The bill passed the House today on a bipartisan vote of 299-120. Turner’s amendments to the annual Defense Department authorization bill include provisions which will protect jobs at WPAFB, promote collaboration on Unmanned Aerial Systems, and strengthen NASIC. Protecting Jobs at Wright-Patt Congressman Turner offered an amendment on the House Floor, included as Section 2868 in the bill, which ensures WPAFB maintains its core functions, while not limiting growth. “Our servicemembers and civilians who support the mission at the Air Force Materiel Command shouldn’t have to worry about the security of their mission at Wright-Patt. This Command is integral to the future growth of the Base and I will continue to take steps to protect its associated missions and jobs,” said Turner. SEC. 2868: RETENTION OF CORE FUNCTIONS OF THE AIR FORCE MATERIEL COMMAND, WRIGHT-PATTERSON AIR FORCE BASE, OHIO. The Secretary of the Air Force shall retain the core functions of the Air Force Materiel Command that exist at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base, Ohio, with the same integrated mission elements, responsibilities, and capabilities as existed as of November 1, 2011, until such time as such integrated mission elements, responsibilities, and capabilities are modified pursuant to section 2687 of title10, United States Code, or a subsequent law providing for the closure or realignment of military installations in the United States. UAS Collaboration Turner offered an amendment to the bill in committee, included as Section 1074 of the bill, which promotes collaboration between Government agencies on Unmanned Aerial Systems. Specifically, the section requires scientific and technical personnel collaboration and sharing resources from the Department of Defense, Federal Aviation Administration, and the National Aeronautics and Space Administration. “Together these agencies can advance an enduring relationship of research capability. In order to continue and sustain the growth in the field of UAS, collaboration between our government’s experts is key. This language should help to advance the goal of access to unmanned aircraft systems of the Department of Defense to the National Airspace System,” said Turner. SEC. 1074: INTERAGENCY COLLABORATION ON UNMANNED AIRCRAFT SYSTEMS. The Secretary of Defense shall collaborate with the Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration and the Administrator of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration to conduct research and seek solutions to challenges associated with the safe integration of unmanned aircraft systems into the National Airspace System in accordance with subtitle B of title III of the FAA Modernization and Reform Act of 2012 (Public Law 112–95; 126 Stat.) Study of Military Intelligence Hiring Flexibility Turner included directive language in the Committee’s Report which requires a study on Military Intelligence Hiring Flexibility. This language would benefit our Defense Department’s Intelligence institutions, including the National Air and Space Intelligence Center (NASIC) at WPAFB. “This language aims to provide NASIC the pay flexibility required to recruit and retain highly skilled an intelligence workforce. The study focuses on the potential to provide the necessary pay banding for military intelligence centers. In order to maintain our leading edge, we must target new scientists and engineers with salaries commensurate with the private sector,” said Turner. The study would permit pay banding for certain occupations similar to the flexibility currently afforded to the Central Intelligence Agency and the Defense Intelligence Agency. Directive Report Language: Defense Civilian Intelligence Personnel System The committee notes that in 2011, the Secretary of Defense returned all defense intelligence employees in the Defense Civilian Intelligence Personnel System pay bands to the original grade structure, with the exception of the National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency. The committee directs the Secretary of Defense to provide a briefing to the Senate Committee on Armed Services and the House Committee on Armed Services by September 30, 2012, on the status of the transition back to a grade structure. The briefing should include the impact on retention and recruiting as a result of the change, including information on pay banding impacts on retention and recruiting, incentives and authorities available to retain critical skill sets, and information on the process by which employees have the ability to appeal reviews and compensation within the Defense Civilian Intelligence Personnel System. Bolstering Foreign Military Exploitation Facilities at NASIC Congressman Turner included directive language in the Committee’s Report which requires the Department of Defense to take all steps necessary to ensure the Services have all facilities and resources necessary to contradict and exploit current foreign military systems. The authorizing language comes as a result of a visit to Wright-Patterson Air Force Base by House Appropriations Subcommittee on Military Construction, Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies Chairman John Culberson (TX-7). Culberson included companion language in his subcommittee’s bill appropriating FY 2013 funding for construction at NASIC. Culberson toured Wright-Patt and discussed the status of Foreign Materiel Exploitation facilities such as the National Air and Space Intelligence Center with Congressman Turner in October of 2011. Turner is Chairman of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Strategic Forces, which has jurisdiction over NASIC and other space intelligence programs. “Centers such as NASIC are critical to examining the capabilities of our enemies, which gives an edge to our warfighters. Their facilities should be up to the task at hand. I was glad to discuss this with Chairman Culberson at Wright-Patt. Bringing key Members of Congress like him to our community shows them the value of the work that the base does in support of our men and women in uniform,” said Turner. “Seeing Wright-Patt and its facilities first hand were integral to this committee report. In order to maintain the best equipped and prepared fighting force in the world, Centers like NASIC must have the right facilities. I thank Congressman Turner for his work on this issue and look forward to working with him on behalf of our men and women in uniform,” added Chairman Culberson. Directive Report Language: Foreign Materiel Exploitation The committee is concerned that the level of sophistication in foreign systems has increased exponentially over the past decade, primarily due to widespread use of complex digital devices, such as digital radio frequency memory (DRFM) and field-programmable gate arrays (FPGA). These systems are proliferating at an alarming rate and pose a serious threat to the national security and critical domestic infrastructure. The committee is further concerned that there are insufficient facilities for classified lab space to conduct integrated weapon system analysis, which limits the quality and quantity of foreign threat data provided to the warfighter, acquisition community, and policymakers. This deprives the intelligence community of an opportunity to generate scientific and technical intelligence (S&TI) that has historically proven a key driver for the development of tactics, techniques, and procedures, and force modernization requirements. Lower volume and quality of S&TI increases the risk of technological surprise encountered on the battlefield, ultimately increasing the vulnerability of U.S. forces in future conflicts. Therefore, the committee urges the Department of Defense to take all steps necessary to ensure the military departments and defense agencies have the facilities and resources necessary to exploit and counter current foreign military systems. AFIT – National Research Council Review of Defense Science Needs Turner included a provision in the bill, identified as Section 242, aimed at justifying the need and existence of the Air Force Institute of Technology. The provision directs the Secretary of Defense to establish an agreement with the National Research Council to complete a review Defense Department specialized degree-granting graduate programs in engineering, science and management. “This review, would examine the need for the institutions, a cost/benefit of them and the disposition of their organization structure. We should be looking to promote our military’s postgraduate institutions at every turn. Members of our community who have attended AFIT, know their full worth. This study will help find ways to improve institutions like AFIT for future generations of military leaders,” said Turner. SEC. 242: NATIONAL RESEARCH COUNCIL REVIEW OF DEFENSE SCIENCE AND TECHNICAL GRADUATE EDUCATION NEEDS. (a) REVIEW.—The Secretary of Defense shall enter into an agreement with the National Research Council to conduct a review of specialized degree-granting graduate programs of the Department of Defense in engineering, applied sciences, and management. (b) MATTERS INCLUDED.—At a minimum, the review under subsection (a) shall address— (1) the need by the Department of Defense and the military departments for military and civilian personnel with advanced degrees in engineering, applied sciences, and management, including a list of the numbers of such personnel needed by discipline; (2) an analysis of the sources by which the Department of Defense and the military departments obtain military and civilian personnel with such advanced degrees; (3) the need for educational institutions under the Department of Defense to meet the needs identified in paragraph (1); (4) the costs and benefits of maintaining such educational institutions, including costs relating to directed research; (5) the ability of private institutions or distance-learning programs to meet the needs identified in paragraph (1); (6) existing organizational structures, including reporting chains, within the military departments to manage the graduate education needs of the Department of Defense and the military departments; and recommendations for improving the ability of the Department of Defense to identify, manage, and source the graduate education needs of the Department. (c) REPORT.—Not later than 30 days after the date on which the review under subsection (a) is completed, the Secretary shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report on the results of such review. ###
05.18.2012	Congressman Mike Turner (OH-3), Chairman of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Strategic Forces, released the following statement upon the passage of the FY 2013 National Defense Authorization Act: “This year House Republicans have continued to support our men and women in uniform while ensuring the safety and security of this nation. As the Chairman of the Strategic Forces Subcommittee I have sought to place an emphasis on a number of issues which are confronting our national security structure including: missile defense, modernization of our nuclear enterprise, and reform of bureaucratic entities such as the National Nuclear Security Administration. “Earlier this year, President Obama lifted the curtain on his ‘secret deal’ with the Russians. We still do not know the terms of this ‘secret deal.’ What does he mean that he will have greater ‘flexibility’ past his ‘last election?’ The White House has never made clear what deals it has been offering to the Russians, despite requests for such information by myself and my colleagues. The bill the House passed today will ensure this nation is protected from the threat of a missile attack. This includes the study of an East Coast missile defense site in order to prepare us for emerging threats across the globe. “I look forward to working with my colleagues in the Senate in crafting a final bill which will meet these goals and continue to see that our country remains ready to meet the threats of tomorrow, while providing for our defense today.” ###
05.17.2012	In a Committee Report released by the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Military Construction, Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies, the subcommittee expressed concerns about the state of our Foreign Materiel Exploitation Labs. The report, which is tied to FY 2013 funding for construction, comes on the heels of a visit to Wright-Patterson Air Force Base by Subcommittee Chairman John Culberson (TX-7). Culberson toured Wright-Patt and discussed the status of Foreign Materiel Exploitation facilities such as the National Air and Space Intelligence Center with Congressman Turner in October of 2011. Turner is Chairman of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Strategic Forces, which has jurisdiction over NASIC and other space intelligence programs. “Centers such as NASIC are critical to examining the capabilities of our enemies, which gives an edge to our warfighters. Their facilities should be up to the task at hand. I was glad to discuss this with Chairman Culberson at Wright-Patt. Bringing key Members of Congress like him to our community shows them the value of the work that the base does in support of our men and women in uniform,” said Turner. Chairman Culberson’s Committee Report language states: “The Committee is alarmed that the facilities the Department of Defense has under its jurisdiction for serving multiple agencies on intelligence activities and assessing foreign assets to protect the United States and our allies have not been maintained over the years and funding for military construction is not being provided until the out years of budget submissions. Many of the labs are deteriorating or are in temporary facilities that do not have the adequate or appropriate security. These deplorable working conditions are hindering the personnel working in these facilities and could have an effect on national security. Therefore, the Committee urges the Deputy Under Secretary for Installation and Environment to assess these aging lab facilities, how they are prioritized for funding and request funding in earlier fiscal years.” “Seeing Wright-Patt and its facilities first hand were integral to this committee report. In order to maintain the best equipped and prepared fighting force in the world, Centers like NASIC must have the right facilities. I thank Congressman Turner for his work on this issue and look forward to working with him on behalf of our men and women in uniform,” said Chairman Culberson. NOTE: The full committee report can be viewed here. ###
05.17.2012	Congressman Mike Turner (OH-3) took issue with Vice President Biden’s comments that the loss of Delphi Salaried Retirees pensions did not come as a result of the auto bailout, and that the Administration doesn’t “control” the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (PBGC). “I take considerable issue with the Vice-President’s naïve comments today. In fact, the President appoints the Director of the PBGC, and three of his Cabinet Secretaries sit on the PBGC Board of Directors. Treasury Secretary Tim Geithner served three Presidentially directed and controlled roles in the Auto Bailout –Secretary of the Treasury, Chair of the Auto Task Force, and Board Member of the PBGC. All the while, Secretary Geithner sat back and oversaw a backroom deal to the detriment of Delphi Salaried Retirees across the country. Most recently, the Secretary of Labor’s Director of Recovery for Auto Communities suggested these retirees look for training programs when asked about what he could do to help the tens of thousands of retirees struggling after the Administration took their hard-earned pensions. “Biden’s comments are par for the course with an Administration unbelievably unaware of the own their own decisions and the severe effects they have had across our county. It is inconceivable that those claiming victory could overlook the reality of the situation. People across Ohio and the United States are without the retirement benefits they rightfully earned and many more are without jobs. The next time the Vice President decides to campaign in Ohio, he ought to take the time to educate himself with the facts behind his Administration’s failed taxpayer-funded bailouts, and what it means for people left in their wake.” Earlier this week Turner wrote to House Oversight and Government Reform Chairman Darrell Issa to express his “serious concerns” with the refusal of former Auto Task Force members to meet or speak with the Special Inspector General for the Troubled Asset Relief Program (SIGTARP) regarding their involvement in the unjust termination of Delphi retiree pensions. NOTE: Read the letter from Turner here. Three former Administration officials -Ron Bloom, Matthew Feldman, and Harry Wilson have refused to meet or speak with SIGTARP. “SIGTARP believes that the Auto Task Force played a role in the pension decision and these individuals’ failure to speak with SIGTARP on this issue poses a significant obstacle to SIGTARP’s ability to complete it’s audit,” Special Inspector General Christy L. Romero wrote in a letter to lawmakers. “These individuals earned taxpayer-funded salaries for taxpayer-funded actions, and are now denying those taxpayers the transparency and answers they deserve,” noted Turner. Because SIGTARP does not possess testimonial subpoena authority, Turner requested the Committee on Oversight & Government Reform interview these individuals concerning the role they played in the decision to take the retirement and health benefits of Delphi Retirees. NOTE: Read the letter from SIGTARP here. ###
05.14.2012	Today, Congressman Mike Turner wrote to House Oversight and Government Reform Chairman Darrell Issa to express his “serious concerns” with the refusal of former Auto Task Force members to meet or speak with the Special Inspector General for the Troubled Asset Relief Program (SIGTARP) regarding their involvement in the unjust termination of Delphi retiree pensions. “Because SIGTARP does not possess testimonial subpoena authority, I am requesting that the Committee on Oversight & Government Reform interview these individuals concerning the role they played in the decision to take the retirement and health benefits of these retirees,” wrote Turner. In a May 9, 2012 letter, SIGTARP Christy Romero informed Turner and Issa that Ron Bloom, Matthew Feldman, and Harry Wilson have refused to meet or speak with her office. The letter makes clear that their refusal to disclose their involvement renders SIGTARP unable to complete its audit of what led to the severe reductions of Delphi Salaried Retiree’s pensions. “These individuals earned taxpayer-funded salaries for taxpayer-funded actions, and are now denying those taxpayers the transparency and answers they deserve,” added Turner. Turner, who is a senior member of the Committee, has been pressing the Administration for answers since the Auto Bailout was undertaken. The investigation by SIGTARP stems from a decision by the PBGC that resulted in approximately 20,000 current and future salaried Delphi retirees from across the country taking a severe cut in their pension benefits. Hearings have been held by the Committee, including a field hearing in Dayton, Ohio late last year.Note: Letter to Chairman Issa can be found here and the letter from SIGTARP can be found here.
05.08.2012	Congressman Mike Turner (OH-3) offered an amendment to the Fiscal Year 2013 Commerce, Justice, Science and Related Agencies Appropriations Act (H.R. 5326) to increase by $5 million the minimum level of funding that the International Trade Administration (ITA) must devote to crack down on unfair Chinese trade practices. The amendment was adopted by voice vote today and included in the full bill which awaits approval by the full House. “We must ensure that U.S. manufacturers and workers can compete on a level playing field in the global marketplace. Unfortunately, unfair trade practices from countries like China make this increasingly difficult. These practices have hurt businesses like Ohio paper producer, Appleton, and their employees by unfairly subsidizing imports of thermal coated paper from China and Indonesia,” said Turner. Since 2000, there has been a 300 percent increase in the amount of goods imported from China to the United States. Moreover, the ITA, tasked with cracking down on unfair trade practices, has for years experienced a growing workload of cases involving trade with China. For the last several years, Congress has directed the ITA to devote the same minimum level of funding, $11.4 million, for China antidumping and countervailing duty enforcement and compliance activities. “Given the rise in Chinese imports and the increasing complexity of cases the ITA must evaluate, we must ensure that efforts to protect U.S. manufacturers and employees from unfair trade practices receive sufficient dedicated funding,” Turner’s amendment increases the minimum amount that the ITA must use for these activities by $5 million, from $11.4 million to $16.4 million, using existing resources provided under the bill. The amendment is revenue neutral and no spending offset is required. The amendment simply adjusts how much of the total budget allocated to the ITA must be spent on enforcement. The ITA currently has a budget of $468 million. ###
05.01.2012	Congressman Mike Turner, Chairman of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Strategic Forces, called on Secretary Clinton today to question Chinese leaders on the unveiling of a new road-mobile intercontinental ballistic missile (ICBM) by North Korea: “Secretary Clinton is in China this week along with Treasury Secretary Geithner. I expect that the very top of their agenda will be the apparent material support for North Korea’s road mobile ballistic missile program provided by state-owned Chinese firms, and their subsidiaries, which I recently described in a letter to Secretary Clinton and DNI Clapper. “Such support means that China is enabling North Korea to deploy road mobile ballistic missiles, which could be tipped with nuclear warheads and aimed at the United States. Such cooperation therefore poses a direct threat to the security of the American people and the Administration must demand an immediate halt to such activity, and a guarantee that China will end its support for the dictatorial regime in Pyongyang,” said Turner. NOTE: On April 19th, Turner questioned Defense Secretary Leon Panetta on the unveiling of a new road-mobile intercontinental ballistic missile (ICBM) by North Korea. In response to questioning by Turner Panetta replied: “I’m sure there’s been some help coming from China…clearly there has been some assistance along those lines.” Turner had previously written to Secretary of State Hillary Clinton and Director of National Intelligence on this issue. “Of deep concern…are allegations that the missile…is based on Chinese technology, in violation of international obligations and a threat to the national security interest of the United States,” wrote Turner. In March of this year, the Commander of U.S. Pacific Command testified before the House Armed Services Committee that, “there is development within North Korea of a road-mobile intercontinental ballistic missile system that we’ve observed.” Before he left the Pentagon, Secretary Gates issued a similar warning in 2011. Echoing these concerns, Mr. Richard Fisher, a leading specialist in Chinese military technology, wrote to Turner in a letter noting that “the 16-wheel transporter-erector-launcher (TEL) for this new missile is very likely based on a Chinese design. There is even the possibility that it is manufactured in China for North Korea’s use.” “The prospect of Chinese support for this program, which ‘would require approval from the highest levels of China’s government and from the People’s Liberation Army’, means that China is enabling North Korea to deploy ICBMs that could be tipped with nuclear warheads aimed at the United States. Such cooperation therefore poses a direct threat to the security of the American people,” added Turner. The letter to Secretary Clinton and Director Clapper follows below: April 17, 2012 The Honorable Hillary Clinton Secretary of State 2201 C Street NW Washington, DC 20520 General James R. Clapper Director of National Intelligence Office of the Director of National Intelligence Washington, DC 20511 Dear Secretary Clinton and General Clapper, As you have likely seen, the press is reporting that North Korea unveiled a new mobile missile at a military parade in Pyongyang in honor of the founder of that dictatorship, Kim Il Sung. Whether this missile is the new road-mobile intercontinental ballistic missile (ICBM) the Administration has been warning about is, as yet, unclear based on these public reports. Of deeper concern, however, are allegations that the missile, unveiled at the recent military parade in Pyongyang, is based on Chinese technology, in violation of international obligations and a threat to the national security interest of the United States. In March of this year, the Commander of U.S. Pacific Command testified before the House Armed Services Committee that, “there is development within North Korea of a road-mobile intercontinental ballistic missile system that we’ve observed.” Secretary Gates issued a similar warning in 2011 before he left the Pentagon. As if the threat of a North Korean road-mobile ICBM wasn’t bad enough, the photographs of this new missile from the military parade in Pyongyang suggest cooperation and support from the People’s Republic of China. Mr. Richard Fisher, a leading specialist in Chinese military technology, wrote to me in the attached letter noting that “the 16-wheel transporter-erector-launcher (TEL) for this new missile is very likely based on a Chinese design. There is even the possibility that it is manufactured in China for North Korea’s use.” The prospect of Chinese support for this program, which “would require approval from the highest levels of China’s government and from the People’s Liberation Army”, means that China is enabling North Korea to deploy ICBMs that could be tipped with nuclear warheads aimed at the United States. Such cooperation therefore poses a direct threat to the security of the American people. Based on the gravity of this threat, I ask for your prompt response to the following questions: 1) Is there any evidence that China or Chinese entities have supplied TELs for a North Korean Intermediate Range Ballistic Missile or ICBM? If so, how many? And, when did the Administration learn of the possibility that such TELs would be transferred to North Korea? 2) What, if anything, has the Obama Administration done to ensure China halts such cooperation and demands the return of these TELs? 3) Is there any other evidence of Chinese entity support for North Korea’s ballistic missile program, whether technology transfer or otherwise? 4) Would such cooperation be in violation of any United Nations Security Council Resolutions or any U.S. sanctions laws, including the Iran, North Korea, Syria Nonproliferation Act? If so, when will the United States invoke such sanctions as are available against China and Chinese entities for this apparent support for the North Korean ballistic missile program? I am sure you agree that the United States cannot permit a state such as the People’s Republic of China to support – either intentionally or by a convenient lack of attention – the ambitions of a state like North Korea to threaten the security of the American people. Indeed, the possibility of such cooperation undermines the Administration’s entire policy of investing China with the responsibility of getting tough on North Korea. Sincerely, MICHAEL R. TURNER Chairman Strategic Forces Subcommittee CC: The Honorable Leon Panetta, Secretary of DefenseGeneral Martin Dempsey, Chairman, Joint Chiefs of StaffGeneral C. Robert Kehler, Commander, U.S. Strategic Command Admiral Samuel J. Locklear III, Commander, U.S. Pacific Command Lt. Gen. Patrick O’Reilly, Director, Missile Defense Agency
05.01.2012	Congressman Mike Turner wrote to Defense Secretary Leon Panetta requesting an update on how the Department is implementing a new prohibition on the naming of Department of Defense (DoD) property after a sitting Member of Congress. Turner included the language in the FY 2012 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) to prevent conflicts of interest between Members and projects funded by taxpayers. “Nearly five months have passed since the law was enacted, and I am interested to learn about the status of its implementation. Please confirm whether the DoD and each of the Armed Services has implemented the new policy. If new policies have not been created, please provide a timeline for which these policies will go into effect,” wrote Turner. The language as passed by the FY 2012 NDAA applies to structures, buildings, or other infrastructure of a military installation, roadways and defense access roads, and any other area on the grounds of a military installation. “Naming infrastructure after sitting Members is a clear conflict. These are taxpayer’s dollars and it gives the wrong impression if the buildings or operations are affiliated with an elected official who’s currently still in office. It gives the appearance that the Member has funded the infrastructure rather than the taxpayer,” added Turner. NOTE: The letter to Secretary Panetta follows below as does the specific section of the FY12 NDAA. The Honorable Leon PanettaSecretary of Defense1000 Defense PentagonWashington, DC 20301-1000 Dear Secretary Panetta, In section 2863 of the FY2012 NDAA, I included language that prohibits the naming of Department of Defense real property after a standing Member of Congress. This language was passed to prevent conflicts of interest. Nearly five months have passed since the law was enacted, and I am interested to learn about the status of its implementation. Please confirm whether the DoD and each of the Armed Services has implemented the new policy. If new policies have not been created, please provide a timeline for which these policies will go into effect. I appreciate your attention to this important matter and look forward to continuing this effort to safeguard our federal processes. Sincerely,Michael R. Turner Member of Congress SEC. 2863. PROHIBITION ON NAMING DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE REAL PROPERTY AFTER A MEMBER OF CONGRESS. (a) Prohibition.--Section 2661 of title 10, United States Code, is amended by inserting after subsection (b) the following new subsection: ``(c) Prohibition on Naming Department of Defense Real Property After Member of Congress.--(1) Real property under the jurisdiction of the Secretary of Defense or the Secretary of a military department may not be named after, or otherwise officially identified by the name of, any individual who is a Member of Congress at the time the property is so named or identified. ``(2) In this subsection: ``(A) The term `Member of Congress' includes a Delegate or Resident Commissioner to the Congress. ``(B) The term `real property' includes structures, buildings, or other infrastructure of a military installation, roadways and defense access roads, and any other area on the grounds of a military installation.''. (b) Application of Amendment.--The prohibition in subsection (c) of section 2661 of title 10, United States Code, as added by subsection (a), shall apply only with respect to real property of the Department of Defense named after the date of the enactment of this Act. ###
04.30.2012	Congressman Mike Turner joined fellow Ohioans in supporting the Department of Labor’s (DoL) repeal of a recently enacted rule which would’ve applied new Administrative regulations to family farms. This misguided rule would have completely changed what work children could perform on farms owned by family members. According to the DoL, the rule would prohibit them from working at “country grain elevators, grain bins, silos, feed lots, stockyards, livestock exchanges and livestock auctions.” “Many of Ohio’s farms have been built on the sweat and hard work of families coming together to make their land successful. Children working on family farms are an important way for them to gain skills for future employment and learn about what it takes to run a business. This new rule would’ve ended the heritage of family faming in our state,” said Turner. In late March, Turner joined several members of Ohio’s Congressional delegation in writing to Labor Secretary Hilda Solis warning against the impact of the new regulation on the state’s family farm industry. “As written, the most concerning portions of the rule would prevent most young men and women from working on family farms and deny children opportunities to lean the practical skills offered through 4-H, FFA and Supervised Agricultural Experience programs,” wrote the Members.“This is yet another example of a federal department or agency unilaterally enacting new rules or regulations outside the supervision of Congress. Had Ohioans and farming families across the country not spoken out, this could have had a devastating effect on the important role of agriculture to our nation’s economy,” added Turner. ###
04.26.2012	Congressman Mike Turner (OH-3) commended the inclusion of language supporting Abrams tank modernization in the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Tactical Air and Land Forces Mark of the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA). This language, which Turner advocated for, supports upgrading M1A2 Abrams tanks over the next year. Thousands of workers contribute to the production of the M1A2 at the Lima, OH facility. Turner has been a consistent voice for the plant and its workforce. “I want to commend Chairman Bartlett for including this language in his Mark of the NDAA. He recognizes that it would in fact cost more to shut down this plant. The impact of a plant shutdown would not only result in the loss of thousands of jobs in Ohio and across the U.S. but also technological expertise which may never return,” stated Turner. Congressmen Turner invited House Armed Services Subcommittee on Tactical Air and Land Forces Chairman Roscoe Bartlett (MD-6) to the Lima Plant and together they toured the facility in 2011. Prior to the Chairman’s Mark, production of the Abrams M1A2 was set to end in 2013 and was not planned to start again until 2016. Lima is the only facility in the country that builds these tanks for the U.S. Army and the U.S. Marine Corps. During their visit, the lawmakers received an overview and tour of the production facilities, as well as a demonstration of the M1A2 tank and met with the Ohioans who produce the M1A2. “Keeping the plant open will not only allow the facility to focus on modernizing tanks for our troops, but also on the production of tanks for our allies around the world. These workers produce the most lethal and survivable combat vehicle we have to offer our servicemembers. Their work is key to the defense of this nation and I look forward to continuing to advocate on behalf of the plant as this bill heads to the full committee,” added Turner. This past week Turner joined 173 of his House colleagues in writing in Defense Secretary Leon Panetta, advocating for the plant to stay open and for the Department to prioritize funding for it in the FY 2013 budget. ###
04.23.2012	Congressman Mike Turner (OH-3) worked to include language in a committee report which was finalized today, denoting the Air Force Institute of Technology (AFIT) as a location for cybersecurity training for government employees. Turner also submitted the following statement during the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform mark-up in support of H.R. 4257, the Federal Information Security Amendments Act. This bipartisan measure would establish a mechanism for strengthened oversight and security of the federal government’s information technology systems. The bill places an emphasis on agencies employing well-trained, skilled information security personnel. In the committee’s report of the legislation it noted: “In ensuring an adequately trained workforce, agencies may utilize existing government cyberspace technical centers of excellence for purposes of training and certification attainment.” AFIT is recognized as the Air Force’s “cyberspace technical center of excellence.” “Federal government agencies training information security personnel throughout the civilian, national security, and law enforcement communities should utilize the existing programs and curriculum offered at AFIT for graduate, post-graduate, and continuing professional education,” said Turner. The Secretary of the Air Force has also signed off on language offered by Turner in the FY11 National Defense Authorization Act that will expand AFIT’s authority to enroll government and non-government civilian personnel in its programs. This is a major advance for the institution and many civilian employers and employees who work in conjunction with the Air Force. Statement for the Record Congressman Michael R. Turner (OH-3) House Committee on Oversight & Government Reform Full Committee Business Meeting Wednesday, April 18, 2012 Mr. Chairman, today the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform continues its work to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of the federal government in considering H.R. 4257, the Federal Information Security Amendments Act. This bipartisan measure would establish a mechanism for strengthened oversight and security of the federal government’s information technology systems. Among the many important provisions included in H.R. 4257 is an emphasis on agencies employing well-trained, skilled information security personnel. In meeting this responsibility, I encourage agencies government-wide to train personnel at established cyberspace research programs that provide graduate, post-graduate, and continuing professional education. In my district in Southwest Ohio, the Air Force Institute of Technology (AFIT) is an established and accredited graduate school of engineering and management that offers premier advanced cyberspace education and degree programs, as well as continuing professional education opportunities. Following efforts by me and my colleague Senator Rob Portman, AFIT now offers these programs to individuals outside the Department of Defense and will now accept civilian applicants. With this opportunity comes improved efficiencies and effectiveness for all federal agencies to train information security personnel with AFIT’s forward-looking approaches to network intrusion detection and avoidance, insider threat mitigation, cyberspace situational awareness, network visualization, software protection, and anti-tamper technologies development. Students at AFIT have the unique opportunity to study at the Center for Cyberspace Research, which has been designated by the United States Air Force as their Cyberspace Technical Center of Excellence. Recently, these students received the International Information Systems Security Certification Consortium’s 2011 U.S. Government Information Security Leadership Award for demonstrated leadership in advancing and improving the information security workforce. Additionally, students from the Center for Cyberspace Research earned the top score among all participating military schools in the National Security Agency 2011 Cyber Defense Exercise. As H.R. 4257 makes clear, agencies must equip themselves with individuals dedicated to preserving the nation’s cyberspace integrity through information security. Federal government agencies training information security personnel throughout the civilian, national security, and law enforcement communities should utilize the existing programs and curriculum offered at AFIT for graduate, post-graduate, and continuing professional education. ###
04.21.2012	Congressman Mike Turner (OH-3) released the following statement on the flying of military heritage aircraft and the FY2013 National Defense Authorization Act: “Dayton is home to the National Museum of the Air Force, and has the largest collection of historical military aircraft in the world. I know the value and importance that the facility has in honoring sacrifices of our veterans and as a symbol that freedom isn’t free. The Warbird community plays an important role in bringing WWII era aircraft to our nation’s citizens. These propeller-driven craft are ambassadors of freedom’s price and I do not support grounding any of them. “My concern lies in the potential for military jet aircraft to be transferred to civilians for flight without the same rigorous training and maintenance schedules that pilots and aircraft underwent when they were in service. In fact, the Department of Defense was asked by Congress to conduct a study on post-1947 military aircraft and what concerns the department has with their being flown. In short, the Department both in the report and through their policies does not support these aircraft from being transferred to civilians for flight. “I look forward to working with the Warbird community to see that they continue to stay in the air. Their contributions have inspired Americans young and old, and will do so for years to come.” ###
04.19.2012	Congressman Mike Turner, Chairman of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Strategic Forces, questioned Defense Secretary Leon Panetta today on the unveiling of a new road-mobile intercontinental ballistic missile (ICBM) by North Korea. In response to questioning by Turner Panetta replied: “I’m sure there’s been some help coming from China…clearly there has been some assistance along those lines.” This week, Turner wrote to the Secretary of State Hillary Clinton and Director of National Intelligence on this issue. “Of deep concern…are allegations that the missile…is based on Chinese technology, in violation of international obligations and a threat to the national security interest of the United States,” wrote Turner. In March of this year, the Commander of U.S. Pacific Command testified before the House Armed Services Committee that, “there is development within North Korea of a road-mobile intercontinental ballistic missile system that we’ve observed.” Before he left the Pentagon, Secretary Gates issued a similar warning in 2011. Echoing these concerns, Mr. Richard Fisher, a leading specialist in Chinese military technology, wrote to Turner in a letter noting that “the 16-wheel transporter-erector-launcher (TEL) for this new missile is very likely based on a Chinese design. There is even the possibility that it is manufactured in China for North Korea’s use.” “The prospect of Chinese support for this program, which ‘would require approval from the highest levels of China’s government and from the People’s Liberation Army’, means that China is enabling North Korea to deploy ICBMs that could be tipped with nuclear warheads aimed at the United States. Such cooperation therefore poses a direct threat to the security of the American people,” added Turner. NOTE: The letter to Secretary Clinton and Director Clapper can be found here.
04.18.2012	Congressman Mike Turner (OH-3), Chairman of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Strategic Forces, released the following statement upon the release of the 1248 Report by the Departments of Defense and State: “I am glad that the Administration has finally submitted this long overdue report. I look forward to looking at how the report takes into account the vital mission of protecting U.S. space technology from diversion to the space, counter-space and ballistic missile programs of other nations. “However, the Administration's request for blanket authority to relax our export control regime over thousands of space technologies would not make this country safer, or further our goals. For four years the State Department has dragged its feet on enforcing the current regime; specifically when it comes to companies the Department believes have illegally diverted our space technology to China. Asking for this authority, with those facts in mind, suggests a lack of seriousness about the Administration's commitment to protecting U.S. space technology.” ###
04.17.2012	Congressman Mike Turner, Chairman of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Strategic Forces, wrote to the Secretary of State Hillary Clinton and Director of National Intelligence regarding the unveiling of a new road-mobile intercontinental ballistic missile (ICBM) by North Korea. “Of deep concern…are allegations that the missile…is based on Chinese technology, in violation of international obligations and a threat to the national security interest of the United States,” wrote Turner. In March of this year, the Commander of U.S. Pacific Command testified before the House Armed Services Committee that, “there is development within North Korea of a road-mobile intercontinental ballistic missile system that we’ve observed.” Before he left the Pentagon, Secretary Gates issued a similar warning in 2011. Echoing these concerns, Mr. Richard Fisher, a leading specialist in Chinese military technology, wrote to Turner in a letter noting that “the 16-wheel transporter-erector-launcher (TEL) for this new missile is very likely based on a Chinese design. There is even the possibility that it is manufactured in China for North Korea’s use.” “The prospect of Chinese support for this program, which ‘would require approval from the highest levels of China’s government and from the People’s Liberation Army’, means that China is enabling North Korea to deploy ICBMs that could be tipped with nuclear warheads aimed at the United States. Such cooperation therefore poses a direct threat to the security of the American people,” added Turner. NOTE: The letter to Secretary Clinton and Director Clapper can be found here. The letter from Mr. Fisher can be found here.Attached photos can be found here.
04.16.2012	Congressman Mike Turner (OH-3) attended the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee’s hearing on “Addressing the GSA’s Culture of Wasteful Spending.” Turner questioned where the funds came from to pay for items included in a conference goodie or “swag” bag. The list of items, many of which contained labels denoting that they had been manufactured in China, came from funds that were supposed to be allocated for repairs to U.S. Government buildings: 1. Blackjack Dealer’s Vest with monogrammed Conference logo Made in China 2. Participant Yearbook Manufacturing Country Unknown 3. Commemorative Stimulus Coin (in black velvet box) Manufacturing Country Unknown 4. Book about Las Vegas Printed in China 5. Water Bottle and Carabineer Made in China 6. Pen & Pencil Set Made in China 7. Bag with Conference logo Made in China 8. Long-sleeved t-shirt with Conference logo Made in El Salvador ###
04.13.2012	Congressman Mike Turner (OH-3) announced that Sinclair Community College has been selected to conduct Unmanned Aerial Systems (UAS) Research at the Springfield Air National Guard Base. Turner worked with members of the House Committee on Transportation to create UAS research sites in the FAA reauthorization bill passed by Congress in February. The final language established six UAS testing sites in the Federal Aviation Administration reauthorization bill. “I was proud to join Sinclair at the ribbon cutting for their new UAS facility on their campus. This selection will help further the research at Sinclair, and will help provide new educational opportunities for students in our community. This latest development adds momentum to our efforts to expand UAS research in our region. I look forward to continuing to work with Sinclair on this important endeavor,” said Turner. Turner also successfully added similar language to the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) which was signed into law in late December 2011. The conference committee of House and Senate members expanded the amount of testing sites that Turner requested from four to six in this final legislation, and cited Turner’s NDAA language in support of the testing sites to be named by the FAA Administrator. The language advocates for Southwest Ohio facilities such as Wright-Patterson Air Force Base and the Wilmington Air Park to be considered as designated testing sites for UAS research. ###
04.13.2012	Congressman Mike Turner (OH-3), Chairman of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Strategic Forces, released the following statement upon the news that the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea (North Korea) has conducted a long-range missile test: “Today’s missile launch is yet another indication that the Administration’s policies are not working. It is time for this Administration to get serious, and understand that states like North Korea are the reason we must have robust military capabilities, like national missile defense, to ensure they cannot threaten the American people. One thing is clear, while the President has been weakening our national missile defenses, North Korea and other states have been actively working on their capability to strike the United States. I urge the Administration, given this provocative ballistic missile test, and the promise of another nuclear weapons test, to begin negotiations with our allies in the Pacific about how to further extend and reinforce our nuclear umbrella in the region.” ###
04.12.2012	Congressman Mike Turner commended the choice of Dr. Todd I Stewart to be the new Director and Chancellor of the Air Force Institute of Technology (AFIT) at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base. Stewart, who retired as a Major General of the Air Force in 2002, previously served as the Director of Plans and Programs at Air Force Materiel Command at Wright-Patt. Turner, along with Sen. Rob Portman, has introduced H.R. 1999, a bill which would designate criteria for the leadership at AFIT. “The selection of Dr. Stewart shows that the Air Force is concentrating on the important role of senior leadership at AFIT. In the years ahead, AFIT should have a qualified and capable individual like that of Dr. Stewart’s in order to maintain expertise and relevance on issues affecting the cyberspehere and nuclear enterprise,” said Turner. H.R. 1999, would allow the Secretary of the Air Force to fill the top post with either an active duty Colonel, or a retired Brigadier General or higher. It also creates a SES level Provost position to prevent against any disruptions in academic and institutional affairs that can be generated from regular changes in leadership. These options would ensure continuity in the Institute’s approach towards educating our nation’s military leaders while adhering to the Department of Defense’s proposal to eliminate the number of flag officers in our military. Following Turner’s efforts to boost the leadership at the Air Force Institute of Technology, the FY12 NDAA conference committee between the House and Senate saw fit to provide for greater Air Force oversight of the postgraduate school. The leadership of the school will now be comprised of both a Commandant and a Provost. “The FY12 NDAA has brought AFIT one step closer to achieving prominence amongst our military’s postgraduate schools. This step ensures that Air Force personnel and leadership reductions do not affect the quality of AFIT leadership by establishing two leadership positions, to help guide AFIT in the years ahead. I look forward to continuing my effort with Sen. Portman in strengthening AFIT’s mission of training the future leaders of our Air Force,” said Turner. ###
04.12.2012	The Secretary of the Air Force has signed off on language offered by Congressman Mike Turner (OH-3) in the FY11 National Defense Authorization Act that will expand the Air Force Institute of Technology’s (AFIT) authority to enroll government and non-government civilian personnel in its programs. This is a major advance for the institution and many civilian employers and employees who work in conjunction with the Air Force. “I am committed to finding new investment opportunities at Wright-Patt and AFIT is an obvious place to begin. This is the kind of public/private sector partnership that makes sense in our changing economy and will build on assets already in place,” said Turner. For several years, the regional business community has advocated for an opening of AFIT educational programs to non-government civilian personnel. Allowing AFIT to expand its offerings beyond military personnel would produce benefits within a larger student body and within the institution itself. “We must continue to find effective economic development strategies like this which will provide opportunities for our local workforce. I look forward to continuing to work with regional leaders and those in government to find ways we can continue to partner together,” added Turner. AFIT is a graduate school of engineering and management institution for technical professional continuing education. A component of Air University and Air Education and Training Command, AFIT is committed to providing defense-focused graduate and professional continuing education and research to sustain the technological supremacy of America’s air and space forces. NOTE: A memo from the Secretary of the Air Force’s office is here. ###
04.10.2012	Sen. Chuck Grassley and Rep. Michael Turner today asked the National Telecommunications and Information Administration to account for how much taxpayer money the federal government spent to test LightSquared’s wireless network for interference with government telecommunications devices. Grassley and Turner are concerned that the federal government spent millions of dollars on testing, and that the government might never recover the expenditure because LightSquared and its parent company, Harbinger Capital Partners, are in deep financial trouble, according to media reports. “The federal government spent millions of taxpayer dollars on testing for a project that moved along only because the government gave approvals before resolving interference questions,” Grassley said. “Now, taxpayers are on the hook for the testing that showed that the project interfered with government devices using global positioning systems. The executive branch needs to account for just how much taxpayer money it spent and why.” Turner said, “In the process of testing a system, which ultimately would have interfered with our military’s GPS receivers, taxpayers may have footed the bill to the tune of millions. The Administration owes Americans an explanation as to how much money was spent, and if those dollars will be recovered.” Grassley and Turner made their request to the National Telecommunications and Information Administration, located within the Department of Commerce. The agency is described as “the Executive Branch agency that is principally responsible by law for advising the President on telecommunications and information policy issues.” In February, the Federal Communications Commission withdrew its preliminary approval of a valuable regulatory waiver it granted to LightSquared. The company was attempting to build a satellite phone network in a band of spectrum adjacent to global positioning systems (GPS) spectrum. However, testing showed LightSquared’s network caused significant interference with critical GPS users such as the Department of Defense, the Federal Aviation Administration, and the National Aeronautics and Space Administration. NOTE: The text of the Grassley-Turner letter is available here.
04.04.2012	Congressman Mike Turner and Congresswoman Loretta Sanchez, Chairman and Ranking Member of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Strategic Forces, commended the White House today for commissioning a study on governance of the national laboratories. The White House Office of Science and Technology Policy has tasked the Institute for Defense Analyses’ Science and Technology Policy Institute to study various governance structures for the labs and provide recommendations for ensuring the labs are prepared to address future national security challenges. “We are heartened to see the White House engaged on this important issue,” said Turner and Sanchez in a joint statement. “In our oversight of the National Nuclear Security Administration’s national labs, we’ve become concerned about a governance structure that the National Academies of Science recently called ‘dysfunctional’ and ‘broken.’ We must ensure these national labs are setup to face the many nuclear security challenges facing the nation, and we look forward to taking some concrete first steps at reform in the upcoming fiscal year 2013 defense authorization bill to improve oversight that will enable a safe, cost-effective work environment and preserve scientific and engineering excellence at the laboratories.” ###
04.02.2012	Congressmen Mike Turner (OH-3) and Rob Andrews (NJ-1) have sent a letter to Defense Secretary Leon Panetta, requesting his support for protecting the child custody rights of our men and women in uniform. The lawmakers were joined by every member of the House Armed Services Committee in supporting the request. Legislative language addressing this issue has passed the House of Representatives on six separate occasions. “Our men and women in uniform sacrifice much in the service of our nation. They shouldn’t also have to live with the constant fear that their custody rights as parents could be in jeopardy due to their service. This legislation would ensure that being deployed, or the possibility of deployed is not used against them when child custody decisions are made by the courts,” said Turner. Specifically, the Servicemember Family Protection Act (H.R. 4201) would amend the Servicemembers Civil Relief Act to provide for the protection of child custody arrangements for parents who are deployed in support of a contingency operation. If a motion for change of custody of a child of a servicemember is filed while they are deployed, no court may modify or amend a previous child custody judgment, except if there is clear and convincing evidence that it is in the best interest of the child. The bill also prohibits any court from considering a member's past absence due to deployment, or possible future deployment, in support of a contingency operation in determining child custody disputes.“The parental rights of our men and women in uniform should not be jeopardized simply because they made the meaningful and courageous decision to protect our freedoms,” said Andrews. “We must ensure that when custody decisions are rendered that they made in accordance with the child’s best interest rather than based solely on a parent’s absence due to his or her military service.” In 2011 both Defense Secretary Robert Gates and Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness Clifford Stanley, provided letters of support for the legislation. “As we move forward with the current legislative session, we look forward to the same level of support from the DoD in addressing this important issue and ensuring that our men and women in uniform have their parental rights protected,” wrote the lawmakers. The full text of Congressmen Turner and Andrew’s letter can be found here. Learn more about military child custody: http://turner.house.gov/militarychildcustody/
03.26.2012	Congressman Mike Turner, Chairman of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Strategic Forces, wrote to the president today, requesting an “urgent explanation of [his] comments to President Medvedev in Seoul this morning.” The president had stated that “this is my last election, and after my election I'll have more flexibility,” in regards to missile defense in Europe. “Congress has made exquisitely clear to your Administration and to other nations that it will block all attempts to weaken U.S. missile defenses. As the Chairman of the Strategic Forces Subcommittee, which authorizes U.S. missile defense and nuclear weapons policy, I want to make perfectly clear that my colleagues and I will not allow any attempts to trade missile defense of the United States to Russia or any other country,” wrote Turner. Congress has included in the FY 2012 National Defense Authorization Act, Congress, which the president has signed into law, a provision constraining his ability to share classified U.S. missile defense information with the Russian Federation. Congress took this step because it was clear based on official testimony and Administration comments in the press that classified information about U.S. missile defenses, including hit-to-kill technology and velocity at burnout information, may be on the table as negotiating leverage for the president’s reset with Russia. “Despite signing the FY12 defense authorization legislation into law, you then issued a signing statement signaling that you may treat that provision protecting U.S. missile defense information as non-binding. This morning’s comments, on top of that action, suggests that you and your administration have plans for U.S. missile defenses that you believe will not stand up to electoral scrutiny,” added Turner. NOTE: The full letter can be found here.
03.22.2012	Congressman Mike Turner (OH-3) announced his annual U.S. Service Academy Day. The event, which will take place on April 21st, is an opportunity for students and parents from the Third Congressional District to learn more about our nation’s service academies. Representatives from the United States Army (West Point), Navy, Merchant Marine, Air Force, and Coast Guard academies will be on hand to provide attendees with information on the general requirements and qualifications for the nomination process. “As a member of the House Armed Services Committee I have the honor to interact with our men and women in uniform every day. These outstanding individuals come from communities like ours, and I look forward to nominating our bright high school students to each of the Service Academies,” said Turner. Date: Saturday, April 21st, 2012 Schedule: 9:00 a.m. Doors Open 9:30 a.m. – 10:00 a.m. Presentation of Academies10:30 a.m. – Noon Breakout/Informational Sessions Location: Centerville High School500 E. Franklin Street, Centerville, Ohio 45459 Note: For more information visit www.turner.house.gov or contact Marty Heide at the Dayton District Office at (937) 225-2843 ###
03.22.2012	Congressman Mike Turner (OH-3), Chairman of the U.S. Delegation to the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, introduced the NATO Enhancement Act of 2012. Companion legislation to Sen. Dick Lugar’s bill (S.2177), it would add to previous bills where Congress has expressed support for the North Atlantic Treaty Organization’s (NATO) eastward expansion and designated former communist countries as eligible for U.S. assistance to become NATO members. In addition, the proposed legislation reaffirms NATO’s role as a nuclear alliance and calls on the Administration to seek further allied contributions to a NATO territorial missile defense capability. “These nations have a mutual goal of freedom from tyranny and the right to a collective defense. I call on the Administration and my colleagues in Congress to recognize that countries such as Bosnia, Macedonia, Montenegro, and Georgia should be afforded NATO membership,” said Turner. With respect to aspiring NATO countries, the bill designates aspiring NATO member states Bosnia and Herzegovina (Bosnia) and Montenegro as eligible to receive U.S. assistance under the 1994 NATO Participation Act; reauthorizes the Republic of Georgia and Macedonia as eligible for such assistance; adds to the types of programs that should be supported and encouraged under the NATO Participation Act, including the sale of defense articles and services; and broadens the types of U.S. assistance that could fund these programs, including funds that were either not in existence or not designated in the original 1994 legislation. “NATO not only serves to protect our collective nations but our homeland as well. A key component of this is a robust missile defense system and the continued role of U.S. forward-deployed nuclear weapons in the defense of NATO. These are policies which have kept us and our NATO allies safe from attack,” added Turner. The bill calls for negotiations with the Russian Federation aimed at reducing their deployed and non-deployed, nonstrategic nuclear force. It also identifies Russia’s advantage in nonstrategic nuclear weapons as a threat to the U.S. and its allies and a growing asymmetry in Europe. Finally, the legislation would require the Secretary of State to submit a report to Congress on the following issues within 90 days of the law’s enactment: U.S. assistance for NATO membership provided to Bosnia, Georgia, Macedonia, and Montenegro; U.S. efforts to resolve the Macedonia name dispute; additional steps to be taken by the aforementioned countries to meet NATO membership qualifications; steps being taken by the United States to uphold the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Georgia; and an account of allied contributions to NATO’s territorial missile defense mission. The NATO Enhancement Act of 2012 does not authorize any additional, new U.S. assistance programs and does not authorize amounts of aid beyond what has already been appropriated. Note: The Full Bill Can Be Found Here.###
03.22.2012	Congressman Mike Turner (OH-3) released the following statement upon the news that the Senate Armed Services Committee has favorably reported the nomination of Lt. General Janet Wolfenbarger (USAF), to the full Senate. Wolfenbarger, who has been nominated for appointment to the grade of general, is set to become the first female four star general in the U.S. Air Force and the Commander of Air Force Materiel Command (AFMC) at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base. She is currently the Military Deputy, Office of the Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Acquisition, and had previously served as Vice-Commander of AFMC. “I am very glad that Lt Gen. Wolfenbarger’s nomination to commander of AFMC has been sent to the full Senate for approval. Born in Greene County and having already served at Wright-Patt, she is not only an example of the best of our community, but someone who understands the important role the base plays in Ohio and the nation’s security. AFMC will be critical in the coming years as budgets tighten and we continue to equip the best trained men and women in uniform the world has ever known. Upon confirmation by the full Senate, I look forward to working with her to continue the success Wright-Patt has seen over the past several decades.” ###
03.21.2012	Congressman Mike Turner (OH-3) questioned Treasury Secretary Tim Geithner about his Department’s transparency when it came to the bailout process. Since the decision by the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (PBGC) to slash approximately 20,000 current and future Delphi Salaried Retirees by up to 70 percent, Turner and other lawmakers have been searching for answers. Meanwhile, Treasury, PBGC, and the President’s Auto Task Force have been less than open about what had transpired and was paid for with taxpayer’s dollars. In response to the continued efforts, including a field hearing by the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee in Dayton, to expose what happened when the U.S. government picked winners and losers amongst its citizens, Turner has introduced H.R. 4232, the Restoring Essential Safeguards for a Transparent, Open, and Reliable Executive under FOIA Act (RESTORE FOIA Act). This bill would update the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) to level the playing field for American taxpayers requesting information relevant to the federal government’s multibillion dollar bailout of the financial and auto industries. “Since implementation of the bailout, the government plunged headlong into buying toxic assets and preferred stock in financial institutions and became the majority shareholder of one of the country’s largest automakers. The American public deserves access to information relating to the government’s decision-making process; yet the government shields itself from the scrutiny that may have prevented these pensions from being unjustly terminated,” said Turner. Watch Turner Question Geithner Here: As currently written, FOIA provides the Executive Branch with a number of exemptions, which deny access to information on how the federal government is using taxpayer dollars on bailouts. The RESTORE FOIA Act would update the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) to provide taxpayers with access to information and records relevant to any federal government bailout. For example, under the RESTORE FOIA Act, agencies administering and carrying out the Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP) would be denied from invoking the FOIA exemptions. TARP authorized the Treasury Department to buy toxic assets and preferred stock in financial institutions, and the President’s Administration extended the program to bail out the auto industry. The RESTORE FOIA Act preserves existing FOIA protections for agency matters outside of the administration of TARP, and continues to allow use of exemptions for the governmental bodies performing government functions. NOTE: A copy of the RESTORE FOIA Act can be found here. ###
03.20.2012	Congressman Mike Turner (OH-3) submitted the following statement and questions for the record to Secretary of Commerce John Bryson. Bryson appeared before the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Commerce, Justice, Science and Related Agencies for a hearing on trade enforcement funding for Fiscal Year 2013. Turner has introduced the Trade Law Enforcement Act (H.R. 3112), which offers an additional way for U.S. companies to have the United States Trade Representative (USTR) act on market access barriers that may be unlawful under any U.S. trade agreement. Currently, U.S. companies face many non-tariff barriers (NTB’s) including onerous labeling requirements, discretionary customs valuation criteria and lack of protection for intellectual property. Because of its cost and complexity, the process of petitioning USTR for assistance with NTB’s that companies believe are unlawful under a trade agreement, is simply not feasible. Congressman Turner's Full Statement and Questions Can Be Found Here. ###
03.19.2012	Congressman Mike Turner (OH-3) has written to Congressman Ed Markey (MA-7) and re invited him to tour Building 9212 at Y-12 and the Chemistry and Metallurgy Research (CMR) facility at Los Alamos National Lab in New Mexico. Turner, who is Chairman of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Strategic Forces, has direct oversight of our defense nuclear facilities and labs. “Without ever seeing the true state of these facilities, Mr. Markey is living in blissful ignorance. It must make calling for funding cuts and unilateral disarmament a lot easier. No one who has toured these facilities and has seen their deplorable conditions would deny the need for this funding,” said Turner. It’s unclear if Markey, who has called for sharp cuts in funding for these facilities and the nuclear deterrent in general, has ever been to these facilities. “It is clear from your response that you have been given grossly inaccurate, or wholly out-of-context, information on the plutonium and uranium facilities—and their prospective replacements—at the Los Alamos National Laboratory and the Y-12 National Security Complex. We very much need to get you to Los Alamos and Y-12 as soon as possible to clear up this terribly mistaken information,” wrote Turner. In 2009, the bipartisan Congressional Commission on the Strategic Posture of the United States, composed of highly respected experts from both sides of the aisle and co-chaired by former Defense Secretaries William Perry and James Schlesinger, said that the facilities Turner invited Markey to tour are “genuinely decrepit and are maintained in a safe and secure manner only at high cost.” “I hope you will accept my previous offer to take a joint trip to visit these facilities and receive comprehensive briefings of their status and plans for their replacement. I continue to look forward to scheduling this trip at your earliest opportunity,” added Turner. NOTE: The full letter follows below. March 16, 2012 The Honorable Ed Markey 2108 Rayburn House Office Building Washington, DC 20515 Dear Representative Markey: I appreciate your response to my letter of February 15. It is clear from your response that you have been given grossly inaccurate, or wholly out-of-context, information on the plutonium and uranium facilities—and their prospective replacements—at the Los Alamos National Laboratory and the Y-12 National Security Complex. We very much need to get you to Los Alamos and Y-12 as soon as possible to clear up this terribly mistaken information. I hope you will accept my previous offer to take a joint trip to visit these facilities and receive comprehensive briefings of their status and plans for their replacement. I continue to look forward to scheduling this trip at your earliest opportunity. Sincerely, MICHAEL R. TURNER Chairman, Subcommittee on Strategic Forces House Armed Services Committee ###
03.08.2012	Congressman Mike Turner (OH-3), Chairman of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Strategic Forces, introduced the Maintaining the President’s Commitment to our Nuclear Deterrent and National Security Act of 2012 (H.R. 4178). The 50-page bill cites the President’s promises surrounding nuclear modernization and would codify those commitments into law. “The long-term health and credibility of our nuclear deterrent depends on this bill, as does our national security. During the Senate’s consideration of the New START Treaty, the President made many promises to achieve support for Senate ratification. With the President’s FY13 budget request, it is now apparent that those promises have been broken. This bill will correct that and ensure the promises are kept,” said Turner. If enacted, the bill would directly link reductions in U.S. nuclear forces with successful execution of the President’s nuclear modernization plan. It would require construction of key new plutonium and uranium facilities, prevent asymmetries between the sizes of U.S. and Russian nuclear forces, and codify the President’s promise of full funding for modernization of the nuclear stockpile. Further, the bill would refuse funding for implementing the results of the President’s ongoing nuclear employment strategy review to allow ample time for Congress to consider it. Reports in the media have stated that the President’s review could recommend unilateral reductions of up to 80 percent of U.S. nuclear forces. “This legislation is important not only to modernize our nuclear force, but also the infrastructure that supports it. But Congress must also fix the agency responsible for that infrastructure; the National Nuclear Security Administration (NNSA). It is clear that NNSA is broken and unable to carry out its mission. It appears to be unable to provide the warheads and infrastructure the military needs, despite receiving billions of dollars from the budget of the Department of Defense. One of the key reasons the Administration is failing to meet its promises is that our nuclear weapons enterprise is broken,” added Turner. The NNSA has squandered billions of dollars of Department of Defense (DOD) investment, failed to deliver a Chemistry and Metallurgy Research Replacement (CMRR) facility, and significantly delayed or slowed critical nuclear warhead life extension programs. Turner intends to address these problems in a bipartisan manner in the FY13 National Defense Authorization Act. Section-by-Section Summary of the Maintaining the President’s Commitment to our Nuclear Deterrent and National Security Act of 2012 Bill Number: H.R. 4178 Sponsor: Chairman Mike Turner Original Cosponsors: Fleming, Brooks, Lamborn, Franks, Forbes, Rehberg, Jeff Miller (FL) Sec. 3. Congressional Findings citing the direct linkage between nuclear modernization efforts and U.S. strategic force reductions. Sec. 4. Codification of Condition Nine of the Senate’s Resolution of Ratification on the New START Treaty. The section further provides that Congress will not fund nuclear warhead reductions in any year in which the President’s modernization commitments in his section 1251 plan are not being requested and appropriated. Sec. 5. Congressional Findings citing the President’s previously stated policies regarding post-New START nuclear reductions. This section further provides that Congress will refuse to fund the President’s ongoing review of the nation’s nuclear war plan, which reportedly could result in 80% reductions to the U.S. nuclear weapons stockpile, cannot be implemented by the Department of Defense unless Sequestration under the Budget Control Act has been eliminated and the President’s modernization commitments in his section 1251 plan are being requested and appropriated Further, Congress will not provide funding for the implementation of that review until, at least, Congress receives a detailed explanation of the nature and reason for the proposed nuclear posture. Sec. 6. Congressional Findings citing the President’s promises to modernize the U.S. nuclear weapons triad. This section further provides that Congress will not fund the reduction of any U.S. nuclear weapons delivery systems unless the President certifies that modernization of the U.S. triad is occurring according to his 1251 plan. Sec. 7. Congressional Findings stating the importance of preventing Russian nuclear force superiority over the nuclear forces of the United States and other nations. This section codifies Declaration Five of the Resolution of Ratification of the New START treaty by providing a limitation that nuclear force reductions should be implemented in such a way as to assure Russia does not deploy nuclear force levels superior to those of the United States. Sec. 8. Provides that the President must report to Congress, in any year he proposes U.S. nuclear force reductions; such report must detail developments in the nuclear forces of other states with nuclear weapons. The Commander of U.S. Strategic Command must also assess whether or not such reductions proposed by the President will prevent the U.S. from responding to technical surprise in the reliability of U.S. nuclear forces or unplanned strategic or geopolitical events. Sec. 9. Congressional Findings citing the President’s promises to construct a new plutonium processing and uranium processing facility. This section adds a limitation that no reductions to the U.S. nuclear weapons “hedge” – those nuclear weapons the U.S. maintains that are not deployed, or are in reserve status – may be effected in any year absent the carrying out of the President’s promises to have the plutonium and uranium facility operational by 2021. Sec. 10. Congressional Findings regarding the 2010 Nuclear Posture Review’s proposal to de-MIRV, or remove Multiple Independent Reentry Vehicles, from the U.S. Intercontinental Ballistic Missile force to promote strategic stability. The section will provide that Congress will not fund a proposal to de-MIRV the U.S. land-based deterrent if the Russian Federation and/or the People’s Republic of China are MIRVing their land-based nuclear forces. Sec. 12. States Congressional Findings and U.S. Policy regarding the U.S. extended deterrent in Europe. The provision provides that Congress will not fund a proposal by the President to relocate, consolidate or reduce U.S. forward-deployed nuclear weapons in Europe, absent the express wish of the host nation, a unanimous decision by the Alliance, or reciprocal actions by the Russian Federation regarding its vast asymmetry of thousands of tactical nuclear weapons. ###
03.07.2012	Congressman Mike Turner released the following statement upon the news that the National Aviation Hall of Fame’s Board of Trustees has voted to keep the Annual Enshrinement Ceremony in Dayton: “I am glad to hear that the NAHF Board of Trustees has voted to keep this important part of aviation history in Dayton. This annual event is an opportunity to highlight our region’s past and current role in the development of flight. This decision is a recognition of our history and the commitment of our community to this event. I look forward to continuing to work with the NAHF to ensure that this event remains in Dayton for years to come.”
03.05.2012	Congressman Mike Turner (OH-3) sent a letter to US Airways Chairman & CEO Doug Parker, expressing his grave disappointment in attempts by the airline to relocate the National Aviation Hall of Fame (NAHF) Enshrinement Ceremony from Dayton, Ohio to Charlotte, North Carolina. This year would mark the fiftieth anniversary of the ceremony. Dayton is also home to the headquarters of PSA Airlines, one of US Airways Express’ operators. With 422 employees, the Dayton region is dedicated to the success of the company, including economic assistance. Recently, the State of Ohio, Montgomery County, and the City of Dayton have approved grant assistance to PSA totaling an additional $1.2 million to assist with the expansion and renovation of their training center. “Despite this substantial financial investment and support, US Airways is nevertheless taking strides to deprive the Dayton community of the fiftieth NAHF Enshrinement Ceremony with generous contributions to move the ceremony to Charlotte,” wrote Turner. The NAHF was founded in 1962 as an Ohio non-profit corporation in Dayton; recognized as the “birthplace of aviation.” On July 14, 1964 the NAHF was officially chartered by the 88th U. S. Congress. The organization is a public foundation reporting annually to Congress. “It is deeply disturbing to me that US Airways would openly defy the commitment of so many dedicated individuals in the Dayton community. As the home of the NAHF, Dayton has provided so much to both the celebration of aviation and US Airways, while the latter is now taking great strides to relocate this hallmark event from the region. I am also troubled by the fact that you fail to grasp the great magnitude of this event and would not speak to me in advance of the NAHF’s decision on the matter,” added Turner. NOTE: The full letter here.
03.01.2012	Today, Congressman Mike Turner (OH-3) met with Lt. General Janet Wolfenbarger, who has been nominated for appointment to the grade of general. Lt. General Wolfenbarger is set to become the first female four star general in the U.S. Air Force and upon confirmation, will be Commander of Air Force Materiel Command (AFMC) at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base. She is currently the Military Deputy, Office of the Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Acquisition, and had previously served as Vice-Commander of AFMC. “I was glad to meet with Lt. General Wolfenbarger while she was in Washington. The work to be done at AFMC will be even more critical in the coming years, with significant budget cuts facing the Department of Defense. I look forward to working with her to strengthen AFMC and the missions at Wright-Patt,” said Turner.
03.01.2012	Congressmen Mike Turner (OH-3) and Jeff Miller (FL-1), Chairman and Member of the U.S. Delegation to the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, wrote to Supreme Allied Commander – Europe, Adm. James Stavridis (USN) to request that the Republic of Georgia be represented at the NATO Special Operations Facility Headquarters. Currently, 28 NATO nations and seven non-NATO allied and friendly conduct special operations training and coordination at this facility. “As you know, the Republic of Georgia has one of the largest non-NATO forces in Afghanistan, larger than many NATO member contributions, and they operate without caveats. Yet, while there are seven non-NATO nations represented at this headquarters, Georgia is not. We understand that all that is required for Georgian participation is a member nation sponsor - which we emphatically believe the United States should do,” wrote Turner and Miller. The letter stems from a recent NATO PA delegation visit to the facility. Congressman Jeff Miller observed that it would be worthwhile to have the participation of the Republic of Georgia – a key ally in the War on terror and NATO aspirant country. “Georgian troops have been fighting and dying alongside NATO troops in Afghanistan. I know that they could benefit from the training and coordination that this NATO facility provides. I look forward to working with Adm. Stavridis in helping to sponsor Georgian participation,” said Miller. Today, Turner questioned Adm. Stavridis before the House Armed Services Committee on having Georgia participate at the Special Operations facility. Watch the exchange here.NOTE: The full letter can be found here.
02.29.2012	Congressman Mike Turner (OH-3) has joined House Ways and Means Chairman Dave Camp in calling for unspent Congressional office funds to be returned to the Treasury Department and allocated towards debt reduction. If action is not taken, these funds could instead be “reprogrammed” for other budget purposes. In a letter, Turner and Camp requested that the language of H.R. 297 be included in the FY 2013 Legislative Branch Appropriations bill. H.R. 297 would require that any unspent funds in Members’ Representational Allowances (MRA) be used for deficit reduction or to reduce the federal debt. Turner is a co-sponsor of H.R. 297. “Just because there are unspent government funds doesn’t mean we should spend that money on something else. When this nation is $15.4 trillion in debt, we should be using every unspent dollar to close the deficit and pay down the debt,” said Turner. Turner this past month announced that his office saved roughly $165,000 of his 2011 MRA and that he will be returning these funds to the U.S. Treasury. Turner’s office MRA as designated by the U.S. House of Representatives for 2011 was just over $1.4 Million. This means that Turner did not spend all of the funds allotted to his office and has returned 11.6% of his MRA. “We believe that this legislation provides an incentive for Members to use taxpayer funds responsibly and lead by example in our efforts to reduce the national debt….It is vital that we truly reduce spending and show the American people we are committed to paying down the nation’s debt,” wrote Turner and Camp. NOTE: The full letter can be found here. ###
02.23.2012	Congressman Mike Turner released the following statement upon the news that an investigation has been opened at the Dayton Veterans Affairs Medical Center (VAMC) to look into allegations of improper conduct by an employee in the anesthesia unit: “If true, these allegations are troubling to say the least. Since the Dental scandal this past year I have been concerned about the management and standards at the Dayton VAMC. Our Veterans deserve the safe and reliable healthcare they were promised when they entered military service. The new Director, Glen Costie, has indicated that he will take this matter seriously and provide a full accounting to our community.” ###
02.17.2012	Today, Congressman Mike Turner gave remarks at the Nuclear Deterrence Summit. The Summit is an annual conference hosted by the publisher and parent organization of the Nuclear Weapons and Materials Monitor, a leading trade publication for the U.S. nuclear weapons community. Turner, who is Chairman of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Strategic Forces, focused on the governance, management, and oversight of the nuclear security enterprise, the relationship between weapons reductions and the need for modernization, as well as the recent reports of proposed unilateral cuts to our nuclear deterrent. share: f t Today, Congressman Mike Turner gave remarks at the Nuclear Deterrence Summit. The Summit is an annual conference hosted by the publisher and parent organization of the Nuclear Weapons and Materials Monitor, a leading trade publication for the U.S. nuclear weapons community. Turner, who is Chairman of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Strategic Forces, focused on the governance, management, and oversight of the nuclear security enterprise, the relationship between weapons reductions and the need for modernization, as well as the recent reports of proposed unilateral cuts to our nuclear deterrent. The full text of Congressman Turner’s remarks follow below. KEY EXCERPTS: On Governance, Management, and Oversight of the Nuclear Security Enterprise “The pointed criticisms about excessive, ineffective, and unnecessary bureaucratic processes—and confused and redundant management relationships—should sound eerily similar to the reports that spurred the creation of NNSA in 1999. The bottom-line is that implementation of NNSA has failed to achieve what the NNSA Act intended to do: create a lean, effective, and well-managed organization that is focused on meeting the nuclear security needs of the country. Not on meeting the needs of the bureaucracy.” On the Relationship between Weapons Reductions and Modernization “Some in the Administration are making he said-she said statements, stating that the Administration has tried, but Congress won’t fund the promises. I think that misses the point. The linkage is clear, reductions are not in the US national security interest without modernization. It simply isn’t good enough to try when it comes to national security—we have to succeed. We have to be adults about these issues; the nuclear deterrent is too important to our national security.” On the President’s Review of Our Nuclear Force Structure “Every other President has asked one simple question when conducting a review like this: what level of nuclear forces do I need to ensure that a potential enemy or adversary knows that if he attacks the United State or our allies, we will have the ability to respond with nuclear forces that could result in nothing less than total devastation? “It’s now clear why the Administration has been refusing to inform the Congress about exactly what options the mini-NPR has been studying since the President signed PPD-11 last year. “It has not yet been explained to me how fewer nuclear weapons in the U.S. deterrent is necessarily better for the country’s security. “When allies see us backing away from our extended deterrent, and potential adversaries see us giving up these capabilities while they are growing them in practically every way—cascades of proliferation cannot be far behind.” Remarks at the Fourth Annual Nuclear Deterrence Summit The Honorable Michael R. Turner Chairman, Strategic Forces Subcommittee, House Armed Services Committee February 17, 2012 Thank you for your kind introduction, and thank you to the Exchange Monitor for hosting this event today. It is a privilege to have the opportunity to share my thoughts with such a broad array of folks from all parts of the U.S. nuclear weapons world: political, policy, and technical. I was reviewing the list of outstanding thinkers and leaders you have heard from over the past three days, and I hope I can provide another perspective to the mix. Everyone here knows that this is a very busy week on Capitol Hill: budget request week. We’re still trying to digest everything in the budget request and plan our way ahead, but some initial outlines are clear at this point. So in my brief remarks today, I’d like to give you my perspective on the President’s FY13 budget request, and its implications for our nuclear forces in the near- and long-term. But before we get to that, I want to spend some time on the other topic that has been on my mind—and my subcommittee’s agenda—this past week. And that is the growing recognition that the governance, management, and oversight structure we’re using to run the nuclear security enterprise is simply not working. Governance, Management, and Oversight of the Nuclear Security Enterprise As you may know, my subcommittee held a hearing yesterday morning that examined this issue of governance of the national labs and plants that sustain our nuclear weapons stockpile. It can be a rather arcane topic for a congressional hearing, but I believe, this topic—as much if not more than the budget—will determine the fate of our nuclear weapons program. The hearing centered on the recently released report by the National Academies of Science. I believe this conference heard from Dr. Chuck Shank yesterday on this very report. Our subcommittee mandated this assessment by the National Academies in our FY10 defense authorization bill, and we thought its findings and recommendations deserved a close look. The conference report accompanying that bill explained that the study should provide “an even-handed, unbiased assessment of the quality of the scientific research and engineering” at the labs and an assessment of the “factors that influence” such quality. The recently released Phase I report focuses on the latter: management-related factors that influence the quality of science and engineering at the labs. The findings in the National Academies study are not terribly surprising to those who have been paying attention to these issues—but they are still quite troubling. Here are a couple quotes from their report: “In the view of this committee, the relationship between NNSA and its [labs] is broken to an extent that very seriously affects the Labs’ capability to manage for quality science and engineering. There has been a breakdown of trust and an erosion of the partnering between the Laboratories and NNSA to solve complex science and engineering problems; there is conflict and confusion over management roles and responsibilities of organizations and individuals.” The National Academies’ report also finds that that the level of detailed, transactional-level management and oversight that NNSA applies to the labs is causing significant inefficiencies and risking the quality of science and engineering at the labs. The report says: “There is a perception…at the three Laboratories that NNSA has moved from partnering with the Laboratories to solve scientific and engineering problems, to assigning tasks and specific science and engineering solutions with detailed implementation instructions. This approach precludes taking full advantage of the intellectual and management skills that taxpayer dollars have purchased. The study committee found similar issues in transactional oversight of safety, business, security and operations. Science and engineering quality is at risk…” I take these findings, and the associated recommendations, very seriously. I take them seriously not just because they come from the distinguished National Academies, but because they are backed up by so many other independent assessments. In 2009, a bipartisan assessment by the Stimson Center, which was paid for by NNSA itself, found: “The implementation of the NNSA Act failed to achieve the intended autonomy for NNSA within the Department of Energy. The Labs now must operate within a complicated set of bureaucratic relationships with both DOE and NNSA. An excessively bureaucratic DOE culture has infiltrated NNSA as well.” Also in 2009, the bipartisan Strategic Posture Commission made strikingly similar findings. They include: “…the governance structure of the NNSA is not delivering the needed results. This governance structure should be changed…In [the Commission’s] view, the original intent of the legislation creating the NNSA has not been realized. The desired autonomy has not come into being. It is time to consider fundamental changes.” “Despite the efforts of thousands of dedicated and competent civil servants, Federal oversight of the weapons enterprise needs significant improvement… Despite some success, the NNSA has failed to meet the hopes of its founders. Indeed, it may have become part of the problem, adopting the same micromanagement and unnecessary and obtrusive oversight that it was created to eliminate…” “The leadership of all three weapons laboratories believes that the regulatory burden is excessive, a view endorsed by the Commission. That burden imposes a significant cost and less heavy-handed oversight would bring real benefits…” Listen to those quotes. The pointed criticisms about excessive, ineffective, and unnecessary bureaucratic processes—and confused and redundant management relationships—should sound eerily similar to the reports that spurred the creation of NNSA in 1999. The bottom-line is that implementation of NNSA has failed to achieve what the NNSA Act intended to do: create a lean, effective, and well-managed organization that is focused on meeting the nuclear security needs of the country. Not on meeting the needs of the bureaucracy. Thanks to all of these assessments, recognition is growing that changes are needed. Our tight fiscal environment requires us to ensure every dollar possible is going towards getting the mission accomplished. Every dollar that goes towards redundant, burdensome, and non-value-added oversight processes is a dollar that is only hurting the mission. Let me also say that we all need to recognize that, alone, simply moving boxes on an organizational chart isn’t going to resolve these problems. It is going to take leadership, both within the Administration and on Capitol Hill—as well as a consensus on why NNSA’s mission is so important and what needs to be done to move forward. My subcommittee’s Ranking Member, Loretta Sanchez, and I have agreed to take a hard look at these issues over the next few months and work together to help address the concerns of the National Academies study group, the Strategic Posture Commission, and all of the others. For the sake of our nuclear deterrent, extended deterrent, and nonproliferation programs—not to mention our budget—we need to start addressing these long-standing, well-documented problems. FY13 Budget Request, Modernization Commitments, and the Future of our Nuclear Deterrent Let me pivot now to talk about the President’s FY13 budget request for nuclear weapons. The President’s budget request is a clear articulation of his priorities. This most recent budget request asks the men and women in uniform who have given so much already to give that much more, so that the President may fund more domestic programs. The President claimed that the defense budget would rise every year, but ignores the fact that this FY13 request is $46 billion less than what he said he needed last year and more than $5 billion less than what was appropriated for fiscal year 2012. Some would say this is the result of the debt limit standoff and the Budget Control Act. I’m a Member of Congress who never thought the Super Committee would work. That’s why I opposed the legislation. I disagree that the present situation was the inevitable result of that Act. Just looking at the billions of dollars in new spending on more “stimulus” in the President’s budget, I am hard pressed to understand why the President couldn’t have chosen to provide more funding for the nation’s defense if that was his priority. What is most troubling to me is just how quickly the President has abandoned the key commitments he made to modernize our nuclear deterrent when he was seeking Senate ratification of his START Treaty—which was just over a year ago. Let’s look to the President’s modernization plan that he put forward in his 2010 Nuclear Posture Review (NPR). I’ll read a few brief excerpts from that document: “The Administration will fully fund the ongoing life extension program (LEP) for the W76 submarine-based warhead for a Fiscal Year 2017 completion, and the full scope LEP study and follow-on activities for the B61 bomb to ensure first production begins in FY2017.” “In order to sustain a safe, secure, and effective U.S. nuclear stockpile as long as nuclear weapons exist, the United States must possess a modern physical infrastructure – comprised of the national security laboratories and a complex of supporting facilities.” “Funding the Chemistry and Metallurgy Research Replacement Project at Los Alamos National Laboratory to replace the existing 50-year old Chemistry and Metallurgy Research facility in 2021.” “Developing a new Uranium Processing Facility at the Y-12 Plant in Oak Ridge, Tennessee to come on line for production operations in 2021.” This was President Obama’s modernization plan. And not that long ago – late 2010 – a little over a year ago, to secure ratification of New START, he made a series of commitments to the Senate that he would fund and carry out his plan. In a letter to several senators, he said that “I recognize that nuclear modernization requires investment for the long-term…That is my commitment to the Congress – that my Administration will pursue these programs and capabilities for as long as I am President.” In his message to the Senate on the New START Treaty in February 2011, he said “I intend to modernize or replace the triad of strategic nuclear delivery systems: a heavy bomber and air-launched cruise missile, an ICBM, and a nuclear-powered ballistic missile submarine (SSBN) and SLBM; and maintain the United States rocket motor industrial base.” The President’s message also highlighted his commitment to modernizing the infrastructure that supports our nuclear deterrent, saying, “I intend to accelerate, to the extent possible, the design and engineering phase of the Chemistry and Metallurgy Research Replacement (CMRR) building and the Uranium Processing Facility (UPF).” These assurances allowed the Senate to ratify the treaty, and inextricably linked New START nuclear force reductions with modernization efforts. Such linkage was codified in condition 9 of the Resolution of Ratification of the treaty and section 1045 of the National Defense Authorization Act for FY 2012. We will see the first report, because of the FY12 Omnibus Appropriations Act, which underfunded the 1251 plan for FY12 by about $300 million. Clearly, modernization was linked to the prospect of further reductions in U.S. nuclear weapons. Yet, the FY13 budget request will delay procurement of replacement nuclear ballistic missile submarines, delay delivery of a modernized W76 and the B61-12 gravity bomb, and indefinitely defer construction of the Chemistry and Metallurgy Research Replacement facility that the President specifically certified he would advance. What’s more, the President’s FY13 budget request makes clear that he has walked away from the November 2010 “Section 1251” plan that he submitted to assure the Senate of his intention to modernize the U.S. nuclear deterrent and its supporting infrastructure. Some in the Administration are making he said-she said statements, stating that the Administration has tried, but Congress won’t fund the promises. I think that misses the point. The linkage is clear, reductions are not in the US national security interest without modernization. It simply isn’t good enough to try when it comes to national security—we have to succeed. We have to be adults about these issues; the nuclear deterrent is too important to our national security. As Secretary Gates said while testifying before the Senate Armed Services Committee in June of 2010: “I see this treaty as a vehicle to finally be able to get what we need in the way of modernization that we have been unable to get otherwise….We are essentially the only nuclear power in the world that is not carrying out these kinds of modernization programs.” And just earlier this week we perhaps see why President Obama has so quickly and easily abandoned these promises. As the Associated Press reported on Wednesday, “The Obama administration is weighing options for sharp new cuts to the U.S. nuclear force, including a reduction of up to 80 percent in the number of deployed weapons…No final decision has been made, but the administration is considering at least three options for lower total numbers of deployed strategic nuclear weapons cutting to: 1,000 to 1,100; 700 to 800, and 300 to 400.” Never before has a President done something like this. Yes, Presidents since Truman have updated the nation’s nuclear war plan. But I cannot find a precedent for a President to tell the national security team that, regardless of the nuclear weapons modernization programs of China, Russia, Pakistan, North Korea and others, the U.S. should plan to reduce to as low as 300 nuclear weapons. Every other President has asked one simple question when conducting a review like this: what level of nuclear forces do I need to ensure that a potential enemy or adversary knows that if he attacks the United State or our allies, we will have the ability to respond with nuclear forces that could result in nothing less than total devastation? It’s now clear why the Administration has been refusing to inform the Congress about exactly what options the mini-NPR has been studying since the President signed PPD-11 last year. It has not yet been explained to me how fewer nuclear weapons in the U.S. deterrent is necessarily better for the country’s security. When allies see us backing away from our extended deterrent, and potential adversaries see us giving up these capabilities while they are growing them in practically every way—cascades of proliferation cannot be far behind. For 66 years, since the U.S. used them to end World War II, our deterrent has kept the world safe. This is not a recipe the Congress will let the President arbitrarily change to satisfy a small cloister of arms control and disarmament ideologues. After the upcoming recess, I will introduce the “Maintaining the President’s Commitment to Our Nuclear Deterrent and National Security Act of 2012.” Pardon the long title, but with all the modernization promises the President made that are now in danger, it’s going to be a lengthy bill. We will push to codify the President’s promises and we will build on the important legislative checks we enacted in last year’s defense authorization act that. For example, that bill requires the Commander of U.S. Strategic Command to assess, before any Presidential decisions to lower U.S. nuclear forces are implemented, whether those reductions are in the U.S. national security interest. And it establishes U.S. policy regarding tactical nuclear weapons in Europe. I expect more bicameral support this year in view of what one of my colleagues called the “reckless lunacy” of instructing the military to plan for an 80% reduction in the U.S. nuclear deterrent–coupled with the now apparent total abandonment of the President’s modernization promises. Conclusion I want to thank Ed Helminski and the Exchange Monitor for inviting me to speak here today. I don’t believe that this is a subject which has to divide us across party lines. After all, Presidents and Congress’ of different parties have seen the need for a strong nuclear deterrent going back many decades, and Presidents of both parties have failed to always provide the supervision and support that is clearly required. I continue to hope that the bi-partisan consensus shown to us by the Perry-Schlesinger Commission can guide us in the years ahead. I continue to look forward to hearing from so many of you as the Strategic Forces Subcommittee deliberates and debates how to resolve the challenges we face. Thank you for your time and attention. I look forward to your questions. ###
02.15.2012	Congressman Mike Turner (OH-3) wrote to Congressman Ed Markey (MA-7) and invited him to tour Building 9212 at Y-12 and the Chemistry and Metallurgy Research (CMR) facility at Los Alamos National Lab in New Mexico. Turner, who is Chairman of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Strategic Forces, has oversight of our nuclear deterrent facilities and our research labs. It is unclear if Markey, who has called for sharp cuts in funding for our national security, has been to these facilities. “Last week, you said it is ‘insane’ to modernize and replace the uranium and plutonium processing facilities that support the U.S. nuclear deterrent when ‘the plants we have now work just fine.’ I invite you to join me on a trip to tour Building 9212 at Y-12 and the Chemistry and Metallurgy Research (CMR) facility at Los Alamos National Lab, the facilities that you say ‘work just fine.’ I believe that you will see first-hand that your statements do not reflect the deteriorating circumstances of the facilities,” wrote Turner. Turner’s letter also included pictures showing the decayed state of the two facilities. In 2009, the bipartisan Congressional Commission on the Strategic Posture of the United States, composed of highly respected experts from both sides of the aisle and co-chaired by former Defense Secretaries William Perry and James Schlesinger, said that the facilities Turner invited Markey to tour are “genuinely decrepit and are maintained in a safe and secure manner only at high cost.” “Without replacements, we will, at some point in the not-too-distant future, be unable to ensure the safety or security of the nuclear deterrent. If either of these facilities were to fail, the United States would find itself, simply put, without the capability required to remain a nuclear weapons state,” added Turner.The Full Letter Can Be Found Here.###
02.13.2012	Congressman Mike Turner (OH-3) released the following statement upon President Barack Obama announcing his FY 2013 budget proposal: “Yet again President Obama has proposed a budget with a trillion dollar deficit as well as increased taxes for increased spending. The American people have already spoken, and agree that these proposals are non-starters. While I laud his effort to increase manufacturing here in America, his overall vision for America’s future seems to be unparalleled levels of debt and no path for a balanced budget. With unemployment in Ohio and the nation at over 8 percent, job creators need the certainty that a serious budget proposal conveys. This means laying out a clear path towards reducing our deficit to deliver a balanced budget, while undertaking meaningful reforms to achieve a government which is sustainable. “Furthermore, I am concerned that this budget does not take into account the billions of dollars in cuts the Defense Department will be subjected to under sequestration. Essentially, the President has taken a pass on being accountable for what these cuts could do to our military and Wright-Patterson Air Force Base. This is the very reason why I voted against the Budget Control Act, which raised our country’s debt limit by over $2 trillion.”###
02.08.2012	Congressman Mike Turner, Chairman of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Strategic Forces announced his intention to introduce an updated version of the New START Implementation Act following the release of the President’s budget next week: “President Obama made a lot of promises to convince the Senate that it was safe to ratify the New START treaty. Without specific and detailed promises to modernize the nation’s nuclear weapons stockpile, delivery vehicles, and infrastructure, there is no doubt that the New START treaty would not have been approved. “However, it is now clear based on actions within the Administration and announcements to the Congress, like the intention to delay the development of the next generation ballistic missile submarine and the delay in the first production unit of the B-61-12 bomb, that the President isn’t keeping his word. It is now clear he will submit a budget next week that would be a significant reversal from the stated commitment, per his own section 1251 plan, to request at least $7.9 billion for the NNSA for FY13. He may also walk away from his direct pledge to build the Chemistry and Metallurgy Research Replacement (CMRR) facility at Los Alamos; this facility is key to the United States continuing its nuclear weapons enterprise. “The ratification of the New START treaty was a package deal, and President Obama is now changing the terms of the Senate’s ratification of the treaty. Congress cannot allow the President to walk away from his promises, nor can we afford to continue to reduce our nuclear forces to reach treaty mandated levels without the robust modernization of the remaining U.S. nuclear weapons forces the President promised.” The following is a sampling of the President’s promises to modernize the U.S. nuclear deterrent: - The 2010 Nuclear Posture Review stated— o “In order to sustain a safe, secure, and effective U.S. nuclear stockpile as long as nuclear weapons exist, the United States must possess a modern physical infrastructure – comprised of the national security laboratories and a complex of supporting facilities.” o “These investments are essential to facilitating reductions while sustaining deterrence under New START and beyond.” o The Administration will fully fund the ongoing LEP for the W-76 submarine-based warhead for a fiscal year (FY) 2017 completion, and the full scope LEP study and follow-on activities for the B-61 bomb to ensure first production begins in FY2017. o “In order to sustain a safe, secure, and effective U.S. nuclear stockpile as long as nuclear weapons exist, the United States must possess a modern physical infrastructure – comprised of the national security laboratories and a complex of supporting facilities.” o “Funding the Chemistry and Metallurgy Research Replacement Project at Los Alamos National Laboratory to replace the existing 50-year old Chemistry and Metallurgy Research facility in 2021.” o “Developing a new Uranium Processing Facility at the Y-12 Plant in Oak Ridge, Tennessee to come on line for production operations in 2021.” - The President certified in his February 2, 2011 Message to the Senate “I intend to (a) modernize or replace the triad of strategic nuclear delivery systems: a heavy bomber and air- launched cruise missile, an ICBM, and a nuclear-powered ballistic missile submarine (SSBN) and SLBM; and (b) maintain the United States rocket motor industrial base.” - The Senate required of the President, prior to the entry into force of the New START Treaty, that the President “shall certify to the Senate that the President intends to accelerate to the extent possible the design and engineering phase of the Chemistry and Metallurgy Research Replacement (CMRR) building and the Uranium Processing Facility (UPF); and request full funding, including on a multi-year basis as appropriate, for the Chemistry and Metallurgy Research Replacement building and the Uranium Processing Facility upon completion of the design and engineering phase for such facilities.” o The President did so in his message of February 2, 2011 when he stated “I intend to (a) accelerate, to the extent possible, the design and engineering phase of the Chemistry and Metallurgy Research Replacement (CMRR) building and the Uranium Processing Facility (UPF); and (b) request full funding, including on a multi-year basis as appropriate, for the CMRR building and the UPF upon completion of the design and engineering phase for such facilities.” o The President’s 1251 plan states that CMRR and UPF will complete construction by 2021 and will achieve full operational functionality by 2024. - President Obama pledged in a December 2010 letter to several Senators, “I recognize that nuclear modernization requires investment for the long-term…that is my commitment to the Congress – that my administration will pursue these programs and capabilities for as long as I am president.” - While the Administration has not yet shared with Congress the terms of reference of the so-called NPR Implementation Strategy, the only publicly available statements by the Administration, including language from the NPR, suggest the review is only considering reductions. o When asked at a hearing if New START allowed the United States “to maintain a nuclear arsenal that is more than is needed to guarantee an adequate deterrent,” the head of US Strategic Command, General Kevin P. Chilton, said “I do not agree that it is more than is needed. I think the arsenal that we have is exactly what is needed today to provide the deterrent.” ###
02.07.2012	Congressman Mike Turner, Chairman of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Strategic Forces, released the following statement reaffirming the commitments our Nation has made to our NATO allies: share: f t Congressman Mike Turner, Chairman of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Strategic Forces, released the following statement reaffirming the commitments our Nation has made to our NATO allies: “Section 1237 of the FY12 National Defense Authorization Act, which I authored, makes clear that the United States has no intention of abandoning our commitments to our NATO allies. As Chairman of the U.S. Delegation to the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, I know our NATO allies interest in this pledge, especially when budget decisions are forcing the U.S. to withdraw much of our conventional presence in Europe.” ###
02.03.2012	Today, Congressman Mike Turner announced a grant of $584,000 to the St. Mary Development Corporation of Dayton to support the corporation’s efforts to revitalize the community and create affordable housing in Southwest Ohio. The grant comes from NeighborWorks America. “St. Mary Development Corporation has a history of making Dayton a community with affordable housing options available to our seniors. This latest grant will go a long way in continuing that work,” said Congressman Turner. St. Mary Development Corporation is a faith-based non-profit organization that creates sustainable affordable housing solutions in southwest Ohio through real estate development and management; homeownership and supportive housing services; and community revitalization initiatives. “St. Mary is poised to begin work at the Dayton VA Medical Center and is continuing other vital projects across our community in helping seniors find safe and affordable housing opportunities. I’m looking forward to working with them as we begin 2012,” added Turner. ###
02.03.2012	Today, Congressman Mike Turner (OH-3) submitted the following statement for the Congressional Record in support of language establishing six Unmanned Aerial Systems testing sites included in the Federal Aviation Administration reauthorization bill. The legislation includes language authored by Turner, who worked with the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee to see it included in the original House bill. Turner also successfully added similar language to the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) which was signed into law late December 2011. The conference committee of House and Senate members expanded the amount of testing sites that Turner requested from four to six in this final legislation, and cited Turner’s NDAA language in support of the testing sites to be named by the FAA Administrator. The language allows such Southwest Ohio facilities as Wright-Patterson Air Force Base and the Wilmington Air Park to be considered for designated testing sites for UAS research. Establishment of UAS Test RangesStatement of the Honorable Michael R. TurnerConference Report for H.R. 658, the FAA Modernization and Reform Act Mr. Speaker, I strongly support the conference report for H.R. 658, the FAA Modernization and Reform Act. This bipartisan, fiscally responsible, four-year authorization measure contains important provisions on air traffic control modernization, safety improvements, and job creation through technology and research. In particular, the final bill includes important provisions which I co-authored to establish a program for Unmanned Aircraft System (UAS) test ranges. Unmanned aircraft are an evolving technology that will play an increasingly larger role in modern aviation. The importance of these systems to our national defense demonstrates their capability. The uses of UAS have significantly increased, with strong projected growth. UAS are used not only for military applications, but also civilian and commercial purposes, such as border and coastal patrol and monitoring, homeland security, law enforcement, disaster operations, digital mapping and planning, search and rescue, fire detection and management, environmental research and air quality management, air traffic control support, agriculture and fisheries. However, lack of special use airspace to research UAS technologies and detection techniques is a potential impediment to the nation’s ability to develop this important tool. Mr. Speaker, I have worked with my colleagues in the House Armed Services Committee to create more opportunities for UAS research and investment. Specifically, the FY12 National Defense Authorization Act requires the FAA to work with the Department of Defense and the Air Force to integrate UAS test ranges into the national airspace. These combined provisions will ensure that the United States remains at the forefront of aerospace development. Ultimately, this is an endeavor that will help strengthen our national defense, spur development of innovative technologies, and most importantly, create jobs for hard-working Americans at a time of record unemployment.The Full UAS Language Can Be Found Here. ###
02.02.2012	Today, Congressman Mike Turner (OH-3) took to the House Floor to highlight the continued lack of transparency when it comes to Delphi salaried retirees pensions. Turner, who is a member of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee, has been pressing the Administration for answers since the Auto Bailout was undertaken. The request for additional documents stems from a decision by the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (PBGC) that resulted in approximately 20,000 current and future salaried Delphi retirees from across the country taking a severe cut in their pension benefits. Watch Turner’s Remarks on the House Floor: Immediately following Turner’s remarks on the House floor, he wrote to Joshua Gotbaum, Director of the PBGC to express his “disappointment in the failure of your agency and Deputy Director for Operations Vincent Snowbarger to produce responses to questions I submitted at the November 14, 2011 Oversight and Government Reform Committee hearing on ‘Delphi Pension Fallout: Federal Government Picked Winners and Losers, So Who Won and Who Lost?’ in Dayton, Ohio.” Turner, who requested the meeting in his capacity as a senior member of the Committee, will continue the call for answers until the full story is told as to how and why Delphi salaried retiree pensions were cut using taxpayer dollars. The Full Letter Can Be Found Here###
02.01.2012	Congressman Mike Turner, Chairman of the U.S. Delegation to the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, released the following statement after meeting with Misha Saakashvili, the President of Georgia: “I was pleased to meet with Georgia's President, Misha Saakashvili, last night. As a member of the Armed Services Committee, I know the invaluable contribution Georgia has made to NATO's mission in Afghanistan. U.S. and Georgian soldiers fight side-by-side to deny terrorists this safe haven. “We owe Georgia the same support when it comes to its bid for NATO membership, which I am sad to say President Obama has so far ignored. As the head of the U.S. Delegation to the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, I will soon lead a mission to NATO HQ to work towards Georgia's accession to NATO. “President Obama must also fully implement section 1242 of the FY12 NDAA, which he signed into law. This provision merely calls for finally normalizing, three years into the Obama Administration, US-Georgian defense cooperation. The President owes this to our Georgian allies. “I look forward to continuing to deepen the alliance between Georgia and the United States.” ###
01.26.2012	House Armed Services Strategic Forces Subcommittee Chairman Mike Turner (OH-3) released the following statement regarding elements of our Strategic Forces upon Secretary of Defense Leon Panetta announcing the Department’s FY 2013 budget: “When the New START treaty was ratified, it was part of a very clear bargain. The Administration promised that a specific and detailed nuclear weapons modernization plan would be implemented, and Senators consented to a unilateral reduction in U.S. nuclear forces because the remaining U.S. nuclear forces upon treaty implementation would be modernized. “The Secretary’s announcement today is yet another indication that the President is backing off his part of the deal. Ultimately, this changes the circumstances for U.S. participation in the treaty under both Condition Nine of the New START Treaty Resolution of Ratification and language I offered in the National Defense Authorization Act for FY12. Following this announcement, I will look carefully at the President’s budget request for NNSA Weapons Activities, specifically the CMRR and UPF projects which the President pledged to accelerate. These two facilities are absolutely critical to the ability of the U.S. to maintain a credible and reliable deterrent, and they were an essential piece of the New START treaty bargain. “I am also concerned about the Administration’s missile defense plans. For three years, the Administration has underfunded and diverted funding from national missile defense. With rising threats from Iran, North Korea, China and others, we cannot afford the risk created by the Administration’s irrational opposition to the missile defense of the United States. I hope the FY13 budget undoes more than three years of neglect of national missile defense.” ###
01.26.2012	Congressman Mike Turner (OH-3) wrote to Vincent Snowbarger, Deputy Director for Operations at the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation, inquiring on the status of responses to questions for the record submitted to him over two months ago. Turner submitted the questions at the November 14, 2011 Oversight and Government Reform Committee hearing on “Delphi Pension Fallout: Federal Government Picked Winners and Losers, So Who Won and Who Lost?” in Dayton, Ohio. The hearing was a key opportunity for Delphi Salaried Retirees to tell the House’s chief investigative committee about the Administration’s actions and their effects during the bailout process. “Despite my attempts to facilitate timely responses to these questions, over two months, no answers have been forthcoming. I am deeply disappointed in the undue delay you continue to impose on this matter. Congress and the hardworking Americans whose tax dollars were used to unjustly reduce the pension benefits of Delphi salaried retirees in the wake of the General Motors bailout deserve answers,” Turner wrote. Turner, who has been stonewalled by the PBGC before, is not letting up on his search for answers. “As you may recall, several months passed between the submission of questions to you on June 22, 2011, and my receipt of your eventual, yet insufficient responses on November 9, 2011. Please note my letter of November 16, 2011 to you addressing the inadequacy of these responses,” Turner added. NOTE: The full letter here.
01.26.2012	Congressman Mike Turner (OH-3) released the following statement upon Secretary of Defense Leon Panetta announcing the Department’s FY 2013 budget: “Today’s announcement by Secretary Panetta is exactly why I voted against the Budget Control Act. While the drawdown of two wars is underway, we have a military in dire need of investment, not cuts. For example, the Air Force’s mission requirements continue to grow in the areas of cyber, space and global reach while sustaining reductions in force structure and budget. Currently, the Air Force is relying on bombers averaging 34 years in age and is refueling aircraft with tankers that are nearly 50 years old. This budget will make it difficult to maintain our commitment to both our national security and that of our allies around the globe. “BRAC has been a successful way for DoD to identify savings while maintaining core missions. Wright-Patt has been a strong winner in the BRAC process, do to our focus on core competencies, a skilled workforce and cost efficiencies. Over the last decade we have continued to position Wright-Patt anticipating future BRAC’s. This will make my work on the Armed Services Committee and the work of the community that much more important as we work to advance Wright-Patt.” ###
01.25.2012	Today, Congressman Mike Turner (OH-3) announced that his office saved roughly $165,000 of his 2011 Member Representational Allowance (MRA) and that he will be returning these funds to the U.S. Treasury. Turner’s office MRA as designated by the U.S. House of Representatives for 2011 was just over $1.4 million. This means that Turner did not spend all of the funds allotted to his office and has returned 11.6% of his MRA. “In a time of budget constraints in our Government, Congressional offices should also be tightening their belts. This year I will be returning roughly $165,000 to the Treasury. I am proud that my office has continued to provide top-notch services to my constituents while being a good steward of their tax dollars,” said Turner. Congressman Turner has returned a portion of his House allocated MRA every year he has been in office. This year’s return of 11.6% of his budget comes at the same time Turner joined the House in cutting all office budgets by 5.0% in during the 2011 budget year. Turner has also joined the House in approving a further reduction of 6.4% over this year’s 2012 budget. “While working to rein in spending in Washington, I believe that every penny returned to the Treasury counts. As I work to find additional ways to bring fiscal sanity to Congress, I am glad to be undertaking this small effort on behalf of the taxpayer,” added Turner. ###
01.25.2012	Today, Congressman Mike Turner (OH-3) submitted the following statement for the Congressional Record honoring Col. Charles Young, a Buffalo Solider. The statement comes on the same day Turner joined the House in approving H.R. 1022, the Buffalo Soldiers in the National Parks Study Act. The legislation directs the Secretary of the Interior to study alternatives for the commemoration and interpretation of the role of the Buffalo Soldiers in the early years of the National Parks. African-American troops, in the late 19th century and early 20th century, came to be known as the Buffalo Soldiers. Statement for the Congressional RecordSubmitted by Congressman Michael R. Turner January 25, 2012 Mr. Speaker, I would like to recognize the important contributions of Colonel Charles Young, a Buffalo Soldier whose historic home is in my community in Southwest Ohio. As a Member of the House Armed Services Committee and Co-Chair of the House Historic Preservation Caucus, I have the privilege of frequently working with our servicemembers as well as a great appreciation for our nation’s historic treasures. Colonel Young, the third African-American to graduate from the United States Military Academy at West Point in 1889, was a distinguished officer in the U.S. Army. He was a pioneer of military intelligence techniques, a commander of troops in combat in the Spanish-American War and the Mexican expedition against Pancho Villa. His first assignment after graduation was with the Buffalo Soldiers in the 10th Cavalry in Nebraska, and then with the 9th and 10th Cavalries in Utah. With the outbreak of the Spanish-American War, he was reassigned as Second Lieutenant to training duty at Camp Alger, Virginia. In 1903, then-Captain Young was in command of the 10th Cavalry stationed at the Presidio of San Francisco. That summer, with the Army responsible for its management, Colonel Young was assigned to serve as Acting Superintendent of Sequoia National Parks in California. Colonel Young was then awarded a commission as a Major in the Ninth Ohio Volunteer Infantry. Later, during the Spanish-American War, he commanded a squadron of the 10th Cavalry Buffalo Soldiers in Cuba. Throughout his military career, Colonel Young distinguished himself in service to our nation with the Buffalo Soldiers of the 9th and 10th Cavalries, and the 25th Infantry, as well as serving as Professor of Military Science at Wilberforce University, Ohio. Today we seek to honor the continuing legacy and leadership of the Buffalo Soldiers. Colonel Charles Young stands out as a shining example of the dedication, service, and commitment of the Buffalo Soldiers throughout United States and world history. Mr. Speaker, I am glad to recognize the important historical contributions of Buffalo Soldiers such as Colonel Young. ###
01.24.2012	Congressman Mike Turner (OH-3) released the following statement upon learning the results of the Department of Veterans Affairs’ and National Cemetery Administration’s investigation of the Dayton National Cemetery: “It is shameful that any veteran’s final resting place be disturbed. Our men and women in uniform who have honorably served our nation deserve the utmost respect in both life and death. I am glad that the Department of Veterans Affairs and National Cemetery Administration has undertaken an effort to ensure that the graves of our veterans are properly marked and accounted for. This is a matter that has been the subject of hearings both on the House Armed Services Committee where I serve, and the House Veterans Affairs Committee. I look forward to investigating this matter further with cemetery officials.” ###
01.24.2012	Congressman Mike Turner (OH-3) released the following statement after the President delivered his annual State of the Union address to Congress: “Many of the ideas the President covered in his speech this evening come too little and too late for the millions of Americans without jobs. I agree that the American dream is fleeting for those who remain unemployed and underemployed. Action must be taken immediately by the Administration to focus on the issue of jobs. There remain a number of areas where Congress and the President can work together on job creation. However, his speech failed to hit on many of those points. While he touts energy programs as job creators, he rejected the Keystone XL pipeline, a project that enjoys bipartisan support and would have created thousands of jobs and furthered the goal of American energy independence. Despite the rhetoric of tonight’s speech, there is still time for the President to come to the table and work with Congress to break down barriers for job creation. It is my hope that he seizes that opportunity.”###
01.23.2012	Congressman Mike Turner (OH-3) wrote to Congressman John Mica, Chairman of the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure, to express his support for swift action on the long-term Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) reauthorization measure. The bipartisan, fiscally responsible measure contains important provisions on air traffic control modernization, safety improvements, and job creation through technology and research. Turner focused on the fact that the bill would also provide a pathway for job creation in the field of Unmanned Aerial Systems. share: f t Today, Congressman Mike Turner (OH-3) wrote to Congressman John Mica, Chairman of the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure, to express his support for swift action on the long-term Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) reauthorization measure. The bipartisan, fiscally responsible measure contains important provisions on air traffic control modernization, safety improvements, and job creation through technology and research. Turner focused on the fact that the bill would also provide a pathway for job creation in the field of Unmanned Aerial Systems. “The United States cannot afford to further delay implementation of Unmanned Aircraft Systems (UAS) testing at the expense of American jobs while developments in aerospace technologies continue elsewhere around the globe,” wrote Turner. Turner continued, “In working with you, Rep. Richard Hanna, and Rep. Rick Berg, language which I co-authored was included in the House-passed version of H.R. 658 which requires the FAA to establish a program for UAS test ranges.” The long-term extension included language to create four new test sites for UAS. If signed into law, this legislation would require the FAA Administrator to establish a program to integrate the UAS into the national airspace system. This would take place in coordination with the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) and the Department of Defense. The importance of UAS testing was reaffirmed in the FY12 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA). Similarly, the FY12 NDAA included language authored by Turner requiring the FAA to work with the Department of Defense and the Air Force to integrate UAS test ranges into the national airspace system. Together, these bills will help ensure that the United States remains at the forefront of aerospace development. NOTE: The full letter follows below. PDF letter HERE. January 23, 2012 The Honorable John Mica Chairman House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure 2165 Rayburn House Office BuildingWashington, D.C. 20515 Dear Mr. Chairman: As Congress works to extend air transportation authorities and programs, I am writing to express my support for swift action on the long-term Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) reauthorization measure, H.R. 658. This bipartisan, fiscally responsible measure contains important provisions on air traffic control modernization, safety improvements, and job creation through technology and research. The long-term reauthorization will improve not only our passenger and civilian aviation systems, but also our critical national security research systems. The United States cannot afford to further delay implementation of Unmanned Aircraft Systems (UAS) testing at the expense of American jobs while developments in aerospace technologies continue elsewhere around the globe. In working with you, Rep. Richard Hanna, and Rep. Rick Berg, language which I co-authored was included in the House-passed version of H.R. 658 which requires the FAA to establish a program for UAS test ranges. I appreciate your commitment to these aerospace research opportunities, and your support of the test range provisions in the final, long-term measure. This Congress further emphasized the importance of UAS testing in the FY12 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA). Similarly, the FY12 NDAA included language requiring the FAA to work with the Department of Defense and the Air Force to integrate UAS test ranges into the national airspace system. Together, these bills will help ensure that the United States remains at the forefront of aerospace development. I look forward to continuing our work together in developing these UAS research opportunities with prompt consideration of the final long-term reauthorization measure. Thank you for your dedicated service as Chairman, and your continued leadership on this issue. ###
01.18.2012	Congressman Mike Turner released the following statement upon the House voting to disapprove President Obama’s request for an increase to the nation’s debt limit. Turner voted against the Budget Control Act in August of 2011 which set up the supercommittee and today’s vote on disapproval: share: f t Turner Statement on Disapproval of the President’s Debt Limit Increase Congressman Mike Turner released the following statement upon the House voting to disapprove President Obama’s request for an increase to the nation’s debt limit. Turner voted against the Budget Control Act in August of 2011 which set up the supercommittee and today’s vote on disapproval: “At over $15 trillion in counting, the President has once again asked for an increase to our nation’s debt limit. The road of trillion dollar deficits is not a sustainable path for this country. There must be a point where we as Americans say ‘no’ to further burdening our children and grandchildren with this crushing debt. While this vote is largely symbolic due to the failed Budget Control Act, it must serve as a warning as the House begins the second session of the 112thCongress. It is my hope that the President also recognizes the importance of getting our fiscal house in order. The business of managing America’s finances is not a partisan issue. Together we can roll back the tide of endless spending, and begin to place our country on a path to fiscal responsibility.”
01.18.2012	Today, Congressman Mike Turner released the following statement on the Stop Online Privacy Act (SOPA) pending in the House, and the Protect Intellectual Property Act (PIPA) pending in the Senate: share: f t Today, Congressman Mike Turner released the following statement on the Stop Online Privacy Act (SOPA) pending in the House, and the Protect Intellectual Property Act (PIPA) pending in the Senate: “While I support and respect Intellectual Property rights, SOPA and PIPA are fundamentally flawed bills which I do not support. Both of these bills would restrict Americans' ability to access sites on the Internet, impose burdensome and costly new regulations on web companies and expand the powers of the federal government to police the Internet. Ultimately, these bills would reshape the landscape of the Internet as we know it. In the process it would do more harm than good in the battle against copyright infringement. Congress must balance the important needs of enforcing intellectual property laws while continuing to promote innovation and preserving an open exchange of information and ideas on the Internet.” ###
01.17.2012	Congressman Mike Turner issued the following statement on the Administration’s announced intention to sign onto an European Union (EU) Code of Conduct-type arms control regime for space: share: f t Today, Congressman Mike Turner issued the following statement on the Administration’s announced intention to sign onto an European Union (EU) Code of Conduct-type arms control regime for space: “Based on briefings that have been provided to the House Armed Services Committee (HASC), the Administration’s intention to sign the U.S. up for a EU Code of Conduct-type space arms control regime would have far reaching consequences. Furthermore, the end goals of this announcement are murky at best. “I’m deeply concerned that while the Administration claims the Code is non-binding, analysis provided to the HASC by the Joint Staff makes clear that impacts on military operations in space will be anything but. The same impacts could very well apply to our Intelligence Community. In addition, American commercial space superiority along with billions of dollars in investments and thousands of jobs could be at risk under the draft Code. “These apparent impacts also suggest that, without Congressional approval, the President quite likely doesn’t have the authority to impose a Code of Conduct-type arms control arrangement on the United States. “If the President thinks an arrangement like the Code of Conduct is in the interest of the United States, I urge him to work with the Congress to determine what it is he’s trying to accomplish and then seek Congressional approval on the merits.” ###
01.16.2012	Congressman Mike Turner released the following statement honoring the life and legacy of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. share: f t Congressman Mike Turner released the following statement honoring the life and legacy of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr.: “Today, I am glad to be joining the Dayton community in remembering the life and work of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. His dedication to the cause of combating injustice with the weapon of peaceful resistance, serves as a shining model for those throughout the world. His struggle for civil rights on behalf of all Americans shows that liberty and the full rights of your citizenship should not be a condition of your skin color. Dr. King also showed us all that through dedication and belief in human progress we can achieve what some had thought unachievable. His devotion to the cause of civil rights has changed the lives of millions and the nation as a whole.”
01.05.2012	Today Congressman Mike Turner, Chairman of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Strategic Forces, released the following statement upon the announcement of President Barack Obama’s Strategic Review of the Department of Defense. share: f t Today Congressman Mike Turner, Chairman of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Strategic Forces, released the following statement upon the announcement of President Barack Obama’s Strategic Review of the Department of Defense: “From the announcement today it is clear that the Administration is planning further reductions in U.S. nuclear forces. At the same time, Russia and China are modernizing and growing their forces and Iran and North Korea’s illegal programs continue to develop unchecked. The U.S. cannot be alone in disarming itself of nuclear weapons. Reductions to our nuclear deterrent should only come as a result of proportionate cuts from our adversaries as well. Further, deeper nuclear cuts will actually undermine the President’s stated shift of focus to the Pacific. Our allies across Asia, much like others around the globe, rely on a strong U.S. nuclear deterrent for their security. “Of greatest concern, the review makes no reference to the President's commitment to pursue modernization of the U.S. nuclear deterrent. The President pledged this in order to get ratification of the New START treaty through the Senate. They are a package deal and I will continue to ensure their linkage. “Finally, the Administration has imposed significant cuts on national missile defenses since 2009. The document offers no reassurance that the Administration has finally reprioritized missile defense plans to put national missile defense first. “In short – this review leaves both our nation and our allies unsure of the future of our nuclear deterrent, and our ability to counteract attacks from those who seek to do us harm.”
01.05.2012	Today, Congressman Mike Turner released the following statement upon the announcement of President Barack Obama’s Strategic Review of the Department of Defense. share: f t Today, Congressman Mike Turner released the following statement upon the announcement of President Barack Obama’s Strategic Review of the Department of Defense: “The President’s announcement today is a retreat from our strategic posture of the past 60 years. While I share his goal of a more efficient fighting force, I remain concerned that countries such as Iran and China will seek to fill the gaps we leave behind. In addition, his plan could eliminate programs which have the end goal of making our military more efficient. For example, programs which seek to revolutionize logistics for the Air Force may be on the chopping block. So instead of investing to save money in future years, we will continue on with business as usual. I look forward to questioning Secretary Panetta and our commanding officers on these concerns, when they appear before the House Armed Services Committee in the near future.”
12.22.2011	Today, Congressman Mike Turner released the following statement upon LightSquared’s petition to the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) seeking immediate approval of its proposed network, which interferes with Department of Defense (DOD) Global Positioning Systems (GPS) receivers. share: f t Today, Congressman Mike Turner released the following statement upon LightSquared’s petition to the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) seeking immediate approval of its proposed network, which interferes with Department of Defense (DOD) Global Positioning Systems (GPS) receivers: “The President will shortly sign the National Defense Authorization Act for FY12, which contains a provision I sponsored with Rep. Loretta Sanchez (D-CA) that will prohibit FCC approval of the LightSquared network until concerns about its widespread harmful interference with DOD’s Global Positioning System are resolved. I understand the company has recently petitioned the FCC to approve its network immediately. “Such approval, in view of the recent test results of the LightSquared network’s effect on GPS receivers, would be prohibited by our legislation. The FCC should take no actions inconsistent with the bipartisan and bicameral position of the Congress that our first goal must be to protect DOD GPS systems.” Note: Congressman Turner is Chairman of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Strategic Forces with which has legislative jurisdiction over military and certain intelligence community space and satellite systems. Turner’s provision is in Section 911 of the Conference Report of the FY2012 National Defense Authorization Act.
12.21.2011	Today, Congressman Mike Turner, in a letter to Ms. Barbara Bovbjerg, Director of Education, Workforce, & Income Security at the Government Accountability Office (GAO) lodged his reservations on a recently issued report regarding Delphi pensions. The report, entitled, GM Agreements with Unions Give Rise to Unique Differences in Participant Benefits, contains language which may be perceived as affirming the actions taken by the Department of the Treasury, the President’s Auto Task Force (ATF), and the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (PBGC) in terminating the pension benefits of Delphi salaried retirees. Turner stated in his letter that he “understand[s] that in the report you did not conclude that the actions of Treasury or the PBGC were proper or improper.” share: f t Today, Congressman Mike Turner, in a letter to Ms. Barbara Bovbjerg, Director of Education, Workforce, & Income Security at the Government Accountability Office (GAO) lodged his reservations on a recently issued report regarding Delphi pensions. The report, entitled, GM Agreements with Unions Give Rise to Unique Differences in Participant Benefits, contains language which may be perceived as affirming the actions taken by the Department of the Treasury, the President’s Auto Task Force (ATF), and the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (PBGC) in terminating the pension benefits of Delphi salaried retirees. Turner stated in his letter that he “understand[s] that in the report you did not conclude that the actions of Treasury or the PBGC were proper or improper.” An original requestor of the report, Turner wrote “that several statements standing alone would appear to indicate that GAO supports the actions of Treasury and the PBGC in reducing the pension benefits of the Delphi salaried retirees. In addition, the report fails to address outstanding questions as to the valuation of the pension fund, General Motors’ (GM) so-called contractual obligations, and information on PBGC's delays in litigation.” “Despite the continued recommendation that Treasury increase transparency, GAO’s acknowledgement of Treasury’s multiple roles in the bailout and bankruptcy of GM, and the additional complications presented by GM’s ‘unusual’ role, it appears as though the possibility remains for some to misperceive these findings,” Turner went on to write in his letter.
12.19.2011	Today, Congressman Mike Turner released the following statement on Glenn Costie, the new Director of the Dayton VA Medical Center share: f t Today, Congressman Mike Turner released the following statement on Glenn Costie, the new Director of the Dayton VA Medical Center: “This past year has been a difficult period for the Dayton VAMC. I would like to thank outgoing Director Bill Montague for his leadership during that time, and in working with my office and the community to find answers for our veterans who were impacted by oversight in basic safety standards at the dental clinic. He has also worked with me and my office in the continued effort to have the facility designated as a National Historic Landmark. He has truly worked to change the direction of the VA, and I commend him for his efforts. “I am glad to have Glenn Costie join the Dayton VAMC, and look forward to working with him in the days and years ahead. There are many exciting projects at the Dayton VA which will require his attention. This includes the recent announcement of the St. Mary’s housing project on the campus, the effort to land a National Archives facility, and the continued care of those who have bravely and honorably served our country. I share Directors Montague and Costie’s commitment to ensuring that our veterans receive the best care available, and am encouraged by the new direction at the Dayton VA.”
12.14.2011	Today, the House passed a compromise version of the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA), which included key provisions for Wright-Patterson Air Force Base as advocated for by Congressman Mike Turner. The bill will have a far reaching impact on Southwest Ohio and Wright-Patterson AFB when approved by the Senate and signed into law by the President. Turner’s amendments to the annual Defense Department bill include provisions which enhance leadership at the Air Force Institute of Technology (AFIT) and the Air Force Research Lab (AFRL). Additionally, the NDAA Committee Report as approved by the House helps meet airspace needs for Unmanned Aerial Systems. Turner was appointed by House Speaker John Boehner as a conferee on the compromise legislation, granting the Dayton community a voice at the table. Following approval by the House, the bill is expected to pass the Senate, and the President has dropped a veto threat to the bill. share: f t Today, the House passed a compromise version of the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA), which included key provisions for Wright-Patterson Air Force Base as advocated for by Congressman Mike Turner. The bill will have a far reaching impact on Southwest Ohio and Wright-Patterson AFB when approved by the Senate and signed into law by the President. Turner’s amendments to the annual Defense Department bill include provisions which enhance leadership at the Air Force Institute of Technology (AFIT) and the Air Force Research Lab (AFRL). Additionally, the NDAA Committee Report as approved by the House helps meet airspace needs for Unmanned Aerial Systems. Turner was appointed by House Speaker John Boehner as a conferee on the compromise legislation, granting the Dayton community a voice at the table. Following approval by the House, the bill is expected to pass the Senate, and the President has dropped a veto threat to the bill. AFIT Leadership “This year’s NDAA brings AFIT one step closer to achieving prominence amongst our military’s postgraduate schools. In this legislation will ensure that Air Force personnel and leadership reductions do not affect the quality of AFIT leadership by establishing two leadership positions, to help guide AFIT in the years ahead. I look forward to continuing my effort with Sen. Portman in strengthening AFIT’s mission of training the future leaders of our Air Force,” said Turner. Following Turner’s efforts to boost the leadership at the Air Force Institute of Technology, the conference committee between the House and Senate saw fit to provide for greater Air Force oversight of the postgraduate school. The leadership of the school will now be comprised of both a Commandant and a Provost. AFRL Hiring Authority “With my provision included in the final bill, laboratories will have the edge to stay competitive with the commercial market and bring talented personnel into the Department of Defense. Our nation’s Defense Laboratories are experiencing both a critical hiring need and a severe shortage of engineers and scientists with advanced degrees. This is something which could affect the future needs of the Air Force Research Lab,” said Turner. Specifically, Turner’s language included via an amendment while the NDAA was being considered by the full House Armed Services Committee eliminates the sunset provision of the Defense Laboratory hiring authority which he had placed in the FY09 NDAA. The expedited hire authority provided under Section 1108 applies to scientific and engineering positions which require an advanced degree. The provision allows AFRL to waive some advertising and preference requirements, but maintains the requirement that the applicant meet all relevant qualifications. Since the enactment of the legislation, AFRL and the other defense laboratories have been able to reduce the hiring time by weeks and has become a critical tool of AFRL personnel management to hire the best scientific talent. A recent Defense Department report showed that “direct hire” generally cut the number of days it took to hire an applicant from 147 to 91. Meeting Airspace Needs for Defense-Related UAS Research “This final bill allows the AFRL to play a role in the decisions on Unmanned Aerial Systems testing needs. These are experts who have pioneered the expanding field on unmanned flight. Ohio, the birthplace of flight will continue that tradition through AFRL which will play a key role in integrating UAS into the National Airspace System,” noted Turner. After Turner had included this same provision in the FY 09 NDAA, the House Armed Services Committee had voted to include it once again. The committee noted that the availability of special use airspace is important to research related to Unmanned Aerial Systems (UAS) and the needs of our national defense. The proliferation of technology enabling the use of UAS represents a clear future threat to national security; however, lack of special use airspace to research detection techniques is a potential impediment to the nation’s ability to counter this emerging threat. The committee encouraged discussions between the Air Force Research Laboratory to explore ways for the FAA and the Department of Defense to work together on problems related to integrating UAS into the National Airspace System. The final bill with Turner’s language urges the Department of Defense and the Federal Aviation Administration to place a high priority on meeting national defense needs for special use airspace related to UAS research, including addressing defense needs for special use airspace for research in “detect and destroy” technologies. ###
12.07.2011	Today, House Speaker John Boehner (OH-8) named Congressman Mike Turner (OH-3) as a conferee on the National Defense Authorization Act. As a conferee, Turner will be responsible for helping to craft the final form of the annual legislation, between the House and Senate passed versions. Turner, who is Chairman of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Strategic Forces has successfully placed a number of provisions in the House bill which stand to benefit servicemembers and Wright-Patterson Air Force Base. share: f t Today, House Speaker John Boehner (OH-8) named Congressman Mike Turner (OH-3) as a conferee on the National Defense Authorization Act. As a conferee, Turner will be responsible for helping to craft the final form of the annual legislation, between the House and Senate passed versions. Turner, who is Chairman of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Strategic Forces has successfully placed a number of provisions in the House bill which stand to benefit servicemembers and Wright-Patterson Air Force Base. “I am honored to have been selected as a conferee on this year’s National Defense Authorization Act. This decision by Speaker Boehner affords me a seat at the table when deciding what will be included in the final bill to be reconciled between the two chambers,” said Turner. Turner’s amendments to the annual Defense Department bill include provisions which enhance leadership at the Air Force Institute of Technology (AFIT) and the Air Force Research Lab (AFRL), meeting the airspace needs for Unmanned Aerial Systems, and halts the transfer of jobs related to the Enterprise Logistics System Program at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base. “I look forward to working with my colleagues in the House, and the appointed Senators, in achieving a compromise bill. This legislation sets policy across the Department of Defense and the uniformed services. I am glad to lend my voice to the discussions surrounding the future of our nation’s defense, and work on behalf of those who selflessly serve our country,” added Turner.
12.07.2011	Today, Congressman Mike Turner (OH-3) voted in support of the Regulations from the Executive in Need of Scrutiny (REINS) Act (H.R. 10). The bill, of which Turner is a cosponsor, would require Congress to take an up-or-down, stand-alone vote, and for the President to sign-off on, all new major rules before they can be imposed on the American people, job-creating small businesses, or State and local governments. share: f t “The cost of regulatory burdens from new regulations this year alone has cost $67.4 billion. These regulations are made outside the scrutiny of Congress and land on the shoulders of our struggling businesses. Today, small businesses spend $10,500 per employee to comply with federal regulations, hampering their ability to expand and create jobs. At a time when unemployment in some areas of southwest Ohio is in the double digits, we should be helping job creators, not burdening them with additional regulations,” said Turner. A recent Gallup poll among owners of small businesses found that complying with government regulations is the most important problem facing them today. Regulations are a hidden form of taxation, and just as our tax code is in need of reform, so is our regulatory system. Unless Congress acts, this unchecked growth of regulations will continue without effective oversight. “The Constitution requires that Congress pass laws and be a voice for the American people. The enactment of overly burdensome regulations by Executive branch agencies circumvents that process,” added Turner. A recent study commissioned by the Small Business Administration found that annual regulatory compliance costs in the United States hit $1.75 trillion in 2008. That figure exceeds the total collected from income taxes that year ($1.449 trillion). Of the 4,225 regulations now in the pipeline, 224 are major rules with at least $100 million in economic impact. If those pending major regulations cost only $100 million, many of which cost much more, it implies at least an additional $22 billion in annual economic impact in the wings. For example, an Environmental Protection Agency regulation on CAFE (Corporate Average Fuel Economy) Standards alone could cost as much as $141 billion in compliance by 2025.
12.06.2011	Congressman Mike Turner (OH-3) has introduced the Senior Veterans Housing Assistance Act of 2011 (H.R. 3546). The bill would make sure that government regulations do not pose an impediment to providing access to affordable housing for seniors who have served our nation. This issue came to light because of conflicting rules and regulations between the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) and the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) during the planned construction of housing at the Dayton VA Medical Center (VAMC). share: f t WASHINGTON - Congressman Mike Turner (OH-3) has introduced the Senior Veterans Housing Assistance Act of 2011 (H.R. 3546). The bill would make sure that government regulations do not pose an impediment to providing access to affordable housing for seniors who have served our nation. This issue came to light because of conflicting rules and regulations between the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) and the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) during the planned construction of housing at the Dayton VA Medical Center (VAMC). “St. Mary’s has had a successful history in building and placing our community’s senior citizens in affordable housing. I asked St. Mary’s to consider the VAMC site to expand their senior housing development. I am glad that they have undertaken this effort which will help return the VAMC facility to its original mission as a home for our senior veterans,” said Turner. St. Mary's Neighborhood Development Corporation has been attempting for several years to construct senior housing on the campus of the Dayton VAMC. St. Mary's was able to obtain an enhanced-use lease from the VA to construct the housing and also obtained HUD Section 202 funding to allow for the financing of the construction for low-income senior housing. In this case, VA provided the land and HUD provided funding. Both agencies agreed that this would be an excellent project to help homeless veterans, provide low-income housing for veterans, and respond to the needs of seniors in the community. However, HUD asserted that St. Mary's was unable to use these critical dollars if the VA lease required a specific preference for veterans to occupy the proposed facility on the VA grounds. The VA rules and regulations require that the VA assert and request a preference for veterans for housing to be built on its campus. “In the 111th Congress, the House unanimously approved and the President enacted into law a provision I authored to solve this issue. Specifically, the Fiscal Year 2010 appropriations measure included a prohibition on enforcement of HUD’s restriction against a preference for veterans. However, this solution was only temporary,” said Turner. Specifically, the bill will allow HUD funds to be used for supportive housing for the elderly that provide preference to veterans if the property is or would be located on VA land, or is subject to an enhanced-use lease with the VA. “To ensure that these conflicting regulations do not present further, long-term obstacles for our veterans and seniors, I have introduced the Senior Veterans Housing Assistance Act. My bill will permanently ensure that organizations that seek to provide our senior veterans with affordable housing with HUD funds on VA property are able to overcome the HUD and VA conflicting rules and regulations,” added Turner. Full text of the bill can be found here###
11.30.2011	Today, Congressman Mike Turner, Chairman of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Strategic Forces requested that Rep. Ed Markey “publicly repudiate and correct the inaccurate and misleading information” contained in an October 11th letter that he and 64 other Members of Congress sent to the Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction. Rep. Markey’s letter stated that the U.S. “spend[s] over $50 billion a year on the U.S. nuclear arsenal,” and called on “the Super Committee to cut $20 billion a year, or $200 billion over the next ten years, from the U.S. nuclear weapons budget.” share: f t Today, Congressman Mike Turner, Chairman of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Strategic Forces requested that Rep. Ed Markey “publicly repudiate and correct the inaccurate and misleading information” contained in an October 11th letter that he and 64 other Members of Congress sent to the Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction. Rep. Markey’s letter stated that the U.S. “spend[s] over $50 billion a year on the U.S. nuclear arsenal,” and called on “the Super Committee to cut $20 billion a year, or $200 billion over the next ten years, from the U.S. nuclear weapons budget.” “As I pointed out in a letter to the Super Committee on November 4, this $50 billion per year figure is incorrect—and deeply harmful to a fully informed and accurate debate. In fact, cutting $20 billion a year from the nuclear weapons budget, as your letter calls for, would result in the immediate and unilateral nuclear disarmament of the United States,” writes Turner. Today, Glenn Kessler’s Washington Post “The Fact Checker” column gave the $700 billion figure generated by Ploughshares, and used in the Markey letter, a rating of “two Pinocchios”—meaning there are “significant omissions and/or exaggerations” and factual errors. Mr. Kessler’s article said: “But the administration of President Obama—who won a Nobel Peace Prize in part for calling for a world without nuclear weapons—has flatly rejected the $700 billion figure. James Miller, principal deputy undersecretary of defense, told Congress on Nov. 2 that…‘I've had an opportunity to look at some of the materials that were referenced in the cost estimates just before coming over here and I—without giving this more time than it deserves—suffice it to say there was double counting and some rather curious arithmetic involved,’ Miller said.” Furthermore, Mr. Kessler also interviewed Stephen Schwartz, who conducted an analysis of nuclear weapons funding in 2009 for the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace - an analysis that Ploughshares used as a foundation for its own data. According to the Washington Post, “Schwartz said that he warned Ploughshares and Markey’s office to be careful with these estimates, especially when lumping many things together. ‘Unfortunately, things get shorthanded,’ he said. ‘Ploughshares wanted a large number to make their case for political reasons.’” The Washington Post makes clear that Mr. Markey would be well-suited to take his own advice, when he criticized Mr. Turner and the Obama Administration for “using Enron-style accounting” in an earlier Wall Street Journal article. Turner further “welcome[d] Mr. Markey’s attendance at any of [his] subcommittee’s oversight briefings on the nuclear weapons budget.” Those briefings provide information on our nuclear deterrent which aren’t discussed before the Natural Resources Committee, of which Markey is the Ranking Member. The text of the letter to Rep. Ed Markey follows below: November 30, 2011 The Honorable Ed Markey 2108 Rayburn House Office Building Washington, DC 20515 Dear Representative Markey: On October 11, you and 64 of our colleagues sent a letter to the members of the Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction claiming that we “spend over $50 billion a year on the U.S. nuclear arsenal,” and calling on “the Super Committee to cut $20 billion a year, or $200 billion over the next ten years, from the U.S. nuclear weapons budget.” As I pointed out in a letter to the Super Committee on November 4, this $50 billion per year figure is incorrect—and deeply harmful to a fully informed and accurate debate. In fact, cutting $20 billion a year from the nuclear weapons budget, as your letter calls for, would result in the immediate and unilateral nuclear disarmament of the United States. The correct figure is approximately $21.4 billion per year, or $214 billion over the next ten years. Indeed, the $214 billion figure is the Obama Administration’s own estimate—an administration that vocally and strongly supports global elimination of nuclear weapons. As the administration’s Section 1251 Report to Congress makes clear, this figure is for “sustainment and modernization” of the triad of delivery vehicles in then-year dollars, and “includes research, development, testing, and engineering; procurement; operations and support; and personnel” costs. The Section 1251 Report also outlines expected spending by the Department of Energy’s National Nuclear Security Administration of $88 billion over ten years. Therefore, the total spending planned for nuclear weapons from FY12 through FY21 is approximately $214 billion. Incorrect and misleading information on this matter, which you relied upon in your letter, has been published by private advocacy groups seeking elimination of U.S. nuclear weapons, including the Ploughshares Fund. I believe this factually incorrect information is preventing a full and honest debate on a vital matter for our national security. I am sure you’ll agree that accurate facts are important to our democratic process. Today, Glenn Kessler’s Washington Post “The Fact Checker” column gave the $700 billion figure generated by Ploughshares, and used in your letter, a rating of “two Pinocchios”—meaning there are “significant omissions and/or exaggerations” and factual errors. Mr. Kessler’s article said: “But the administration of President Obama—who won a Nobel Peace Prize in part for calling for a world without nuclear weapons—has flatly rejected the $700 billion figure. James Miller, principal deputy undersecretary of defense, told Congress on Nov. 2 that…‘I've had an opportunity to look at some of the materials that were referenced in the cost estimates just before coming over here and I—without giving this more time than it deserves—suffice it to say there was double counting and some rather curious arithmetic involved,’ Miller said.” Mr. Kessler also interviewed Stephen Schwartz, who conducted an analysis of nuclear weapons funding in 2009 for the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace that Ploughshares used as a foundation for its own data. The Washington Post article says: “Schwartz said that he warned Ploughshares and Markey’s office to be careful with these estimates, especially when lumping many things together. ‘Unfortunately, things get shorthanded,’ he said. ‘Ploughshares wanted a large number to make their case for political reasons.’” (emphasis added) Joe Cirincione, President of Ploughshares, admits in the article that the Ploughshares analysis might result in “some double counting,” as Dr. Miller suggested. The Washington Post Fact Checker article concluded: “Moreover, considering how widely circulated the $700-billion figure has become, Ploughshares has a responsibility to rethink its use of the $125 billion for ‘modernization’ in light of this month’s congressional testimony, especially because its figure has been cited so often without the caveat that it includes more than just the nuclear arsenal.” Of course, it isn’t just Ploughshares that has such a responsibility; that responsibility is also shared by anyone who uses its analysis without careful or thoughtful scrutiny. The testimony of senior Obama administration officials, the Administration’s 1251 Report to Congress (which is available to all Members of Congress), and today’s Washington Post fact check makes it plain: the figures you cited in your October 11 letter are incorrect. The Ploughshares Fund analysis you relied upon and cited in your letter was grossly and intentionally inaccurate, according to Stephen Schwartz, the author of the original analysis for the Carnegie Endowment. The total estimated cost to sustain, operate, and modernize our nuclear forces and their supporting infrastructure is less than half of what you claimed in your letter. As Members of Congress, we have an obligation to the American people to stop using these distorted figures generated by “using Enron-style accounting” of lobbying groups with dangerous political agendas. I respectfully request that you publicly repudiate and correct the inaccurate and misleading information contained in your October 11 letter, and inform the recipients and co-signers of your letter of these corrections. I would be happy to make the Strategic Forces Subcommittee staff available to you or your staff should you desire a detailed briefing on the actual cost of our nuclear deterrent. Sincerely, MICHAEL R. TURNER Chairman, Subcommittee on Strategic Forces House Armed Services Committee
11.30.2011	Today, Congressman Mike Turner (OH-3) announced that House Armed Services Committee Chairman Buck McKeon (CA-25) will be visiting Wright-Patterson Air Force Base with him on Saturday (12/3/11). Turner, who leads the panel’s Subcommittee on Strategic Forces, invited the Chairman to visit the key base. share: f t Today, Congressman Mike Turner (OH-3) announced that House Armed Services Committee Chairman Buck McKeon (CA-25) will be visiting Wright-Patterson Air Force Base with him on Saturday (12/3/11). Turner, who leads the panel’s Subcommittee on Strategic Forces, invited the Chairman to visit the key base. “The effects of sequestration and the supercommittee’s failure will be felt across Ohio and especially at Wright-Patt. After helping to grow the base by 7,000 jobs since arriving in Congress, I cannot stand by while these cuts eliminate jobs key to the national security of our country. I am honored to have Chairman McKeon join me on Saturday in visiting Wright-Patt and touring the facilities first hand,” said Turner. As a result of the supercommittee’s failure, Defense Department funding will be subject to $500 billion in cuts. Across Ohio estimates show that over 1,000 uniformed service members are set to lose their jobs, while over 6,000 Defense Department Ohio civilian personnel could lose theirs. These job losses will likely come from Wright-Patt, the largest single site employer in Ohio. “Over half of deficit reduction efforts so far have come out of America's military. If we are unable to mitigate these sequestration cuts, our armed forces will contribute over a trillion dollars to deficit reduction, more than any other single sector of our government. These cuts come not because the threats to our freedom have reduced or because the world has become a safer place, but because Washington has put math ahead of strategy. Cuts this deep have an impact well beyond the corridors of the Pentagon. As I travel from base to base, hearing from the men and women who make it their life's work to keep America safe, I learn more about how damaging these cuts truly are. I look forward to hearing from the Wright-Patterson community on Saturday,” said Chairman McKeon. During the visit, Turner and McKeon will tour Wright-Patt and its facilities, including the National Air and Space Intelligence Center and Unmanned Aerial Systems development at the Air Force Research Lab. The base is home to over 27,000 employees and covers over 11 square miles of land.
11.21.2011	Today, Congressman Mike Turner released the following statement upon word that the Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction would not be delivering a plan to Congress on how to undertake $1.2 trillion in cuts as described in the Budget Control Act of 2011. Turner, who opposed raising the debt limit and slashing national security spending, continues to sound the alarm as to how this failure will impact the nation’s defense. Sequestration cuts to our defense will severely impact our armed forces and the state of Ohio. share: f t Today, Congressman Mike Turner released the following statement upon word that the Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction would not be delivering a plan to Congress on how to undertake $1.2 trillion in cuts as described in the Budget Control Act of 2011. Turner, who opposed raising the debt limit and slashing national security spending, continues to sound the alarm as to how this failure will impact the nation’s defense. Sequestration cuts to our defense will severely impact our armed forces and the state of Ohio: “With the failure of the supercommittee, sequestration cuts will have serious implications for our national security. Specifically, Defense Department funding will be subject to $500 billion in cuts. As a nation we should be able to provide for our defense and balance our budget. One should not come at the expense of the other. That’s why I could not vote to raise the debt limit at the expense of our men and women in uniform. “Furthermore the impacts to Ohio, home to Wright-Patterson Air Force Base, will not be felt lightly. Across Ohio estimates show that over 1,000 uniformed service members are set to lose their jobs, while over 6,000 Defense Department civilian personnel will lose theirs. The problem with sequestration is although the cuts don’t become official until January of 2013, the Defense Department must begin drawing down personnel immediately in order to meet their targets by that date. Our service members, civilian personnel and their families cannot wait while Congress plays chicken with these cuts to our nation’s defense.”
11.18.2011	Today, Congressman Mike Turner (OH-3) released the following statement after voting in favor of a Balanced Budget Amendment to our Constitution. Turner is an original co-sponsor of the legislation, H.J.Res. 2. share: f t Today, Congressman Mike Turner (OH-3) released the following statement after voting in favor of a Balanced Budget Amendment to our Constitution. Turner is an original co-sponsor of the legislation, H.J.Res. 2.“A Balanced Budget Amendment added to our Constitution would require that the President and Congress enact a budget which doesn’t spend more than we take in each year – except in time of war or national emergency. It’s a basic approach which the majority of hardworking American families adhere to. If you don’t have the money – you shouldn’t be spending it. “I’ve voted against increasing our nation’s debt limit. If we require the government to live within its means, then we can begin to pay down the over $15 trillion in outstanding debt our country owes to its creditors. We cannot afford to continue without a limit on the amount we spend each budget year. Every man, woman, and child in America is responsible for over $46,000 of the national debt. A Constitutional requirement to balance the budget placed in the framework of our government is part of the solution to the stop the endless spending in Washington.”
11.17.2011	Congressman Mike Turner, in a letter to Vincent Snowbarger, has demanded greater details surrounding the Administration’s picking of winners and losers amongst Delphi retirees following the Auto Bailout. Just prior to a field hearing in Dayton on Monday before the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, Snowbarger answered months-old questions regarding just how involved the Administration was in the Delphi decision. Snowbarger is Deputy Director for Operations for the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (PBGC) and was directly involved in the Auto Bailout process. share: f t Congressman Mike Turner, in a letter to Vincent Snowbarger, has demanded greater details surrounding the Administration’s picking of winners and losers amongst Delphi retirees following the Auto Bailout. Just prior to a field hearing in Dayton on Monday before the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, Snowbarger answered months-old questions regarding just how involved the Administration was in the Delphi decision. Snowbarger is Deputy Director for Operations for the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (PBGC) and was directly involved in the Auto Bailout process. “Mr. Snowbarger has revealed for the first time throughout this process that the Administration was on all sides of the deal which cut Delphi retiree pensions. Hardworking taxpayers, Congress, and Delphi salaried retirees deserve to know where the money has gone in this deal, and how we can get it back,” said Turner. In his original letter of June 22nd, Turner asked Snowbarger: “Is the Treasury Department consulted in PBGC pension fund plan settlement negotiations? Snowbarger answered in a November 9th letter: “…PBGC notes that attorneys for the Auto Task Force participated along with PBGC, GM, Delphi, and Delphi’s debtor-in-possession lenders in telephone conferences during which the terms of the PBGC settlements were negotiated.” “Each of those participants, other than Delphi and Delphi’s debtor-in-possession lenders were Administration run entities. This revelation shows that the Administration was directly negotiating the end deal that picked winners and losers when it came to Delphi employee pensions,” added Turner.Turner, who is a senior member of the Committee, has been pressing the Administration for answers since the Auto Bailout was undertaken. The field hearing stemmed from a decision by the PBGC that resulted in approximately 20,000 current and future salaried Delphi retirees from across the country taking a severe cut in their pension benefits. On June 22nd, at Turner’s request, an additional hearing on the Lasting Implications of the General Motors Bailout was held by the House Oversight and Government Reform’s Subcommittee on Regulatory Affairs, Stimulus Oversight and Government Spending.
11.17.2011	Today, Congressman Mike Turner, Chairman of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Strategic Forces was joined by several Members of the Subcommittee in writing to Defense Secretary Leon Panetta to voice their concern regarding lack of a missile defense hedge for the U.S. homeland. The letter stems from recent intelligence which shows foreign developments in long-range ballistic missile development, specifically those which could be capable of attacking the U.S. share: f t Today, Congressman Mike Turner, Chairman of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Strategic Forces was joined by several Members of the Subcommittee in writing to Defense Secretary Leon Panetta to voice their concern regarding lack of a missile defense hedge for the U.S. homeland. The letter stems from recent intelligence which shows foreign developments in long-range ballistic missile development, specifically those which could be capable of attacking the U.S. “We…believe it is now critically important that the Administration immediately reprioritize the defense of the homeland. And we believe your predecessor, Secretary Gates, was of the same view when he announced prior to his departure from office that, ‘with the continued development of long-range missiles and potentially a road-mobile intercontinental ballistic missile and their continued development of nuclear weapons, North Korea is in the process of becoming a direct threat to the United States,’” wrote the majority Members of the Subcommittee. The Members have been further informed that the Administration may be preparing to walk away from its commitment to develop the SM-3 IIB missile. This may be accomplished by downgrading it to a mere technology risk reduction program. “It would be a double blow to the defense of the homeland if the Administration now walks away from the IIB missile without restoring programs for missile defense of the United States,” they added.The majority Members of the Subcommittee further warned that, “Such decisions, which will further compromise the national missile defense of the United States, may be a result of the Administration’s decision to build a missile defense system in Europe, with little application for the defense of the United States, as a contribution to NATO…”
11.10.2011	Today, Congressman Mike Turner (OH-3) announced details on a House Oversight and Government Reform Committee field hearing he requested, to receive testimony directly from local Delphi salaried retirees. Turner, who is a senior member of the Committee, has been pressing the Administration for answers since the Auto Bailout was undertaken. The hearing request stems from a decision by the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (PBGC) that resulted in approximately 20,000 current and future salaried Delphi retirees from across the country taking a severe cut in their pension benefits. On June 22nd, at Turner’s request, a hearing on the Lasting Implications of the General Motors Bailout was held by the House Oversight and Government Reform’s Subcommittee on Regulatory Affairs, Stimulus Oversight and Government Spending. share: f t Washington D.C. – Today, Congressman Mike Turner (OH-3) announced details on a House Oversight and Government Reform Committee field hearing he requested, to receive testimony directly from local Delphi salaried retirees. Turner, who is a senior member of the Committee, has been pressing the Administration for answers since the Auto Bailout was undertaken. The hearing request stems from a decision by the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (PBGC) that resulted in approximately 20,000 current and future salaried Delphi retirees from across the country taking a severe cut in their pension benefits. On June 22nd, at Turner’s request, a hearing on the Lasting Implications of the General Motors Bailout was held by the House Oversight and Government Reform’s Subcommittee on Regulatory Affairs, Stimulus Oversight and Government Spending. “I look forward to having Committee Chairman Darrell Issa join me in Dayton on Monday to hear directly from Delphi salaried retirees. Our community is home to a number of salaried retirees who lost their benefits at the hand of the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation and these retirees will provide insight into how picking winners and losers has affected their lives and future,” said Turner. The hearing, entitled “Delphi Pension Fallout: Federal Government Picked Winners and Losers, So Who Won and Who Lost” will be held on Monday November 14th at 9:00 a.m. The hearing to be held at the Smith Auditorium at Sinclair Community College is open to the press and public. Key Hearing Details: Title: Delphi Pension Fallout: Federal Government Picked Winners and Losers, So Who Won and Who Lost Date: Monday, November 14, 2011 Time: 9:00 a.m. – 12:00 p.m. Location: Sinclair Community College, Building 12 – Smith Auditorium 444 West 3rd Street, Dayton, OH 45402 Invited Witness List: Panel 1Mr. Steve GebbiaFormer Executive at Delphi Corporation Mr. Chuck CunninghamFormer Executive at Delphi Corporation Panel 2Mr. Den BlackMember of the Delphi Salaried Retirees Association Mr. Tom RoseMember of the Delphi Salaried Retirees Association Mr. Bruce GumpMember of the Delphi Salaried Retirees Association Ms. Mary MillerMember of the Delphi Salaried Retirees Association Panel 3Ms. Barbara BovbjergDirector for Education, Workforce and Income Security Issues at the U.S. Government Accountability Office Mr. Vincent Snowbarger Deputy Director for Operations, Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation
11.10.2011	Today, Congressman Mike Turner commended the news that the National Park Service Advisory Board’s National Historic Landmark Committee voted unanimously to report the Dayton Veterans Affairs Medical Center nomination for consideration as a National Historic Landmark. share: f t Washington D.C. - Today, Congressman Mike Turner commended the news that the National Park Service Advisory Board’s National Historic Landmark Committee voted unanimously to report the Dayton Veterans Affairs Medical Center nomination for consideration as a National Historic Landmark. “I applaud the National Park Service (NPS) for voting unanimously to report the Dayton VA Medical Center (VAMC) nomination to the full NPS Advisory Board for consideration as a National Historic Landmark. The Dayton VAMC has long played a significant role in providing health care and rehabilitation services to our nation’s veterans. It has helped shape the rich history of the Dayton region,” said Turner. Congressman Turner has long supported the Dayton VAMC to be designated as a National Historic Landmark. In 2003, Turner authored the Veterans National Heritage Preservation Act (H.R. 1762), which included a provision requiring the National Park Service, in consultation and cooperation with the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA), to conduct a National Historic Landmark (NHL) study to identify sites that commemorate key facilities managed by the National Home for Disabled Volunteer Soldiers between 1865 and 1930. Dayton was specifically included as a site to be studied. At the same time, Turner worked closely with the NPS and the VA to move forward with such a study. “If approved by the full Advisory Board and the Secretary of the Interior, this will ensure that current and future generations develop a greater understanding and appreciation for the sacrifices made by the brave men and women of our Armed Forces and the dedicated professionals providing them care. With Veteran’s Day celebrations occurring in Dayton tomorrow, this will be welcome news throughout our community,” added Turner. On October 21, 2004, the VA, NPS, and Congressman Turner signed an agreement to conduct a theme study to assess the significance of the National Homes and prepare NHL nominations. The signing ceremony was held at the Putnam Library on the Dayton VA Campus.
11.08.2011	Following a hearing before the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Strategic Forces, Chairman Mike Turner wrote to the leaders of the House and Senate Appropriations Committees, reiterating his subcommittee’s call for full funding of the modernization of the U.S. nuclear deterrent. The Subcommittee held a hearing last week on U.S. nuclear policy and posture, with a witness panel consisting of the key military and administration officials responsible for the U.S. nuclear deterrent. During the hearing, the witnesses discussed, in depth, the cuts to the nuclear modernization efforts of the National Nuclear Security Administration (NNSA) proposed by the House and Senate FY12 Energy and Water appropriations bills. share: f t Washington, D.C. – Following a hearing before the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Strategic Forces, Chairman Mike Turner wrote to the leaders of the House and Senate Appropriations Committees, reiterating his subcommittee’s call for full funding of the modernization of the U.S. nuclear deterrent. The Subcommittee held a hearing last week on U.S. nuclear policy and posture, with a witness panel consisting of the key military and administration officials responsible for the U.S. nuclear deterrent. During the hearing, the witnesses discussed, in depth, the cuts to the nuclear modernization efforts of the National Nuclear Security Administration (NNSA) proposed by the House and Senate FY12 Energy and Water appropriations bills. “Our witnesses were deeply concerned about these cuts, and reinforced the administration’s position that full funding for NNSA’s defense activities is critical, even with the tremendous fiscal pressures facing the nation,” writes Turner. Dr. Jim Miller, Principal Deputy Under Secretary of Defense for Policy, warned: “As you look at the level of reductions that have been proposed by both the House and the Senate appropriations, some essential activities will not be undertaken. If you look within those reductions, at the specifics, we have particular concerns in the Department of Defense on reductions in funding for the B61 life extension program…and also in the W78 life extension program.” NNSA Administrator Tom D’Agostino also cautioned against allowing our modernization efforts to lapse: “It is critical to accept the linkage between modernizing our current stockpile in order to achieve the policy objective of decreasing the number of weapons we have in our stockpile while still ensuring that the deterrent is safe, secure, and effective.” Turner continued to state that, “in view of the testimony provided to the Strategic Forces Subcommittee on Wednesday, it is clear that failure to fund the modernization effort could call into question the New START Treaty itself. This is of course something the Congress must consider in the appropriations and authorization bills this year—and each and every year the treaty is in force.” “While I understand the fiscal difficulties facing the nation, and your responsibility to make tough decisions with limited resources, I hope you will consider the views of these senior national security officials, and restore full FY12 funding for nuclear modernization programs within NNSA,” closed Turner.
11.04.2011	Today, Congressman Mike Turner penned a letter to the Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction setting the record straight on the true cost of maintaining our nuclear deterrent. On October 11th, 65 Members of Congress sent a letter to Committee members alleging that our nation spends “over $50 billion a year on the U.S. nuclear arsenal,” and calling on “the Super Committee to cut $20 billion a year, or $200 billion over the next ten years, from the U.S. nuclear weapons budget.” share: f t Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Mike Turner penned a letter to the Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction setting the record straight on the true cost of maintaining our nuclear deterrent. On October 11th, 65 Members of Congress sent a letter to Committee members alleging that our nation spends “over $50 billion a year on the U.S. nuclear arsenal,” and calling on “the Super Committee to cut $20 billion a year, or $200 billion over the next ten years, from the U.S. nuclear weapons budget.” “This $50 billion per year figure is incorrect—and, when coupled with the cuts proposed by the October 11 letter, deeply harmful to a fully informed and accurate debate,” stated Turner in his letter. “The correct figure is approximately $21.4 billion per year. Therefore, the requested cuts of $20 billion per year would effectively amount to unilateral and immediate nuclear disarmament by the United States. These proposed cuts would therefore have, I’m sure you’ll agree, catastrophic impacts to our national security and global stability,” he added. On November 2nd, Congressman Turner, in his capacity as Chairman of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Strategic Forces, conducted a hearing with a witness panel consisting of the key administration officials responsible for U.S. nuclear weapons. Turner asked the witnesses about the accuracy of the information on nuclear weapons spending published by groups advocating elimination of nuclear weapons. In response, Dr. James Miller, Principal Deputy Under Secretary of Defense for Policy said: “I've had an opportunity to look at some of the materials that were referenced in those cost estimates just before coming over here and I- without giving this more time than it deserves - suffice it to say there was double counting and some rather curious arithmetic involved.”The testimony of these officials made the facts clear - “Planned spending to sustain, operate, and modernize our nuclear forces and their supporting infrastructure is far less than the levels claimed in the letter you received on October 11,” wrote Turner.
11.02.2011	Congressman Mike Turner responded to the news that the new U.S. Air Force Life Cycle Management Center (LCMC) will be located at the base. The U.S. Air Force will be consolidating twelve Centers under the Air Force Material Command (AFMC) into five, two of which will be headed up at the installation. This includes a consolidated Life Cycle Management Center (LCMC) focusing on acquisition, and the Air Force Research Lab (AFRL) which will focus on technology. The remaining three Centers will focus on testing, sustainment, and nuclear weapons. share: f t Washington D.C. – Congressman Mike Turner responded to the news that the new U.S. Air Force Life Cycle Management Center (LCMC) will be located at the base. The U.S. Air Force will be consolidating twelve Centers under the Air Force Material Command (AFMC) into five, two of which will be headed up at the installation. This includes a consolidated Life Cycle Management Center (LCMC) focusing on acquisition, and the Air Force Research Lab (AFRL) which will focus on technology. The remaining three Centers will focus on testing, sustainment, and nuclear weapons. “Through the BRAC process, and now consolidation, the importance of Wright-Patt has been reinforced. These changes are consistent with what we have expected throughout the Air Force’s planned consolidation process,” said Turner. AFRL will stay at Wright-Patt, and should remain largely unchanged from its current mission. “When I arrived to Congress in 2002 Wright-Patt had 20,000 jobs inside the fence. We’re now at 27,000 jobs inside the fence. I am continuing to fight on behalf of this key economic engine for our region and the thousands of Southwest Ohioans both inside and outside the fence, who work on missions vital to our national security,” added Turner.
10.25.2011	Today, Congressman Mike Turner (OH-3) welcomed Congressman John Culberson (TX-7) Chairman of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Military Construction, Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies upon his visit and tour of Wright-Patterson Air Force Base on Friday. Turner, who has been a leader in growing Wright-Patt throughout his time in Congress, will join Culberson on his visit. share: f t Washington D.C. – Today, Congressman Mike Turner (OH-3) welcomed Congressman John Culberson (TX-7) Chairman of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Military Construction, Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies upon his visit and tour of Wright-Patterson Air Force Base on Friday. Turner, who has been a leader in growing Wright-Patt throughout his time in Congress, will join Culberson on his visit. “I am glad to have Chairman Culberson join me at Wright-Patt on Friday. His visit will highlight the significant role the base and our community play in helping to protect our nation. Wright-Patt is a leader when it comes to educating Air Force employees, gathering intelligence, and hopefully soon will take on a greater role in unmanned flight,” said Turner. During the visit, Turner and Culberson will tour Wright-Patt and its facilities, including the Air Force Institute of Technology, the Air Force Material Command, and the Air Force Research Lab. The base is home to over 27,000 employees and covers over 11 square miles of land. Culberson, as the Subcommittee Chairman responsible for overseeing funding for military construction projects, will view the facilities at Wright-Patt and the need for any upgrades to the base’s infrastructure. “The men and women of Wright-Patterson Air Force Base play an essential role in the defense of our nation. It is a privilege to work alongside Speaker John Boehner and my House colleagues in support of our men and women in uniform, and to strengthen America’s economy by growing jobs and protecting vital assets like Wright-Patterson Air Force Base,” said Congressman Culberson.
10.20.2011	Today, Congressman Mike Turner released the following statement after learning of the death of Libyan dictator Moammar Gadhafi. share: f t Today, Congressman Mike Turner released the following statement after learning of the death of Libyan dictator Moammar Gadhafi:"Moammar Gadhafi was a dictator responsible for terrorist acts, and the death of innocent civilians – the world is a better place without him. In the time ahead I hope that Libya’s new government will be a responsible state which does not pursue weapons of mass destruction, and upholds the rights and freedoms of all it’s citizens.”
10.18.2011	Today, Congressman Mike Turner (OH-3) announced that Oversight and Government Reform Committee Chairman Darrell Issa will hold a hearing in Dayton to receive testimony directly from local Delphi salaried retirees. According to a letter from Chairman Issa, the hearing will take place on Monday, November 14th. Further details including time, location, and a witness list will be finalized in the coming weeks. The hearing requests stem from a decision by the Pension Benefit Guarantee Corporation (PBGC) that resulted in approximately 15,000 salaried Delphi retirees from across the country taking a severe cut in their pension benefits. share: f t Today, Congressman Mike Turner (OH-3) announced that Oversight and Government Reform Committee Chairman Darrell Issa will hold a hearing in Dayton to receive testimony directly from local Delphi salaried retirees. According to a letter from Chairman Issa, the hearing will take place on Monday, November 14th. Further details including time, location, and a witness list will be finalized in the coming weeks. The hearing requests stem from a decision by the Pension Benefit Guarantee Corporation (PBGC) that resulted in approximately 15,000 salaried Delphi retirees from across the country taking a severe cut in their pension benefits. “I am appreciative of Chairman Issa’s continued commitment to joining me in finding answers for these former Delphi employees. Without explanation, members of the Auto Taskforce picked winners and losers when it came to pension benefits. This hearing will ensure that the voices of these employees will be heard by Members of Congress actively investigating this matter,” stated Turner. This latest effort by Congressmen Turner to highlight the consequences of the pension decision follows a June 22nd hearing on the Lasting Implications of the General Motors Bailout held by the House Oversight and Government Reform’s Subcommittee on Regulatory Affairs, Stimulus Oversight and Government Spending, also requested by Turner who is a senior member of the full committee. “This hearing is another step in the right direction. These retirees and the American people deserve answers as to why the Administration’s decision resulted in a 70 percent reduction in pensions and loss of health care for salaried Delphi retirees, but not other groups. I look forward to joining Chairman Issa on the 14th of November,” said Turner.
10.14.2011	Congressman Mike Turner successfully included several provisions in the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee passed Postal Reform Act of 2011 (H.R. 2309). The bill passed the full committee late on Thursday. Turner, who is a senior member of the committee, fought for hiring preferences for displaced postal workers, protections for door delivery service in high-population, high-poverty and historic areas, promotes the Wilmington Air Park, and accountability for the U.S. Postal Service’s (USPS) Restructuring Authority to Congress and hardworking taxpayers. share: f t Washington D.C. - Congressman Mike Turner successfully included several provisions in the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee passed Postal Reform Act of 2011 (H.R. 2309). The bill passed the full committee late on Thursday. Turner, who is a senior member of the committee, fought for hiring preferences for displaced postal workers, protections for door delivery service in high-population, high-poverty and historic areas, promotes the Wilmington Air Park, and accountability for the U.S. Postal Service’s (USPS) Restructuring Authority to Congress and hardworking taxpayers. Ensuring the Post Offices Mismanagement Doesn’t Punish Workers An amendment offered by Congressman Turner and adopted by the committee by voice vote establishes a hiring preference for USPS employees who could be affected by reductions in force under the bill. The preference is available for 1½ years to non-retirement-eligible USPS employees whose jobs are lost under the measure. It affords these employees the opportunity to continue applying their skills and experience in the career field, if they so choose, and offers assistance without requiring taxpayer-funded support. “It is not the letter carrier making daily rounds to gather and deliver mail, and not the branch employee helping customers select the appropriate postage – who have brought us to the brink of postal insolvency. It is the persistent mismanagement at the hands of the Postal Service’s Washington bureaucrats who have allowed operations to deteriorate to this unfortunate point. Rank-and-file employees should not be punished because of the failures of the Postal Service’s top leaders,” stated Turner. Preserving Door Delivery for High-Population, High Poverty and Historic Areas In the original version of the bill, the USPS was required to reduce door delivery by 75% within 2 years. Congressman Turner successfully included language via an amendment approved by the committee by voice vote, which moves this provision to the jurisdiction of the Restructuring Authority. In addition, the bill now provides that high-population, high poverty, and historic areas are not adversely affected by the bill’s changes to the USPS. Furthermore, the amendment expressly states that the Restructuring Authority must consider historical value, registered historic districts, and locations on the National Register of Historic Places in making a decision to reduce door delivery. “As the former Mayor of Dayton and the Co-Chair of the Congressional Historic Preservation Caucus, I understand that historic districts, heritage areas, and infrastructure should be taken into consideration if dramatic changes in mail delivery are proposed. For residents of Dayton, my amendment means that before door-delivery is reevaluated, the USPS must be in default to the federal government. Without my amendment, this legislation could have affected areas of high-population density and poverty in an adverse way,” added Turner. Promoting Underutilized Processing Facilities – Wilmington Air Park In developing plans to consolidate mail processing operations, Turner included language in the bill, which allows the Postal Service to study the estimated total cost savings that would result from moving mail processing operations to facilities not owned by the Postal Service, and are capable of processing mail at the Postal Service’s standards. “This provision allows the USPS to look at facilities like the Wilmington Air Park, which have the ability to process large volumes of mail and a trained workforce readily available. The Air Park is in a strong position to benefit from this provision if it passes through Congress and signed by the President. Note: Congressman Turner joined Senator Rob Portman and Congresswoman Jean Schmidt in writing to the Postmaster General, encouraging the USPS senior leadership to visit the Air Park. (10/13/2011) A Savings Report to Ensure Accountability to the Hard Working Taxpayer Under an amendment offered by Congressman Turner and adopted by the committee by voice vote, the Restructuring Authority is required to submit a Savings Report to Congress within one-year of being activated. This report must detail the cost-savings they have achieved and the steps necessary to achieve further savings. This Amendment also allows the Authority to request specific legislative changes to postpone the requirement that door delivery be reduced. “This provision holds the Authority accountable to Congress and the American people; ensuring that actions which directly impact the hardworking taxpayer aren’t taken lightly. Specifically, the Authority to must tell us what has worked, how much it saved, and what they need – and don’t need – to continue keeping the USPS financially sound,” said Turner.
10.13.2011	Today Chairman Mike Turner reminded Congressman Ed Markey that there is strong bipartisan support for maintaining full funding for our nuclear modernization efforts, as well as sustaining our nuclear deterrent. share: f t Today Chairman Mike Turner reminded Congressman Ed Markey that there is strong bipartisan support for maintaining full funding for our nuclear modernization efforts, as well as sustaining our nuclear deterrent. “Congressman Markey believes that if we eliminate our nuclear deterrent, we’ll suddenly have the funds to pay for every program he thinks is a priority. However, the President, the Secretary of Defense, our military commanders, and key national security leaders in the House and Senate recognize that full nuclear modernization funding provides the safety under which those programs exist,” stated Turner. Turner, who leads the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Strategic Forces, which has responsibility for overseeing our nuclear capabilities, has been working closely with members of the Obama Administration and our uniformed services on this issue. In the process he has received detailed classified briefings on the state of our deterrent’s readiness and reliability as compared to that of Russia, China, and other states. It’s not clear if Markey, who is Ranking Member of the Natural Resources Committee, has requested a briefing or has spoken with senior military officers about the need for nuclear modernization within the National Nuclear Security Administration (NNSA). Clear Support for Nuclear Modernization Funding President Barack Obama In a December 20, 2010 letter to Sen. Lamar Alexander on funding for the modernization of nuclear weapons complex President Obama wrote: “I recognize that nuclear modernization requires investment for the long-term….That is my commitment to the Congress – that my Administration will pursue these programs and capabilities for as long as I am President.” Secretary of Defense Leon Panetta Today (10/13/2011) at a hearing before the House Armed Services Committee, Secretary Panetta responded to a question from Turner by stating his full support for the funding of modernization of our nuclear deterrent: Turner: “In effect, your funds are being stolen for water projects across the country, and I think you might have an opinion about that.” Panetta: “Well, as a former [House] member, I know in those committees, they’re going to reach for whatever they can in order to try to see if they can fund those projects. I understand that process. But I think it’s tremendously shortsighted if they reduce the funds that are absolutely essential for modernization.” “If we aren’t staying ahead of it, we jeopardize the security of this country. So, for that reason, I certainly would oppose any reductions with regards to the funding for weaponization [sic. modernization].” The House The House Budget Committee’s report accompanying the FY12 budget resolution said, “this resolution addresses to reverse the pattern [of underinvestment in the nuclear weapons complex] by prioritizing the nuclear modernization work of the NNSA. This includes providing fiscal space for the modernization of the nuclear weapons complex...” The budget committee report further stated the budget resolution “assumes full funding for the modernization of the infrastructure that builds and maintains the nation’s nuclear weapons systems.” In May, the House passed by an overwhelming margin (322 to 96) the FY12 National Defense Authorization Act, which recognized the critical need for nuclear modernization and authorized full funding for NNSA. The bill was reported out of the House Armed Services Committee by a vote of 60 to 1. The Senate The Senate Armed Services Committee has reported its version of the NDAA—which includes full funding for the NNSA which oversees our nuclear modernization efforts. Former Commander of U.S. Strategic Command - General Kevin Chilton, USAF In testimony before the Senate Foreign Relations Committee on June 16, 2010, General Chilton was asked about the appropriate size of the nuclear stockpile, and stated: “I do not agree that it is more than is needed. I think the arsenal that we have is exactly what is needed today to provide the deterrent. And I say this in light of -- when we talk about the non-deployed portion of the arsenal, it is sized to be able to allow us to hedge against both technical failures in the current deployed arsenal and any geopolitical concerns that might… cause us to need more weapons deployed.”
10.12.2011	Chairman Mike Turner (OH-3) was joined by all eight other GOP members of his House Armed Services Subcommittee on Strategic Forces in calling on four key Senate Appropriators to honor their written commitment of “support for...full funding for the modernization of our nuclear weapons arsenal.” share: f t Washington D.C. – Chairman Mike Turner (OH-3) was joined by all eight other GOP members of his House Armed Services Subcommittee on Strategic Forces in calling on four key Senate Appropriators to honor their written commitment of “support for...full funding for the modernization of our nuclear weapons arsenal.” The members of the subcommittee with jurisdiction over our nuclear arsenal and related Department of Energy programs wrote to the Senators in response to cuts made in the FY 2012 Energy and Water Appropriations bill. The bill, reported to the Senate on September 7th by the Committee on Appropriations, would cut funding for the National Nuclear Security Administration’s (NNSA) nuclear weapons activities by $440 million (6%) from the President’s budget request, while adding money above and beyond the budget request for water projects. “These cuts are particularly disturbing because former Secretary of Defense Gates transferred $8.3 billion in top-line budget authority from the Department of Defense to NNSA over five years. As an off-the-record senior defense official recently said, ‘Secretary Gates wasn’t trying to pay for water projects,’” wrote the Members. The Members pointed out to the Senators that the cuts to NNSA occurred despite a December 16, 2010 letter from the Senators to President Obama in which they each expressed their “support for ratification of the New START Treaty and full funding for the modernization of our nuclear weapons arsenal.” In the letter to President Obama, the Senators highlighted the President’s ‘Section 1251’ report—which proposes significant funding increases for NNSA—and asks the President, “in your future budget requests to Congress, you include the funding identified in that report on nuclear weapons modernization.” The Members closed by asking the Senators, “We respectfully request that you stand by the nuclear modernization commitment made by the President and the Senate during New START ratification—and unequivocally endorsed by each of you in your December letter.”
10.11.2011	Today, Congressman Mike Turner, Chairman of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Strategic Forces, pushed back on Rep. Ed Markey’s (MA-7) call for cuts to our nuclear deterrent. share: f t Washington D.C. - Today, Congressman Mike Turner, Chairman of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Strategic Forces, pushed back on Rep. Ed Markey’s (MA-7) call for cuts to our nuclear deterrent. “Congressman Markey should be more careful before irrationally proposing policies that would gamble with our national security. At a time when Russia and China are engaging in significant nuclear modernization programs and North Korea and Iran continue their illegal nuclear weapons programs, what Mr. Markey proposes amounts to unilateral disarmament of the U.S.,” stated Turner. Our military leadership has been clear that the only way to gain further reductions to our nuclear stockpile, including those in the New START Treaty, is to modernize our nuclear deterrent. President Obama agreed with that line of thinking during the New START Treaty debate, and has pledged additional funds to modernize our nuclear stockpile. “$21.2 billion out of almost $660 billion per year in defense spending is a modest investment in a nuclear deterrent, which has kept the peace since the end of World War II. The House was clear when we passed the National Defense Authorization Act with bipartisan support this summer - if the President’s modernization plan isn’t funded, New START reductions must not occur,” added Turner. Markey in his media advisory also claims that the U.S. is spending $700 billion on nuclear weapons activities over a decade. This claim is simply not factual. The President submitted to Congress and pledged to fund nuclear modernization programs at $212 billion over ten years, or approximately $21.2 billion a year.
10.06.2011	Today Congressman Mike Turner introduced the Trade Law Enforcement Act (H.R. 3112), which offers an additional way for U.S. companies to have the United States Trade Representative (USTR) act on market access barriers that may be unlawful under any U.S. trade agreement. Currently, U.S. companies face many non-tariff barriers (NTB’s) including onerous labeling requirements, discretionary customs valuation criteria and lack of protection for intellectual property. Because of its cost and complexity, the process of petitioning USTR for assistance with NTB’s that companies believe are unlawful under a trade agreement, is simply not feasible. share: f t Today Congressman Mike Turner introduced the Trade Law Enforcement Act (H.R. 3112), which offers an additional way for U.S. companies to have the United States Trade Representative (USTR) act on market access barriers that may be unlawful under any U.S. trade agreement. Currently, U.S. companies face many non-tariff barriers (NTB’s) including onerous labeling requirements, discretionary customs valuation criteria and lack of protection for intellectual property. Because of its cost and complexity, the process of petitioning USTR for assistance with NTB’s that companies believe are unlawful under a trade agreement, is simply not feasible. “Trade agreements have the potential to increase export opportunities for U.S. businesses by removing market access barriers. However, for U.S. businesses large and small take advantage of opportunities created by trade pacts depends on the government’s willingness to enforce its trade agreements,” said Turner. While U.S. producers can petition the USTR to take action under Section 301 of the Trade Act of 1974, they seldom do. During 2010 USTR initiated only one Section 301 investigation in response to a petition. To put together a petition that has even a chance of passing USTR’s scrutiny, companies have to hire an expensive Washington law firm to compile a copious amount of information and advocate for them before the USTR. Tens of thousands of dollars later, there is no guarantee that their petition will be accepted, or that the trade practices in question will be addressed in a timely fashion. “A process which costs tens of thousands of dollars to undertake is not a realistic option for a small or medium-sized company, especially one that is losing business due to unfair trade practices. Only the U.S. government can ensure that U.S. trade agreements are enforced. U.S. companies should have every opportunity to have their complaints investigated and acted on,” added Turner. Specifically, Turner’s legislation will: Utilize a market access complaint process that the Department of Commerce’s International Trade Administration (ITA) already has in place as a starting point for possible action under Section 301 of the Trade Act of 1974. ITA will have 180 days to resolve interested party complaints that a foreign country is engaging in an act, policy or practice that acts as a non-tariff barrier; if ITA is unable to resolve the issue, the bill mandates that the Secretary of Commerce issue an opinion as to whether the reported NTB meets the criteria for mandatory USTR action under Section 301. If Commerce issues an affirmative opinion, the bill mandates that USTR initiate a Section 301 investigation. Further, the bill clarifies that subsections of the law giving USTR discretion not to start an investigation are not applicable and gives interested parties the opportunity to request a hearing.
09.22.2011	Today, Congressman Mike Turner, Chairman of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Strategic Forces was joined by five additional members of his Subcommittee in calling on the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee (OGR) to conduct an investigation in the role of the Chairman of the Federal Communications Commission (FCC), the White House, and the Harbinger Capital Partners hedge fund, in a short-circuited rule making process which threatens to jeopardize national security. share: f t Washington D.C. – Today, Congressman Mike Turner, Chairman of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Strategic Forces was joined by five additional members of his Subcommittee in calling on the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee (OGR) to conduct an investigation in the role of the Chairman of the Federal Communications Commission (FCC), the White House, and the Harbinger Capital Partners hedge fund, in a short-circuited rule making process which threatens to jeopardize national security. This comes as the FCC earlier this year, by a mere waiver of its own long established rules, approved an expansive proposal by LightSquared to build out a national broadband network even after the Deputy Secretary of Defense warned the FCC Chairman of interference to national security interests. The Subcommittee members noted that, “It is troubling to see reports of high dollar donors being given unusual consideration in the regulatory process, especially when the consequences entail what Air Force General William Shelton called ‘significant interference to military GPS.’” “Additionally, we have received reports that numerous witnesses before our committee, and likely therefore other committees, were asked during the administration’s testimony coordination process to include language with which many of them disagreed, and that some ultimately declined to include. We are concerned that this language shows an administration bias in favor of LightSquared. Such disturbing reports cannot go ignored by the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform. We urge your prompt attention,” the signers concluded.
09.14.2011	Today, Congressman Mike Turner (OH-3) sent a letter to Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner, seeking answers ignored by Auto Task Force member Ron Bloom. On June 22, 2011, Bloom, then Special Assistant to the President for Manufacturing Policy, appeared as a witness before the House Oversight & Government Reform Subcommittee on Regulatory Affairs, Stimulus Oversight, and Government Spending. During the hearing entitled, the “Lasting Implications of the General Motors Bailout”, Turner submitted to Bloom 25 written questions regarding the Pension Benefit Guarantee Corporation’s (PBGC) decisions surrounding the GM bailout and cuts to Delphi salaried retirees’ pensions. share: f t Washington D.C. – Today, Congressman Mike Turner (OH-3) sent a letter to Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner, seeking answers ignored by Auto Task Force member Ron Bloom. On June 22, 2011, Bloom, then Special Assistant to the President for Manufacturing Policy, appeared as a witness before the House Oversight & Government Reform Subcommittee on Regulatory Affairs, Stimulus Oversight, and Government Spending. During the hearing entitled, the “Lasting Implications of the General Motors Bailout”, Turner submitted to Bloom 25 written questions regarding the Pension Benefit Guarantee Corporation’s (PBGC) decisions surrounding the GM bailout and cuts to Delphi salaried retirees’ pensions. “It is my understanding that Mr. Bloom has stepped down from his position effective September 1, 2011. I am seriously concerned about Mr. Bloom’s lack of response to my inquiries regarding the Delphi salaried retirees’ pensions and expect the Administration will still respond to these questions,” writes Turner. This latest effort follows the hearing, requested by Turner, on the decision by the PBGC that resulted in approximately 15,000 salaried Delphi retirees from across the country taking a severe cut in their pension benefits. Those retirees and the American people deserve and are awaiting answers as to why the Administration’s decision resulted in a 70 percent reduction in pensions and loss of health care for salaried Delphi retirees, but not other groups. “Without explanation, members of the Auto Taskforce picked winners and losers when it came to pension benefits. Because of the substantial taxpayer investment in the auto industry, and the role of the Federal Government Agencies resulting in the reduction or elimination of these benefits, Congress has a responsibility to exercise its oversight authority in this matter and ensure that all Delphi employees receive the pensions they deserve,” stated Congressman Turner.
09.08.2011	Congressman Mike Turner released the following statement upon the President’s delivery of his speech on job creation share: f t Washington D.C. – Congressman Mike Turner released the following statement upon the President’s delivery of his speech on job creation: “While the President rightly refocused on the task of creating jobs, his proposed solution included spending billions more - even after his previous trillion dollar stimulus program which did not work. In a time when we should be focusing on reducing our deficit and creating incentives for long term job creation, the President put forward a plan that is more of the same failed spending proposals that put us in the financial crisis we currently face today."
08.24.2011	Congressman Mike Turner (OH-3) has joined House Oversight and Government Reform Committee Chairman Darrell Issa in calling for the release of all documents relating to the “topping off” of hourly Delphi worker’s pensions. This latest effort follows a hearing by the Committee, requested by Turner, on the decision by the Pension Benefit Guarantee Corporation (PBGC) that resulted in approximately 15,000 salaried Delphi retirees from across the country taking a severe cut in their pension benefits. share: f t Congressman Mike Turner (OH-3) has joined House Oversight and Government Reform Committee Chairman Darrell Issa in calling for the release of all documents relating to the “topping off” of hourly Delphi worker’s pensions. This latest effort follows a hearing by the Committee, requested by Turner, on the decision by the Pension Benefit Guarantee Corporation (PBGC) that resulted in approximately 15,000 salaried Delphi retirees from across the country taking a severe cut in their pension benefits. In the letter, the lawmaker’s noted that “the PBGC provided us with two partial disclosures of records, but did not fully comply with our request.” Turner and members of the Committee are specifically seeking “all records and communications between the PBGC and the U.S. Department of the Treasury, the President’s Automotive Task Force, the United Auto Workers, GM, Delphi Corporation and Holding, any Member of Congress or other public official, referring or relating to retirement or pension benefits for GM or Delphi Corporation employees, between November 1, 2008 and August 16, 2011.” The Committee on Oversight and Government Reform has is the House of Representatives’ main investigative committee. It is charged with the power under House Rule X to investigate “any matter” at “any time.” ###
08.16.2011	Today, Congressman Mike Turner released the following statement upon the signing of a teaming agreement between Sinclair College and Unmanned Applications Institute (UAI). share: f t Today, Congressman Mike Turner released the following statement upon the signing of a teaming agreement between Sinclair College and Unmanned Applications Institute (UAI): “Today the Dayton community has taken another step towards being a leader in the field of unmanned aerial systems (UAS). This agreement signed by Sinclair College and UAI will provide students with the tools to play an increased role in this expanding field. Already, UAS is a $100 billion industry. Currently, there is language passed by the House in the FY 2012 National Defense Authorization Act, which would place Dayton and Wilmington in a strong position to be future testing sites for UAS. An educated workforce with a focus on this field is a vital component which would help UAS become a significant job creator for our region,” said Congressman Turner. The agreement focuses on providing innovative training in the emerging industry of unmanned aerial systems. These classes will serve as the foundation for an emerging UAS program to be hosted by Sinclair College. The new class offerings will focus on the information technology side of unmanned aerial systems, including data analysis and full motion video where there is an enormous need for trained technicians.
08.05.2011	Today, Congressman Mike Turner announced that the U.S. Department of Commerce has issued a decision favorable to the U.S. candle industry. Specifically, the Department ruled that all petroleum-wax candles from China, except birthday, utility and figurine candles are subject to the antidumping duty. This ruling follows a bipartisan letter lead by Congressman Turner to the Secretary of Commerce in support of the U.S. candle producers. Since August of 1986, the U.S. has imposed duties on imports of certain candles from China to protect U.S. producers against unfair trade practices engaged in by Chinese producers. share: f t Today, Congressman Mike Turner announced that the U.S. Department of Commerce has issued a decision favorable to the U.S. candle industry. Specifically, the Department ruled that all petroleum-wax candles from China, except birthday, utility and figurine candles are subject to the antidumping duty. This ruling follows a bipartisan letter lead by Congressman Turner to the Secretary of Commerce in support of the U.S. candle producers. Since August of 1986, the U.S. has imposed duties on imports of certain candles from China to protect U.S. producers against unfair trade practices engaged in by Chinese producers. “The Department of Commerce has taken an important step to protect American candle manufacturers and their employees. China’s unfair trade practices have persisted in a number of areas and this ruling seeks to correct those disparities in the candle industry. Today, the Commerce Department has made an appropriate ruling to protect candle manufacturing jobs in Ohio,” said Turner. In August 2010, in response to overly burdensome requests from two Chinese importers, the Department of Commerce proposed limiting the scope of the order, which defines which candles are subject to the duty, to a limited number of candle shapes. The National Candle Association, including Ohio-based company Candle-Lite, were concerned that such a ruling by the Department of Commerce would allow Chinese candle producers increased access to the U.S. market, which would have allowed them to continue to engage in the unfair trade practices that were damaging the U.S. industry. “With an 8.8% unemployment in Ohio, actions like this are crucial to keeping Ohioans at work. Our government should be taking more steps like this to protect American jobs from unscrupulous trade practices by overseas competitors,” added Turner.
07.19.2011	Congressman Mike Turner, Co-Chair of the Congressional Historic Preservation Caucus, has introduced legislation to encourage homeowners to preserve homes of historical significance across the country. share: f t Congressman Mike Turner, Co-Chair of the Congressional Historic Preservation Caucus, has introduced legislation to encourage homeowners to preserve homes of historical significance across the country. The Historic Homeownership Revitalization Act (H.R. 2555) extends the tax credit currently in effect for commercial property owners to families living in historic homes. This legislation encourages the maintenance and rehabilitation of buildings which exemplify the culture and heritage of our communities. Furthermore, the Act incentivizes new construction on historic buildings; creating jobs.“Across the country there are a number of communities with aging homes, with homeowners unable to keep up with their maintenance. Extension of this tax credit ensures that the history of our neighborhoods and nation remain intact for future generations,” said Turner.The Historic Homeownership Revitalization Act would create a 20 percent tax credit -- up to $60,000 -- for homeowners who make expenditures to rehabilitate certified historic structures (listed in the National Register and is located in a registered historic district) in a way consistent with the historic character of the home and neighborhood in which the home is located.“Maintaining a historic home is important for the continuity of communities. This bill provides funds for those homeowners who make their historic home their primary residence, or companies looking to rehabilitate property for future purchasers. Keeping residents in communities and adding new neighbors is good for real estate values and the construction companies who perform the work,” added Turner.Homeowners would have a 2-year period to make qualified rehabilitation expenditures that exceed the greater of $5,000 or the taxpayer's basis in the property, and must use the house as a principal residence. The credit would also be available for developers who rehabilitate homes for sale to individuals as their principal residence.
06.23.2011	This evening the President announced that he will be withdrawing 30,000 troops from Afghanistan. That nation, according to our military leaders on the ground, remains a fragile security environment and I would be hesitant to withdraw these forces, and risk placing our remaining servicemembers at risk. share: f t Today, Congressman Mike Turner released the following statement upon the President’s announcement that he will be removing 30,000 U.S. troops from Afghanistan by the end of 2012:“This evening the President announced that he will be withdrawing 30,000 troops from Afghanistan. That nation, according to our military leaders on the ground, remains a fragile security environment and I would be hesitant to withdraw these forces, and risk placing our remaining servicemembers at risk. Stability in Afghanistan is essential to our national security and our ongoing war against terror. The hard fought successes of the 2009 surge have become more apparent throughout the country with each passing day. Prior to this decision being made, Congress needs to hear directly from our commanders on how this troop withdrawal will affect regional security and the safety of our men and women who remain deployed in Afghanistan.”
06.16.2011	The report released by the NPEF yesterday provides concrete technical data to validate the GPS interference concerns of members of our military and of the House Strategic Forces Subcommittee. share: f t Congressman Mike Turner released the following statement upon the release of the National Space-Based Positioning, Navigation, and Timing Systems Engineering Forum’s (NPEF) assessment of the effects of LightSquared’s planned deployment of a terrestrial broadband communications network to GPS receivers and GPS-dependent systems and networks: “The report released by the NPEF yesterday provides concrete technical data to validate the GPS interference concerns of members of our military and of the House Strategic Forces Subcommittee. LightSquared’s operations as currently devised, ‘cannot successfully coexist with GPS’ and would hinder our service members who are counting on an uninterrupted GPS capability to do their jobs. I appreciate the NPEF’s work and, based on their recommendations, echo their call for the Federal Communications Commission to move to rescind the conditional waiver issued to LightSquared on January 26, 2011.” NOTE: Turner authored Section 911 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2012 (H.R. 1540) which prohibits the FCC from providing final authorization for LightSquared operations until Department of Defense concerns about GPS interference have been resolved. The legislation passed in the House on May 26, 2011, with broad bipartisan support. Turner, the House Armed Services Subcommittee Chairman on Strategic Forces, has legislative jurisdiction over space and satellite systems.
06.16.2011	The President’s report to Congress is an attempt to evade Congressional approval of military action in Libya. share: f t Today, Congressman Mike Turner released the following statement upon receipt of President Obama’s report to Congress on the ongoing war in Libya:“The President’s report to Congress is an attempt to evade Congressional approval of military action in Libya. His response also fails to answer the questions I and many other Members have been asking for months. We still do not know who the rebel forces are, what the plans are if the Gadahfi regime falls, and the time frame of our commitment to this conflict. “Two weeks ago, the House passed H.Res. 292, setting the deadline for this Sunday for a response from the President on our current and future involvement in Libya. If the President does not formally seek Congress’ approval to continue military action, we must act to disapprove of the U.S. operations in Libya immediately.“On June 2nd, I introduced H.Con.Res. 58, which would formally state the House’s disapproval of the U.S. military involvement in Libya. With 77 cosponsors and bipartisan support, this bill would send a clear message to the President that the U.S. Congress does not approve the current operations in Libya.”
06.09.2011	Today during a press conference, I recognized the 11 students from the 3rd District who have received appointments to a United States Service Academy. share: f t Today during a press conference, I recognized the 11 students from the 3rd District who have received appointments to a United States Service Academy.Third District Students Appointed to U.S. Service AcademiesJoseph D. BerlingUnited States Air Force AcademyCenterville High SchoolParents: David and Ana BerlingTyler S. BertlesUnited States Military Academy at West PointCenterville High SchoolParents: Steve and Jackie BertlesAnthony J. CovingtonUnited States Naval AcademyAttended the United States Naval Academy Preparatory SchoolMiamisburg High SchoolParents: William D. Fowler and Gayle Covington FowlerWilliam C. DunlapUnited States Military Academy at West PointAttended the United States Military Academy Preparatory SchoolClinton-Massie High SchoolParents: Randall and Karla DunlapWilliam C. EisenhauerUnited States Naval AcademyArchbishop Alter High SchoolParent: Janice EisenhauerRebecca A. EsselsteinUnited States Air Force AcademyArchbishop Alter High SchoolParents: Brian and Lisa EsselsteinSean R. LeahyUnited States Naval Academy Preparatory SchoolSpringboro High SchoolParents: Timothy and Le’Anne LeahyEmilee D. LedfordUnited States Air Force AcademyMonroe High SchoolParents: Kevin and Sherry LedfordLogan M. O’SheaUnited States Naval AcademyNorthmont High SchoolParents: Terrence and Wendy O’SheaOlivia L. SchretzmanUnited States Military Academy at West PointSpringboro High SchoolParents: Lt. Col. Charles and Stacy SchretzmanBradley D. ZyndaUnited States Air Force AcademySpringboro High SchoolParents: Bradley Zynda and Karen Davis
06.02.2011	Today, Congressman Mike Turner introduced a House Concurrent Resolution (H.Con.Res. 58) which states that “Congress does not approve United States intervention in Libya.” share: f t Today, Congressman Mike Turner introduced a House Concurrent Resolution (H.Con.Res. 58) which states that “Congress does not approve United States intervention in Libya.” The resolution was introduced with the bipartisan support of 62 original cosponsors.“Since the President engaged the United States in military action in Libya, he has not explained to Congress what the U.S.' role is, nor has he clearly outlined how that role will be carried out. In the over 60 days since U.S. involvement began, we have watched our mission evolve considerably. Recently, U.S. Adm. Samuel Locklear, Commander of the Allied Joint Force Command in Naples overseeing the operation, even suggested that this effort will likely require soldiers on the ground to ensure stability in the region once Gaddafi is removed” said Turner.Turner added that, “Secretary Gates came before Congress and was unable to answer basic questions such as who the rebel forces are. Additionally, we don’t know their plans for a government structure, political ideology, their geopolitical view towards their neighbors or the U.S, or their commitment to domestic diversity. We are also unsure about the status of Gaddafi’s weapons of mass destruction, and if al-Qaeda is operating in the country – where they had not been previously.”“This action thus far has placed us in a dangerous position and this resolution sends a clear message to the President that Congress disapproves of our role in Libya,” concluded Turner.
06.01.2011	Congressman Mike Turner strengthened his language in the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA), which requires the Secretary of Defense to notify Congress if he determines there is widespread interference with the military’s use of the Global Positioning System (GPS) caused by a commercial communications service. share: f t Congressman Mike Turner strengthened his language in the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA), which requires the Secretary of Defense to notify Congress if he determines there is widespread interference with the military’s use of the Global Positioning System (GPS) caused by a commercial communications service. The revised language states that the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) shall not provide final authorization for LightSquared operations until Defense Department concerns about GPS interference have been resolved. Turner, the House Armed Services Subcommittee Chairman on Strategic Forces, has legislative jurisdiction over space and satellite systems. Passage by the full House today sends the bill to the Senate for their action.“Our military is heavily reliant on an uninterrupted GPS capability to do their jobs. The risk to our forces of the widespread denial of GPS was too great and required action. I am glad that my amendment ensuring that the Department of Defense’s concerns are addressed before LightSquared moves ahead passed overwhelming in the House today,” said Turner.In January 2011, the FCC granted a conditional waiver to a single commercial communications company, called LightSquared, to build tens of thousands of ground stations that may cause widespread interference to neighboring GPS signals. The Commander of Air Force Space Command, General William Shelton, told Turner in March 2011 that, based on analysis he had seen to-date, “that virtually every GPS receiver out there would be affected.”Turner further stated, “It is unacceptable for our armed forces to be put at greater risk or made less effective as a result of LightSquared’s operations. Congress and the Defense Department must have assurances from the FCC and this Administration that it will fully resolve the harmful interference issue prior to granting LightSquared final authorization to provide service. Our troops are depending on our government, and the FCC, to do the right thing.”
06.01.2011	“This evening a bipartisan majority of the House recognized that Washington cannot continue its path of excessive spending, without enacting real reforms that will cut spending and create jobs. share: f t Congressman Mike Turner released the following statement upon the House rejecting an increase of the nation’s statutory debt limit:“This evening a bipartisan majority of the House recognized that Washington cannot continue its path of excessive spending, without enacting real reforms that will cut spending and create jobs. Over the past four years, I have voted against $2.3 trillion of government spending. The growth of our economy and a balanced budget will not be realized by borrowing an additional $2 trillion we don’t have and passing the bill on to American families.In the past five years alone, our national debt has increased $4.8 trillion, or 15 percent per year. Nearly a third of that debt was accumulated in the past three years and can be directly attributed to deficit spending and the unsustainable growth of our entitlement programs.It’s time to get serious about our budget and our priorities. In order to balance our budget and begin to pay off this massive debt, we must begin to make the tough choices that have been put off for far too long.”
06.01.2011	The appropriations bill released by the Energy and Water Appropriations Subcommittee contains a $1.1 billion reduction in funding for the Defense Activities of the Department of Energy from the levels authorized by the National Defense Authorization Act passed last week by the House. This is a large reduction, which would negatively impact programs to modernize our nuclear security infrastructure and refurbish our aging nuclear weapons. share: f t Congressman Mike Turner released the following statement upon the release of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Water and Energy’s bill which contains $1.1 billion in cuts to the Department of Energy’s Defense Activities:“The appropriations bill released by the Energy and Water Appropriations Subcommittee contains a $1.1 billion reduction in funding for the Defense Activities of the Department of Energy from the levels authorized by the National Defense Authorization Act passed last week by the House. This is a large reduction, which would negatively impact programs to modernize our nuclear security infrastructure and refurbish our aging nuclear weapons.“However, it comes as a surprise since House Budget Chairman Paul Ryan’s budget resolution which passed the House ‘addresses to reverse the pattern [of underinvestment in the nuclear weapons complex] by prioritizing the nuclear modernization work of the National Nuclear Security Administration.’ I fully recognize and appreciate the fiscal challenges we face. They are not easily overcome. In the face of these challenges we must set priorities, and our top priority must be the defense of the nation.“The next few years are an important time for our strategic deterrent—we will either provide for a robust deterrent force, or allow our current forces to age and deteriorate. Our strategic deterrent provides the ultimate guarantee of our defense and that of our allies. This fact needs to be taken into account as we continue the budget and appropriations processes.”
05.31.2011	Today, the House passed the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) which included major parts of Congressman Mike Turner’s “New START Treaty Implementation Act.” share: f t Today, the House passed the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) which included major parts of Congressman Mike Turner’s “New START Treaty Implementation Act.” As the NDAA heads to the Senate, Turner’s provisions will codify the White House’s own promised “To-Do List” from last year’s New START Treaty debate. Yesterday, Sen. Jon Kyl introduced his nearly identical legislation (S. 1097) in the Senate. This follows the White House’s announcement that the President’s senior advisors would recommend he veto the bill if the New START Implementation Act provisions were included.“It was surprising to learn that the President had issued a veto threat even though the provisions of this bill are consistent with his own Administration’s stated policies. Will he not modernize our nuclear forces as he had stated? Will he unilaterally withdraw nuclear forces from Europe? If the answers to these questions are no, then he should have no issue with this legislation,” said Turner, who is the Chairman of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Strategic Forces. “During last year’s New START debate, a bipartisan consensus formed around the need for modernizing our nuclear weapons, delivery systems, and infrastructure. The President has promised a robust ten-year modernization program, but the project to create a sustainable deterrent will transcend several administrations. We need to act now and codify the promised ‘To-Do-List’ for modernizing our nuclear forces,” added Turner.“I look forward to working with Sen. Jon Kyl and the Senate as this legislation makes its way to the President. I am grateful for the support of House Armed Services Chairman Buck McKeon, and other members of the committee and House who spoke in support of these provisions. These are leaders who understand what our strategic capabilities mean to the defense of this nation and our allies,” noted Turner. Highlights of Turner’s New START Treaty Implementation Act included in the House passed NDAA: Modernizing our nuclear weapons and related infrastructure, as the President has pledged to do in a November 2010 report on nuclear modernization plans, and other statements. Limits funds for reductions of deployed weapons required by New START Treaty pending a joint certification by the Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of Energy that the modernization plan is indeed proceeding. In the event modernization is not proceeding, it requires a six month freeze on funds. Treaty implementation is thus linked to progress in nuclear weapons modernization, but the provision is carefully crafted to avoid treaty default. Prohibits further unilateral reductions of deployed and non-deployed nuclear weapons below New START Treaty levels: Prohibits the executive branch from making unilateral reductions to the non-deployed hedge stockpile until the full functionality (in the 2024 time frame) of the new plutonium and uranium facilities (CMRR-NF, UPF)—dates and criteria previously laid out in the administration’s own May 2010 report on the Stockpile Stewardship and Management Plan and in more recent testimony. Amends the U.S. Code to prevent the executive branch from unilaterally reducing U.S. deployed or non-deployed nuclear weapons, except as otherwise and specifically provided by law—by a future treaty or Act of Congress. Expresses concern about the administration’s stated plans to modify U.S. deterrence requirements and nuclear strategy merely for the purpose of justifying further arms control reductions. Requires the President to notify Congress before implementing any changes to nuclear strategy, to certify that the U.S. will not adopt a counter-value targeting strategy and that the triad will be preserved (consistent with section 1058 of the House-passed FY11 NDAA), and to wait 90 days after the congressional notification. Preserving U.S. freedom of action with respect to missile defense by amending the U.S. Code to prohibit any international agreements limiting U.S. missile defense capabilities except with specific authorization—by a new treaty or Act of Congress. Sustaining our extended deterrent for NATO by counseling against unilateral reduction, consolidation, withdrawal of our non-strategic nuclear weapons in Europe, without either host nation request or NATO High Level Group request and certain other conditions. Codification of the “1251 Report” from the FY2010 NDAA on modernization of the nuclear stockpile, delivery systems, infrastructure.
05.27.2011	Congressman Mike Turner successfully included several provisions in the House passed National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) today which will have a far reaching impact on Southwest Ohio and Wright-Patterson AFB share: f t Congressman Mike Turner successfully included several provisions in the House passed National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) today which will have a far reaching impact on Southwest Ohio and Wright-Patterson AFB if approved by the Senate and signed into law by the President. Turner’s amendments to the annual Defense Department bill include provisions which enhance leadership at the Air Force Institute of Technology (AFIT) and the Air Force Research Lab (AFRL), meeting the airspace needs for Unmanned Aerial Systems, and halts the transfer of jobs related to the Enterprise Logistics System Program at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base.AFIT Leadership“AFIT must have military leadership in order to maintain preeminence and relevance in the years ahead. This language and my legislation would provide that top level military leadership while simultaneously ensuring educational continuity by establishing a SES level Provost position. Furthermore this proposal is consistent with Secretary Gates’ goal of reducing the number of flag officers in our armed forces,” said Turner.Turner’s language included in the House reported bill on May 11th is identical to legislation that he and Sen. Rob Portman (OH) introduced on May 25th. Their bills closely mirror the leadership structure at the U.S. Navy operated Post Graduate School. The proposal allows for the Secretary of the Air Force to fill the top slot at AFIT with either an active duty Colonel or a retired Brigadier General or higher. This would ensure the AFIT retains the attention of top level leadership while providing the Secretary of the Air Force discretion as to filling the position with active duty or retired personnel. The Naval Post Graduate School is currently led by a Navy Vice Admiral, the Air Force equivalent of a Lieutenant General. The language also creates a SES level Provost position to prevent against any disruptions in academic and institutional affairs that can be generated from regular changes in leadership. These options would ensure continuity in the Institute’s approach towards educating our nation’s military leaders while adhering to Secretary Gate’s proposal to eliminate the number of flag officers in our military.AFRL Hiring Authority“With my provision included in committee, and now passed by the House, laboratories would have the edge to stay competitive with the commercial market and bring talented personnel into Department of Defense. Our nation’s Defense Laboratories are experiencing both a critical hiring need and a severe shortage of engineers and scientists with advanced degree. This is something which could affect the future needs of the Air Force Research Lab,” said Turner.Specifically, Turner’s language included via an amendment while the NDAA was being considered by the full House Armed Services Committee eliminates the sunset provision of the Defense Laboratory hiring authority which he had placed in the FY09 NDAA. The expedited hire authority provided under Section 1108 applies to scientific and engineering positions which require an advanced degree.The provision allows AFRL to waive some advertising and preference requirements, but maintains the requirement that the applicant meet all relevant qualifications. Since the enactment of the legislation, AFRL and the other defense laboratories have been able to reduce the hiring time by weeks and has become a critical tool of AFRL personnel management to hire the best scientific talent. A recent Defense Department report showed that “direct hire” generally cut the number of days it took to hire an applicant from 147 to 91.Meeting Airspace Needs for Defense-Related UAS Research“This House passed bill allows the AFRL to play a role in the decisions on Unmanned Aerial Systems testing needs. These are experts who have pioneered the expanding field on unmanned flight. Ohio, the birthplace of flight will continue that tradition through AFRL which will play a key role in integrating UAS into the National Airspace System,” noted Turner.After Turner had included this same provision in the FY 09 NDAA, the House Armed Services Committee voted to include it once again. The committee noted that the availability of special use airspace is important to research related to Unmanned Aerial Systems (UAS) and the needs of our national defense. The proliferation of technology enabling the use of UAS represents a clear future threat to national security; however, lack of special use airspace to research detection techniques is a potential impediment to the nation’s ability to counter this emerging threat. The committee encouraged discussions between the Air Force Research Laboratory to explore ways for the FAA and the Department of Defense to work together on problems related to integrating UAS into the National Airspace System. The approved bill with Turner’s language urges the Department of Defense and the Federal Aviation Administration to place a high priority on meeting national defense needs for special use airspace related to UAS research, including addressing defense needs for special use airspace for research in “detect and destroy” technologies.Halting the Transfer of Jobs from Wright-Patt“Prior to the consolidation of this program, Congress must have a full understanding about the costs associated with this move. Taxpayer dollars can’t be spent without justification or precise calculation. Prior to the announcement of this decision Congress was given no explanation as to why this move is essential to our warfighters, and if it is cost efficient for our citizens,” said Turner.With the support of 300 fellow members, the House adopted Turner’s amendment to the NDAA which would halt funding for the consolidation of the Enterprise Logistics System Program pending a report to Congress. The report would be a cost-benefit analysis of the consolidation performed by the Air Force, which then must be approved by the House Armed Services Committee.Turner’s amendment follows the release of a widely distributed email by Brigadier General Kenneth Moran which indicated that the Air Force will consolidate the Enterprise Logistics portfolio, which is managed at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base, with the Enterprise Information Systems portfolio, which is managed at Gunter Annex, Alabama. General Moran heads the Enterprise Logistics System Directorate at Wright-Patterson.
05.26.2011	The capture of Mladic signals the start of the justice process the victims of Srebrenica and their families. However, it does not mean that the rifts in this region have fully healed. share: f t Congressman Mike Turner released the following statement upon the news of the capture of Ratko Mladic, the fugitive Commander accused of masterminding the massacre at Srebrenica in 1995:“In 2009, I attended a funeral for over 500 victims who died during the genocide in Srebrenica, and I saw firsthand the pain and suffering of the victim’s families. The capture of Mladic signals the start of the justice process the victims of Srebrenica and their families. However, it does not mean that the rifts in this region have fully healed. With Mladic’s capture comes the best opportunity for stability and reconciliation in the Balkan region, in addition to Serbia’s integration into the EU.We must remain committed to lasting peace in this region. On May 9, 2011, High Representative Valentin Inzko made clear to the United Nations Security Council that Bosnia and Herzegovina is in the midst of its worst crisis since the Dayton Peace Accords were signed in 1995. Now is the time for the United States, along with members of the international community, to take swift action and renew our commitment to lasting peace in the Balkans. The stability of the region would be bolstered by hosting a Dayton Peace Accords II. I have made the U.S. Department of State aware of the urgent need of another Dayton summit, and will continue to press ahead as we seek to avoid conflict, and ensure peace.”
05.26.2011	Today, Congressman Mike Turner announced that Clinton County has received the designation as a Historically Underutilized Business Zones (HUBZone) in the Small Business Administration’s program. share: f t Today, Congressman Mike Turner announced that Clinton County has received the designation as a Historically Underutilized Business Zones (HUBZone) in the Small Business Administration’s program. This initiative helps small businesses in urban and rural communities gain preferential access to federal procurement opportunities.“Clinton County is home to a strong number of skilled workers and small businesses. Now they’ll have an advantage in securing federal contracts at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base outside Dayton, the Department of Energy (Nuclear Cleanup) in Cincinnati, as well as a number of other federal offices throughout the region and nation,” said Turner. These preferences go to small businesses that obtain HUBZone certification in part by employing staff who live in HUBZones. The company must also maintain a "principal office" in one of these specially designated areas.“This designation places our local small businesses and their employees in a better position to expand operations and potentially hire more workers as a result of their contracts with the federal government. I look forward to seeing that growth in the years to come,” added Turner.
05.25.2011	U.S. Senator Rob Portman (R-Ohio), a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, and Congressman Mike Turner, a member of the House Armed Services Committee, introduced legislation today to ensure the Air Force Institute of Technology (AFIT) remains the premier institute for defense-focused, graduate-level education. share: f t U.S. Senator Rob Portman (R-Ohio), a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, and Congressman Mike Turner, a member of the House Armed Services Committee, introduced legislation today to ensure the Air Force Institute of Technology (AFIT) remains the premier institute for defense-focused, graduate-level education. The measure would permanently require AFIT’s top post to be held by an active or retired military officer. The Air Force is considering downgrading it to a civilian position, which would significantly diminish AFIT’s stature and ability to retain top level leadership. “Having a military officer at the helm is critical to ensuring that AFIT remains a world class institution for advanced studies on defense related engineering and management as well technical professional continuing education,” said Portman. “AFIT has awarded thousands of degrees for more than 50 years to students who have made great contributions to America’s air and space forces. This proposal will strengthen the Institution’s future by enabling it to attract top notch leadership and students, who will fulfill its mission to advance air, space, and cyberspace power for the nation.”“AFIT must have military leadership in order to maintain preeminence and relevance in the years ahead. This legislation would provide that top level military leadership while simultaneously ensuring educational continuity by establishing an SES level Provost position. Furthermore this proposal is consistent with Secretary Gates’ goal of reducing the number of flag officers in our armed forces,” said Turner.The legislation, which would ensure AFIT is run in a manner consistent to the way the Naval Postgraduate School is run, would allow the Secretary of the Air Force to fill the top post with either an active duty Colonel, or a retired Brigadier General or higher. The language also creates an SES level Provost position to prevent against any disruptions in academic and institutional affairs that can be generated from regular changes in leadership. These options would ensure continuity in the Institute’s approach towards educating our nation’s military leaders while adhering to Secretary Gates’ proposal to eliminate the number of flag officers in our military.
05.23.2011	Congressman Mike Turner announced today that he will be offering an amendment to the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA), which would halt funding for the consolidation of the Enterprise Logistics System Program pending a report to Congress. share: f t Congressman Mike Turner announced today that he will be offering an amendment to the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA), which would halt funding for the consolidation of the Enterprise Logistics System Program pending a report to Congress. The report would be a cost-benefit analysis of the consolidation performed by the Air Force, which then must be approved by the House Armed Services Committee.“Prior to the consolidation of this program, Congress must have a full understanding about the costs associated with this move. In a time of strained budgets, we must be sure that this move is of benefit to both the taxpayers and our warfighters,” said Turner.Turner’s amendment follows the release of a widely distributed email by Brigadier General Kenneth Moran which indicated that the Air Force will consolidate the Enterprise Logistics portfolio, which is managed at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base, with the Enterprise Information Systems portfolio, which is managed at Gunter Annex, Alabama. General Moran heads the Enterprise Logistics System Directorate at Wright-Patterson.“In the past attempts have been made to consolidate this program. Each time we’ve heard of ‘justifications,’ but we’ve yet to see exactly what those are. This study ensures those justifications are explained, studied, and then examined by Congress,” added Turner.
05.14.2011	Congressman Mike Turner successfully included language in the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA), which requires the Secretary of Defense to notify Congress if he determines there is widespread interference with the military’s use of the Global Positioning System (GPS) caused by a commercial communications service. share: f t Congressman Mike Turner successfully included language in the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA), which requires the Secretary of Defense to notify Congress if he determines there is widespread interference with the military’s use of the Global Positioning System (GPS) caused by a commercial communications service. Turner, the House Armed Services Subcommittee Chairman on Strategic Forces, has legislative jurisdiction over space and satellite systems, included the provision in his Mark of the NDAA last week. Passage by the full committee by a vote of 60-1 late Wednesday night will bring the bill to a vote before the full House in two weeks.“When it comes to GPS spectrum, government agencies must consult with the Defense Department on any effects. Our servicemembers who are on the ground in two wars count on an uninterrupted GPS capability to do their jobs. This language creates a public notification so we know the magnitude of the problem,” said Turner.In January 2011, the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) granted a conditional waiver to a single commercial communications company, called LightSquared, to build tens of thousands of ground stations that may cause widespread interference to neighboring GPS signals. The Commander of Air Force Space Command, General William Shelton, told Turner in March 2011 that, based on analysis he had seen to-date, “that virtually every GPS receiver out there would be affected.”Turner further stated, “We need our government, and the FCC, to do the right thing. It is unacceptable for our warfighters to be put at greater risk or made less effective as a result of LightSquared’s operations. We need assurances from the FCC and this Administration that it will fully resolve the harmful interference issue prior to granting LightSquared final authorization to provide service.”
05.13.2011	Congressman Mike Turner successfully included language in the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) yesterday which will have a far reaching impact on Southwest Ohio if approved by the full Congress and signed into law by the President. share: f t Congressman Mike Turner successfully included language in the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) yesterday which will have a far reaching impact on Southwest Ohio if approved by the full Congress and signed into law by the President. Turner’s amendments to the annual Defense Department bill include provisions which affect: leadership at the Air Force Institute of Technology, the Air Force Research Lab, and meeting the airspace needs for Unmanned Aerial Systems. AFIT Leadership “AFIT military leadership in order to maintain preeminence and relevance in the years ahead,” said Turner. “My legislation would provide that top level military leadership while simultaneously ensuring educational continuity by establishing a SES level Provost position,” stated Turner. Turner’s language closely mirrors the leadership structure at the U.S. Navy operated Post Graduate School. The proposal allows for the Secretary of the Air Force to fill the top slot at AFIT with either an active duty Colonel or a retired Brigadier General or higher. This would ensure the AFIT retains the attention of top level leadership while providing the Secretary of the Air Force discretion as to filling the position with active duty or retired personnel. The Naval Post Graduate School is currently led by a Navy Vice Admiral, the Air Force equivalent of a Lieutenant General. The language also creates a SES level Provost position to prevent against any disruptions in academic and institutional affairs that can be generated from regular changes in leadership. These options would ensure continuity in the Institute’s approach towards educating our nation’s military leaders while adhering to Secretary Gate’s proposal to eliminate the number of flag officers in our military. AFRL Hiring Authority “Our nation’s Defense Laboratories are experiencing both a critical hiring need and a severe shortage of engineers and scientists with advanced degrees. This language helps laboratories stay competitive with the commercial market and brings talented personnel into Department of Defense,” said Turner. Specifically, Turner’s amendment eliminates the sunset provision of the Defense Laboratory hiring authority which he had placed in the FY09 NDAA. The expedited hire authority provided under Section 1108 applies to scientific and engineering positions which require an advanced degree. The provision allows AFRL to waive some advertising and preference requirements, but maintains the requirement that the applicant meet all relevant qualifications. Since the enactment of the legislation, AFRL and the other defense laboratories have been able to reduce the hiring time by weeks and has become a critical tool of AFRL personnel management to hire the best scientific talent. A recent Defense Department report showed that “direct hire” generally cut the number of days it took to hire an applicant from 147 to 91. Meeting Airspace Needs for Defense-Related UAS Research“This amendment places the decisions on Unmanned Aerial Systems testing needs at the feet of the AFRL. These are experts who have pioneered the expanding field on unmanned flight. If signed into law by the President, AFRL will play a key role in integrating UAS into the National Airspace System,” noted Turner. After Turner had included this same provision in the FY 09 NDAA, the House Armed Services Committee voted to include it once again. The committee noted that the availability of special use airspace is important to research related to Unmanned Aerial Systems (UAS) and the needs of our national defense. The proliferation of technology enabling the use of UAS represents a clear future threat to national security; however, lack of special use airspace to research detection techniques is a potential impediment to the nation’s ability to counter this emerging threat. The committee encouraged discussions between the Air Force Research Laboratory to explore ways for the FAA and the Department of Defense to work together on problems related to integrating UAS into the National Airspace System. The committee’s approved bill with Turner’s language urges the Department of Defense and the Federal Aviation Administration to place a high priority on meeting national defense needs for special use airspace related to UAS research, including addressing defense needs for special use airspace for research in “detect and destroy” technologies.
05.05.2011	These funds would mean roughly 60 M1A2 Abrams tanks would be produced over the next year, ensuring the plant does not idle as previously planned. Thousands of workers contribute to the production of the M1A2 at the Lima, OH facility. share: f t Congressman Mike Turner commended the inclusion of $272 million for tank production in the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Tactical Air and Land Forces Mark of the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA). These funds would mean roughly 60 M1A2 Abrams tanks would be produced over the next year, ensuring the plant does not idle as previously planned. Thousands of workers contribute to the production of the M1A2 at the Lima, OH facility.“I want to commend Chairman Bartlett for including these funds in his Mark of the NDAA. If this language makes it through Congress and is signed by the President, workers at this Ohio facility would continue to modernize tanks for our warfighters. These workers and their jobs require tremendous skill and dedication; we simply cannot shut down this plant and expect them to wait around for it to start up again. This plant is vital to jobs in Ohio, and is a unique facility which crafts equipment for our soldiers and marines,” stated Turner. Congressmen Turner and House Armed Services Subcommittee on Tactical Air and Land Forces Chairman Roscoe Bartlett (MD-6) visited the Lima Tank Facility on April 20th. Prior to this announcement, production of the Abrams M1A2 was set to end in 2013 and was not planned to start again until 2016. Lima is the only facility in the country that builds these tanks for the U.S. Army and the U.S. Marine Corps. “Thanks to Congressman Michael Turner’s diligence, I had an opportunity to visit the facilities in Lima, Ohio where Abrams tanks are assembled. The most important things I learned came from talking with some of the men and women that make them. This Tactical Air and Land Forces mark for the FY 12 National Defense Authorization Act has $272 million that will keep the Abrams lines warm. It reflects the reality that our industrial base cannot be turned on and off like a light switch. It will likely be more economical to maintain the capability our country needs to build armored vehicles while also providing our National Guard with the same modernized equipment as our active duty personnel,” said Congressman Roscoe Bartlett. During their visit, the lawmakers received an overview and tour of the production facilities, as well as a demonstration of the M1A2 tank and met with the Ohioans who produce the M1A2. They were accompanied by LTG Robert P. Lennox, the Army Deputy Chief of Staff, G-8.
05.05.2011	This decision is important for the defense of our NATO allies, and ultimately strengthens the defense of our homeland. share: f t Mike Turner released the following statement upon the announcement that Romania will host missile interceptors as part of a planned U.S. missile defense shield over Europe:“I welcome this announcement by President Traian Basescu which furthers our shared commitment to a strong missile defense initiative. This decision is important for the defense of our NATO allies, and ultimately strengthens the defense of our homeland. This facility will help to counter threats from short and medium range missiles which will be key to deterring the growing threats from Iran.”
05.04.2011	Mike Turner, the chairman of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Strategic Forces, today released the following opening statement for the subcommittee’s markup of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2012: share: f t Mike Turner, the chairman of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Strategic Forces, today released the following opening statement for the subcommittee’s markup of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2012:“It has been a pleasure working with my friend the Ranking Member, Ms. Sanchez, to put together this year’s Mark. The Ranking Member and I undertook an ambitious oversight agenda for the subcommittee and, over the past three months, we have held four hearings, four briefings, and six educational briefings.“These sessions helped us craft a Mark that contains many sound measures and budget recommendations that will provide key capabilities to our warfighters and strengthen our nation’s strategic forces. In a bipartisan manner, we emphasize accountability, identify opportunities for cost savings and efficiencies, focus on enhancing and evolving existing capabilities, and seek to foster competition while also sustaining the industrial base and intellectual capital supporting our national security infrastructure. “The Strategic Forces Subcommittee has jurisdiction over complex and, sometimes, controversial programs and issues involving nuclear weapons, missile defense, space and intelligence. We won’t agree on everything, and I anticipate we will have some substantive debates on policy differences during the full committee markup next week—particularly on missile defense and nuclear issues. However, we have forged significant common ground in this Mark, and I deeply appreciate the Ranking Member’s partnership in this effort.“The new level of transparency introduced with this year’s NDAA enabled the public to access and review the Mark prior to mark-up. Therefore, rather than provide a detailed summary, I will note a few key highlights. “The Mark before the subcommittee includes:$15.5 billion for the Department of Energy’s Atomic Energy Defense Activities, not including defense nuclear nonproliferation programs; $10.1 billion for ballistic missile defense programs, $109.7 million above the President’s request; and Approximately $10.1 billion for unclassified national security space programs. “In the past few years, a strong bipartisan and bicameral consensus has been forged over the need for modernization of the nuclear security enterprise. This way was paved two years ago with the important work done by the bipartisan Strategic Posture Commission, which was initiated by this subcommittee. It continued with the Senate’s debate on the New START treaty, and the Administration’s commitment to a long-term modernization plan that includes refurbishment of our nuclear forces and infrastructure. “In March, all 16 members of this subcommittee sent a letter to the Budget Committee urging them to support NNSA’s funding increases and to ensure such funds are categorized as national defense. The resulting budget resolution ‘prioritiz[es] the nuclear modernization work of the National Nuclear Security Administration.’ This is a significant victory, and shows what we can accomplish through bipartisanship.“Today’s Mark is the next step in this year’s legislative process, as well as the much longer process to reinvigorate the nuclear enterprise. For the Department of Energy’s national security programs, excluding non-proliferation activities—which are addressed in the full committee mark—the Mark fully funds the Administration’s $7.6 billion dollar request for nuclear modernization, stockpile stewardship, and stockpile management. It supports important warhead life extension programs, science and engineering campaigns, and production activities. It also fully funds Naval Reactors at $1.2 billion and Defense Environmental Cleanup at $5.4 billion.“It contains a provision that would require the NNSA Administrator and Assistant Secretary of Energy for Environmental Management to determine if any funds budgeted for contractor pension plans are in excess of the funds required by law to fully fund these pension plans. The provision would enable NNSA and DOE to then use these excess funds to address high-priority shortfalls. Last November, the Administration pledged a $4.1 billion increase in modernization funding over the next five years. But upon closer inspection, $1.5 billion of this—or, 37-percent—is allocated to contractor employee pension plans, not modernization. This provision does not modify the pensions of our nuclear scientists and engineers. We strongly support fully funding these pension plans and keeping the promises made. However, should economic conditions improve and leave excess funds after the pensions are fully funded, the Mark would allow NNSA and DOE to reallocate those funds back into their mission work and into modernization efforts.“The Mark also requires NNSA to report on its approach to construction project management to build the committee’s confidence that NNSA can simultaneously execute two large-scale construction projects at Los Alamos and Y-12. The committee understands the importance of these facilities and wants to ensure NNSA is set up for success.“Additionally, the Mark addresses several aspects of the defense nuclear enterprise. Alongside the annual stockpile assessment required by the three lab directors and STRATCOM commander, the Mark would require STRATCOM, the Air Force, and the Navy, to provide a parallel assessment of nuclear delivery platforms and the nuclear command and control system. The Mark would also codify the President’s commitment to provide Congress with an annual modernization plan for the nuclear weapons stockpile, delivery systems, and complex. “As I have said in previous hearings, I remain concerned about the Administration’s push for further nuclear force reductions beyond New START Treaty levels. I have concerns that the Administration is considering changes to long-standing nuclear guidance to justify further cuts. The President’s national security advisor recently commented that, “We're making preparations for the next round of nuclear reductions” and that “the Department of Defense will… develop options for further reductions in our current nuclear stockpile.” Later this week I plan to introduce a standalone bill to address these concerns. I also intend to introduce amendments on this at full committee, per the Chairman’s guidance.“In the meantime, the bipartisan Mark before the committee contains a provision requiring the Secretary of Defense to submit an implementation plan for the New START treaty, and a Sense of Congress that any reductions be supported by thorough analysis—which we have not yet seen—and that specific criteria must be developed to guide any future reductions. “In the area of missile defense, the Mark makes several funding recommendations that reflect the priority the committee places on ensuring the systems we have today are effective and can be smartly evolved. The Mark provides an additional $100 million for the Ground-based Midcourse Defense (GMD) system to accelerate resolution of the exo-atmospheric kill vehicle (EKV) test failure, restore funds that were harvested from other GMD program and testing activities to fix the EKV, and begin acquisition of long-lead components deemed not part of the December 2010 test failure. The Administration has repeatedly cut this program in its budget requests: in Fiscal Year 2010, it was slashed by $445 million, in this year’s budget request by $185 million, and the outyear spending profile is $1 billion less than was projected a year ago. While the Ranking Member and I won’t agree on this funding increase, I want to make clear that I place a priority on fixing GMD and ensuring the American people have confidence in the only missile defense system that protects the United States homeland from long-range ballistic missile threats. “The Mark requires the Secretary of Defense to certify that the Missile Defense Agency has thoroughly investigated the root cause of the recent test-flight failures and that MDA’s plan to resolve these failures is sufficient. The Mark would also require the Secretary to submit a hedging strategy as part of the Phased Adaptive Approach (PAA) for protection of the U.S. homeland, as promised by defense officials in testimony earlier this year. “The Mark also provides additional funds for Aegis interceptor procurement and THAAD production. There is bipartisan concern that the current procurement plans for these systems are insufficient to meet the deployment plans of the PAA. There has been significant progress in the implementation of PAA over the past year. Just yesterday, the President of Romania announced the location for an Aegis Ashore site planned for 2015. And, two weeks ago Aegis successfully intercepted an intermediate range ballistic missile target in a test flight. “The Mark would provide additional funds for technology risk reduction for the Standard Missile (SM)-3 Block IIA interceptor—an important cooperative effort with Japan and key capability for the PAA—and provide a 104-percent increase in funds for important U.S.-Israeli cooperative programs. Last month’s rocket attacks on Israel, and the successful intercept of those rockets by Israel’s newly deployed Iron Dome system, was a stark reminder of the need for these capabilities.“The Mark also reflects some tough choices regarding future missile defense capabilities. While the Mark increases funding for promising and innovative directed energy research, it recommends no funds for the Precision Tracking Space System (PTSS). The Mark notes concerns about the acquisition strategy and the affordability of continuing both PTSS and the Airborne Infrared (ABIR) system—both of which are planned to provide larger raid size tracking and support early intercept opportunities. The Mark does, however, recommend additional funds to accelerate ABIR, based on recommendations contained in the Joint Capabilities Mix-3 study. “The Mark recommends a $150 million decrease to the Medium Extended Air Defense System (MEADS) and fences the remaining fiscal year 2012 funds. This reduction and fence is recommended on the basis that the Department can negotiate a multilateral contract termination, which would lower U.S. liabilities, or further restructure the program. The Mark expresses concern about authorizing over $800 million in fiscal year 2012 and 2013 for a program that the Department does not intend to procure, and whose record of performance, according to a DOD fact sheet, “might ordinarily make it a candidate for cancellation.” The Army Chief of Staff testified before the committee in March that he was not convinced the MEADS proof-of-concept was viable. The Mark encourages the Department to immediately identify and harvest promising MEADS technologies, whether U.S. or partner developed, and transition those technologies into a Patriot upgrade effort or other viable program of record. “In the area of national security space, the Mark continues to provide stable funding for important space acquisition programs in the areas of: satellite communications, GPS, missile warning, space situational awareness, and launch. “The Mark contains a provision that would authorize the Air Force to enter into a fixed price contract to procure two Advanced Extremely High Frequency (AEHF) satellites and incrementally fund those satellites over five years. The committee understands that such authority—requested by the Air Force as part of its new Evolutionary Acquisition for Space Efficiency (EASE) approach—would lead to significant cost savings, improve stability in the space industrial base, and allow for investments in technology that would lower the risk for future programs. “The Mark also requires the Secretary of Defense to notify Congress if a space- or terrestrial-based commercial communications service is or will cause widespread harmful interference. The committee has learned that the FCC issued a conditional authorization for a commercial company to provide a communications service whose signal is a billion times stronger than GPS and has the potential to jam millions of GPS users, including the military, emergency responders, air traffic systems, and myriad commercial applications. The committee wants to ensure our armed forces are not made vulnerable and less effective as a result of FCC’s decision, and hopes to work with our colleagues on other committees to bring forward stronger language as the bill is brought to the floor.“Previous defense bills have noted concerns about the viability of the rocket propulsion industrial base, specifically solid rocket motors, and the impact on DOD resulting from NASA’s decision to end the Shuttle and terminate the Constellation program. This year’s budget request for the Evolved Expendable Launch Vehicle (EELV) and Trident D5 program reflects that impact. The Mark would require the President to develop a national rocket propulsion strategy that spans the affected federal government. I want to thank our colleagues on the intelligence and science committees for their support of this cross-agency mandate. The Mark would also provide funds for common propulsion technology development, consistent with recommendations from a March 2011 DOD report on the sustainment of the solid rocket motor industrial base. “Lastly, the Mark contains several provisions that eliminate or consolidate reporting requirements, and direct DOD and NNSA to identify additional efficiency opportunities. “In conclusion, I believe this Mark makes prudent recommendations that support the critical national security priorities within the jurisdiction of this subcommittee. It addresses important issues in a bipartisan fashion and I strongly recommend that the Mark be adopted.“On a final note, I would like to thank the other members of the subcommittee and their staffs for their contributions and participation in the process. The product itself would not have been possible without the work of the subcommittee staff: Kari Bingen; Leonor Tomero; Alejandra Villarreal; and two fellows who brought unique perspectives to the subcommittee—Tom Karako and Drew Walter. I would also like to thank Don Bergin from my personal staff.“Thank you all for the hard work and long hours involved in putting this mark together. I would like to recognize my friend and colleague, Ms. Sanchez, the Ranking Member of the subcommittee, for any opening remarks she would like to make.”
05.02.2011	Nearly ten years after the vicious attacks of September 11th, Osama Bin Laden is now dead. Let no one question the US’s resolve to protect its citizens and those who threaten us. share: f t Nearly ten years after the vicious attacks of September 11th, Osama Bin Laden is now dead. Let no one question the US’ resolve to protect its citizens and pursue those who threaten us. We all remember where we were and how we felt watching the terrible footage of that awful moment in American history. Now, we will all remember where we were when we heard that Osama Bin Laden was brought to justice. While our efforts to protect freedom must continue, this is a significant day for our military, our intelligence agencies, and the men women and children who were affected on that September day.
04.27.2011	In response to Congressman Turner’s March letter requesting a House Veterans Affairs Committee hearing examining medical safety practices at VA medical facilities, the Committee has announced it will conduct an oversight hearing entitled, “Sacred Obligation: Restoring Veteran Trust and Patient Safety.” share: f t In response to Congressman Turner’s March letter requesting a House Veterans Affairs Committee hearing examining medical safety practices at VA medical facilities, the Committee has announced it will conduct an oversight hearing entitled, “Sacred Obligation: Restoring Veteran Trust and Patient Safety.” The hearing, which will be conducted on Tuesday, May 3, 2011, at 10:30 A.M. in room 334 of the Cannon House Office Building, will review several recent patient safety incidents - including those in Dayton, Ohio; St. Louis, Missouri; and Miami, Florida. “I look forward to this hearing, which will address the issues of broken promises to our veterans, and the extreme violations of basic safety procedures that have occurred at the Dayton VA Medical Center,” said Turner. The Committee intends to discuss the VA’s response to recent incidents across the nation and developing proactive strategies for addressing underlying issues including:Standardized reprocessing for reusable medical equipment. Systematic ways of limiting the activities of suspect practitioners before patients are put at risk. Risk management and notification processes for veteran patients. “Our veterans deserve the best care possible. This hearing will examine ways we can improve the VA, and begin to address the breakdown in the VA system which allowed the gross violation of standard medical procedures and practices to continue for at least 18 years,” added Turner.
04.25.2011	This is good news for 400 southwest Ohio workers and their families. Our employees and businesses can compete with anyone in a fair environment. I am glad to have helped support this effort to impose a duty on unfairly traded lightweight thermal paper to keep these jobs in Ohio. share: f t Recently the Department of Commerce agreed with Rep. Turner and reversed a preliminary ruling in order to protect Ohio jobs in the paper industry. The Commerce Department’s determination to impose a duty of 3.77 percent on those who are unfairly trading lightweight thermal paper was advocated for by Congressman Mike Turner. Appleton Papers, which employs 400 workers in West Carrollton, OH and 2,500 workers nationwide, will now receive greater protection from unfair foreign competition. “This is good news for 400 southwest Ohio workers and their families. Our employees and businesses can compete with anyone in a fair environment. I am glad to have helped support this effort to impose a duty on unfairly traded lightweight thermal paper to keep these jobs in Ohio,” said Turner.Turner and his colleagues in the Ohio delegation had previously urged Commerce Secretary Gary Locke to change the duty rate. Additionally, Turner wrote a letter to the Chairman of the U.S. International Trade Commission (ITC) in November of 2007 advocating for a reversal of the ruling. Turner also testified along with a bi-partisan group of State and Federal officials at the ITC on behalf of Appleton’s West Carrolton facility to help ensure that the ITC ruled in favor of Appleton in the trade subsidy dispute with foreign competition.“We must work to protect American jobs and American manufacturing. This decision is critical to the American paper industry and to our local economy,” said Turner. Appleton Papers is 100 percent employee-owned and in 2008, made a major commitment to the West Carrollton community by investing $125 million to significantly upgrade its facility, adding 35 jobs, and making it one of the world’s most advanced production facilities of lightweight thermal paper.
04.25.2011	The culture at the VA needs to be changed to promote accountability for actions on the part of staff. Our veterans deserve better, and I look forward to continuing to carry that message to leaders at the VA, and in Congress. share: f t Congressman Mike Turner released the following statement upon reviewing the Department of Veterans Affairs Office of Inspector General’s Oversight Review of Dental Clinic Issues at the Dayton VA Medical Center:“This report documents a leadership failure at the Dayton VA Medical Center. However, this report is limited in its scope, since it only includes testimony from those still employed by the VA or those who agreed to speak on the record. As a result, we have also learned that those who should be held accountable, including the dentist in question and hospital leadership have escaped scrutiny by simply retiring. In total, this report paints the picture of a system broken from the ground up. The culture at the VA needs to be changed to promote accountability for actions on the part of staff. Our veterans deserve better, and I look forward to continuing to carry that message to leaders at the VA, and in Congress.”
04.22.2011	Upon reviewing this report, it's clear that many questions are left unanswered on the part of the VA. share: f t Congressman Mike Turner released the following statement upon reviewing the interim report on the Dayton VA Medical Center, as conducted by the Greater Dayton Area Hospital Association. The report indicated the more veterans are at risk than have been notified, and additional testing is needed:"Upon reviewing this report, it's clear that many questions are left unanswered on the part of the VA. We're still not sure about the extent to which this was overlooked by key leadership, and how that will be addressed going forward. Furthermore, it appears many more dental patients need to be notified that they could have been possibly exposed to infectious disease. Every veteran who saw this dentist during his tenure is at risk until adequate testing has been performed. I want to thank GDAHA for their work in undertaking an interim review of what has transpired at the Dayton VAMC. Earlier this month, I requested additional documents on GDAHA's behalf so that their assessment can be fully completed. This is an important step to ensure that there is an independent community response to the total failure to adhere to basic medical safety standards at the Dayton VA's dental practice."
04.21.2011	Passage of this budget today lays a roadmap for Washington to end its addiction to reckless spending. share: f t Congressman Mike Turner released the following statement upon the passage of the House Republican Budget Resolution as prepared by Budget Chairman Paul Ryan:“Passage of this budget today lays a roadmap for Washington to end its addiction to reckless spending. This includes preserving Medicare for future generations, investing in our nation’s defense, and taking steps to trim the size and growth of our government. These steps are crucial to beginning the much needed revitalization of our economy and putting Ohioans back to work. Families don’t have the luxury of making budgets without regard to what it means for their finances in the long run, and neither should our government. I’m glad to be joining the House in passing a financially responsible budget for this fiscal year, and the years to come.”
04.14.2011	This vote not only begins to correct the culture of endless spending in Washington, but sets the tone for that debate when we begin crafting a final budget for 2012. share: f t Congressman Mike Turner released the following statement upon the passage of the Fiscal Year 2011 continuing resolution in the House: “Today I joined the House in a bipartisan effort to pass the largest non-defense spending cut in American history. This is the first real step towards putting our fiscal house in order as it will immediately cut nearly $40 billion this year, and will result in savings of hundreds of billions of dollars over the next ten years. This vote not only begins to correct the culture of endless spending in Washington, but sets the tone for that debate when we begin crafting a final budget for 2012. “In addition, I am heartened by the fact that all of this was accomplished without Defense Department cuts which would strain our military engaged in three wars. In fact, this resolution adds $5 billion to the Defense budget and assures our military leaders can continue making procurement plans without further delays. This is important for both our national security and Southwest Ohio’s economy.”
04.13.2011	Congressman Mike Turner commended the news that Pratt & Whitney and PAS Technologies Inc. have signed an agreement which would expand work at the PAS facility in Hillsboro, OH. share: f t Congressman Mike Turner commended the news that Pratt & Whitney and PAS Technologies Inc. have signed an agreement which would expand work at the PAS facility in Hillsboro, OH.“This is tremendous news for Hillsboro, Highland County and Southwest Ohio. With a dedicated workforce of talented individuals, PAS Technologies will be sure to have a strong pool to recruit from if they decide to expand operations further,” said Turner.The agreement would establish PAS Technologies Inc. as the exclusive designated service provider for selected repairs on Pratt & Whitney and IAE engine models. Under the long-term agreement, PAS Technologies Inc. will perform selected repairs on the PW2000, PW4000 and IAE V2500 engine families. PAS Technologies Inc. will perform this work at its Hillsboro, Ohio, and Kansas City, Mo., facilities.“When I visited PAS’ facilities in August, I noted the many advantages of furthering operations in Hillsboro. I want to congratulate the Highland County Commissioners who created a favorable climate for businesses to expand,” added Turner.
04.13.2011	“While I share the President’s goal of a government that lives within its means, it should not come at the expense of our national defense. share: f t Congressman Mike Turner released the following statement upon the news that President Obama has suggested $400 billion in cuts to the Department of Defense: “While I share the President’s goal of a government that lives within its means, it should not come at the expense of our national defense. His suggestion of an arbitrary cut of $400 billion comes without explanation or study. Simply cutting our defense budget while we are in the midst of three wars, puts at risk an already stretched thin department. I look forward to working with Armed Services Committee Chairman Buck McKeon to find efficiencies in our Defense Department. Thoughtfully reinvesting these efficiencies and creating a more cost-effective Department of Defense strengthens our national security and saves dollars.”
04.11.2011	“The announcement regarding the reduction of Brigade Combat Teams in Europe was not unexpected. However this does not signal a reduced commitment to the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) and our allies in Europe. share: f t Congressman Mike Turner released the following statement upon the news that the U.S. will reduce its number of Brigade Combat Teams in Europe from four to three:“The announcement regarding the reduction of Brigade Combat Teams in Europe was not unexpected. However this does not signal a reduced commitment to the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) and our allies in Europe. In fact, I expect our relationship will be strengthened through increased cooperation in cybersecurity efforts, missile defense and other emerging areas in our transatlantic partnership.“I authored language that was included in the FY 2010 National Defense Authorization Act to ensure that these reductions are carefully reviewed and justified. This year, I will also be introducing new legislation to ensure the U.S. remains fully committed to our NATO responsibilities. It is important, that the minimum number of Brigade Combat Teams in Europe should not fall below three in the years ahead.”
04.08.2011	Congressman Mike Turner sent a letter to Veterans Affairs Secretary Eric Shinseki requesting additional documentation surround the VA’s investigations at the Dayton VA Medical Center. share: f t Congressman Mike Turner sent a letter to Veterans Affairs Secretary Eric Shinseki requesting additional documentation surround the VA’s investigations at the Dayton VA Medical Center. The request comes from the Greater Dayton Area Hospital Association (GDAHA) – a community health organization which has undertaken an independent review of the VA’s investigations at the call of Sens. Brown, Portman, and Congressman Turner.“In order for GDAHA to complete their evaluation they will require additional documentation from the VA… These requested documents should be provided without delay,” wrote Turner in the letter.“I know you share my commitment to our nation’s veterans and will work with us to ensure that the Dayton VAMC is a facility that provides the care our veterans deserve, and have rightfully earned,” closed Turner.
04.07.2011	“I voted today to reduce government spending, support our troops and to prevent the government from shutting down.” share: f t Today, Congressman Mike Turner voted in favor of the Department of Defense and Further Additional Continuing Appropriations Act of 2011. This legislation ensures that the government would remain open another week, cut discretionary spending by $12 billion, fully fund the Department of Defense and pay our troops who are defending this nation through the end of the fiscal year.“With our troops serving overseas, the last thing they need to worry about is whether or not their paychecks will make it to their families at home. I voted today to reduce government spending, support our troops and to prevent the government from shutting down,” said TurnerWhile negotiations continue on a funding resolution for the rest of the fiscal year, Congressman Turner joined a bipartisan majority of House members in voting for the only proposal before Congress which would fund the Defense Department and avoid a shutdown.“Our leaders at the Pentagon – civilian and uniformed – have said time and again how these short term spending solutions have hampered their efforts to fully perform their duties. This bill ensures that they will be adequately funded to defend this nation through the end of the fiscal year,” added Turner.Beyond supporting full funding for our troops, the measure continues efforts to end the culture of endless spending in Washington. Included in the measure are $12 billion in discretionary spending cuts.“I have joined the House in passing a government funding measure (H.R. 1) which would cut the budget by $61 billion, and two subsequent funding measures which included cuts of $4 billion and $6 billion respectively. It’s time to change the status quo of reckless spending in Washington and these additional $12 billion in cuts will aid in that effort,” stated Turner.
04.07.2011	Following reports of two patients who tested positive for hepatitis B due to improper infection control practices at the Dayton VA Medical Center’s dental clinic, U.S. Sen. Sherrod Brown (D-OH) and U.S. Rep. Mike Turner (OH-3) today urged U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) Secretary Eric Shinseki to establish a dedicated task force to investigate issues surrounding misconduct at the Dayton VA Medical Center and make recommendations to prevent this situation from happening in Dayton and across the nation. share: f t Following reports of two patients who tested positive for hepatitis B due to improper infection control practices at the Dayton VA Medical Center’s dental clinic, U.S. Sen. Sherrod Brown (D-OH) and U.S. Rep. Mike Turner (OH-3) today urged U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) Secretary Eric Shinseki to establish a dedicated task force to investigate issues surrounding misconduct at the Dayton VA Medical Center and make recommendations to prevent this situation from happening in Dayton and across the nation.“We must determine how the VA allowed patient care to erode to the point where hundreds of patients in Dayton had to be tested for diseases due to exposure to blood-borne pathogens,” Brown said. “Establishing a regional taskforce will reassure our veterans that the VA remains dedicated to their care and patient safety while providing them with a seat at the table and the opportunity to participate in the improvement of the VA system.””Since learning of this outrageous occurrence at the Dayton VA, it’s become apparent that there is a larger issue at hand within this facility, the VISN 10 Network, and perhaps nationally. A regional taskforce will place a finer microscope on the VA and its culture, which has allowed this failure to occur. We owe it to our veterans to take every step necessary to ensure they get the care that they deserve and rightfully have earned,” said Turner.This task force would review all of Veterans Integrated Service Network 10’s (VISN 10) facilities, activities, and services to help identify how procedural lapses allowed this situation to happen, and what measures can be taken to prevent similar scenarios moving forward. VISN 10 includes Ohio and portions of Indiana and Kentucky.Brown and Turner proposed that the task force include health care professionals, VA medical professionals and employees, veterans, and leaders in the veteran community to perform a collaborative, tough, and fair look at VISN 10 to provide invaluable insight to the VA and policy makers. The task force’s findings would improve VISN 10’s services at all VA facilities.Brown and Turner have been working with the Dayton VA, Sec. Shinseki, and the Senate and House Veterans Committees since first learning of allegations of unhygienic practices at the Dayton VA Health Clinic. Last month, Brown called for a thorough organizational review by the VA and concrete changes at the Dayton VA Medical Center. This call follows a recent visit by Congressman Turner and House Veterans Affairs Chairman Jeff Miller to the Dayton facility.In February, the Dayton VAMC issued a report indicating that several employees may have known for years that a practitioner was using unhygienic practices— exposing veterans to blood-borne pathogens through non-sterilized dental equipment. In response, Brown joined U.S. Sen. Rob Portman (R-OH), and U.S. Rep. Mike Turner (OH-03) in writing to Shinseki to request increased oversight and a more expansive investigation.Brown wrote to Sen. Patty Murray (D-WA), Chairman of the Senate Committee on Veterans’ Affairs, to request a hearing to investigate this situation and identify preventive actions that would ensure that a situation like this never arises again. Turner has also written to the Chairman of the House Veterans Affairs Committee requesting hearings into the issues surrounding the VA’s Dental safety practices nationally. Last year, Brown sent a letter to U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs Sec. Eric Shinseki urging the VA to investigate the complaints at the VAMC. Brown and Turner have spoken with Shinseki and VAMC officials repeatedly urging them to correct any issues and install effective leadership.
04.05.2011	While Delphi is strengthening its financial position and spending billions of dollars to buy back their interests from General Motors (GM) and the Pension Benefit Guarantee Corporation, thousands of retirees have been left in the cold. share: f t Congressman Mike Turner released the following statement upon the news that Delphi is preparing for a public stock offering. The company is buying back interests that were acquired by General Motors and the Pension Benefit Guarantee Corporation following Delphi's bankruptcy.“While Delphi is strengthening its financial position and spending billions of dollars to buy back their interests from General Motors (GM) and the Pension Benefit Guarantee Corporation, thousands of retirees have been left in the cold. The process of the Obama Administration’s Auto Task Force picking winners and losers in the bankruptcy process has cost these retirees their futures, while most union pensions were topped off by GM. Rather than spending these billions on consolidation, these dollars should be going towards funding the pensions these retirees rightfully earned. Furthermore, GM now has the cash to top off these deeply slashed pensions. These employees worked for GM far longer than they did for Delphi, so there is an obligation on the part of GM to assure the security of their futures.”
04.01.2011	Congressman Mike Turner reintroduced his legislation which would repeal the Obamacare excise tax on first responder equipment. share: f t Congressman Mike Turner reintroduced his legislation which would repeal the Obamacare excise tax on first responder equipment. Elimination of this tax, which was signed into law one year ago last week, will help businesses like Wilmington, OH manufacturer Ferno – Washington, Inc. create jobs and grow the economy. “Two years from now this provision in Obamacare will impact manufacturers of life saving equipment. Driving up the cost of their products discourages budget strained municipalities from investing in new equipment, and stunts the growth of our struggling economy,” said Congressman Turner. To shine a spotlight on how Obamacare hurts small businesses, Turner visited Ferno-Washington, Inc. on March 23rd; to announce the reintroduction of this legislation. The local employer is the global leader in the manufacture and distribution of professional emergency, mortuary, and healthcare products sold primarily first responders. The excise tax in Obamacare drives up the cost of medical devices utilized by first responders and ambulance services providing pre-hospital care or emergency transportation to a medical facility. “While I was visiting Ferno- Washington, Inc. CEO Joe Bourgraf articulated just how this 2.3 percent tax would affect his business. This provision in Obamacare places an undue burden on manufacturers of life saving equipment - even right here in Ohio’s Third Congressional District. Driving up the cost of products discourages budget strained municipalities from investing in new equipment, and stunts the growth of our struggling economy,” added Turner. Proponents of the excise tax, set to go in effect in 2013, argue that medical device revenue will go up as insurance coverage expands, but that reasoning does not apply to emergency services. Increases in the number of people insured will not substantially increase the number of emergency medical service transports. Leaving this tax in place will increase the cost of emergency care and inhibit innovation and employment at manufactures of emergency medical equipment. “Some areas in our Congressional District have unemployment rates in excess of 14 percent. A new tax is not going to help our neighbors who are looking for a job, or are struggling to make ends meet. This legislation will go a long way towards helping local manufacturers continue to grow in the years ahead,” noted Turner.
04.01.2011	“The Wilmington Air Park can make a strong case as a future home for one of these new test sites. Ohio’s Third District is the birthplace of manned flight, and now with this legislation it has the opportunity to be a pioneer in the field of unmanned flight,” share: f t Congressman Mike Turner voted for the passage of the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) Reauthorization and Reform Act of 2011(H.R. 658) which included language to create four new test sites for Unmanned Aircraft Systems. Turner worked with the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee as well as fellow legislators, to draft the language included in the bill. This bill could benefit Wilmington’s Air Park as sites are selected for the future UAV testing.Previously the FAA Reauthorization bill included no new test sites for unmanned planes. Now, Turner’s legislative effort will allow the FAA to create four test sites to study the effectiveness of allowing Unmanned Aircraft Systems to share airspace and runways with commercial aircraft. “The Wilmington Air Park can make a strong case as a future home for one of these new test sites. Ohio’s Third District is the birthplace of manned flight, and now with this legislation it has the opportunity to be a pioneer in the field of unmanned flight,” said Turner.If signed into law, this legislation would require the FAA Administrator to establish a program to integrate the Unmanned Aircraft Systems into the national airspace system. This would take place in coordination with the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) and the Department of Defense.“If passed by the Senate and signed into law by the President, this legislation could greatly expand opportunities for Wilmington’s businesses and workers looking to make their mark in the growing field of unmanned flight,” added Turner.
03.24.2011	Mike Turner announced the reintroduction of legislation which would repeal the Obamacare excise tax on first responder equipment. share: f t Mike Turner announced the reintroduction of legislation which would repeal the Obamacare excise tax on first responder equipment. Elimination of this tax, which was signed into law one year ago today, will help businesses like local manufacturer Ferno – Washington, Inc. create jobs and grow the economy.“This provision in Obamacare places an undue burden on manufacturers of life saving equipment. Driving up the cost of their products discourages budget strained municipalities from investing in new equipment, and stunts the growth of our struggling economy,” said Congressman Turner.Turner’s legislation repeals the excise tax in Obamacare on medical devices utilized by first responders and ambulance services providing pre-hospital care or emergency transportation to a medical facility. Ferno-Washington, Inc. is the global leader in the manufacture and distribution of professional emergency, mortuary, and healthcare products targeted primarily to first responders.“The effects of Obamacare on our economy are detrimental and real. Adding an additional tax onto these products drives up their price and deters potential purchases of a product from a business in our community. If that business isn’t increasing sales, they’re not growing the economy and they’re not creating jobs,” added Turner.Proponents of the excise tax, set to go in effect in 2013, argue that medical device revenue will go up as insurance coverage expands, but that reasoning does not apply to emergency services. Increases in the number of people insured will not substantially increase the number of emergency medical service transports. Leaving this tax in place will increase the cost of emergency care and inhibit innovation and employment at manufactures of emergency medical equipment.
03.22.2011	This is a signal from the Secretary that he is beginning to see the severity of this situation. share: f t Congressman Mike Turner released a letter he received from Veterans Affairs Secretary Eric Shinseki in response to his concerns about the noncompliance with basic medical safety standards at the Dayton VA Medical Center. In response to the lawmaker’s request for a national level investigation, Secretary Shinseki stated in his letter:“…the Office of Inspector General (OIG) completed an independent review of the Dental Clinic…Should OIG’s findings identify issues that require further investigation, I am prepared to establish a national Administrative Investigation Board of subject matter experts to conduct more detailed reviews.”Congressman Turner, along with Senators Sherrod Brown and Rob Portman have been working together to understand the events which have occurred at the facility, and had requested that VA Secretary Eric Shinseki convene a national level investigation into the event at the dental facility, as well as the entire hospital. The three lawmakers also requested copies of the VA’s investigative reports which have been provided to the Greater Dayton Area Hospital Association for independent review.“This is a signal from the Secretary that he is beginning to see the severity of this situation. A national level investigation would lend an additional perspective into the failures at this facility, and determine whether there have been further violations,” stated Congressman Turner.
03.21.2011	At a House Armed Services Committee hearing on developments in Afghanistan, Congressman Mike Turner highlighted the role of poppy production and narcotics trafficking in funding the Taliban. share: f t At a House Armed Services Committee hearing on developments in Afghanistan, Congressman Mike Turner highlighted the role of poppy production and narcotics trafficking in funding the Taliban. Specifically, Turner questioned General David Petraeus on what International Security Assistance Forces in Afghanistan required, and how they will reduce production going forward. In response Petraeus thanked Turner for his work on the issue starting with the first days of Petraeus’ command in Afghanistan. The General stated that Turner’s efforts were a “catalyst for a pretty substantial examination that we did of this problem.” The line of questioning stems from Turner’s 2010 visit to Afghanistan, where he met with Petraeus and Afghan President Hamid Karzai. At the meeting, Turner noted how poppy production has nearly doubled since 2006 and that it accounts for nearly one-third of the Taliban’s funding. Following the meeting, Petraeus set about reassessing the approach towards counternarcotics in the country. Over the past two years, Turner has actively met with leadership at the Department of Defense and the Drug Enforcement Administration to urge greater attention to this growing problem.
03.17.2011	Congressman Mike Turner has been named Chairman of the U.S. delegation to the NATO Parliamentary Assembly (NATO PA) by House Speaker John Boehner. share: f t Congressman Mike Turner has been named Chairman of the U.S. delegation to the NATO Parliamentary Assembly (NATO PA) by House Speaker John Boehner. Turner will serve as the United States’ lead parliamentary representative, heading a delegation of 11 House members for the 112th Congress. This appointment along with Turner’s service as Chairman of the House Armed Services’ Strategic Forces Subcommittee, makes him a key advocate for transatlantic missile defense and other strategic initiatives of importance to our allies. Appointed to the NATO PA in the 111th Congress, Turner continues to serve as the Vice-Chair of the NATO PA’s Science and Technology Subcommittee on Energy and Environmental Security.“Having been a member of the NATO PA as well as serving on the House Armed Services Committee, I know how valuable our relationships are with our allies in Europe. I am honored to continue to strengthen those relationships during the 112th Congress,” said Turner.Founded in 1955 shortly after the establishment of NATO, the Parliamentary Assembly serves as the consultative interparliamentary organization for the North Atlantic Alliance and regional nations. The Assembly focuses on parliamentary-level understanding of key security issues and works towards consensus building and a broader transparency of NATO policies through the issuing of policy papers and discussion forums.“Congressman Turner has been an important advocate for missile defense and other strategic initiatives which ensure our nation’s security. I’m pleased to appoint him to this position and know that he will work to effectively support our commitment to our NATO allies,” noted Speaker Boehner.The NATO PA consists of 257 delegates from the 28 NATO member countries. Delegates from 14 associate countries; the European Parliament; 4 regional partner and Mediterranean associate member countries; as well as parliamentary observers from 7 other countries and 3 inter-parliamentary assemblies also take part in its proceedings. Delegates to the Assembly are nominated by their parliaments according to their national procedures.
03.12.2011	Last night, Congressman Mike Turner received word that the Department of Veterans Affairs has refused to make former Dayton VA Medical Center Guy Richardson available to meet with Turner and the Chairman of the House Veterans Affairs Committee, Jeff Miller, as had been planned for Monday, March 14th. share: f t Last night, Congressman Mike Turner received word that the Department of Veterans Affairs has refused to make former Dayton VA Medical Center Guy Richardson available to meet with Turner and the Chairman of the House Veterans Affairs Committee, Jeff Miller, as had been planned for Monday, March 14th.“As you know the Director can provide information about the operation of the dental clinic and the negligent care provided to veterans, which is of great interest to me and the Chairman,” Turner wrote in a letter to Secretary Shinseki on Friday evening.The VA’s effort to stonewall Congressman Turner and the Chairman of the committee with oversight and investigative jurisdiction of the VA shows that the truth remains to be uncovered.“The VA’s actions tonight at 5:30 p.m. are highly evasive and obstructionist. Also, when in considered in the context that Director Richardson has received a bonus and a promotion since this has come to light, I have great concern about the VA’s actions,” Turner continued.
03.11.2011	Congressman Mike Turner released the following statement upon the Department of Veterans Affairs missing the Friday, March 11 deadline to turnover copies of the investigation reports surrounding the events at the Dayton VA Medical Center Dental Clinic: share: f t Congressman Mike Turner released the following statement upon the Department of Veterans Affairs missing the Friday, March 11 deadline to turnover copies of the investigation reports surrounding the events at the Dayton VA Medical Center Dental Clinic: “Upon receipt of the initial letter to the VA authored by Senators Brown, Portman and myself requesting the investigative documents, the VA said they would comply. When I called upon then-Dayton VA Director Guy Richardson to release the reports, he said he would comply. All day today, the day of the deadline, the VA said they would have the documents in our hands by the end of the business day. To date, I have yet to receive anything but assurances on the part of the VA, all without any follow-through. Our veterans and our community deserve to learn just how these events occurred, who is responsible, and who is being held accountable. The VA thinks by not handing over these documents they can stone wall us. Make no mistake - that will not happen.”
03.11.2011	Promoting Director Richardson during this investigation is wrong and just another outrage in a series on the part of the VA. share: f t Congressman Mike Turner released the following statement upon the news that Dayton Veterans Affairs Medical Center (VAMC) Director Guy Richardson has been promoted to the Veterans Integrated Service Network which oversees the Dayton VAMC: “Promoting Director Richardson during this investigation is wrong and just another outrage in a series on the part of the VA. This bait and switch just two days before Richardson was scheduled to meet with the Chairman of the House Veterans Affairs Committee and me is unacceptable. We aim to meet with Richardson on Monday and hear first hand just how basic medical safety conditions could deteriorate to this extent under his leadership. When members of our community ask who is being held accountable, so far we know Richardson has received a bonus and a promotion while veterans are being tested for possible HIV and Hepatitis infections due to the VA’s negligence.”
03.11.2011	The U.S. Department of State and the U.S. embassy and consulates in Japan are working to obtain information on the status of U.S. citizens and to provide emergency assistance to U.S. citizens. share: f t An 8.9-magnitude earthquake struck off the northeast coast of Japan on Friday, shaking office buildings in Tokyo and setting off a devastating tsunami that swept away cars and boats. Tokyo airports (Narita and Haneda) are currently closed and possibly damaged. Trains and subways are down in the Tokyo metropolitan region, and train service may be sporadic throughout the rest of the country. Okinawa and Sapporo report no damage from the earthquake. South Hokkaido has reported flooding along the shore. Aftershocks can be expected and may be severe. U.S. citizens should take basic earthquake safety precautions.The U.S. Department of State and the U.S. embassy and consulates in Japan are working to obtain information on the status of U.S. citizens and to provide emergency assistance to U.S. citizens. At this time, we have no reports of U.S. citizens killed or injured in the earthquake. Although telephone lines are disrupted, relatives may want to try contacting loved ones in Japan by e-mail, text (SMS) message, or other social media.CONSULAR ASSISTANCE TO U.S. CITIZENS IN JAPANOnline Information: Monitor travel.state.gov and the Embassy Tokyo websites for the latest updates.Public and Congressional Inquiries: If you have concerns about a specific U.S. citizen in Japan, please send us an e-mail at JapanEmergencyUSC@state.gov If you have concerns about a specific U.S. citizen in the Tsunami zone outside of Japan, please send us an e-mail at PacificTsunamiUSC@state.gov E-mail inquiries are strongly preferred, but constituents may call the Department's emergency assistance center at 1-888-407-4747 (Calling from outside the U.S. + 1-202-501-4444) if they are unable to use e-mail. DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE PERSONNEL INQUIRIES U.S. Forces Japan reports that all personnel have been accounted for, and there are no reports of injuries. The Department of Defense instructs that family members of Department of Defense personnel should call 1-800-342-9647 to inquire about their loved ones or contact the individual unit command directly for more specific information. JAPANESE AND OTHER CITIZENSIf you are calling regarding a Japanese citizen, please contact the nearest Japanese Embassy (Washington - 202-238-6700) or Consulate. If you are calling regarding a citizen of a third country, please contact that country’s Embassy or Consulate. Contact information for foreign Embassies and Consulates in the United States is available in the Country Specific Information links at www.travel.state.gov.
03.10.2011	Congressman Mike Turner hailed the announcement of an $110,500 grant to the St. Mary Development Corporation of Dayton, Ohio to support the corporation’s efforts to revitalize the community and create affordable housing in Southwest Ohio. share: f t Congressman Mike Turner hailed the announcement of an $110,500 grant to the St. Mary Development Corporation of Dayton, Ohio to support the corporation’s efforts to revitalize the community and create affordable housing in Southwest Ohio. The grant comes from NeighborWorks America.“St. Mary Development Corporation has a history of making Dayton a brighter and more affordable place to live for members of our community. This grant will make it easier for them to continue their efforts in the year to come,” said Congressman Turner.St. Mary Development Corporation is a faith-based non-profit organization that creates sustainable affordable housing solutions in southwest Ohio through real estate development and management; homeownership and supportive housing services; and community revitalization initiatives.“I look forward to seeing the results of St. Mary’s work in our community. Their past work is a model for other groups looking to make our community a better place to live,” added Turner.
03.09.2011	Congressman Mike Turner penned a letter to Veterans Affairs Secretary Eric Shinseki, following up on an invitation to visit the Dayton VA Facility extended by Turner’s staff. “Yesterday my Chief of Staff invited you to come to Dayton and you indicated a willingness to consider the invitation. Visiting the Dayton VA Medical Center Dental Clinic will go a long way to reassure the community that the VA is committed to providing the highest quality of care and will do everything within its power to resolve this issue,” Turner wrote Shinseki. Congressman Turner, along with Senators Sherrod Brown and Rob Portman, are still awaiting copies of the VA investigative reports, which they requested nearly a month ago. Those reports will be provided to the Greater Dayton Area Hospital Association for independent review. The three lawmakers have been working together to understand the events which have occurred at the facility, and have requested that the Secretary convene a national level investigation into the event at the dental facility, as well as the entire hospital.
03.04.2011	Congressmen Mike Turner and Dan Burton (IN-5) sent a letter to Oversight and Government Reform Committee Chairman Darrell Issa requesting that the Committee convene hearings into the actions of Pension Benefit Guarantee Corporation relating to Delphi employee pensions. share: f t Congressmen Mike Turner (OH-3) and Dan Burton (IN-5) sent a letter to Oversight and Government Reform Committee Chairman Darrell Issa requesting that the Committee convene hearings into the actions of Pension Benefit Guarantee Corporation (PBGC) relating to Delphi employee pensions. A decision by the PBGC resulted in approximately 15,000 salaried Delphi retirees from across the country taking a severe cut in their promised pension benefits that had been earned throughout their careers. The letter notes that “Unions were treated differently [in the decision making process] with the so-called ‘splinter unions’ such as the IUE, IBEW, and IAM still facing benefit reductions while the UAW retirees saw their pensions topped off and continue to receive full benefits…In fact, the IUE pensions were initially slated to take the same cuts as salaried retirees, but the A[uto] T[ask] F[orce] reversed this decision three weeks after GM emerged from bankruptcy.”The lawmaker’s call for the hearings came “Because of the substantial taxpayer investment in the auto industry, and the role of the Federal Government Agencies resulting in the reduction or elimination of these benefits, Congress has a responsibility to exercise its oversight authority in this matter and ensure that all Delphi employees receive the pensions they deserve.”
03.04.2011	Today the House took an important step towards eliminating just one of the onerous costs ObamaCare has placed on our nation’s job creators. share: f t Today, Congressman Mike Turner released the following statement upon the passage of the Repeal of ObamaCare’s Form 1099 provision repeal: “Today the House took an important step towards eliminating just one of the onerous costs ObamaCare has placed on our nation’s job creators. While the unemployment rates in areas of the Third District exceed 14 percent, this burdensome provision in the President’s healthcare bill requires businesses to file a separate Form 1099 whenever they conduct a transaction with a vendor in excess of $600 a year. That means each time a company buys a plane ticket, spends money at the local gas station, or buys coffee from a corner shop for employees – if it’s over $600 throughout the year, there’s now a form to fill out. Without repeal, this will affect over 800,000 businesses across Ohio. Those businesses won’t be hiring new employees in our communities if they have to spend the majority of their time filling out forms. In order to help our neighbors get back to work, Congress should be making it easier for businesses to hire and expand, not bogging them down with new requirements. I hope the Senate will join us in finding ways to put Ohioans back to work.”
03.03.2011	Congressman Mike Turner hailed the announcement of a $294,000 grant to the Clinton County Port Authority of Wilmington, Ohio to develop a marketing redevelopment and re-use plan for the former DHL Airpark. share: f t Congressman Mike Turner hailed the announcement of a $294,000 grant to the Clinton County Port Authority of Wilmington, Ohio to develop a marketing redevelopment and re-use plan for the former DHL Airpark. The grant comes from the U.S. Commerce Department’s Economic Development Administration (EDA).“Members of the Wilmington community have been looking for opportunities to get back to work following the closure of the DHL Airpark and these funds will help that effort. Finding new and innovative ways to repurpose this facility, shows the potential of not just Wilmington, but Southwest Ohio when it comes to economic opportunities for our nation’s job creators,” said Congressman Turner.This latest announcement follows efforts by Congressman Turner and the Ohio delegation to help revitalize the Wilmington economy. This includes a 2008 economic development grant to find new uses for the Wilmington Airpark and testimony before the House Judiciary Committee opposing the DHL-UPS deal which resulted in the loss of the DHL hub at Wilmington. A marketing and redevelopment plan will allow the Clinton County Port Authority to determine potential re-use alternatives that will seek to replace the 6,000 jobs lost when DHL ceased operations in January of 2010.“We welcome businesses looking for opportunities to start or expand their operations, and there’s no better place than Southwest Ohio. We have a vibrant and talented workforce looking to get to work, and to help companies succeed in this competitive economy,” added Turner.
03.02.2011	U.S. Congressman Mike Turner (R-Ohio), Chairman of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Strategic Forces, released the following opening statement in conjunction with the subcommittee’s hearing on the status of the nation’s strategic forces: share: f t U.S. Congressman Mike Turner (R-Ohio), Chairman of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Strategic Forces, released the following opening statement in conjunction with the subcommittee’s hearing on the status of the nation’s strategic forces:“Welcome to the first subcommittee hearing of the 112th Congress. I would like to commend Mr. Langevin on his leadership in the 111th Congress and congratulate Ms. Sanchez on her selection as the new Ranking Member. I would also like to welcome our new members of the subcommittee: Mo Brooks; John Fleming; John Garamendi; Scott Rigell; Dutch Ruppersberger; Austin Scott and Betty Sutton. “Since we organized at the end of January, our subcommittee has conducted several overview briefings on various aspects of the strategic forces portfolio. Just yesterday, officials from the Office of the Secretary of Defense (OSD) for Policy and U.S. Strategic Command briefed members on the Administration’s nuclear policy and posture. “Today’s hearing provides our subcommittee with the opportunity to review the Status of U.S. Strategic Forces. Since last year’s strategic posture hearing, a number of notable events have occurred and several new policy documents have been released that affect our nation’s strategic posture and which ultimately frame the Administration’s Fiscal Year 2012 budget request. We will hear from four distinguished witnesses. In our first panel, we are joined by: General Bob Kehler, the new Commander of U.S. Strategic Command; and Dr. Jim Miller, Principal Deputy Under Secretary of Defense for Policy. “I believe the committee’s oversight is further enhanced through additional perspectives outside of the traditional Department of Defense witnesses we hear from. Therefore, I asked Dr. Bill Perry and Dr. Jim Schlesinger, the chairman and vice chairman of the U.S. Strategic Posture Commission, to provide their views on our nation’s strategic posture and the changes that have occurred in the last few years. Dr. Schlesinger was unable to join us today; our thoughts are with him. I appreciate Dr. Keith Payne filling-in for him.“I want to thank each of our witnesses for appearing today, and thank them for their service and leadership.“I will keep my comments brief to allow ample time for members to ask questions. However, I would like to highlight four areas of concern that I hope our witnesses will address here today. “First, the ink is barely dry on the New START Treaty and Administration officials are already discussing further nuclear force reductions. The assumption appears to be that more arms control and deeper cuts to U.S. forces is desirable and puts us further down the path to ‘a world free of nuclear weapons,’ a vision the President described in his 2009 Prague speech. We must be careful here. The President admitted in that same speech that this vision is unlikely to be realized in our lifetimes. We should slow down, let the treaty ink dry, and reassess where we are. Our security requirements should guide the feasibility and desirability of further reductions, not the other way around.“One reason for caution is uncertainty: none of us can predict the future. China is ‘rapidly upgrading its nuclear capability…and is trying to reach parity with Russia and the U.S.’ Russia would have us trade away our missile defenses, conventional forces, and space capabilities to secure another arms control treaty that reduces their tactical nuclear weapons. In the last few months, NATO has reaffirmed that nuclear deterrence is a core element of alliance security. In the last week, a senior South Korean official suggested the U.S. reintroduce tactical nuclear weapons on the Korean peninsula for deterrence and assurance. There are long-term implications of a rush to reduce our nuclear forces that merit thoughtful consideration.“Second, the Nuclear Posture Review and Section 1251 Report made several promises with respect to the modernization of our nuclear warheads, delivery systems, and infrastructure. Based on what I have seen thus far of the Fiscal Year 2012 budget request, I am initially encouraged that the Administration appears ready to honor these promises, at least this year. But there is much work to be done, and I remain concerned about the long-term commitment to these investments—a responsibility shared by the Administration and the Congress. We have been handed the bill of deferred maintenance. We must ensure that these timelines are met and these promises are kept.“Third, I have seen solid progress in the Administration’s implementation of the Phased Adaptive Approach (PAA) for missile defense in Europe, and a significant improvement in their engagement of Congress from where we were a year ago. This work is commendable. I met with NATO parliamentarians and NATO officials just last week and was pleased to see how far the missile defense discussion in Europe has advanced from three years ago. “Some of us remain concerned, however, about the Department’s hedging strategy for defense of the homeland in case the long-range threat comes earlier or technical issues arise in the development of a new SM-3 interceptor. I came away from our PAA hearing last December believing that the Department’s hedging strategy was hollow. I hope our witnesses can discuss the progress being made to add detail to the hedging strategy outlined in the Ballistic Missile Defense Review. “Lastly, I would ask our witnesses to discuss what they see as the key challenges and opportunities in national security space. I am particularly concerned about the health of our space industrial base and our export control policies, and finding the right balance between protecting our national security interests and strengthening our industrial capacity. “It goes without saying that these are challenging economic times. I am committed to working with the Department to identify efficiencies and better ways of doing business. With that said, we are a nation fighting two wars. And, it is our subcommittee’s responsibility to ensure our strategic forces are kept viable in both the good years and the bad.”
02.18.2011	“I join families of Service members around the globe in thanking Secretary Gates for his support of their parental rights. Our men and women in uniform should not have to worry about losing their children while they defend us overseas,” said Turner. share: f t Letter from Secretary of Defense Calls for Legislation Which Creates Uniform Standard of ProtectionCongressman Mike Turner released a letter from Secretary of Defense Robert Gates, in which the Secretary agrees with Turner’s fight for a Uniformed Standard of Protection for Service members in child custody disputes. The Standard would apply specifically to those cases where service is the sole factor involved in a custody decision.“I join families of Service members around the globe in thanking Secretary Gates for his support of their parental rights. Our men and women in uniform should not have to worry about losing their children while they defend us overseas,” said Turner.The decision by Secretary Gates follows years of effort on the part of Congressman Turner where he has introduced his Service Members Family Protection Act, which has passed the House five times, including by voice vote and under suspension with no opposition – only to languish in the Senate. With the support of Secretary Gates, Turner’s effort to protect service members finds new momentum.In his letter, Secretary Gates wrote: “I have been giving this matter a lot of thought and believe [the Department of Defense] should change [its] position to one where [they] are willing to consider whether appropriate legislation can be crafted that provides Service members with a federal uniform standard of protection in cases where it is established that military service is the sole factor involved in a child custody decision involving a Service member…we should work with Congress to pursue an acceptable legislative formula.”“With the support of the Secretary of Defense coupled with years of widespread support in the House, we have an opportunity to see this great wrong righted. I look forward to working with my colleagues in Congress on both sides of the aisle to see that we create a Uniform Standard for our Service members,” added Turner.Turner began his advocacy on behalf of deployed military parents after hearing the story of Eva Crouch-Slusher, a Captain in the Kentucky National Guard. Captain Slusher served an 18-month mobilization with the Kentucky National Guard starting in 2003. Her service was later used as the basis to strip her of custody of her daughter, Sara. After an emotionally and financially costly two-year legal battle, she regained custody of her daughter. Since then, Eva Slusher has joined Congressman Turner in advocating for legislation to help protect other military parents from similar custody fights.“I am pleased Secretary Gates has recognized the value of a Uniform Standard for child custody issues for our military service members. To have our men and women worried about these issues while they are deployed detracts from the overall war effort. As the Chairman of the Military Personnel Subcommittee, I look forward to working with Mr. Turner to provide a federal, baseline standard to assist men and women serving in our active duty military and I thank him for his relentless work on this important issue,” said Congressman Joe Wilson, the Chairman of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Military Personnel, which has jurisdiction over the creation of the uniformed standard.
02.17.2011	Emphasizing the important role that ECSS plays in the current Defense efficiencies plan, Turner asked General Schwartz specifically about the status of the program, as well as the timelines for completion of the CCR. share: f t On Thursday at a House Armed Services Committee hearing on the Air Force budget, Congressman Mike Turner questioned Chief of Staff of the Air Force, General Norman Schwartz on the future of the Expeditionary Combat Support System (ECSS) at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base. The ECSS program has been undergoing a Critical Change Report (CCR) process which has extended beyond the originally forecasted completion date and is threatening the program’s funding.Emphasizing the important role that ECSS plays in the current Defense efficiencies plan, Turner asked General Schwartz specifically about the status of the program, as well as the timelines for completion of the CCR. Schwartz responded: “We have looked at this extensively, and it’s our view that this is something, as hard as it is, that we have got to stick with. And you’ll be hearing from the Department - I think - that we request Congress’ forbearance to press on….This is part of our strategy for achieving the capability to be audit ready. [You] can’t be audit ready if you can’t smash the numbers, and this is one of our vehicles for doing that.”The response by Schwartz to Turner’s question means that the Air Force intends to continue investing in this important program which is responsible for hundreds of area employees.The ECSS program is a major process reengineering and technology information system implementation that will streamline the Air Force’s end-to-end supply chain to increase weapons systems availability, reduce costs, and allow reinvestment in modernization. This program is the major enabling initiative of an overarching effort called Expeditionary Logistics for the 21st Century (eLog-21) that is expected to result in a 10 percent cost savings of at least $12 billion over the lifespan of the program. Expected savings for the Air Force from implementing this program are significant. Currently, logistics operating costs total $33 billion annually, and account for nearly 30 percent of the Air Force budget. ECSS will also retire 240 outdated, inefficient and ineffective legacy information systems that cost $30 million per month to operate. ECSS is a major contributor towards improving the effectiveness and efficiency of Defense Department business operations, and meeting Secretary Gates’ $100B challenge. This program operationally includes 186 Air Force bases globally and 250,000 military and civilian users.
02.17.2011	The three lawmakers requested the VA Secretary to “order a review of all VA Medical Facility oversight policies and procedures to ensure that veterans are receiving the quality of care that they deserve and which had been promised to them.” share: f t Senator Sherrod Brown, Senator Rob Portman, and Congressman Mike Turner wrote to Secretary of Veterans Affairs (VA) Eric Shinseki, urging him to investigate the lack of oversight that allegedly allowed a practitioner at the Dayton VA Medical Center’s dental clinic to violate medical standards of practice over a period of 18 years. According to reports, the alleged actions potentially exposed hundreds of veterans to blood-borne pathogens.In the letter, the three lawmakers requested the VA Secretary to “order a review of all VA Medical Facility oversight policies and procedures to ensure that veterans are receiving the quality of care that they deserve and which had been promised to them.” Further, the letter requests that a National level Administrative Investigation Board (AIB) reinvestigate the Dayton Medical Facility. “In doing so, the VA will restore the confidence of its patients and prevent similar events from occurring at other facilities,” Brown, Portman, and Turner write. Lastly, the letter requests that the VA provide copies of the System-wide Ongoing Assessment Review Strategy (SOARS) investigations along with any other internal investigations surrounding the incident. The two Ohio Senators and Dayton Congressman plan to submit these investigations to the Greater Dayton Area Hospital Association (GDAHA) Task Force in order to inform the community on the nature of the infractions. “We also hope to use this information in our efforts to work with the Dayton VA Medical Center to strengthen healthcare for veterans in the Miami Valley region,” they added.
02.16.2011	From the Wright Brothers' test flights at Huffman Prairie to today's work by the U.S. Air Force at Wright-Patterson, the roots of what made the Space Shuttle possible can be traced to Ohio. share: f t Mike Turner hailed the inclusion of $14 Million in the President's budget request to bring the Space Shuttle Atlantis to the National Museum of the Air Force, located at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base in Dayton, OH. The request follows a year of advocacy by the Ohio delegation and two letters led by Congressman Turner to NASA acting Administrator Charles Scolese in April of 2010 and current Administrator Charles Bolden:"This request in the President's budget is a recognition of the integral role Dayton has played in the history of flight. From the Wright Brothers' test flights at Huffman Prairie to today's work by the U.S. Air Force at Wright-Patterson, the roots of what made the Space Shuttle possible can be traced to Ohio. If approved by Congress, 60% of the U.S. population, who live within a day's drive of the museum, can also share in the history of flight. I look forward to continuing to work alongside the Ohio delegation to make this a reality."
02.15.2011	At a pen and pad session with the media, Turner stressed the need for continued bipartisanship in pursuing robust missile defense capabilities, modernizing our nuclear weapons, and finding measured solutions for cost efficiencies and savings in our defense budget. share: f t Today, Congressman Mike Turner outlined his priorities as Chairman of the House Armed Services Strategic Forces Subcommittee. At a pen and pad session with the media, Turner stressed the need for continued bipartisanship in pursuing robust missile defense capabilities, modernizing our nuclear weapons, and finding measured solutions for cost efficiencies and savings in our defense budget.“It’s an honor to lead the House Armed Service’s Strategic Forces Subcommittee,” said Turner. “I look forward to working with Ranking Member Loretta Sanchez, as well as all of the subcommittee members, in pursuing initiatives which put the defense of our nation first.”In his remarks, Chairman Turner covered a number of issues which relate to the Subcommittee’s areas of jurisdiction:Turner on Missile Defense“We have a responsibility to the American people to ensure that our country remains protected from a missile attack. Any plans for U.S.-funded missile defenses in Europe must also include a concrete hedging strategy for further defense of our nation. Furthermore, the House Armed Services Committee will be pushing forward on ‘quantitative and qualitative’ missile defense improvements that we believe are in the national interest to protect the American people, our troops and our allies.”Turner on Nuclear Modernization“Modernizing our aging nuclear stockpile, infrastructure, and triad of delivery systems is integral to fully supporting the nuclear mission. Likewise, with our intellectual workforce aging, investment is needed to sustain the personnel that perform the important research behind our nuclear weapon programs. During consideration of the New START treaty, the administration promised that we would move toward a modern and sustainable deterrent. We will work to see that those promises are kept.” Turner on Cost Efficiencies and Savings“In a time of tightening budgets, we’ll be working to identify ways to efficiently and effectively pursue our national security goals. This includes modernizing and streamlining programs to ensure taxpayer’s dollars are being spent appropriately.”
02.02.2011	In his statement, Turner expressed concerns over discrepancies between statements by Russian officials and those in the U.S. Senate’s Resolution of Ratification, concerning the future scope of ballistic missile defenses, and Russian threats to deploy short range nuclear armed missiles within range of NATO countries. share: f t Today, Congressman Mike Turner, Chairman of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Strategic Forces, released the following statement as the START Treaty reaches finalization.In his statement, Turner expressed concerns over discrepancies between statements by Russian officials and those in the U.S. Senate’s Resolution of Ratification, concerning the future scope of ballistic missile defenses, and Russian threats to deploy short range nuclear armed missiles within range of NATO countries:“As the START Treaty is finalized, Russia has once again asserted that the treaty restricts U.S. and Allied missile defense programs. I am deeply concerned that the U.S and Russia are signing an agreement where we have different visions as to what the treaty represents.“Russia has claimed a virtual veto over U.S. and Allied missile defense programs. That assertion is inappropriate as all sovereign states reserve the right to decide how to best defend themselves.“The U.S. Senate made sure that the New START Treaty was not ‘ABM Treaty Lite,’ and it falls to the administration to defend that understanding, as required by the Resolution of Ratification. But the House also has an important role here. Make no mistake: the House Armed Services Committee will be pushing forward on missile defense improvements and enhancements we believe are in the national interest, even if that includes what Russia decides to be ‘quantitative and qualitative’ improvements. We will be exploring all manner of defenses that protect the American people, our troops and our allies.“As Chair of the U.S. Delegation to the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, I am also deeply concerned about the unfriendly language Russia has used when speaking to our NATO allies. Specifically President Dmitri Medvedev stated that, ‘We have two options. Either we … agree with NATO on designing an integrated system of anti-missile defense or, if we fail to reach agreement, we will subsequently be forced to make an entire series of unpleasant decisions on the deployment of an offensive nuclear missile group.’ Threatening our NATO allies with nuclear weapons is not very helpful in attempting to foster cooperation and dialogue.”
01.25.2011	his evening the President rightly recognized the American people’s call for both parties to work together. I was encouraged to hear of his support to keep our country competitive in research and technology in the innovative spirit of the Wright brothers. share: f t “This evening the President rightly recognized the American people’s call for both parties to work together. I was encouraged to hear of his support to keep our country competitive in research and technology in the innovative spirit of the Wright brothers. At Wright-Patterson Air Force Base, they are leading the way in this area, and the creation of similar economic engines throughout Ohio and our country are much needed. In addition, his call for a simplified tax code is long overdue and something which can be achieved through work on both sides of the aisle.“It’s also clear that freezing government spending at current levels as the president has proposed, will not slow the runaway deficits which have characterized the past two years of this administration. In order to create jobs, jumpstart the economy and continue the tradition of American entrepreneurial success, we must cut government spending and tackle our mounting debt. This is the true challenge of our generation. It is time to have an honest discussion about the spending priorities in this country. We heard this from the American people this fall, and it is time to act.”
01.19.2011	“The flawed Obamacare legislation would adversely affect every American family, small business, and millions of seniors. Its $500 billion cuts to Medicare, which include $156 billion in Medicare Advantage cuts, will hurt southwestern Ohioans already at risk. share: f t Congressman Mike Turner today joined a bipartisan group of House Members in supporting the repeal of Obamacare. With this vote, more Members voted to repeal the bill today (245-189) than voted for its passage last year (219-212). “The flawed Obamacare legislation would adversely affect every American family, small business, and millions of seniors. Its $500 billion cuts to Medicare, which include $156 billion in Medicare Advantage cuts, will hurt southwestern Ohioans already at risk. We now have the opportunity to get healthcare reform right, through a bipartisan process.” said Turner. “We must address issues such as prohibiting insurance companies from denying coverage based on pre-existing conditions, allowing small businesses to pool coverage, offering the ability to deduct the full cost of their health insurance premiums, and tort reform,” added Turner. In addition to the cuts affecting Ohio seniors, Turner cited the bloated spending and debilitating taxes included in the legislation as a chief reason for his original opposition to the bill. The bipartisan Congressional Budget Office has stated that Obamacare will increase the federal budget deficit by over $550 billion in the first ten years of the law and then by $1.4 trillion in the following ten years. Turner continued, “I voted against the government takeover of health care in part because it imposed over $500 billion of additional taxes, fees, and costs on an already struggling economy. Those taxes coupled with nearly $2 trillion in new government spending over the next 20 years will stifle the growth we need to put Americans back to work.”
01.09.2011	Congressman Mike Turner released the following statement upon learning of the attack on Rep. Gabrielle Giffords (AZ-8), her staff, and her constituents: share: f t Congressman Mike Turner released the following statement upon learning of the attack on Rep. Gabrielle Giffords (AZ-8), her staff, and her constituents: “We were all very saddened to hear about the act of senseless violence committed on Congresswoman Gabrielle Giffords, her staff and constituents. As Americans, we cherish our democracy and condemn acts of violence. My thoughts and prayers and those of my family are with Congresswoman Giffords, her family, and everyone impacted by this tragedy."
01.07.2011	Congressman Mike Turner called on Defense Secretary Robert Gates to evaluate the results of the Expeditionary Fighting Vehicle’s (EFV) testing program before determining whether to cancel the program. share: f t Congressman Mike Turner called on Defense Secretary Robert Gates to evaluate the results of the Expeditionary Fighting Vehicle’s (EFV) testing program before determining whether to cancel the program. This follows Secretary Gates’ announcement that he has slated the EFV for termination and will use the remaining funds in the program to shut down the program. This decision throws to the wayside, billions of taxpayer dollars invested in this vital program for our U.S. Marines. “After years of development and investment, it’s unwise to schedule the EFV for termination, no matter whether the results of its testing program are positive or not. This is a military procurement program that the Commandant of the Marine Corps has indicated to be the number one ground combat procurement priority of the service. In an hour of war, we cannot leave our Marines dependent on a 40 year old fleet of slow, lightly armored Amphibious Assault Vehicles that lack the firepower and mobility necessary for survival on the modern battlefield.”The Commandant of the Marine Corps, James Amos, along with many Commandants before him, has defended the amphibious assault capability as an “absolutely enduring requirement.” Maintaining the ability to achieve forcible entry from the sea serves as a credible deterrent to our nation’s adversaries and is a critical component of the Marines’ operational requirements. This is a requirement which will not fade away. Moreover, this mission is currently being filled by an antiquated machine, which does not meet the needs of our modern warfighter, and which puts lives in danger. “The wrong course of action is to symbolically cancel a heavily invested program without evaluating its success, thereby, sacrificing the fiscal and physical security of the taxpayer. We should show them that the government is not only serious about efficiency, but is smart enough to make the common sense decisions necessary to save taxpayer dollars.”
01.03.2011	The provisions sponsored by Rep. Turner in the FY 11 NDAA are intended to “reduce the number of sexual assaults involving members of the Armed Forces” and “improve the response of the Department of Defense, the military departments, and the Armed Forces to reports of sexual assaults involving members of the Armed Forces.” share: f t The 2011 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) that Congress passed on 12/22/2010 contains numerous provisions advocated by Rep. Mike Turner of Dayton that will strengthen military sexual assault prevention and response policies. Rep. Turner, recently selected as Chairman of the House Armed Services Strategic Forces Subcommittee, was inspired by the tragic story of Marine Lance Corporal Maria Lauterbach to advocate for greater protection against sexual assault in the military. The provisions sponsored by Rep. Turner in the FY 11 NDAA are intended to “reduce the number of sexual assaults involving members of the Armed Forces” and “improve the response of the Department of Defense, the military departments, and the Armed Forces to reports of sexual assaults involving members of the Armed Forces.” To strengthen the response to sexual assaults, the Department of Defense is directed by the new law to create the position of Director of the Sexual Assault Prevention and Response Office. The Director will have the authority to oversee implementation of the sexual assault prevention and response program; serve as the “single point of authority, accountability, and oversight” for the program; and ensure Department wide compliance. In addition, under the new law the Department of Defense is required to conduct a comprehensive review of all the services’ sexual assault policies. The Secretary of each military department will assess the adequacy of current sexual assault programs to ensure the “safest and most secure living and working environments with regard to preventing sexual assault.” “The purpose of this review process is to identify and fix the gaps in current policies. For too long sexual assaults have not been addressed appropriately, this legislation goes a long way towards ensuring the safety of our service members is made a priority,” said Rep. Turner. The Department of Defense is further directed to generate an annual sexual assault report. Amongst other things, the report will include information on the number of sexual assaults committed by and against service members, the number of the cases that were substantiated, and synopsis of each such substantiated case. The content of the report will be provided to the Secretary of Defense and Congress to ensure oversight of the program. The law also provides improved medical care and victim advocate services. “These new protections for victims are necessary to ensure the increased safety of our service members. Victims of sexual assault must have a safe path to follow if they file a complaint and must be given a fair hearing,” Rep. Turner said. “At the same time, we need to educate our men and women at all levels of the armed forces to do everything in our power to prevent occurrences of sexual assault.” While Rep. Turner is pleased with the recently enacted improvements, he acknowledges that more can be done. In part due to increased reporting requirements, reported incidents of sexual assault in the military have increased dramatically in recent years, and these escalating numbers are estimated by the Department of Defense to only reflect one tenth of the actual number of such offenses. Lance Corporal Maria Lauterbach, formerly of Dayton, Ohio, filed a sexual assault claim against a fellow Marine who was subsequently convicted for murdering her and burying her in his own backyard, not far from their station post at Camp LeJeune, North Carolina. Her family’s attorney, Merle Wilberding of Dayton, who is himself a former member of the Army’s Judge Advocate General’s Corps and has testified before Congress at Rep. Turner’s invitation on the issue of sexual assault in the military, has praised the new law. “The changes in the training and structure of the victim advocate program, as well as making “privileged” the communications between the victim and victim advocate, are significant steps in the future protection of victims of sexual assault in the military,” said Attorney Wilberding. Lance Corporal Lauterbach’s mother, Mary Lauterbach, has also testified in support of these changes. The plight of Maria Lauterbach, and Mary Lauterbach’s insights into the needs of victims of sexual assault in the military, has inspired other members of Congress to move forward on this legislation. Congressman Turner praised Mrs. Lauterbach’s efforts and vowed to continue improving protections for our men and women in uniform. “Mary Lauterbach’s effort to transform the tragic loss of her daughter into positive policy changes across the Department of Defense has been inspirational,” said Rep. Turner. “She has truly made a difference in the lives of so many in the military and we will always be grateful to her. While the recently enacted NDAA provisions are a testament to her sacrifice, the work in this field is not complete. I will continue to work with Mary to ensure that all service members are afforded the greatest protections against sexual assault.”
12.23.2010	Several provisions included by Congressman Mike Turner in the FY2011 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) approved today by the House of Representatives will strengthen key installations at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base and help support Dayton’s regional economy. share: f t Several provisions included by Congressman Mike Turner in the FY2011 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) approved today by the House of Representatives will strengthen key installations at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base and help support Dayton’s regional economy. The NDAA unanimously passed both the House and Senate and is headed to the President’s desk for signature. Among the most important provisions included in the bill by Rep. Turner, who was selected yesterday to serve as the Chairman of the House Armed Services Strategic Forces Subcommittee, were language which will allow defense industry civilians to attend the United States Air Force Institute of Technology (AFIT) located at Wright-Patterson, and language which will double the direct hire authority of key laboratories at the Base. Admission of Defense Industry Civilians to AFIT For several years, the regional business community has advocated expanding AFIT educational programs to open them to non-government civilian personnel. AFIT students currently attend classes at the University of Dayton and Wright State University as part of the Dayton Area Graduate Studies Institute, and allowing civilian personnel to attend AFIT classes will help deepen the technical knowledge base of the area workforce. “This is the kind of public/private sector partnership that makes sense in our changing economy and the type of initiative I have always supported,” Congressman Turner said. “Building on assets already in place is an effective economic development strategy. I am committed to finding new investment opportunities at Wright-Patterson and AFIT is an obvious place to begin.” Direct Hire Authority The primary mission of many labs is to research, develop and integrate the latest fighting techniques in air, space and cyberspace. Since the mission is so advanced, and central to the nation’s war fighting capabilities, new hires at the lab must go through a very difficult process that can take up to 18 months. This lengthy process has made it difficult at times to hire the most talented employees. The language offered by Congressman Turner in the FY2011 NDAA authorizes the Air Force Research Laboratory and other national laboratories to double the portion of the workforce it can hire directly. “Security is our primary concern when hiring at the Air Force Research Laboratory, but I believe a balance can be achieved that satisfies the Pentagon and gives the Air Force lab the ability to hire a person of special or unique talent, when they are available,” Congressman Turner said. Rep. Turner was recently elected to his fifth term in Congress. He has been a member of the Strategic Forces Subcommittee since beginning his service in the House in 2003, and served as the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee in the 111th Congress. As Chairman of the Strategic Forces Subcommittee, Rep. Turner will be a lead advocate in Ohio’s Congressional delegation for the National Air and Space Intelligence Center (NASIC), headquartered at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base. NASIC is the nation’s premier analytical expertise in air, space, counterspace, and cyberspace and is responsible for over two thousand jobs in the Dayton area. This chairmanship strengthens Ohio’s ability to protect NASIC from attempts to critical jobs and missions away to other states. As a subcommittee chairman on Armed Services, Turner will also be in a position to support NASA Glenn in Cleveland, the Lima Army Tank Plant, the Springfield Air National Guard Base and other key Ohio military installations.
12.22.2010	Rep. Mike Turner was named Chairman of the House Armed Services Strategic Forces Subcommittee, Rep. Turner announced today. The panel has significant power to support and enhance Southwest Ohio’s economic vitality. share: f t House Armed Services Committee Chairman Howard P. “Buck” McKeon has named Rep. Mike Turner Chairman of the House Armed Services Strategic Forces Subcommittee, Rep. Turner announced today. The panel has significant power to support and enhance Southwest Ohio’s economic vitality. The Subcommittee oversees the nation’s nuclear arsenal, our military’s assets in outer space, the Department of Defense’s intelligence programs, and also over missile defense systems – all of which are critical to U.S. National Security and to Ohio’s Economy. “Wright-Patterson is the largest single-site employer in Ohio,” Turner said. “This position puts me in a key position to protect and expand the base, and to continue to focus efforts to modernize America’s nuclear infrastructure, build and deploy a robust missile defense system, and enhance space and intelligence support to America’s warfighters. I am honored to serve on the House Armed Services Committee and excited to be named to the leadership team.” As Chairman of the Subcommittee, Rep. Turner will be a lead advocate in Ohio’s Congressional delegation for the National Air and Space Intelligence Center (NASIC), headquartered at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base. NASIC is the nation’s premier analytical expertise in air, space, counterspace, and cyberspace and is responsible for over two thousand jobs in the Dayton area. This chairmanship strengthens Ohio’s ability to protect NASIC from attempts to critical jobs and missions away to other states. As a Subcommittee Chairman on Armed Services, Turner will also be in a position to support NASA Glenn in Cleveland, the Lima Army Tank Plant, the Springfield Air National Guard Base and other key Ohio military installations. “Mike Turner has been a crucial part of the House Armed Services Committee Republican leadership team,” Rep. McKeon said. “As Ranking Member of the Strategic Forces Subcommittee, Mike has displayed superior intellect, the capacity to manage complex subject matters and tremendous leadership ability. He is a natural choice to lead the Subcommittee and I look forward to working with him on the national security challenges facing our country.” Rep. Turner was recently elected to his fifth term in Congress. He has been a member of the Strategic Forces Subcommittee since beginning his service in the House in 2003, and served as the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee in the 111th Congress.
12.08.2010	Congressman Mike Turner of Dayton and Congressman Steve Austria of Beavercreek. who represent Wright-Patterson Air Force Base in Congress, today sent a bipartisan delegation letter to the Defense Department expressing concern about the Expeditionary Combat Support System (ECSS) program, currently headquartered in Beavercreek, could be downsized resulting in the loss of hundreds of SW Ohio jobs. share: f t Congressman Mike Turner of Dayton and Congressman Steve Austria of Beavercreek. who represent Wright-Patterson Air Force Base in Congress, today sent a bipartisan delegation letter to the Defense Department expressing concern about the Expeditionary Combat Support System (ECSS) program, currently headquartered in Beavercreek, could be downsized resulting in the loss of hundreds of SW Ohio jobs. “ECSS is a critical piece to the modernization of Air Force logistics,” said Rep. Turner. “The Secretary of Defense has directed Pentagon officials to look for cost savings, but making short-term fiscal decisions at the risk of creating cost overruns and missed deadlines within programs is not a positive use of taxpayer funds. The Pentagon needs to explain how stopping this important modernization program benefits the Air Force and supports our national security.” “While I understand the Air Force’s recent concerns, moving the legacy system may be counter-productive,” Rep. Austria said. “The loss of this project would cost the region and state a significant number of jobs that are critical in supporting Wright Patterson Air Force Base and if the ECSS program goes away the Air Force will need to come up with a robust program in which to maintain the system.” The ECSS program is the major part of an important initiative known as the Expeditionary Logistics for the 21st Century (eLog21). The initiative is expected to result in a 10 percent cost savings over the Future Years Defense Program for the Air Force. A program delay or interruption, as called for in the Office of the Secretary of Defense’s decision memorandum, will negatively impact the ECSS program, likely resulting in future schedule delays and cost overruns. “Such a move could cost the taxpayer millions of dollars, and will cost the Dayton region hundreds of jobs,” said Rep. Turner. ”As a senior member of the House Armed Services Committee, I will continue to fight for a strong national defense as well as the most effective use of taxpayer dollars. No one does that better than the workforce at and around Wright-Patterson.” “My office will continue to work with the Air Force and our local community to keep these jobs,” Rep. Austria said. “With the expert local work force and continued growth at Wright Patterson Air Force Base, it would be a mistake to move these important jobs dealing with the legacy system to Alabama or anywhere else.” On July 22nd 2010, Undersecretary of the Air Force Erin Conaton testified before the House Armed Services Committee in a hearing about the effective and efficient use of resources at the Department of Defense. In her written testimony, Conaton stated: “The ECSS is a major information technology initiative that is crucial to supporting the enterprise goals and outcomes of eLog21. By consolidating unconnected legacy logistic and supply information systems, ECSS will eliminate the enormous inefficiencies in those legacy systems that resulted from a lack of visibility throughout the supply chain. Once fully implemented, ECSS, in support of eLog21, will allow the Air Force to maintain smaller inventories, with a greater percentage of our equipment in the hands of those that need it. In the coming weeks Turner and Austria will continue to put pressure on the Department of Defense to keep the ECSS program on track.
12.08.2010	Ranking Member Buck McKeon (R-Calif.), Strategic Forces Subcommittee Ranking Member Mike Turner (R-Ohio) and fourteen of their colleagues on the House Armed Services Committee today sent a letter to the top Democrat and Republican in the U.S. Senate urging them to delay a vote to ratify the New START Treaty until important security issues are addressed and resolved. share: f t Ranking Member Buck McKeon (R-Calif.), Strategic Forces Subcommittee Ranking Member Mike Turner and fourteen of their colleagues on the House Armed Services Committee today sent a letter to the top Democrat and Republican in the U.S. Senate urging them to delay a vote to ratify the New START Treaty until important security issues are addressed and resolved. Text of the letter (linked here)—signed by McKeon, Turner, Rep. Roscoe Bartlett (R-Md.), Rep. Mac Thornberry (R-Texas), Rep. Todd Akin (R-Mo.), Rep. Joe Wilson (R-S.C.), Rep. Frank LoBiondo (R-N.J.), Rep. John Kline (R-Minn.), Rep. Mike Rogers (R-Ala.), Rep. Trent Franks (R-Ariz.), Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-Wash.), Rep. Doug Lamborn (R-Colo.), Rep. Rob Wittman (R-Va.), Rep. Duncan Hunter (R-Calif.), Rep. John Fleming (R-La.) and Rep. Mike Coffman (R-Colo.)—follows: “We are troubled by the Administration’s push to ratify the New START Treaty amid outstanding concerns regarding Russian intentions, missile defense limitations, and nuclear modernization. Given the security implications associated with this treaty and the importance of such a treaty enjoying bipartisan support, we believe the Senate should not be rushed in its deliberations. Therefore, we urge the Senate not to vote on the New START Treaty in the lame duck congressional session and certainly not until these important security issues are resolved. “There remains a significant divide between Russia and the U.S. on whether New START affects our ability to deploy missiles defenses, particularly long-range missile defenses in Europe. Despite testimony from Administration officials that New START does not limit U.S. missile defenses, Moscow seems to believe it will. Russian officials have declared they would withdraw from the treaty if U.S. missile defense systems are upgraded quantitatively or qualitatively. “Russia also warns that it will build up offensive forces should its ‘terms’ for a missile defense agreement not be met; all while the Administration seeks to reduce our nuclear forces. We have no insight on what these terms are, nor do we know the exact nature and scope of the missile defense negotiations reportedly occurring between Undersecretary of State Ellen Tauscher and her Russian counterpart, Deputy Foreign Minister Sergei Ryabkov. “We reject the notion that Russia can set terms for our missile defenses. Iranian and North Korean missile and nuclear programs continue unabated as highlighted by recent events. Given these threats, upgrades to our homeland missile defense capabilities and funding for missile defenses in Europe will remain top priorities for the House Armed Services Committee. “However, our principal concern is that the Administration might cede to Russian demands and allow Moscow to shape U.S. missile defense plans in exchange for its adherence to New START. This concern is exacerbated by a lack of transparency by the Administration in providing information on the nature of these secretive missile defense discussions. One way to alleviate this concern is for the Administration to provide Congress with the treaty negotiating record—which Senators have requested on numerous occasions—so that members can see firsthand how missile defense was discussed within the context of the treaty, as well as documents related to the Tauscher-Ryabkov discussions. In the meantime, we think it unwise to vote on New START until the Congress gains this additional insight and better understands how the impasse on missile defense will affect our long-term security. “We are also deeply concerned about the state of our nation’s nuclear enterprise, and whether the Administration will remain committed to nuclear modernization and our nation’s nuclear triad. Reversing the erosion of our nation’s nuclear infrastructure—which the bipartisan U.S. Strategic Posture Commission called ‘decrepit’—will require a comprehensive plan and long-term political and financial support from the Administration and both chambers of Congress. “Our committee recently received an updated ‘1251 Report’ on nuclear modernization. The report provides glimpses of the Administration’s revised funding requirements based on its Nuclear Posture Review released last spring. However, it is unclear exactly how these additional funds contribute to modernization. For example, over one-third of these funds appear to go towards employee pension plans—not modernization of the infrastructure or stockpile. Members of the House have yet to be briefed on the updated 1251 Report, and therefore we cannot assess the adequacy of these revised plans and funding requirements. We would hope the Senate would allow for the same due diligence in its oversight of this matter prior to a vote on New START. “As members of the House we will not have the opportunity to vote on the New START Treaty. However, the outcome of the treaty will undoubtedly impact national security policy and investment decisions within our jurisdiction as authorizers of the annual defense bill, and we will be responsible for overseeing its implementation. Because of these roles, we feel compelled to express our concerns. “We are in complete agreement with Senator Kerry who recently told the press, ‘The American people want to see Republicans and Democrats working together on behalf of national security.’ We believe bipartisanship is possible with good faith and sufficient cooperation among both political parties and the executive and legislative branches of the federal government. The security concerns associated with the New START Treaty are significant and must be addressed. This requires thorough and thoughtful deliberation. The American people expect this of their government and we owe them nothing less.”
11.24.2010	“The commitment NATO made today is an important step towards ensuring the alliance can respond to emerging security threats of the twenty-first century while also continuing to address traditional security concerns,” Rep. Turner said. share: f t (WASHINGTON, D.C.) Today, Rep. Howard P. “Buck” McKeon (R-CA), Ranking Member of the House Armed Services Committee, and Rep. Mike Turner, Ranking Member of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Strategic Forces, welcomed the endorsement by NATO member states of territorial missile defense and their reaffirmation that NATO remain a nuclear alliance. “NATO member nations should be commended for their decision to move forward on a missile defense plan which acknowledges our shared security threats and commits to the development of missile defense capabilities that protect all alliance members,” said Rep. McKeon. “Our nations must be equipped to counter potential threats from Iran and other countries intent on acquiring weapons that can hold our people and deployed troops at risk. NATO’s actions are a step in the right direction, and we look forward to working with the Administration to ensure the United States upholds its commitment to deploy a robust missile defense system.” “The commitment NATO made today is an important step towards ensuring the alliance can respond to emerging security threats of the twenty-first century while also continuing to address traditional security concerns,” Rep. Turner said. “This declaration builds upon over a decade worth of work on missile defense. Iran’s nuclear and ballistic missile programs continue unabated. This is a threat not only to the American people but also to our allies and friends. Therefore, I am pleased to see member states embrace territory-wide missile defense as a core element of the alliance’s agenda.” At the two-day summit in Lisbon, Portugal, Heads of State and Government of the 28 NATO member countries adopted a new Strategic Concept outlining the alliance’s vision for its role in addressing security threats in the 21st Century. They also issued a formal declaration that supports the development of missile defenses for the protection of alliance populations and territories and reaffirmed NATO’s role as a nuclear alliance. Rep. Turner is one of the eleven Members of the U.S. House of Representatives that serve on the NATO Parliamentary Assembly. Earlier this year, he introduced H.R. 5338, the NATO First Act of 2010: a proposal to reaffirm the United States’ commitment to NATO’s collective defense. Several provisions from the NATO First Act were adopted in the House-passed National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2011, including a provision on fielding missile defenses in Europe that provides protection for all NATO allies.
11.18.2010	Carl Day committed his life to the Dayton region. He was a nationally acclaimed journalist that worked for the best interests of our community throughout his career, earning a reputation as the “Voice of Dayton.” share: f t Congressman Mike Turner released the following statement regarding the news that Dayton broadcaster and personal friend Carl Day lost his battle with cancer at the age of 72: “Carl Day committed his life to the Dayton region. He was a nationally acclaimed journalist that worked for the best interests of our community throughout his career, earning a reputation as the “Voice of Dayton.” He was an aviation enthusiast and strongly advocated for the National Aviation Hall of Fame and Wright-Patterson Air Force Base. His assignments took him to Sarajevo and Bosnia to cover the war and the Dayton Peace Accords. While on that assignment, he developed a close relationship with the people of the region, and cared tremendously about their safety and security. In 1996, Carl and I were part of a delegation that traveled to Bosnia with Commerce Secretary Mickey Kantor, on a mission to build relationships and develop economic development opportunities. ?Carl’s faith, positive attitude, and determination through his ten-year battle with illness served as an inspiration to many in our region suffering from cancer and leukemia. Lori and I will keep his friends, family, and our community in our thoughts and prayers.”
10.19.2010	Today, the Center for Security Policy recognized Mike Turner as one of their “Champions of National Security.” Rep. Turner share: f t Today, the Center for Security Policy recognized Mike Turner as one of their “Champions of National Security.” Rep. Turner received a 100% rating on the Center’s National Security Scorecard for his voting record in the 111th Congress. “As a senior member of the House Armed Services Committee, I am committed to advocating for the many military and defense related resources in my community and throughout our country,” Rep. Turner said. “I thank the Center for Security Policy for the honor, and I look forward to continuing to work in Congress on behalf of our brave men and women in uniform, and on issues critical to the national security of the United States.” At the conclusion of the past nine Congresses, the Center for Security policy has evaluated Members of Congress on matters of great importance to the national security of the United States. This is the second consecutive Congress that Rep. Turner has been recognized as a “Champion of National Security” by the Center. The Center for Security Policy is a non-profit, non-partisan national security organization that specializes in identifying policies, actions, and resource needs that are vital to American security. The Center was founded in 1988 and has worked to great effect since then in the establishment of successful national security policies through the use of all elements of national power – diplomatic, informational, military, and economic strength.
10.14.2010	Mike Turner called for Secretary of State Hillary Clinton to convene representatives of the Balkan states and neighboring nations at Wright Patterson Air Force Base (WPAFB) for a “Dayton II” conference. This meeting would seek to address the challenges that continue to face the region, fifteen years after the Dayton Peace Accords share: f t Mike Turner called for Secretary of State Hillary Clinton to convene representatives of the Balkan states and neighboring nations at Wright Patterson Air Force Base (WPAFB) for a “Dayton II” conference. This meeting would seek to address the challenges that continue to face the region, fifteen years after the Dayton Peace Accords. Rep. Turner’s letter precedes the Secretary’s four day trip to Bosnia and Herzegovina, Serbia, Kosovo, and Brussels to underscore the United States’ continued commitment to supporting the Balkan states in their efforts build prosperous, peaceful, and democratic societies. In his letter to Secretary Clinton, Rep. Turner states… The unprecedented success of the Dayton Peace Accords notwithstanding, the present political divisions of BiH and its ineffective government structure were approved as part of a transitional constitution agreed upon 15 years ago. In order to assure that Europe remains whole, free and at peace, a more concerted effort must be undertaken on both sides of the Atlantic to help this nascent democracy reform its governing structure and resolve other lingering issues. Under your leadership, inspired by President Clinton’s success in Dayton, representatives of the Balkan states and other regional players should again gather at WPAFB, for a Dayton II to tackle the remaining challenges: On November 1st, 1995, while Mr. Turner served as the Mayor of Dayton, leaders of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia, and Serbia convened at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base in an attempt to halt conflicts that began in Bosnia and Herzegovina in April of 1992. After almost a month of negotiations, a peace settlement, known as the Dayton Peace Accords, was reached, ending the conflict that threatened to destabilize Europe, and resulted in the death of approximately 250,000 people, and the displacement of more than 2,000,000 men, women, and children Throughout the negotiations, the Dayton community became part of the peace process. The citizens of the region became proud to be part of history, holding candlelight vigils, placing `candles of peace' in their front windows, congratulating and praying for the negotiators, and forming a human peace chain at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base. Before Congress adjourned in September, Rep. Turner introduced H.RES.1680, a resolution recognizing the 15th anniversary of the Dayton Peace Accords. The resolution commends Bosnia and Herzegovina for the significant progress it has made over the past 15 years and encourages further economic and constitutional reforms.
10.13.2010	This week, The Oprah Winfrey Show will profile the issue of service members losing custody of their children due to their military service. During the taping of the program, Oprah spoke with Eva Crouch-Slusher, a Captain in the Kentucky National Guard, who Rep. Turner had previously invited to Washington, DC to meet with Members of Congress to advocate for the protection of servicemembers custody rights. share: f t Mike Turner and Veterans Affairs Subcommittee on Economic Opportunity Chairwoman Stephanie Herseth Sandlin (D-SD) have requested that Full Committee Chairman Bob Filner (D-CA) hold a markup of Turner’s military child custody legislation, H.R. 4469, before the end of the calendar year. H.R. 4469 was approved by the Veterans’ Affairs Subcommittee on Economic Opportunity on July 28th; however the full committee has yet to take action to advance the bill. In their letter to Chairman Filner, Reps. Turner and Herseth Sandlin note that this week, The Oprah Winfrey Show will profile the issue of service members losing custody of their children due to their military service. During the taping of the program, Oprah spoke with Eva Crouch-Slusher, a Captain in the Kentucky National Guard, who Rep. Turner had previously invited to Washington, DC to meet with Members of Congress to advocate for the protection of servicemembers custody rights. Captain Slusher was mobilized for 18 months with the Kentucky National Guard starting in 2003. Her service was later used as the basis to strip her of custody of her daughter Sara. After an emotionally and financially costly two-year legal battle, Eva regained custody of her daughter. Rep. Turner’s child custody language, which was also included in the House version of the FY2011 National Defense Authorization Act, prohibits courts from permanently altering custody orders during a parent’s deployment, and requires pre-deployment custody to be reinstated unless it is not in the best interest of the child. Additionally, the legislation prohibits state court judges from using deployment or possibility of deployment of service members to deny them custody. Since state laws regarding military child custody vary widely, if they offer any protection at all, Rep. Turner has argued for a national baseline standard. As a senior member of the House Armed Services Committee, Rep. Turner successful included his child custody language in the annual National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) four times. Additionally, Rep. Turner’s legislation was approved unanimously by the House of Representatives as a stand-alone bill in 2008. Throughout the years, Congressman Turner has worked on bipartisan basis to help service members. This year, Congressman Turner has cooperated with Congresswoman Stephanie Herseth Sandlin (D-SD) to win support for H.R. 4469. On April 29th, Rep. Turner and Rep. Herseth Sandlin met with Secretary of Defense Robert Gates to advocate for federal safeguards of military parents’ rights in custody cases. More information on Rep. Turner and Rep. Herseth Sandlin’s meeting with Secretary Gates can be found here.
10.04.2010	“Today’s ceremony marks the end of over a decade worth of work done by our community to ensure the complete cleanup of the Miamisburg Mound facility,” Rep. Turner said. share: f t “Today’s ceremony marks the end of over a decade worth of work done by our community to ensure the complete cleanup of the Miamisburg Mound facility,” Rep. Turner said. “Our community’s efforts are seen nationwide as a model for the restoration of a contaminated nuclear weapons facility. I look forward to continuing to work with the community on the next step: redeveloping the mound site into a leading center of clean energy research and development, and an economic engine for the Dayton region.” In 2005, with the support of Rep. Dave Hobson (R-OH), the former Ranking Member of the Appropriations Subcommittee on Energy and Water Development, Rep. Turner secured $30 million in federal funds for the cleanup of OU-1 site at the Miamisburg Mound. As the Representative of the Third Congressional District, Congressman Turner has secured over $39 million for the Miamisburg Mound remediation project, including over one million dollars to assist the transition of the current site into viable property for economic development. In May, Congressman Turner sent a letter to Secretary of Energy Steven Chu, advocating the Mound site be place under the new Department of Energy (DoE) “energy park initiative,” established in this year’s FY2011 National Defense Authorization Act. The energy park initiative facilitates collaborative partnerships with State and local governments, the private sector, and community reuse organizations in efforts to promote energy security, environmental sustainability, economic competitiveness, and energy sector jobs at former defense nuclear sites.
09.30.2010	Mike Turner, Ranking Member of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Strategic Forces, today in a meeting in his office, received the personal assurance of the Defense Intelligence Agency (DIA) Director Lieutenant General Ronald Burgess that no jobs or missions will be moved from the National Air and Space Intelligence Agency (NASIC), based at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base share: f t Mike Turner, Ranking Member of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Strategic Forces, today in a meeting in his office, received the personal assurance of the Defense Intelligence Agency (DIA) Director Lieutenant General Ronald Burgess that no jobs or missions will be moved from the National Air and Space Intelligence Agency (NASIC), based at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base, to the Missile and Space Intelligence Center (MSIC), based at Redstone Arsenal in Huntsville, Alabama. This means that critical missions and thousands of jobs remain in the Dayton Region. “Protecting NASIC and Wright-Patterson Air Force Base is in the best interests of our national security and is good news for our local economy,” Rep. Turner said. “The personnel at NASIC have a proven performance record and I commend LTG Burgess and the DIA for recognizing the critical role NASIC plays in protecting the citizens of the United States. I am glad that NASIC will remain in Dayton, Ohio where it belongs.” In their meeting, LTG Burgess and Rep. Turner discussed the Alabama Congressional Delegation’s recent efforts to grow MSIC by attempting to steal mission responsibility from NASIC. Over the past several years, there have been efforts to grow MSIC by attempting to steal mission responsibility from NASIC. Based on NASIC’s reputation within the intelligence community as the lead organization in providing timely, quality analysis for ballistic missiles and space, the attempt to grow MSIC has been seen by many as simply an effort to take jobs from Ohio and bring them to Alabama. Rep. Turner and the Ohio delegation have continuously worked to protect the current missions at NASIC. Most recently, Rep. Turner sent letters to President Barack Obama and Lieutenant General Ronald Burgess opposing Alabama’s efforts, and led an Ohio Delegation wide letter to the DIA making the case that NASIC’s past performance clearly shows mission responsibility should remain at the status quo. The National Air and Space Intelligence Center (NASIC) is one of the critical missions at Wright-Patterson. NASIC has proven itself as the nation’s premier analytical expertise in air, space, counterspace, and cyberspace. Approximately 2,000 personnel work at NASIC, of which about 60 percent are civilians.
09.22.2010	Rep. Mike Turner this morning testified before the International Trade Commission (ITC) on behalf of Southwest Ohio companies NewPage Corporation and SMART Papers in their case on unfair competition from paper producers in Indonesia and China. share: f t Rep. Mike Turner this morning testified before the International Trade Commission (ITC) on behalf of Southwest Ohio companies NewPage Corporation and SMART Papers in their case on unfair competition from paper producers in Indonesia and China. In his testimony, Turner pressed the ITC to take action to prohibit the illegal undercutting of U.S. manufacturers. “It is important to level the playing field so domestic manufacturers can compete in a global economy,” Rep. Turner said. “Overseas producers should not be permitted to profit from engaging in trade practices that violate international trade rules, particularly at the expense of American jobs.” Last November, Rep. Turner, Sen. Sherrod Brown, and Sen. George Voinovich sent a letter to Secretary of the U.S. International Trade Commission Marilyn Abbott urging the ITC to continue its review of the damages NewPage and SMART Papers incurred as a result of dumps and subsidized imports from China and Indonesia. In 2008, NewPage was forced to close its sheeting facility for coated paper due to these unfair trade practices, resulting in a loss of 175 Ohio jobs. NewPage Corporation is a Miamisburg, Ohio-based paper production company that employs over 350 employees in the Dayton region. SMART Papers, located in Hamilton, Ohio, produces coated paper and employs around 220 workers.
09.17.2010	Mike Turner, Ranking Member of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Strategic Forces, today sent letters to President Barack Obama and Lieutenant General Ronald Burgess, Director of the Defense Intelligence Agency (DIA), strongly opposing efforts of the Alabama Congressional Delegation to move mission responsibility and jobs from the National Air and Space Intelligence Center (NASIC), based at Wright Patterson Air Force Base outside of Dayton, OH, to the Missile and Space Intelligence Center (MSIC), based at Redstone Arsenal in Huntsville, Alabama. share: f t Mike Turner, Ranking Member of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Strategic Forces, today sent letters to President Barack Obama and Lieutenant General Ronald Burgess, Director of the Defense Intelligence Agency (DIA), strongly opposing efforts of the Alabama Congressional Delegation to move mission responsibility and jobs from the National Air and Space Intelligence Center (NASIC), based at Wright Patterson Air Force Base outside of Dayton, OH, to the Missile and Space Intelligence Center (MSIC), based at Redstone Arsenal in Huntsville, Alabama. In July, 2010, LTG Burgess commissioned a DIA review panel tasked with studying the division of labor and assignment of responsibilities among DIA analytic elements and the service intelligence centers assigned to perform analysis of foreign ballistic missile systems and foreign space and counterspace capabilities. NASIC has developed the nation’s premier analytical expertise in air, space, counterspace, and cyberspace which has been reinforced by decades of proven performance in technical intelligence assessments. “This attempt to take jobs from Wright Patterson Air Force Base and ship them to Alabama does not support our national security or our national intelligence community” Rep Turner said. “This is only about one state trying to steal jobs from another. It is outrageous and the Obama Administration needs to step forward and make clear that this will not happen.” On August 27th, the Alabama Congressional Delegation sent a letter to LTG Burgess requesting the consolidation of ballistic missile and space/counterspace analysis functions under MSIC. The leadership of MSIC and the Alabama delegation has consistently over the past several years worked to consolidate and grow the mission of MSIC by attempting to steal mission responsibility from NASIC. During that time, Representative Turner, and the rest of the Ohio delegation has continuously worked to protect the current missions at NASIC as it has the performance record of achievement and customer trust in these areas. The National Air and Space Intelligence Center (NASIC) is one of the critical missions at Wright-Patterson and remains one of the most valuable and important assets in the Dayton Region. Approximately 2,000 personnel are assigned to the mission, of which about 60 percent are civilians.
09.16.2010	Mike Turner welcomed yesterday’s announcement that Neil Barofsky, Special Inspector General for the Troubled Asset Relief Program, will investigate whether Delphi’s salaried retirees were treated differently than union or hourly retirees when the US government took over General Motors, and whether the TARP program or the Obama administration pressured GM to “top off” the pensions of hourly retirees. share: f t Mike Turner welcomed yesterday’s announcement that Neil Barofsky, Special Inspector General for the Troubled Asset Relief Program, will investigate whether Delphi’s salaried retirees were treated differently than union or hourly retirees when the US government took over General Motors, and whether the TARP program or the Obama administration pressured GM to “top off” the pensions of hourly retirees. Rep. Turner, a senior member of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee, today called for Congress to further exercise its oversight authority in investigating the Pension Benefit Guarantee Corporation’s (PBGC) termination of Delphi Corporation’s pension plans. Over the past two years, Rep. Turner has been a strong advocate for the Delphi salaried retirees. Last August, Turner pressed Chairman of the Oversight Committee Edolphus Towns to hold hearings on the issue after PBGCwithdrew its court filings and assumed responsibility of all Delphi Corporation’s pension obligations. Last December, Turner testified at a hearing before the Education and Labor Committee Examining the Delphi Bankruptcy’s Impact on Workers and Retirees. At a January 27th hearing of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee, Rep. Turner presented Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner with thirty questions examining the Treasury Department’s involvement in the decision to cut Delphi salaried retirees’ pension plans. Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner responded in May, refusing to answer the questions put forth, citing a pending lawsuit. Most recently, Rep. Turner joined Minority Leader John Boehner (R-West Chester) and U.S. Senator Roger Wicker (R-Miss.) in requesting the Government Accountability Office (GAO) conduct a non-partisan, independent analysis of General Motors (GM) Corporation and its treatment of certain Delphi retirees. “Delphi’s salaried retirees deserve to have their benefits restored, and to know the Treasury Department's role in cutting in their promised pension benefits,” said Turner. “I will continue to advocate for these hardworking men and women who spent their careers working for General Motors.” Around one thousand salaried Delphi retirees in the Dayton area, many of whom spent the bulk of their careers working not for Delphi, but for GM, stand to lose the bulk or a high percentage of their pensions because of the Pension Benefit Guarantee Corporation (PBGC) takeover. "Although the announcement of an independent investigation by the Inspector General of TARP is good news, both Congress and GAO should pursue this issue further until salaried workers retirement funds are made whole," Turner said.
09.15.2010	Rep. Mike Turner today thanked the Department of Commerce for supporting the taxpayer funded plan for reuse of the General Motors Moraine Assembly Plant. Congressman Turner has sought assistance from President Barack Obama, the Department of Treasury, and the Department of Commerce in order to prevent the facility from being sold for scrap. share: f t Treasury to Turner: We Support Redevelopment of Moraine PlantNew York Times Covers Moraine Plant Redevelopment PushRep. Mike Turner today thanked the Department of Commerce for supporting the taxpayer funded plan for reuse of the General Motors Moraine Assembly Plant. Congressman Turner has sought assistance from President Barack Obama, the Department of Treasury, and the Department of Commerce in order to prevent the facility from being sold for scrap. As noted in today’s New York Times, in response to Rep. Turner’s recent inquiries, the Treasury Department acknowledged in a letter Rep. Turner released today that the Administration’s Automotive Task Force had stressed “the importance of supporting redevelopment and job creation.” “While we have more to do, I greatly appreciate the support our community received from the Department of Commerce,” Rep. Turner said. In a letter from Assistant Secretary of Commerce Fernandez to the Department of Treasury, Sec. Fernandez recognized the existing federal investment in the strategic planning by the Moraine community for the site’s reuse, and stated that, “Treasury should consider using these strategic plans as a tool for assessing the alignment of the potential buyers’ interest.” “Commerce understands this issue and how significant it is to our community” Turner said. The letter from the Department of the Treasury states: “We have spoken to Old GM about the Moraine plant, and we have impressed upon the company the importance of supporting redevelopment and job creation in the sale process and seeking the input of the local community.” Congressman Turner secured funding for a Commerce study after the facility was designated for closure in 2008. The economic development strategy that resulted from the study called for the community to focus on the assets of the facility in addition to looking at multiple users interested in parcels of land at the Moraine facility. News reports and community leaders state that numerous parties have expressed strong interest in the site. “The Departments of Commerce and Treasury support the redevelopment of the Moraine plant” Turner said. “Motors Liquidation must now recognize the importance of the site’s redevelopment as well.”
08.02.2010	“The region’s long-standing commitment to our nation’s veterans and its history of military innovation makes Dayton the ideal location for Veterans Affairs Health Administration Archives. The consolidation of the VA archives to the Dayton VAMC would have a significant economic impact on the Miami Valley.” share: f t U.S. Rep. Mike Turner, U.S. Sen. Sherrod Brown (D-OH), and Sen. George Voinovich (R-OH), and led a letter today with the Ohio Congressional Delegation urging the Obama Administration to place the Veterans Affairs Health Administration (VHA) Archives at the VA Medical Center campus in Dayton. “The Dayton Veterans Affairs Medical Center, one of the three original soldiers’ homes, has served Ohio’s veterans for over 140 years,” Turner said. “The region’s long-standing commitment to our nation’s veterans and its history of military innovation makes Dayton the ideal location for Veterans Affairs Health Administration Archives. The consolidation of the VA archives to the Dayton VAMC would have a significant economic impact on the Miami Valley.” “The Miami Valley is a natural fit for the VA Archives,” Brown said. “Ohio is home to nearly one million veterans and world class VA facilities and the proud military tradition of the region would make it a fitting home to the VHA Archives. This move would promote economic development and solidify Ohio has as the nation’s leader in veteran’s medical care and expertise.” “Movement of the Veterans Affairs Health Administration Archives to Dayton, Ohio would be a win-win for Ohioans,” Sen. Voinovich said. “It would help consolidate files while also providing good paying, much -needed jobs. Dayton has the infrastructure to accommodate the facility and I encourage Secretary Shinseki to select Dayton.” Currently, the VA archives are kept in multiple locations. When the VHA decided to consolidate its archives into one central location, Dayton was immediately considered as a potential home. If Dayton is chosen, the facility would be open to the public and would be the central location for all records, photos and information gathered by the VHA over the years. It would be housed in two buildings. This complex would bring jobs to the Miami Valley and solidify its reputation as a region with a high-concentration of military and veteran’s expertise and knowledge. The letter cites the community support, synergy with existing museums and archival programs, and historical context as reasons the archives would be well-suited for placement in Dayton. Dayton is home to one of the nation’s largest military bases and one of the original U.S. veteran’s facilities. The VHA Archives would also complement the National Museum of the United States Air Force at Wright-Patterson, which is the world’s oldest and largest museum of military aviation – hosting 1.3 million visitors annually. The VHA archives at the Dayton VA Medical Center would become the anchor of Dayton’s West Third Street “Corridor of Innovation” which includes a Wright Brothers’ bicycle shop, the home of African American poet Paul Laurence Dunbar, the Wright brothers’ airplane factory, and a building that was part of the Manhattan Project that developed the atomic bomb. The VHA archives could also work seamlessly with nearby Wright State University, with its nationally recognized Graduate Program in Historical and Archival Administration.
07.28.2010	U.S. Representative Mike Turner today announced that his legislation to protect military parents in child custody cases, H.R. 4469, was approved by the Veterans’ Affairs Subcommittee on Economic Opportunity. It will next be considered by the full Veterans Affairs’ Committee. share: f t U.S. Representative Mike Turner today announced that his legislation to protect military parents in child custody cases, H.R. 4469, was approved by the Veterans’ Affairs Subcommittee on Economic Opportunity. It will next be considered by the full Veterans Affairs’ Committee. The language, which was also included in the House version of National Defense Authorization Act, prohibits courts from permanently altering custody orders during a parent’s deployment and requires pre-deployment custody to be reinstated unless it is not in the best interest of the child. Additionally, the legislation prohibits state court judges from using deployment or possibility of deployment of parents as a factor in determining the best interests of the child. Since state laws regarding military child custody vary widely, if they offer any protection at all, Congressman Turner has argued for a national baseline standard. “Without this legislation, there is a danger a servicemember may return from deployment to find his or her child custody agreement has been permanently altered,” Congressman Turner said. “This is not only a grave injustice to our troops, but it puts unnecessary stress on families that are already coping with the ordeal of overseas deployment.” Rep. Turner began his advocacy on behalf of deployed military parents after hearing the story of Eva Crouch-Slusher, a Captain in the Kentucky National Guard. Captain Slusher served an 18 month mobilization with the Kentucky National Guard starting in 2003. Her service was later used as the basis to strip her of custody of her daughter Sara. After an emotionally and financially costly two-year legal battle, she regained custody of her daughter. Since then, Captain Slusher has joined Rep. Turner in advocating for legislation to help protect other troops from similar custody fights. Prior to the mark up of H.R. 4469, Cpt. Slusher submitted a letter to Subcommittee Chairwoman Stephanie Herseth Sandlin (D-SD) thanking her for her support of servicemembers and their families, and asserting the need for a national baseline standard. In that letter, Captain Slusher notes… “While it is worthy that some states may have varying degrees of legislation in place, the protections vary greatly from state to state. Some states have not addressed the problem at all. The military services are governed by federal statute in many cases, such as the Servicemembers Civil Relief Act. There should be a baseline of federal protection, and then states may build upon that.”
07.22.2010	Congressman Mike Turner congratulated Congressman Charlie Wilson (OH-6) for his successful effort to delete language that would have directed NASA to give preference to Texas and Florida locations when placing decommissioned space shuttles after the program concludes. share: f t Congressman Mike Turner congratulated Congressman Charlie Wilson (OH-6) for his successful effort to delete language that would have directed NASA to give preference to Texas and Florida locations when placing decommissioned space shuttles after the program concludes. The Science, Space and Technology Committee voted 18-14 this afternoon to delete the prejudicial language from H.R. 5781, the NASA Authorization Act of 2010. Following the successful passage of the amendment, Wilson released the following statement: “Dayton, in my home state of Ohio, is known as the birthplace of aviation, I am very proud of the contributions that some of our home state heroes have made to flight, including Wilbur and Orville Wright, John Glenn and Neil Armstrong.” “Given NASA Glenn’s significant contributions to space flight, as well as the contributions of numerous Ohio companies, I think that Ohio strongly deserves consideration as a location for one of the space shuttles once they are permanently retired,” Rep. Wilson continued. “I’m proud that we were able to amend the language that would have negatively impacted states such as Ohio, California, Washington, Illinois, Oregon, and New York. Either the process to house the shuttles is competitive or it’s not. I’m glad it will now be truly competitive.” “I appreciate Congressman Wilson’s leadership on the House Science Committee in offering this amendment today,” said Rep. Turner. “This language levels the playing field for Ohio and the National Museum of the United States Air Force so that we can compete for a retired shuttle. I look forward to continuing to work with Congressman Wilson, and the entire Ohio delegation in ensuring one of these retired shuttles finds a home in Ohio.” The Ohio delegation has worked together expressing continued strong support for the transfer of a retired space shuttle orbiter at the National Museum of the United States Air Force (NMUSAF) at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base. The Secretary of the Air Force has requested a retired space-flown orbiter for long-term preservation and public display at NMUSAF. The Air Force was instrumental in determining the orbiter’s design and capabilities, and many of the shuttle astronauts have been members of the Air Force. NMUSAF has identified the Air Force Space Mission as its most important exhibit priority. “The National Museum of the United States Air Force is the ideal facility to preserve the legacy of NASA’s Space Shuttle program,” Rep. Turner said. “The U.S. Air Force played a significant role in developing the nation’s space program. Retiring a space shuttle orbiter at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base, just miles away from the historic home of Orville and Wilbur Wright, will strengthen the aerospace heritage of the region. In addition, it will serve as an educational attraction for students and residents interested in America’s space program, and encourage local tourism and economic growth. I appreciate the support of the entire Ohio Congressional Delegation in this effort.” Ohio has a rich aerospace history. It is home to the Glenn Research Center, one of only 10 NASA research centers in the country. It is the premier NASA facility for microgravity science, in-space transportation, aerospace communications, and aero propulsion and interdisciplinary research for bioscience. NASA’s economic impact to the state exceeds $1.2 billion and acts as a catalyst for the 1,200 aerospace-related companies in Ohio - companies that employ more than 100,000 Ohioans. Congressman Turner has led two Ohio delegation letters to NASA administrators expressing support for the transfer of an orbiter to Ohio. This request was reiterated at a meeting with Administrator Charles Bolden earlier this year. Today’s efforts to eliminate prejudicial language in the NASA bill reiterates the Ohio Delegation’s commitment to ensuring a shuttle is retired to the NMUSAF.
07.21.2010	Today, the House Committee on Energy and Commerce approved legislation sponsored by Representatives Michael R. Turner (R-Ohio) and Betty Sutton (D-Ohio) that would hold foreign manufacturers legally accountable to American consumers injured by dangerous or defective products and to help hold foreign manufacturers to the same product safety standards that American manufacturers are. share: f t Today, the House Committee on Energy and Commerce approved legislation sponsored by Representatives Michael R. Turner (R-Ohio) and Betty Sutton (D-Ohio) that would hold foreign manufacturers legally accountable to American consumers injured by dangerous or defective products and to help hold foreign manufacturers to the same product safety standards that American manufacturers are. The importation of consumer products into the United States more than doubled in the decade between 1998 and 2007. This sharp rise in imported consumer products has been accompanied by an overall increase in product recalls and a disproportionate increase in the share of product recalls involving imported products – particularly goods manufactured in China. “Every year, many Americans are injured, sometimes fatally, by dangerous products that have been manufactured abroad and imported into the U.S.,” Rep. Sutton said. “Recent examples include toxic drywall, faulty infant cribs, lead paint in children’s toys and defective tires. These products not only hurt American consumers, they hurt American businesses. We cannot allow foreign manufacturers to continue to undercut U.S. manufacturers by disregarding the safety of their products, thereby endangering our consumers and costing us jobs. This legislation will help protect American consumers and businesses from defective products manufactured abroad, level the playing field for American manufacturers and provide U.S. consumers with the necessary tools to seek proper redress.” Introduced on February 24, 2010 with strong bipartisan co-sponsorship, H.R. 4678, the Foreign Manufacturers Legal Accountability Act, would require manufacturers that import products into the U.S. to register an agent to accept service of process on behalf of the manufacturer. Registering an agent would constitute acceptance of personal jurisdiction of the state or federal courts in which the agent is located. The agent would have to be registered in a state with a substantial connection to the importation, distribution or sale of products of the foreign manufacturer or producer. The Act prohibits the importation into the United States of products from foreign manufacturers that fail to designate a registered agent. “Manufacturers in Ohio and throughout the United States find themselves in an uphill battle with foreign manufactures due to unfair trade practices,” Rep. Turner said. “This legislation is an important step in leveling the playing field for domestic manufacturers, and ensuring foreign manufacturers are held accountable to U.S. consumer protection laws. I appreciate Rep. Sutton working in a bipartisan manner to move this important piece of legislation forward.” “Domestic manufacturers are responsible for ensuring that the products they put on the market are safe. Yet it is extremely difficult for injured parties to hold foreign manufacturers accountable because they are unable to serve process or establish jurisdiction. This legislation will fix that problem and I want to thank Representative Turner for his support and advocacy on this important measure,” said Rep. Sutton.
07.02.2010	Congressman Mike Turner, Ranking Member of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Strategic Forces, praised the United States Missile Defense Agency (MDA) for conducting its seventh consecutive successful test of the Terminal High Altitude Area Defense (THAAD) weapon system today. share: f t Congressman Mike Turner, Ranking Member of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Strategic Forces, praised the United States Missile Defense Agency (MDA) for conducting its seventh consecutive successful test of the Terminal High Altitude Area Defense (THAAD) weapon system today. “The THAAD ground based missile defense system is one of the U.S. Ballistic Missile Defense System’s critical last lines of defense against weapons of mass destruction,” Rep. Turner said. “Today's test, conducted at the lowest altitude to date, is critical to ensuring our forward-based troops and allies are defended against shorter-range missiles.” “Next year, the Administration is expected to begin fielding its Phased Adaptive Approach for missile defense in Europe; THAAD is an essential element of that Phase 1 plan,” Rep. Turner added. “This successful test builds further confidence in THAAD and should encourage the Administration to increase its THAAD inventory to support European and other regional missile defense architectures. The MDA deserves our congratulations for its commitment to the development of U.S. missile defense capabilities.” The Terminal High Altitude Area Defense (THAAD) system is a mobile, land-based weapons program designed to destroy short- and medium-range ballistic missiles in their terminal phases. Today’s test was the seventh successful intercept in seven attempts and proved the system's ability to intercept a target in the low endo-atmosphere.
07.01.2010	Today, the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Commerce, Trade and Consumer Protection approved legislation sponsored by Representatives Betty Sutton (D-Ohio) and Rep. Mike Turner that would hold foreign manufacturers legally accountable to American consumers injured by dangerous or defective products. share: f t Today, the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Commerce, Trade and Consumer Protection approved legislation sponsored by Representatives Betty Sutton (D-Ohio) and Rep. Mike Turner that would hold foreign manufacturers legally accountable to American consumers injured by dangerous or defective products. The subcommittee reported the bill to the full committee for consideration. The importation of consumer products into the United States more than doubled in the decade between 1998 and 2007. This sharp rise in imported consumer products has been accompanied by an overall increase in product recalls and a disproportionate increase in the share of product recalls involving imported products – particularly goods manufactured in China. “Every year, many Americans are injured, sometimes fatally, by dangerous products that have been manufactured abroad and imported into the U.S.,” Rep. Sutton said. “Recent examples include toxic drywall, faulty infant cribs, lead paint in children’s toys and defective tires. These products not only hurt American consumers, they hurt American businesses. We cannot allow foreign manufacturers to continue to undercut our manufacturers by disregarding the safety of their products, thereby endangering our consumers and costing us jobs. This legislation will help protect American consumers and businesses from defective products manufactured abroad, level the playing field for American manufacturers and provide U.S. consumers with the necessary tools to seek proper redress.” “Domestic manufacturers are responsible for ensuring that the products they put on the market are safe. Yet it is extremely difficult for injured parties to hold foreign manufacturers accountable because they are unable to serve process or establish jurisdiction. This legislation will fix that problem and I want to thank Representative Turner for his support and advocacy on this important measure,” said Rep. Sutton. Introduced on February 24, 2010 with strong bipartisan co-sponsorship, H.R. 4678, the Foreign Manufacturers Legal Accountability Act, would require manufacturers that import products into the U.S. to register an agent to accept service of process on behalf of the manufacturer. Registering an agent would constitute acceptance of personal jurisdiction of the state and federal courts in which the agent is located. The agent would have to be registered in a state with a substantial connection to the importation, distribution or sale of products of the foreign manufacturer or producer. The Act prohibits the importation into the United States of products from foreign manufacturers that fail to designate a registered agent. “’Manufacturers in Ohio, and throughout the United States find themselves in an uphill battle with foreign manufactures due to unfair trade practices,” Rep. Turner said. “This legislation is an important step in leveling the playing field for domestic manufacturers, and ensuring foreign manufacturers are held accountable to US consumer protection laws. I appreciate Rep. Sutton working in a bipartisan manner to move this important piece of legislation forward.”
06.24.2010	I welcome the release of NNSA’s Stockpile Stewardship and Management Plan. The report to Congress appears to provide a comprehensive approach to sustaining and modernizing our nuclear deterrent. share: f t U.S. Representative Mike Turner, Ranking Member of the House Armed Services Strategic Forces Subcommittee which has jurisdiction over our nation’s nuclear arsenal and missile defense systems, issued the following statement regarding the National Nuclear Security Association’s (NNSA) Stockpile Stewardship and Management Plan: “I welcome the release of NNSA’s Stockpile Stewardship and Management Plan. The report to Congress appears to provide a comprehensive approach to sustaining and modernizing our nuclear deterrent.” “While debate continues on changes to our nuclear policy and cuts in our nuclear forces, there should be no debate on the need for our nation to take appropriate measures to ensure that our nuclear deterrent remains credible and reliable.” “This plan provides greater detail on the efforts and funding necessary to do just that—to increase the long-term safety, security, and reliability of the nuclear weapons stockpile; to modernize the supporting infrastructure; and to sustain critical scientific and engineering talent.” “Last year, the House Armed Services Committee directed the establishment of the Stockpile Management Program to provide for the effective management of the U.S nuclear weapons stockpile. I am pleased the Administration has accepted this program. However, NNSA must have technical flexibility to pursue a wide-range of options for managing the stockpile, and not be hamstrung by artificial limitations, as stated in the recently issued bipartisan committee report on the fiscal year 2011 defense authorization bill.” “I look forward to working with Administration officials, NNSA leadership, experts at the national laboratories and production plants, and my colleagues in Congress to enable the successful implementation of this plan.”
06.15.2010	Mike Turner, Ranking Member of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Strategic Forces, today praised the United States Missile Defense Agency (MDA) for its successful flight test of the 2-stage Ground Based Interceptor (GBI). share: f t Mike Turner, Ranking Member of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Strategic Forces, today praised the United States Missile Defense Agency (MDA) for its successful flight test of the 2-stage Ground Based Interceptor (GBI). “This test again demonstrates our continuous commitment to ensure our homeland is defended against attackers, adversaries or aggressors,” Rep. Turner said. “The 2-Stage GBI is an important hedge to defend the homeland in case the Intercontinental Ballistic Missile (ICBM) threat from Iran or North Korea materializes before the Administration’s Phased Adaptive Approach for missile defense in Europe is fully operational.” In testimony before the Senate Armed Services Committee on April 20th, 2010, Lt. General Patrick O’Reilly, Director of the U.S. Missile Defense Agency, testified that the June test would verify any differences between the two-stage and three-stage interceptor currently fielded in Alaska and California, “and at that point, [the 2-stage GBI] will be a very mature missile.” During the mark up of the FY 2011 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA), Rep. Turner offered an amendment that would have reinforced the critical hedge providing increased protection for the U.S. against a North Korean or Iranian missile threat. The amendment ensured continued development and testing of the 2-Stage GBI in the event technical challenges or schedule delays postpone the availability of the standard missile-3 block IIA interceptor, or an ICBM threat materializes prior to availability. In addition, the amendment would preserve the Missile Field-1 (MF-1) in Fort Greely Alaska, scheduled to be decommissioned in 2012. Turner’s amendment was defeated along party lines.
06.14.2010	Congressman Mike Turner today announced the United States House of Representatives passed a resolution congratulating Clinton County and the county seat of Wilmington, Ohio on their bicentennial anniversary. share: f t Congressman Mike Turner today announced the United States House of Representatives passed a resolution congratulating Clinton County and the county seat of Wilmington, Ohio on their bicentennial anniversary. H.Res. 1121 had the support of the entire Ohio Congressional Delegation. “This resolution is part of the year-long celebration of the Clinton County’s 200th anniversary,” Congressman Turner said. “Clinton County residents have a lot to be proud of. They have accomplished so much throughout our state’s history, and have overcome many challenges as well. House approval of this resolution is a demonstration of congressional recognition of everything Clinton County and its people stand for.” Clinton County has a rich history: It was named after George Clinton, one of the Founding Fathers, and the fourth Vice President of the United States. His influence has been memorialized by a statue on the Senate side of the Capitol, as well as a statue on Connecticut Avenue in Washington, D.C. Clinton County was also a station on the Underground Railroad prior to the Civil War and a destination for thousands of persons escaping slavery and seeking freedom. The County is also home to Wilmington College, the Murphy Theatre, and has the distinction of being the birthplace of the original banana split.
06.07.2010	Congressman Mike Turner has successfully included language in the FY2011 National Defense Authorization Act which seeks improvements for international humanitarian demining initiatives. share: f t Congressman Mike Turner has successfully included language in the FY2011 National Defense Authorization Act which seeks improvements for international humanitarian demining initiatives. The amendment, offered by Rep. Turner, was approved by the full House Armed Services Committee last week. The full House of Representatives plans on taking up the NDAA in the next few days. Each year, landmines and explosive remnants of war cause thousands of causalities in more than 60 countries around the world. During an official visit to Bosnia-Herzegovina last year, Rep. Turner personally saw the catastrophic effects of landmines and unexploded explosive ordnances while meeting with local leaders. The history between the city of Dayton and the Bosnia-Herzegovina region dates back several years and gained international recognition during the 1995 Dayton Peace Accords, which ended an over three year war in Bosnia. Seeking to strengthen ties between the Dayton and Bosnia region, Rep. Turner identified an opportunity to build upon recent advances in technology neutralizing Improvised Explosive Devices (IEDs) and improve the humanitarian demining situation on a global scale. Rep. Turner’s initiative directs the Comptroller General to identify military programs that may have humanitarian demining applications, as well as recommends improvements for interagency coordination between the Departments of Defense and State. The initiative will identify improvements for demining and disarming efforts through the use of new technology, training, and equipment. Finally, the initiative will identify new joint testing strategies between the Departments of Defense and State in foreign countries including Bosnia-Herzegovina. “Our military has made great strides in recent years in technologies and tactics in detecting and neutralizing IEDs. We must continue to ensure new advances in neutralizing IEDs are effectively applied in the humanitarian demining efforts,” Rep. Turner said. “This initiative will identify more effective demining operations and seeks to reduce the thousands of causalities occurring due to landmines and unexploded ordinances around the world.” In addition, Rep. Turner has sent a letter to Secretary of Defense Robert Gates and Secretary of State Hillary Clinton regarding the NDAA provisions and urging Department experts to work with the Government Accountability Office (GAO) personnel on gathering information in this important endeavor. The letter can be found on Rep. Turner’s website here.
06.04.2010	The House Armed Services Committee this week included in its FY2011 National Defense Authorization Act language criticizing a Department of Defense report on child custody litigation involving military servicemembers, and called for legislation to protect the rights of servicemembers in child custody disputes. Rep. Mike Turner has written Secretary Gates highlighting this language and thanking the Secretary for his ongoing commitment to taking a "fresh look" at the need for such legislation. share: f t The House Armed Services Committee this week included in its FY2011 National Defense Authorization Act language criticizing a Department of Defense report on child custody litigation involving military servicemembers, and called for legislation to protect the rights of servicemembers in child custody disputes. Rep. Mike Turner has written Secretary Gates highlighting this language and thanking the Secretary for his ongoing commitment to taking a "fresh look" at the need for such legislation. In the report language of the NDAA, the Committee was critical of the draft DoD report, "Report on Child Custody Litigation Involving Service of Members of the Armed Forces", which was mandated through Section 572 of the FY2010 National Defense Authorization Act. Specifically, the Committee concluded, “there is not sufficient data available to ascertain the full scope of how many members of the Armed Forces experience the loss of child custody as a result of their service." In his letter to Secretary Gates, Rep. Turner stated, "I appreciate your commitment to taking a fresh look at this issue, and understand that the DoD report, when released, was done so without your endorsement. It is my hope that as we move through the NDAA process this year, the DoD works with my office on language that protects servicemembers who are facing child custody battles." The Committee further stated it continues to support the need for Congressional legislation to provide maximum protection for our service members and their children, who, while deployed, remain at risk of having that deployment used against them to determine or change child custody arrangements. As a result of the Committee’s commitment to Congressional legislation to provide a federal, baseline standard to assist men and women serving in our federal military, HR 4469, authored by Rep. Turner, was included in the Chairman’s Mark of the FY2011 National Defense Authorization Act for a fourth consecutive year. The committee-approved language prohibits courts from permanently altering custody orders during a parent’s deployment and requires pre-deployment custody to be reinstated unless that is not in the best interest of the child. Additionally, the language prohibits state court judges from using deployment or possibility of deployment as a factor in determining the best interests of the child. State laws differ on the question of whether deployment or the potential for deployment can be used as a criterion to determine child custody. Many states have no laws at all. Rep. Turner has argued for a uniform standard. “Without this legislation, there is a danger a member of the military may return from deployment to find his or her child custody agreement has been permanently altered. This is not only a grave injustice to our troops, but it puts unnecessary stress on families that are already coping with the ordeal of overseas deployment,” Rep. Turner said. The NDAA is expected to be voted on by the full House of Representatives this week. In the past, similar language approved by the full House has been removed by the Senate in Conference Committee. Congressman Turner has worked on a bi-partisan basis with House Armed Services Committee Chairman Ike Skelton and Congresswoman Stephanie Herseth Sandlin (D-SD) to win support for the legislation. On April 29th, Rep. Turner and Rep. Herseth Sandlin met with Secretary of Defense Robert Gates to advocate for federal safeguards of military parents’ rights in custody cases. In that meeting, Secretary Gates acknowledged the problem posed by use of deployment as a criterion in deciding child custody cases, and committed to “take a fresh look” at protecting the rights of our servicemen and women in child custody disputes. More information on Rep. Turner and Rep. Herseth Sandlin’s meeting with Secretary Gates can be found here.
06.03.2010	The closing by the Clinton County Port Authority on the Wilmington Air Park concludes several months of negotiations with DHL on finalizing the donation of the air park to the community. DHL’s decision to donate the Wilmington Air Park to the Port Authority is tremendous news for families and residents of Clinton County and the surrounding communities. The announcement today marks a new chapter in the history of Wilmington, Clinton County, and the entire region. share: f t Congressman Mike Turner today issued the following statement in response to the Clinton County Port Authority’s closing on the Wilmington Air Park: “The closing by the Clinton County Port Authority on the Wilmington Air Park concludes several months of negotiations with DHL on finalizing the donation of the air park to the community. DHL’s decision to donate the Wilmington Air Park to the Port Authority is tremendous news for families and residents of Clinton County and the surrounding communities. The announcement today marks a new chapter in the history of Wilmington, Clinton County, and the entire region. “DHL is to be thanked for making the donation of this valuable asset. The business decision of DHL to close the sort operations at the Wilmington Air Park negatively impacted the community, but this donation enables the Clinton County Port Authority and the region to better control its destiny and future. The park can be a cornerstone for an economic recovery benefiting the Clinton and Highland County region. “Today’s announcement further enhances the potential of the region to leverage language I included in the FY11 National Defense Authorization Act, requiring the Secretary of Defense to report on ways to utilize opportunities at the Sensors Center of Excellence at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base in areas of detect, sense and avoid technologies. “I applaud Board Chairman John Limbert of the Clinton County Port Authority for his tireless effort in negotiating the donation from DHL and Wilmington Mayor David Raizk, and the members of the Economic Task Force for their hard work and commitment to ensure the Wilmington Air Park remains in local control. I look forward to continue working with the community on economic development opportunities to bring jobs to the region.”
06.03.2010	Mike Turner visited Carillon Park visited Carillon Park today to deliver ballots collected by his office in the campaign to support of installing a statue of the Wright Brothers in the United States Capitol. share: f t Congressman Mike Turner visited Carillon Park today to deliver ballots collected by his office in the campaign to replace the statue of Governor Allen in the Capitol Building in Washington, D.C. With a little more than one week remaining until the June 12 deadline, Rep. Turner encouraged area residents to vote in support of installing a statue of the Wright Brothers in the Capitol. While delivering the ballots, Turner said, “Over the past several weeks I have been encouraging schools, businesses, and local community organizations to participate in the vote. With my office receiving over two thousand ballots to date, the community is responding to the call for participation, and the ballots support having Dayton’s native brothers, Wilbur and Orville Wright, represent Ohio by a ratio of roughly 2:1. “The likeness of Governor Allen was installed in the Capitol Building in 1887,” Rep. Turner added, “so the result of the votes Ohioans cast in this effort will likely endure for several generations to come.” The State of Ohio created a National Statuary Collection Study Committee to replace the statue of Governor William Allen due to his pro-slavery views. The Committee created a list of 10 Ohioans for the residents of the state to cast their ballot. The nominated Ohioans are: James Ashley, Thomas Edison, Ulysses S. Grant, William McCulloch, Jesse Owens, Judith Resnick, Albert Sabin, Harriet Beecher Stowe, Harriet Taylor Upton, and Orville and Wilbur Wright. Ballots can be cast from March 20 to June 12 at Dayton’s Carillon Park, or at one of 36 historic sites and museums throughout Ohio. Recently, the National Statuary Collection Study Committee debated whether both Wright Brothers could represent Ohio in the Capitol as policy permits each state to have only two statues. Congressman Turner obtained clarification on the policy, permitting a statue of both Wright Brothers could be placed in the Capitol Building to replace Governor Allen. Organizations interested in participating are encouraged to contact Congressman Turner’s Dayton District Office at 937.225.2843. For more information please visit www.legacyforohio.org.
06.02.2010	For a fourth consecutive year, legislation sponsored by U.S. Representative Mike Turner to protect military parents in child custody cases has advanced through the House Armed Services Committee. share: f t For a fourth consecutive year, legislation sponsored by U.S. Representative Mike Turner to protect military parents in child custody cases has advanced through the House Armed Services Committee. The language, included in the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA), goes next to the full House of Representatives. A vote is expected by the end of the month. “With House Armed Services Committee Chairman Ike Skelton’s support, my child custody legislation, H.R. 4469, was incorporated in the Chairman’s mark of the FY2011 National Defense Authorization Act,” Rep. Turner said. “Chairman Skelton is committed to working across party lines to do what is best for our nation’s armed forces. I thank him for his support and advocacy for increases in child custody protections for deployed military parents. State laws differ on the question of whether deployment or the potential for deployment can be used as a criterion to determine child custody. Many states have no laws at all. The committee has given approval to language that prohibits courts from permanently altering custody orders during a parent’s deployment and requires pre-deployment custody to be reinstated unless that is not in the best interest of the child. Additionally, the language prohibits state court judges from using deployment or possibility of deployment as a factor in determining the best interests of the child. Since state laws vary widely, if they offer any protection at all, Congressman Turner has argued for a uniform standard. “Without this legislation, there is a danger a member of the military may return from deployment to find his or her child custody agreement has been permanently altered. This is not only a grave injustice to our troops, but it puts unnecessary stress on families that are already coping with the ordeal of overseas deployment,” Congressman Turner said. For the last four years, Rep. Turner’s child custody language has been included in the annual National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA). The language was included in the House-passed FY2010 NDAA, but had been subsequently removed in conference. This year, Congressman Turner has worked on a bi-partisan basis with Congresswoman Stephanie Herseth Sandlin (D-SD) to win support for the legislation. On April 29th, Rep. Turner and Rep. Herseth Sandlin met with Secretary of Defense Robert Gates to advocate for federal safeguards of military parents’ rights in custody cases. In that meeting, Secretary Gates acknowledged the problem posed by use of deployment as a criterion in deciding child custody cases, and committed to “take a fresh look” at protecting the rights of our servicemen and women in child custody disputes. More information on Rep. Turner and Rep. Herseth Sandlin’s meeting with Secretary Gates can be found here.
06.02.2010	The House Armed Services Committee has approved provisions aimed at strengthening military prevention and response policies concerning sexual assault offered by Representatives Niki Tsongas (D-MA) and Mike Turner (R-OH). share: f t The House Armed Services Committee has approved provisions aimed at strengthening military prevention and response policies concerning sexual assault offered by Representatives Niki Tsongas (D-MA) and Mike Turner (R-OH). The legislation, included in the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA), goes next to the full House of Representatives. A vote is expected by the end of the month. H.R. 5197 The Defense Sexual Trauma Response, Oversight and Good Governance Act (The Defense STRONG Act), introduced by Reps. Turner and Tsongas last month, strengthens the systems in place to prevent sexual assaults and provide support and guidance for victims that report an incident. In addition, the language enables victims to access a military lawyer so that they understand their legal options. Conversations with Victim Advocates would also be made confidential and immune from discovery if the case goes to court, as they typically are in the civilian world. The STRONG Act is garnering increasing support as reported incidents of sexual assault in the military have increased dramatically in recent years. These escalating numbers are estimated by the Department of Defense to only reflect one tenth of the actual number of such offenses. Congressman Turner’s intent in this area was inspired by the tragic case of Marine Lance Corporal Maria Lauterbach, formerly of Dayton, Ohio, who was sexually assaulted and murdered by a fellow Marine while she was stationed at Camp LeJeune, North Carolina. “These new protections for victims are necessary to ensure the increased safety of our servicemembers. Victims of sexual assault must have a safe path to follow if they file a complaint and must be given a fair hearing,” Congressman Turner said. “At the same time, we need to educate our men and women at all levels of the armed forces to do everything in our power to prevent occurrences of sexual assault.” Merle Wilberding, the Dayton area attorney who represented Marine Lance Corporal Maria Lauterbach’s family added, “These provisions are a direct response to the efforts of Mary Lauterbach who continues to be the voice of her daughter, Maria, in speaking out on behalf of victims of sexual assault in the military. In critical part, this new legislation will help advance the training and independence of victim advocates, advances that are critical to the protection and well being of sexual assault victims.”
06.01.2010	Congressman Mike Turner announced that the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform has unanimously –– approved a resolution congratulating Clinton County and the county seat of Wilmington, Ohio on the occasion of their bicentennial anniversary. share: f t Congressman Mike Turner announced that the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform has unanimously –– approved a resolution congratulating Clinton County and the county seat of Wilmington, Ohio on the occasion of their bicentennial anniversary. “This resolution is part of the year-long celebration of the Clinton County’s 200th anniversary,” Congressman Turner said. “Clinton County residents have a lot to be proud of. They have accomplished so much throughout our state’s history, and have overcome many challenges as well. Committee approval of this resolution is a demonstration of congressional recognition of everything Clinton County and its people stand for.” Clinton County has a rich history: It was named after George Clinton, one of the Founding Fathers, and the fourth Vice President of the United States. His influence has been memorialized by a statue on the Senate side of the Capitol, as well as a statue on Connecticut Avenue in Washington, D.C. Clinton County was also a station on the Underground Railroad prior to the Civil War, and a destination for thousands of persons escaping slavery and seeking freedom. The County is also home to Wilmington College, the Murphy Theatre, and has the distinction of being the birthplace of the original banana split. The resolution congratulating Clinton County on its 200th birthday, H.R. 1121, will be voted on next by the full House of Representatives. It has the support of the entire Ohio congressional delegation.
06.01.2010	Citing a pending lawsuit, Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner is refusing to answer questions put to him by Congressmen Mike Turner and Dan Burton concerning the Treasury Department’s role in decisions that led to a loss of pension value for thousands of former Delphi employees in Ohio and other states. share: f t Citing a pending lawsuit, Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner is refusing to answer questions put to him by Congressmen Mike Turner and Dan Burton concerning the Treasury Department’s role in decisions that led to a loss of pension value for thousands of former Delphi employees in Ohio and other states. The administrative record of the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (PBGC), shows that the organization had discussions with the Treasury Department when a decision was made to reduce pension payouts for non-union employees of Delphi. As a result of the decision, several thousand non-union workers have seen a dramatic drop in the value of their pensions while the pensions for union employees have been fully protected. In January, Congressmen Turner and Burton asked the Treasury Department, and specifically Secretary Geithner, to answer a series of questions related to this decision. This week, Geithner responded that he would not answer most of the questions because the matter is a subject of a lawsuit filed by former Delphi employees against the PBGC. “This refusal to answer questions is an outrage against the salaried retirees of Delphi, in Ohio and other states,” Congressman Turner said. “The Treasury Secretary is a public official and he has an obligation to tell the truth about how public policy is made under his watch. As a result of the PBGC’s decision, thousands of hard working people, in several states, have been denied the pensions they were promised when they first went to work at Delphi. Someone needs to be held accountable. Someone needs to explain to these former employees why they have been misled.” “This administration pledged to be open and transparent,” Congressman Turner said. “Unfortunately, Secretary Geithner’s refusal to clear the record only adds to the cynicism people have toward Washington and big bailout deals that put average Americans in line behind huge companies that are failing because of their own mismanagement.” Congressman Turner has been joined in the effort to get answers from the Administration by Congressman Dan Burton (R-IN). Said Burton: “I have said repeatedly that the American people, especially the thousands of Hoosier families who have been impacted by this unfair situation, and whose tax dollars are being used to pay the supplemental funds to the Delphi union workers, deserve a full and transparent explanation from all parties involved about why they were treated so unfairly. I do not believe that that is an unreasonable request. However, it appears that the Administration does. The so-called “answers” provided by Secretary Geithner are nothing more than bureaucratic non-answer answers. This is absolutely unacceptable and if the Administration believes that this is the end of the matter they are sadly mistaken. It is fundamentally unfair that two groups of retirees from the same company, who worked side-by-side for many years, and who are faced with the same unfortunate situation, are being treated so radically differently by the Federal government. I am not going to stop pushing until I find out why.”
05.28.2010	The House Armed Services Committee has approved an amendment offered by Congressman Mike Turner that makes clear the U.S. reserves the right to respond to any attack against this country “with any means necessary.” share: f t The House Armed Services Committee has approved an amendment offered by Congressman Mike Turner that makes clear the U.S. reserves the right to respond to any attack against this country “with any means necessary.”The amendment was offered to address concerns with the declaratory policy included in the Nuclear Posture Review (NPR) that eliminates options to defend against a catastrophic nuclear, biological, chemical, or conventional attack against the United States. Congressman Turner argued such a policy puts America at risk by taking U.S. options off the table in the minds of our adversaries. Turner also argued that the administration’s position reverses decades of U.S. policy that has served as an effective deterrent against rogue nations.“My amendment is aimed directly at attackers, aggressors and adversaries of this country,” Turner argued during an intense committee debate. “I do not think the American people expect that we are going to restrict our response to attackers, aggressors, or adversaries regardless of the weapons or means they use against us. The American people expect that we would respond with any means necessary.”Several members of the committee agreed with Congressman Turner’s argument saying that a long standing policy of “calculated ambiguity” has served as an important means of preventing attacks against the United States since the end of World War II.The Turner amendment passed as part of the House Armed Services Committee’s version of the National Defense Authorization bill and will be considered next by the full House of Representatives. Congressman Turner is a senior member of the Armed Services Committee and Ranking member of the Subcommittee on Strategic Forces.
05.28.2010	The House Armed Services Committee voted to send a strong message to the Administration that it believes the recently-released Nuclear Posture Review weakens the national security of the United States by eliminating options to defend against a catastrophic nuclear, biological, chemical, or conventional attack against the United States. share: f t The House Armed Services Committee voted to send a strong message to the Administration that it believes the recently-released Nuclear Posture Review weakens the national security of the United States by eliminating options to defend against a catastrophic nuclear, biological, chemical, or conventional attack against the United States.The committee adopted an amendment offered by Mike Turner to address concerns about the declaratory policy included in the Nuclear Posture Review.Specifically, members raised concerns that the changes included in the Nuclear Posture Review would take options off the table in defending the United States and our allies.“My amendment is aimed directly at attackers, aggressors and adversaries of this country. I do not think the American people expect that we are going to restrict our response to attackers, aggressors, or adversaries regardless of the weapons or means they use against us. The American people expect that we would respond with any means possible,” U.S. Rep. Mike Turner (R-Ohio) argued during an intense committee debate. “The United States must remain committed to ensuring all options are on the table to respond to a rogue biological or chemical attack against the United States or our allies and partners,” said U.S. Rep. Howard P. “Buck” McKeon (R-Calif.). “The committee is sending a strong message to the Administration that we have grave concerns about the changes it is making to America’s nuclear policies.”
05.27.2010	The House Armed Services Committee today unanimously approved an amendment to the annual defense authorization bill that holds the Administration accountable for deploying a missile defense system in Europe to protect the U.S. homeland. share: f t The House Armed Services Committee unanimously approved an amendment to the annual defense authorization bill that holds the Administration accountable for deploying a missile defense system in Europe to protect the U.S. homeland. The amendment, introduced by Strategic Forces Subcommittee Ranking Member Mike Turner (R-Ohio), would require the Secretary of Defense to provide a report with detailed information on the Administration’s Phased Adaptive Approach (PAA) for missile defense in Europe, including basing locations, quantities of assets, program schedules, performance, and cost. “This is an important change that will allow Congress to monitor the implementation of the Administration’s Phased, Adaptive Approach and ensure we have the funding and other resources available to make it work,” said Rep. Turner. “The Administration’s current plan to deploy a missile defense system in Europe to protect the U.S. homeland is still under construction. This committee needs to better understand how the Administration intends to proceed with its plan and I commend Rep. Turner for working to ensure we have this critical information,” said U.S. Rep. Howard P. “Buck” McKeon (R-Calif.), the top Republican on the House Armed Services Committee. Rep. Turner’s amendment would prohibit the Pentagon from spending five-percent of the funds for the Office of the Secretary of Defense within defense-wide Operations & Maintenance funds until the report is submitted.
05.24.2010	Mike Turner has successfully won inclusion of language in the FY11 National Defense Authorization Act to secure support for a potential unmanned aerial vehicle testing range in Southwest Ohio. share: f t Mike Turner has successfully won inclusion of language in the FY11 National Defense Authorization Act to secure support for a potential unmanned aerial vehicle testing range in Southwest Ohio. The House Armed Services Committee approved Rep. Turner’s amendment, which directs the Secretary of Defense to report on opportunities to use the Sensors Center of Excellence at Wright Patterson Air Force Base (WPAFB) to integrate unmanned aerial systems into the national airspace system. A vote by the full House of Representatives is expected this week. Rep. Turner’s language encourages the Department of Defense to work with the Air Force and the FAA to develop procedures to safely integrate UAV’s into the nation’s airspace. This includes the development of “sense and avoid” procedures and technologies at WPAFB. As part of the sense and avoid research at WPAFB, the Air Force Research Laboratory (AFRL) has identified the Wilmington Air Park as a potential test and development site for this technology. AFRL has also looked at the Buckeye and Brush Creek Military Operating Areas as potential locations for flight testing of UAV to demonstrate, detect, sense, and avoid technologies. Language included by Rep. Turner in the report accompanying the bill directs the Secretary of Defense to review these opportunities to maximize the Sensors Center of Excellence. “The Air Force Research Lab is the natural place to locate this research program, and the Wilmington area offers an ideal test and development site,” said Rep. Turner. “We have the personnel, the know-how, the capacity and the technology to accomplish this mission; now is the time to begin the process of locating this program by asking the Air Force and the FAA to work together in its development, Rep. Turner continued.” The Sensors Center of Excellence was established by the Base Closing and Realignment Commission in 2006 and consists of various radars and technologies being consolidated at WPAFB and throughout Southwest Ohio. Congressman Turner is a senior member of the Armed Services Committee and Ranking member of its sub-committee on Strategic Forces. He worked to secure the Sensors Center of Excellence in the 2006 BRAC.
05.24.2010	The House Armed Services Committee has adopted language offered by Congressman Michael R. Turner that will expand AFIT’s authority to enroll government and non-government civilian personnel in its programs. share: f t Rep. Turner Wins Support for Civilian Education At the Air Force Institute of Technology The House Armed Services Committee has adopted language offered by Congressman Michael R. Turner that will expand AFIT’s authority to enroll government and non-government civilian personnel in its programs. The provisions would be a major advance for the institution and many civilian employers and employees who work in conjunction with the Air Force. The full House of Representatives is expected to vote on the issue as part of the National Defense Authorization bill by the end of the month. For several years, the regional business community has advocated for an opening of AFIT educational programs to non-government civilian personnel. It is believed that allowing AFIT to expand its offerings beyond military personnel will produce benefits within a larger student body and within the institution itself. AFIT students currently attend classes at the University of Dayton and Wright State University as part of the Dayton Area Graduate Studies Institute. The Air Force can benefit from a free exchange of knowledge and perspectives with the private sector even as it provides advanced training to students who normally would not have access to AFIT instruction. “This is the kind of public/private sector partnership that makes sense in our changing economy and the type of initiative I have always supported,” Congressman Turner said. “Building on assets already in place is an effective economic development strategy. I am committed to finding new investment opportunities at Wright-Patterson and AFIT is an obvious place to begin. The Air Force Institute of Technology is a graduate school of engineering and management focused on as well as its institution for technical professional continuing education. A component of Air University and Air Education and Training Command, AFIT is committed to providing defense-focused graduate and professional continuing education and research to sustain the technological supremacy of America’s air and space forces.
05.11.2010	Michael R. Turner and Niki Tsongas (D-MA) today introduced the Defense Sexual Trauma Response, Oversight and Good Governance Act (The Defense STRONG Act), bipartisan legislation to expand legal rights for service members who have been the victims of sexual assault, and to improve the training in the military related to prevention of this crime. share: f t Reps. Michael R. Turner (R-OH) and Niki Tsongas (D-MA) today introduced the Defense Sexual Trauma Response, Oversight and Good Governance Act (The Defense STRONG Act), bipartisan legislation to expand legal rights for service members who have been the victims of sexual assault, and to improve the training in the military related to prevention of this crime. Among its main provisions, the legislation would allow victims to access legal counsel, maintain confidentiality when speaking with Victim Advocates, and provide greater training for sexual assault prevention at every level of the armed services. The STRONG Act is being introduced as reported incidents of sexual assault in military have increased dramatically in recent years. These escalating numbers are estimated by the Department of Defense to only reflect one tenth of the actual number of such offenses.“We ask women who serve in the military to put their lives on the line for our country, and they shouldn’t fear or experience harm from their fellow soldiers,” said Congresswoman Niki Tsongas. “These sad statistics are unfortunately reinforced by many conversations I have had with service members who report that sexual assault is a crime that often goes unseen, and that the voices of its victims go unheard. The Defense STRONG Act makes many sensible improvements to current DOD efforts to provide support for victims of sexual assault and takes steps aimed at reducing incidents of sexual assault all together. I will be working Senator Kerry, Congressman Turner and my fellow colleagues on the Armed Services Committee to ensure that this important measure becomes law.”"Our military personnel deserve increased protections on and off the battlefield," said Rep. Turner, who has successfully included language in the last two Department of Defense Authorization bills to increase accountability of Department of Defense and military personnel services in preventing, monitoring, reporting and investigating sexual assault allegations. “Our service members deserve the greatest protection we can offer them. I am hopeful that Congress will act quickly on our legislation to help improve the safety and security of our men and women in uniform.”According to a recent Department of Defense Task Force Report, victims of sexual assault in the military express serious concern about their inability to access a military lawyer, and a lack of protection and support that exists once an assault is reported. The report also finds that Victim Advocates, who are assigned to provide support for victims, receive very little training and have little experience in dealing with these offenses. The Defense STRONG Act strengthens the systems in place to prevent sexual assaults and provide support and guidance for victims that report an incident. The bill enables victims to access a military lawyer so that they understand their legal options. Conversations with Victim Advocates would also be made confidential and immune from discovery if the case goes to court, as they typically are in the civilian world. The Defense STRONG Act also standardizes the training of service members, commanding officers, Victim Advocates, and Sexual Assault Response Coordinators around prevention and response. It requires all service members are trained as they move up in the military structure, and prohibits DOD contractors from fulfilling the Victim Advocate and Sexual Assault Response Coordinator roles.“In the months following the alleged rape and murder of Marine Lance Corporal Maria Lauterbach, I worked with her family to identify failures in the system which may have led to her death,” Rep. Turner said. “It’s important we work together to prevent a similar tragedy from ever occurring again.”Merle Wilberding, an attorney from Dayton who testified at the congressional hearings on Sexual Assault in the Military, said how important this legislation is to the Lauterbach family. “The victim needs a strong victim advocate and needs to be assured that conversations and information shared with her victim advocate remain confidential and cannot be subpoenaed by the accused, he said.” Wilberding added that his discussions with numerous victims and their families showed their heart-breaking pain about how critical it is to have a proactive and independent victim advocate. “This bill is a major step in that direction,” he said. “We thank Reps. Tsongas and Turner for their efforts.”
05.06.2010	“Our thoughts and prayers are often with the brave men and women of our armed forces who serve overseas and here at home. It’s all too easy to forget that many leave spouses and children at home while they carry out their sometimes dangerous duties. share: f t Since 1984, the Friday before Mother’s Day has been designated as Military Spouse Appreciation Day. President Ronald Reagan designated the day to honor military spouses for the role they play in our nation’s defense. Congressman Mike Turner, whose district includes many military families - including those stationed at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base – took time to mark the day by issuing the following statement: “Our thoughts and prayers are often with the brave men and women of our armed forces who serve overseas and here at home. It’s all too easy to forget that many leave spouses and children at home while they carry out their sometimes dangerous duties. “Military spouses also play a role in our nation’s defense by taking on family responsibilities that are normally shared. On this Friday before Mother’s Day I hope everyone can take a moment to remember this quiet effort and if you know a military spouse to thank them for their contribution to our common defense.”
05.03.2010	Congressman Mike Turner travelled to Carillon Park to cast his ballot for a statue of the Wright Brothers to replace the statue of Governor Allen in the Capitol Building in Washington, D.C and encouraged area residents to vote prior to the June 12 deadline. share: f t On Monday, May 3, Congressman Mike Turner travelled to Carillon Park to cast his ballot for a statue of the Wright Brothers to replace the statue of Governor Allen in the Capitol Building in Washington, D.C and encouraged area residents to vote prior to the June 12 deadline. While casting his vote, Turner said, “What the Wright Brothers accomplished with that first flight truly changed every corner of the world we live in. It is also important to note that they not only lived in Ohio, but they also did all of the important research towards powered flight in Ohio. Even after the first flight, they continued to reside in Ohio and made it the world’s center for aviation innovation.”Ballots can be cast from March 20 to June 12 at Dayton’s Carillon Park, or at one of 36 historic sites and museums throughout Ohio. People can also vote online by downoading this PDF with a ballot and instructions for submission.The State of Ohio created a National Statuary Collection Study Committee to replace the statue of Governor William Allen due to his pro-slavery views. The Committee created a list of 10 Ohioans for the residents of the state to cast their ballot. The nominated Ohioans are: James Ashley, Thomas Edison, Ulysses S. Grant, William McCulloch, Jesse Owens, Judith Resnick, Albert Sabin, Harriet Beecher Stowe, Harriet Taylor Upton, and Orville and Wilbur Wright. Recently, the National Statuary Collection Study Committee, debated whether both Wright Brothers could represent Ohio in the Capitol as policy permits each state to have only two statues. Congressman Turner obtained clarification on the policy, permitting a statue of both Wright Brothers could be placed in the Capitol Building to replace Governor Allen. For more information please visit www.legacyforohio.org.
04.29.2010	Reps. Michael Turner (R-OH) and Niki Tsongas (D-MA) today introduced The Defense STRONG Act, bipartisan legislation to expand legal rights for service members who have been the victims of sexual assault, and to improve the training in the military related to prevention of this crime. share: f t Reps. Michael Turner (R-OH) and Niki Tsongas (D-MA) today introduced the Defense Sexual Trauma Response, Oversight and Good Governance Act (The Defense STRONG Act), bipartisan legislation to expand legal rights for service members who have been the victims of sexual assault, and to improve the training in the military related to prevention of this crime. Among its main provisions, the legislation would allow victims to access legal counsel, maintain confidentiality when speaking with Victim Advocates, and provide greater training for sexual assault prevention at every level of the armed services. The STRONG Act is being introduced as reported incidents of sexual assault in military have increased dramatically in recent years. These escalating numbers are estimated by the Department of Defense to only reflect one tenth of the actual number of such offenses. “We ask women who serve in the military to put their lives on the line for our country, and they shouldn’t fear or experience harm from their fellow soldiers,” said Congresswoman Niki Tsongas. “These sad statistics are unfortunately reinforced by many conversations I have had with service members who report that sexual assault is a crime that often goes unseen, and that the voices of its victims go unheard. The Defense STRONG Act makes many sensible improvements to current DOD efforts to provide support for victims of sexual assault and takes steps aimed at reducing incidents of sexual assault all together. I will be working Senator Kerry, Congressman Turner and my fellow colleagues on the Armed Services Committee to ensure that this important measure becomes law.” "Our military personnel deserve increased protections on and off the battlefield," said Rep. Turner, who has successfully included language in the last two Department of Defense Authorization bills to increase accountability of Department of Defense and military personnel services in preventing, monitoring, reporting and investigating sexual assault allegations. “Our service members deserve the greatest protection we can offer them. I am hopeful that Congress will act quickly on our legislation to help improve the safety and security of our men and women in uniform.” According to a recent Department of Defense Task Force Report, victims of sexual assault in the military express serious concern about their inability to access a military lawyer, and a lack of protection and support that exists once an assault is reported. The report also finds that Victim Advocates, who are assigned to provide support for victims, receive very little training and have little experience in dealing with these offenses. The Defense STRONG Act strengthens the systems in place to prevent sexual assaults and provide support and guidance for victims that report an incident. The bill enables victims to access a military lawyer so that they understand their legal options. Conversations with Victim Advocates would also be made confidential and immune from discovery if the case goes to court, as they typically are in the civilian world. The Defense STRONG Act also standardizes the training of service members, commanding officers, Victim Advocates, and Sexual Assault Response Coordinators around prevention and response. It requires all service members are trained as they move up in the military structure, and prohibits DOD contractors from fulfilling the Victim Advocate and Sexual Assault Response Coordinator roles. “In the months following the alleged rape and murder of Marine Lance Corporal Maria Lauterbach, I worked with her family to identify failures in the system which may have led to her death,” Rep. Turner said. “It’s important we work together to prevent a similar tragedy from ever occurring again.” Merle Wilberding, an attorney from Dayton who testified at the congressional hearings on Sexual Assault in the Military, said how important this legislation is to the Lauterbach family. “The victim needs a strong victim advocate and needs to be assured that conversations and information shared with her victim advocate remain confidential and cannot be subpoenaed by the accused, he said.” Wilberding added that his discussions with numerous victims and their families showed their heart-breaking pain about how critical it is to have a proactive and independent victim advocate. “This bill is a major step in that direction,” he said. “We thank Reps. Tsongas and Turner for their efforts.”
04.29.2010	Following a meeting at the Pentagon today with Secretary of Defense Robert Gates, U.S. Representatives Michael R. Turner and Stephanie Herseth Sandlin (D-SD) expressed appreciation for the Secretary’s acknowledgement of the problem posed by use of deployment as a criterion in deciding child custody cases, as well as for his commitment to “take a fresh look” at protecting the rights of our servicemen and women in child custody disputes. share: f t Following a meeting at the Pentagon today with Secretary of Defense Robert Gates, U.S. Representatives Michael R. Turner and Stephanie Herseth Sandlin (D-SD) expressed appreciation for the Secretary’s acknowledgement of the problem posed by use of deployment as a criterion in deciding child custody cases, as well as for his commitment to “take a fresh look” at protecting the rights of our servicemen and women in child custody disputes. Reps. Turner and Herseth Sandlin have called on the Pentagon to support federal safeguards of military parents’ rights in custody cases. Currently, military parents have no guarantee that their child custody agreements will be preserved while they are called away on deployment. In some states, military parents have lost custody of their children due to their military service or even the possibility of their deployment. Previously, Secretary Gates had expressed the desire to allow states to individually determine their own custody protections. Citing the current array of state laws that provide inconsistent levels of protection for service members who must fight to retain custody of their children upon return from deployment, Reps. Turner and Herseth Sandlin noted the need for a national, baseline standard which protects service members and allays their unrest about future deployment being used as a criterion in deciding child custody cases. “We would like to work with the Department on a solution to this matter that will protect our men and women in uniform, as well as their families,” Reps. Turner and Herseth Sandlin stated in a letter to the Secretary following the meeting. For the last three years, Rep. Turner has successfully offered an amendment to the annual National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) providing military parents basic child custody protection while on active duty, yet each time the amendment has been opposed by the Pentagon; his legislation was approved unanimously by the House of Representatives as a stand-alone bill in 2008. In February, the Veterans Affairs Subcommittee on Economic Opportunity, which Rep. Herseth Sandlin chairs, held a hearing on the issue. Noting that April is the Month of the Military Child, Rep. Turner said, “Until now, the Department of Defense has refused to acknowledge the problem and has seemed essentially uninterested in the parental rights of the men and women who serve our country on the front lines of battle. Providing a consistent standard would be good for our servicemembers and good for their children. I look forward to continuing to work with Rep. Herseth Sandlin to replace this patchwork of laws with one consistent standard on which our military families can rely.” “I appreciated Secretary Gates’ willingness to meet with us and discuss the importance of protecting the rights of our servicemembers,” Rep. Herseth Sandlin said. “In the House Veterans’ Affairs Economic Opportunity Subcommittee, which I chair, we have worked to improve the Servicemembers Civil Relief Act to improve and protect the rights of servicemembers when it comes to issues such as employment and home loans affected by deployments, and I think the protection of child custody arrangements deserves equal consideration.” According to the Defense Department, some states currently afford some level of custody protections for servicemembers, but their approaches vary widely, and other states offer no such protections for military personnel at all. Such disparities underscore the need to enact a baseline of federal protections for servicemembers. Rep. Turner’s child custody protection amendment was included in the House-passed FY10 NDAA, but the Senate companion bill did not contain custody protection language, and the House language was deleted in conference.
04.26.2010	U.S. Congressman Mike Turner and Ohio Senators Sherrod Brown and George Voinovich authored a letter signed by the entire Ohio Congressional Delegation to the National Aeronautics and Space Administration to expressing continued strong support for the transfer of a retired space shuttle orbiter at the National Museum of the United States Air Force at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base. share: f t U.S. Congressman Mike Turner and Ohio Senators Sherrod Brown and George Voinovich authored a letter signed by the entire Ohio Congressional Delegation to the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) to expressing continued strong support for the transfer of a retired space shuttle orbiter at the National Museum of the United States Air Force (NMUSAF) at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base. The Secretary of the Air Force has requested a retired space-flown orbiter for long-term preservation and public display at NMUSAF. The Air Force was instrumental in determining the orbiter’s design and capabilities and many of the shuttle astronauts have been members of the Air Force. NMUSAF has identified the Air Force Space Mission as its most important exhibit priority. “The National Museum of the United States Air Force is the ideal facility to preserve the legacy of NASA’s Space Shuttle program,” Congressman Turner said. “The U.S. Air Force played a significant role in developing the nation’s space program. Retiring a space shuttle orbiter at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base, just miles away from the historic home of the Orville and Wilbur Wright, will strengthen the aerospace heritage of the region. In addition, it will serve as an educational attraction for students and residents interested in America’s space program and encourage local tourism and economic growth. I appreciate the support of the entire Ohio Congressional Delegation in this effort.” “The Space Shuttle Program ushered in a new era of American space exploration. Over the last 30 years, the program has lead our nation to both experience the heights of human accomplishment and to the explore depths of despair,” Sen. Voinovich said. “Each of the Space Shuttle’s orbiters tell a unique story about our nation’s space program, and they should be placed strategically across the country to allow as many Americans as possible the opportunity to learn about these incredible machines. The National Museum of the United States at Ohio’s Wright Patterson is the world’s largest and oldest military aviation museum. Since it is visited by 1.3 million people annually, free of charge, I think this museum is the perfect place to locate an orbiter to allow the next generation of explorers, scientists and mathematicians to learn its history.” “Wright Patterson Air Force Base is a hub for science, technology, research and development. This makes the National Museum of the United States Air Force a perfect place to display an orbiter,” Sen. Brown said. “By locating the Shuttle at Wright-Patt, thousands of Ohioans will be able to see the success of our space program and integral role Ohio plays in supporting NASA.” Ohio has a rich aerospace history. It is home to the Glenn Research Center, one of only 10 NASA research centers in the country. It is the premier NASA facility for microgravity science, in-space transportation, aerospace communications, and aeropropulsion and interdisciplinary research for bioscience. NASA’s economic impact to the state exceeds $1.2 billion and acts as a catalyst of the 1,200 aerospace-related companies in Ohio - companies that employ more than 100,000 Ohioans. Last April, Rep. Turner, Senators Voinovich and Brown led the Ohio Congressional Delegation in sending a letter of support for the transfer of an orbiter to Acting NASA Administrator Charles Scolese. Rep. Turner reiterated this request in February after Major General Bolden took over as NASA Administrator. Today’s letter reiterates the Ohio Delegation’s support to Administrator Bolden to send an orbiter to NMUSAF. A text of the Ohio Congressional Delegation letter follows.Major General Charles F. Bolden, USMC (Ret.)AdministratorNational Aeronautics and Space Administration300 E Street, S.W.Washington, D.C. 20546-0002 Dear General Bolden: We are writing to express our continued support for the Secretary of the Air Force’s request for an interagency transfer of a retired space-worthy orbiter for preservation and display at the National Museum of the United States Air Force (NMUSAF) in Ohio. We wish to reiterate our support by emphasizing the mutual advantages for the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA), the Air Force, and the American people. The conveyance of a retired orbiter to the Air Force is in keeping with federal property procedures and, as with the similar conveyance to the Smithsonian’s National Air and Space Museum, it retains this most valued and historic aerospace vehicle firmly in the stewardship of the federal government. The Air Force has a long record of proven achievements and excellence in historic preservation and is highly capable of accepting this challenge and responsibility. The Air Force and the NMUSAF staff have considerable resources and skilled manpower to aid in its transportation, preparation for exhibit, appropriate display, as well as the continued safeguarding and care in the years to come. We believe that public visibility and accessibility are also key benefits to placing an orbiter with the Air Force’s national museum. The NMUSAF, located on historic Wright-Patterson Air Force Base near Dayton, Ohio, is at the cross roads of Middle America. Within a day’s drive of 60 percent of the U.S. population, the museum is easily accessible to millions from across the American heartland, hosting more than 1.3 million visitors annually. It is our understanding that the institution is well equipped to accommodate the increased attendance that would be expected to result from the display of an orbiter. Moreover, the NMUSAF, which is the world’s oldest and largest aviation museum, is in the final planning stages of a new 200,000 square foot addition to accommodate its own continued growth and popularity. This state of the art facility will offer a premier venue to showcase the shuttle and highlight the NASA–Air Force partnership that is embodied in the shuttle program. Strengthening important aerospace heritage relationships is another key benefit of placement of an orbiter at the NMUSAF and the historic home of the Wright brothers. Ohio, the birthplace of aviation, is proud of its century long tradition of aviation pioneering and development. This continues today through the partnering with NASA in aeronautic and astronautic development at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base, NASA’s Glenn Research Center, and related research, and educational institutions across Ohio. Though the NMUSAF serves a growing national audience, since Ohio is the host state, we wish to assure you that our State and local communities are in support of the Air Force’s request and will work to contribute to its success. Ohio’s Congressional delegation is confident that the Air Force, with the enthusiastic support of Ohioans across our State, will successfully address the complexities and challenges of orbiter placement. With these facts and our support in mind, we hope that you will carefully consider the many advantages of placing an orbiter under Air Force stewardship at the NMUSAF. We all look forward to Ohio becoming a home for this national treasure and being able to aid in sharing an important chapter in space history for all Americans. Sincerely, Michael R. Turner George V. VoinovichJohn A. Boehner Sherrod BrownSteve Driehaus Charlie WilsonMarcia Fudge Steven C. LaTouretteTim Ryan Jean SchmidtSteve Austria Marcy KapturPatrick J. Tiberi Mary Jo KilroyZack Space Jim JordanRobert E. Latta Dennis J. KucinichBetty Sutton John Boccieri
04.23.2010	The House Armed Services Committee today passed H.R. 5013, the Implementing Management for Performance and Related Reforms to Obtain Value in Every (IMPROVE) Acquisition Act. During the markup, the committee unanimously approved an amendment offered by Representative Mike Turner (OH-3), Ranking Member of the House Armed Services Strategic Forces Subcommittee, to strengthen training of military personnel in acquisition jobs. share: f t The House Armed Services Committee today passed H.R. 5013, the Implementing Management for Performance and Related Reforms to Obtain Value in Every (IMPROVE) Acquisition Act. During the markup, the committee unanimously approved an amendment offered by Representative Mike Turner (OH-3), Ranking Member of the House Armed Services Strategic Forces Subcommittee, to strengthen training of military personnel in acquisition jobs. The legislation, which was developed following a year-long study by the committee’s Defense Acquisition Reform Panel, builds upon the reforms enacted last year to the Department of Defense’s weapons systems procurement process. It would require the Pentagon to create a performance management system to consider shifting work away from contractors that do not meet cost standards, and would require department agencies to create measurements for success, such as schedule and cost objectives, and to ensure procurement organizations adhere to them. The Turner amendment, which was included in the committee’s en bloc amendment, requires coordination between the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics, Defense Acquisition University, and the Services to validate appropriate and effective acquisition curriculum. The amendment also requires Defense Acquisition University, whose Midwest Headquarters is located in Kettering, to work with the relevant professional schools of the Department of Defense, such as the Air Force Institute of Technology (AFIT) at Wright Patterson Air Force Base, to ensure best practices in curriculum development are applied in developing this new curriculum. “Our effectiveness in the battlefield relies on our ability to foster innovation and technology, which have made American armed forces the best in the world,” said Rep. Turner. “Acquisition technologies such as the Airborne Laser Tested, Missile Defense Technologies, Remotely Piloted Aircraft and their sensor capabilities, and numerous programs out of the Aeronautical Systems Center and Air Force Materiel Command are directly responsible for saving the lives of our Airmen, Marines, Soldiers, and Sailors every day. For example, AFIT provides numerous advanced degrees to our servicemembers and many times develops curriculum rapidly to meet new demands. This expertise should be utilized to develop the curriculum necessary for these acquisition professionals.” “We must ensure the Department of Defense is planning ahead and providing the necessary resources to train the next generation of acquisition professionals,” Rep. Turner continued. “My amendment will help ensure we build on current educational centers of excellence, support effective training programs and make them available to more of our service members so we can enhance the training of America’s fighting force, today and in the future.”
04.21.2010	The House Armed Services Committee recently heard testimony from senior Administration officials on the Executive Branch’s nuclear weapons policies, posture, and force structure. Congressman Mike Turner focused his questions on the New START Treaty with Russia and the Administration’s Nuclear Posture Review. share: f t The House Armed Services Committee recently heard testimony from senior Administration officials on the Executive Branch’s nuclear weapons policies, posture, and force structure. Congressman Mike Turner focused his questions on the New START Treaty with Russia and the Administration’s Nuclear Posture Review. Earlier this week, Mike Turner, the top Republican on the Armed Services Subcommittee on Strategic Forces, previewed his critique of the Administration’s Nuclear Posture Review in USA Today. In an op-ed, Turner stated, “Last May, President Obama clearly stated, ‘I don't take options off the table when it comes to U.S. security, period.’ Unfortunately, his new Nuclear Posture Review does just that. It delivers a muddled message that weakens the strength of our deterrent.” Turner continued, “According to the Obama administration's new policy, if a country is a nuclear proliferator, the United States will seek to deter the offender's actions with the threat of nuclear weapons. If it is not, the president promises never to use nuclear weapons—even if the United States is attacked with biological or chemical weapons. Confusingly, the president reserves the right to change his mind.” In defining the vital and powerful role of America’s nuclear deterrence, Turner stated, “When it comes to defending the United States against a devastating attack, our message should be clear and simple: If our nation is attacked, we will use all means necessary to defend ourselves. Period. This is the essence of nuclear deterrence: The message should be that the cost of attacking the United States will be greater than the benefit.” Rep. Turner also addressed the expectation within the Administration that other nations will follow the lead of the United States: “Since the end of the Cold War, the U.S. has reduced its nuclear arsenal by nearly 80%, but such cuts have not curbed Iran or North Korea's nuclear ambitions. Nor have they led to reductions in Pakistan, India, or China's nuclear arms.” During the House Armed Services Committee hearing, Rep. Turner reasserted his concerns the Administration is taking deterrence options off the table. In addition, Turner emphasized that U.S. missile defense capabilities should not be conceded as a bargaining chip in current or future treaty negotiations.
04.13.2010	U.S. Congressman MikeTurner announced his nomination of the following eight students who have received appointments to a Service Academy in the graduating class of 2014. share: f t U.S. Congressman Mike Turner announced his nomination of the following eight students who have received appointments to a Service Academy in the graduating class of 2014. United States Military Academy At West PointAustin Stenta, Lebanon High SchoolZachary Harnish, Wright State UniversityZack Schretzman, Springboro High School United States Merchant Marine AcademyBenjamin Runchey, Springboro High School United States Air Force AcademyAshley Flanagan, Stebbins High SchoolMichael Kapolka, Springboro High SchoolDaniel Schmitz, Oakwood High School United States Coast Guard AcademyJacob Kramb, Waynesville High School For a student to be considered for a military academy appointment, he or she must be recommended by an authorized nominating source. This could include the President, the Vice President, a Member of the US Senate, or a Member of the US House of Representatives. Receiving a nomination is only the first step in the process of receiving an offer of an appointment to a US military service academy. In addition to the nomination, students must qualify academically and are subject to character, leadership, physical fitness, medical fitness, and motivation evaluations. Only after passing each of these evaluations are students offered an appointment to the service academy. On Saturday, April 17, 2010, the Office of Congressman Turner will host the Annual Service Academy Day at Springboro High School from 8:30 am to 11:30 am. During this event, which is open to interested students and parents, representatives from each of the academies will be on hand to answer questions and describe academy life. Additionally, staff from Congressman Turner’s Office will be available to explain the nomination process for the class of 2015. If interested students have questions regarding the United States service academies or nominations, they are encouraged to contact the Dayton Office of Congressman Turner at 937.225.2843.
04.06.2010	The top Republicans on the Armed Services Committee and the Armed Services Strategic Forces Subcommittee today welcomed the release of the Administration’s delayed Nuclear Posture Review, a top-to-bottom review of the United States’ nuclear policies, capabilities, and requirements. share: f t The top Republicans on the Armed Services Committee and the Armed Services Strategic Forces Subcommittee today welcomed the release of the Administration’s delayed Nuclear Posture Review, a top-to-bottom review of the United States’ nuclear policies, capabilities, and requirements. Both members pointed to the committee’s full committee hearing on April 14th as an opportunity for Members of Congress to gain more details about the Nuclear Posture Review and question officials from the Departments of Defense, Energy, and State. “We welcome the delivery of the Nuclear Posture Review and its emphasis on countering the threats of nuclear terrorism and nuclear proliferation,” said U.S. Rep. Howard P. “Buck” McKeon (R-Calif.), the Ranking Member of the House Armed Services Committee. “However, there could be clear consequences for some of the language and perceived signals imbedded in the review. We look forward to working with the Administration to better understand the analysis behind the decisions made in the Nuclear Posture Review.” “I’m pleased that the Administration remains committed to the nuclear triad of land-, sea-, and air-based nuclear deterrents; signaled the need for additional investments to modernize our nuclear complex; and acknowledged that the conditions for a ‘nuclear-free’ world do not exist at this time,” continued McKeon. “I’m deeply concerned by some of the decisions made in the Nuclear Posture Review and the message this Administration is sending to Iran, North Korea, and non-state actors who may seek to harm the United States or our allies,” said U.S. Rep. Michael R. Turner (R-Ohio), the Ranking Member of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Strategic Forces. “By unilaterally taking a nuclear response off the table, we are decreasing our options without getting anything in return and diminishing our ability to defend our nation from attack.” McKeon and Turner intend to press key Administration witnesses on details and the underlying rationale behind decisions made in the Nuclear Posture Review at an Armed Services Committee hearing on Wednesday, April 14th. McKeon and Turner specifically pointed to the following concerns: The perception that conventional capabilities are sufficient to deter potential adversaries and assure U.S. allies and partners; The perception that the Administration intends to shift to a “sole purpose” policy, which would deny the threat of nuclear use to deter potentially devastating chemical or biological attacks against the United States; The indication that the Administration is already contemplating deeper nuclear cuts beyond the unsigned follow-on START Treaty without a clear strategic rationale; and Ensuring that the Administration follows through on its decision to modernize and recapitalize America’s nuclear weapons and complex.
03.26.2010	U.S. House Armed Services Committee Ranking Member Howard P. “Buck” McKeon (R-Calif.) and Armed Services Strategic Forces Subcommittee Ranking Member Mike Turner (R-Ohio) today released the following statement regarding the President’s announcement that the United States and Russia have reached an agreement on a new nuclear weapons treaty to build upon the 1990’s Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty (START) and 2002 Moscow Treaty. share: f t U.S. House Armed Services Committee Ranking Member Howard P. “Buck” McKeon (R-Calif.) and Armed Services Strategic Forces Subcommittee Ranking Member Mike Turner (R-Ohio) today released the following statement regarding the President’s announcement that the United States and Russia have reached an agreement on a new nuclear weapons treaty to build upon the 1990’s Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty (START) and 2002 Moscow Treaty.“While we support the Administration’s efforts to secure a follow on treaty to START, we are anxious to see the details included in the final package. In September, we joined with our colleagues on the Foreign Affairs Committee to outline our views on the negotiations. Specifically, we encouraged the President to maintain the right of the United States to deploy a robust missile defense system in Europe in order to protect our homeland and allies from a missile attack. Additionally, we requested that the final agreement include strong and effective inspection and verification measures to ensure both sides fully implement the agreement.”“As we begin the process of crafting this year’s defense authorization bill, we look forward to working with the Administration to learn more about the final proposal and see how it fits into America’s strategic roadmap as outlined in the delayed Nuclear Posture Review. Ultimately, any treaty that is approved by the Senate and is implemented by Congress must protect America’s national security first and foremost.”On September 8, 2009, McKeon, Turner, House Foreign Affairs Committee Ranking Member Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-Fla.), and Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Europe Ranking Member Elton Gallegly (R-Calif.) sent a letter to the President outlining concerns they had with the Administration’s ongoing negotiations with the Russians. A copy of the letter can be found here.
03.21.2010	Mike Turner today voted against the $1 trillion government takeover of our nation’s healthcare system. Rep. Turner issued the following statement after the House of Representatives passed the bill during a rare Sunday session: share: f t Mike Turner today voted against the $1 trillion government takeover of our nation’s healthcare system. Rep. Turner issued the following statement after the House of Representatives passed the bill during a rare Sunday session: “I opposed this bill because it will increase budget deficits and decrease the quality of our health care services. Furthermore, it will cut more than $500 billion in Medicare resulting in reduced health care for seniors.”
03.16.2010	U.S. Representative Michael R. Turner today called the Department of Defense (DoD) fiscal year 2009 Annual Report on Sexual Assault in the Military “alarming.” share: f t U.S. Representative Michael R. Turner today called the Department of Defense (DoD) fiscal year 2009 Annual Report on Sexual Assault in the Military “alarming.” The report was issued today by the Sexual Assault Prevention and Response Office in response to language in the FY 09 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) secured by Rep. Turner and Rep. Jane Harman, D-CA. The Turner/Harman language required the Secretary of Defense to create a sexual assault prevention program and report to Congress on an action plan for reducing sexual assaults. This fiscal year 2009 report cites an 11 percent increase from 2008 in sexual assault cases within the Armed Forces, a number that is extremely disturbing to Reps. Turner and Harman. “This increase in reported sexual assault cases in the Armed Forces, in addition to the number of cases that are not reported to military officials, highlights an urgent need for improvement within the Department of Defense,” said Rep. Turner, a senior member of the House Armed Services Committee. “There’s an urgent need for a continued review of improvements to the way the Defense Department officials respond to sexual assault cases.” The Turner/Harman language included provisions mandating: A GAO study of each military service’s ability to investigate and adjudicate sexual assault allegations. The Department of Defense to create a sexual assault prevention program and report to Congress on its status including an action plan for reducing sexual assaults and a timeline for implementation; a mechanism for outcome measurement; and training courses for commanders and senior enlisted personnel. The Department of Defense to report on the availability of sexual assault forensic exams in combat zones; any barriers that exist; and legislative actions needed to improve availability of forensic exams. The Department of Defense to report annually to Congress whether a Military Protective Order (MPO) was issued in a sexual assault in the armed services. The Secretary of Defense to ensure that when a military protective order is issued, the service member requesting the MPO is informed of their right to request a transfer. In 2008, Rep. Turner successfully added language to the defense authorization bill that requires Military Protective Orders be made standing orders and that civilian authorities be notified when a MPO is issued and affects off-base personnel. After considerable review, Members of Congress agreed that the Military Protective Orders which were in use did not provide sufficient protection to uniformed personnel. The report released today by the Sexual Assault Prevention and Response office noted that in fiscal year 2009, there were a total of 3,230 restricted and unrestricted reports of sexual assault involving military members as either victims or subjects. This is an 11 percent increase from the previous fiscal year. In fiscal year 2009, there were 714 restricted or confidential reports filed. Military service members may choose to obtain medical, mental health care and other services without becoming involved in the military criminal justice process if they choose the confidential reporting option. In 2010, 123 victims converted their reports from restricted to unrestricted, which is included in the overall total of 2,516 unrestricted reports. “I will continue to work on behalf of service members and victims to make their concerns heard by DoD officials. Our military personnel deserve increased protections on and off the battlefield,” Rep. Turner added. The full report is available at: http://www.sapr.mil.
03.15.2010	U.S. Representative Michael R. Turner today announced the release of a report from the Priority Development Review Committee (PDRC) to enhance the Dayton region’s process for congressional-directed federal funding requests and called the region’s open, community-directed process a “national model for reform.” share: f t U.S. Representative Michael R. Turner today announced the release of a report from the Priority Development Review Committee (PDRC) to enhance the Dayton region’s process for congressional-directed federal funding requests and called the region’s open, community-directed process a “national model for reform.” The PDRC recommended strengthening the Priority Development and Advocacy Committee (PDAC) process with an increased emphasis on transparency and community participation, increasing accountability of the recipients for congressionally-directed funds, and instituting procedures for advocacy and validation of project requests for the region. Rep. Turner, along with the Dayton Area Chamber of Commerce and the Dayton Development Coalition (DDC), called for a review of the Priority Development and Advocacy Committee (PDAC) process as a means to further enhance the effectiveness of the region’s federal funding requests. “The Dayton model of prioritizing federal funding requests helps ensure transparency and accountability, and is an example for communities across the country,” Rep. Turner said. “Review of the Dayton region’s model ensures the best possible outcome for the community. This review process allows a broad coalition of public and private leaders to speak with one voice, and is essential as the community moves forward with initiatives to encourage job creation and economic growth.” Rep. Turner worked with Dayton area leaders to call for an independent panel to improve the system for determining which regional projects are selected as federal funding priorities. The Priority Development Review Committee (PDRC) was empanelled with the intention of undertaking a community review of the Priority Development and Advocacy Committee (PDAC) process, which is managed by the Dayton Development Coalition, to examine congressionally-directed funding priorities for the region. The PDAC process was first implemented in 1994 by the Miami Valley Economic Development Coalition. Rep. Turner added he is preparing legislation to require projects seeking congressionally-directed funding to undergo public hearings, as the Dayton model does. “The one-year moratorium approved by Congressional Republicans last week is the first step toward meaningful reform of the congressionally-directed funding process,” said Turner, “and Dayton’s process can and should be a model all funded projects can stand up to.”
02.25.2010	U.S. Representative Mike. Turner today announced the release of a report offering an analysis and policy considerations to the national foreclosure crisis. share: f t U.S. Representative Mike. Turner today announced the release of a report offering an analysis and policy considerations to the national foreclosure crisis. The policy considerations are based on the testimony of local and federal panelists. The report, “The Impact of the Housing Crisis on Local Communities and the Federal Response,” was compiled as a follow-up to a housing forum Rep. Turner convened in coordination with the Northeast-Midwest Institute and the Northeast-Midwest Congressional Coalition. Last August, in coordination with The Northeast-Midwest Institute and the Northeast-Midwest Congressional Coalition, Rep. Turner convened a housing forum in Dayton with local and national housing experts to examine the impact of the foreclosure and mortgage lending crisis. This report contains testimonies and policy considerations from the nine panelists who participated. It also highlights both local and federal policy perspectives on the current problem and offers strategies on how the federal government can help communities recover from the decline in the housing market. The report summarizes a number of policy considerations based on the individual testimonies and discussions held at the housing forum into broad based themes consisting of the following: preventing predatory lending by increasing financial product transparency and preventing the issuance of inappropriate loan products; streamlining the mortgage servicing industry; standardizing housing counseling and loan modification regulations; improving the Neighborhood Stabilization Program (NSP) and building local organizational capacity in distressed communities; and rethinking the impact of the low-income housing tax credit on older cities. “Mortgage foreclosures have played a major role in destabilizing the nation’s economy,” Rep. Turner said. “The influx of toxic mortgage loans has led to a significant increase in home foreclosures and abandonment, and declining property values across the country. With over 6,000 foreclosures, the Dayton region has been severely affected by the national housing crisis. This report will help encourage ideas for additional federal action to help address this issue.” “This report addresses the critical and growing housing needs of low-income homeowners in our communities. Congressman Turner should be commended for taking action on this issue,” said Amy Radachi, President and CEO of Rebuilding Together Dayton. “For most Americans, housing is the most significant investment any of us will make in our lifetimes,” said Jim McCarthy, President and CEO of the Miami Valley Fair Housing Center, Inc. “Housing is also integral to the vibrancy of our neighborhoods and the health and stability of our country’s economy; all of which are being undermined by the housing crisis. This report is essential to documenting both the housing crisis and the innovative strategies being implemented on the ground to address the crisis. I appreciate the leadership of Congressman Turner in convening the Congressional forum that resulted in this important report.” “Congressman Turner is to be commended for holding his forum on the Impact of the Housing Crisis on Local communities. The forum underscored the devastating impact of the housing crisis on communities that have not only suffered through the subprime mortgage crisis, but continue to struggle with foreclosures that are expected to persist unabated through 2012 driven by unemployment and underemployment,” said Diane DeVaul, Director of Policy for the Northeast-Midwest Institute. “Unfortunately foreclosures rend the fabric of the communities in which they occur. As Alan Mallach of Brookings Institution pointed out—it’s been decades since we have had new, creative thinking nationally about housing and community revitalization. New federal responses to the problem are urgently needed. We are grateful to Congressman Turner as Co-Chair of the Revitalizing Older Cities Congressional Task Force for his leadership in proposing new federal responses to this crisis.” Since its inception in 1996, Rebuilding Together Dayton, a non-profit, volunteer-driven organization, has provided home rehabilitation services for over 900 low-income homeowners in the Dayton area. The Miami Valley Fair Housing Center is a private, non-profit corporation which works to eliminate housing discrimination by assisting victims of housing discrimination and advocating for improved fair housing laws. The Northeast-Midwest Institute is a Washington, D.C.-based, nonprofit, nonpartisan research organization dedicated to economic vitality, environmental quality, and regional equity for Northeast and Midwest states. Congressman Turner is Co-Chairman of the Revitalizing Older Cities Congressional Task Force, a bipartisan member organization that brings together Members of Congress who have an interest in exchanging legislative ideas and creating policy that will rejuvenate America's historic industrial cities.
02.24.2010	Mike Turner today heard testimony from Dayton area attorney Merle Wilberding on the progress of the Department of Defense in responding to sexual assault allegations within the Armed Services. share: f t U.S. Representative Mike Turner today heard testimony from Dayton area attorney Merle Wilberding on the progress of the Department of Defense in responding to sexual assault allegations within the Armed Services. Wilberding testified this afternoon before the House Oversight and Government Reform National Security and Foreign Affairs Subcommittee during a hearing on the status of reforms within the Defense Department in countering sexual assault allegations among military service members. Merle Wilberding, the Dayton area attorney who represented Marine LCpl Maria Lauterbach’s family, testified before the Subcommittee on the progress of the Department in responding to sexual assault allegations in the Armed Forces. Rep. Turner requested that the Subcommittee allow Mr. Wilberding to testify. “All too often ‘victim advocates’ have been ‘victim listeners.’ Victims of sexual assault need advocates who are more proactive and who are independent of the base chain of command,” Wilberding said. “I have worked with my colleagues in the Congress and with Defense Department officials to increase the accountability of the Department and military personnel services to better monitor, report and investigate sexual assault allegations and to implement improved prevention programs,” said Rep. Turner, a senior member of the House Armed Services Committee. “I appreciate Merle’s work on behalf of the Lauterbach family. Our military personnel deserve greater protections both on and off the battlefield.” Last year, Rep. Turner worked with U.S. Representative Jane Harman (D-Calif.-36) to add provisions to the National Defense Authorization Act that would require: A GAO study of each military service’s ability to investigate and adjudicate sexual assault allegations. The Department of Defense to create a sexual assault prevention program and report to Congress on its status including an action plan for reducing sexual assaults and a timeline for implementation; a mechanism for outcome measurement; and training courses for commanders and senior enlisted personnel. The Department of Defense to report on the availability of sexual assault forensic exams in combat zones; any barriers that exist; and legislative actions needed to improve availability of forensic exams. The Department of Defense to report annually to Congress whether a Military Protective Order (MPO) was issued in a sexual assault in the armed services. The Secretary of Defense to ensure that when a military protective order is issued, the service member requesting the MPO is informed of their right to request a transfer. In 2008, Rep. Turner successfully added language to the defense authorization bill that would require Military Protective Orders be made standing orders and that civilian authorities be notified when a MPO is issued and affects off-base personnel. After considerable review, Members of Congress agreed that the Military Protective Orders which were in use did not provide sufficient protection to uniformed personnel. Today’s hearing was the fourth in a series the Subcommittee has convened since 2008 examining the progress that has been made by the Defense Department.
02.18.2010	U.S. Representative Mike Turner today held a news conference to announce $300,000 in federal funding he helped secure for the Dayton Area Defense Contractors Association (DaytonDefense) to establish the Wright Center for Workforce Preparedness. share: f t U.S. Representative Mike Turner today held a news conference to announce $300,000 in federal funding he helped secure for the Dayton Area Defense Contractors Association (DaytonDefense) to establish the Wright Center for Workforce Preparedness. The Center will help prepare displaced Ohio workers for jobs coming to Wright-Patterson Air Force Base as a result of the BRAC process. The Center will publicize employer needs, match job skills, and help workers obtain appropriate security clearances. “These dollars are an investment in the future of Miami Valley’s employment base,” Rep. Turner noted. “The funding will help southwest Ohio businesses become more competitive in securing contracts from incoming missions and assist Ohioans seeking employment in the defense industry.” Rep. Turner secured the funding in the Fiscal Year 2010 Departments of Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education appropriations bill which passed Congress last year. The funds are distributed through the Department of Labor’s Employment and Training Administration. “These funds will serve a valuable need in the community,” said Deborah Gross, Executive Director of DaytonDefense. “The community scored a huge win with BRAC and these funds will ensure the local defense community is prepared for the new contract requirements and personnel necessary to keep more contract dollars here in the Dayton region.” Founded in 1995, Dayton Area Defense Contractors Association (DaytonDefense) is a not-for-profit industry association committed to expanding the region’s defense industrial base through community partnership and supporting the mission of Wright-Patterson Air Force Base. Wright-Patterson scored a major victory with the BRAC process five years ago. The community rallied together to ensure the BRAC Commission witnessed first-hand the outstanding work at the base. The commission believed the Dayton region was an ideal site to bring new missions to Wright-Patterson – saving 5,000 jobs and bringing an additional 1,200 military jobs to the base.
02.12.2010	"A nuclear Iran threatens the security and stability of the Middle East and the rest of the world. With today's announcement, Tehran takes one step closer to a nuclear weapon. share: f t U.S. Representatives Howard P. “Buck” McKeon (R-Calif.), the Ranking Member of the House Armed Services Committee, and Michael R. Turner (R-Ohio), the Ranking Member of the House Armed Services Strategic Forces Subcommittee, today issued the following statement on the Iranian regime's announcement that Iran is now a "nuclear state" after producing enriched uranium at higher levels: "A nuclear Iran threatens the security and stability of the Middle East and the rest of the world. With today's announcement, Tehran takes one step closer to a nuclear weapon. “While the Treasury Department's freeze on Revolutionary Guard assets is welcome, it does not go far enough in raising the costs to the regime for its continued defiance of the international community. We call on the Administration to impose broader and tougher sanctions on the Iranian government. “We also believe that today's announcement is a stark reminder of the need to maintain robust missile defenses for the United States homeland and to expeditiously deploy assets to protect our allies in the Middle East and Europe. “At the same time Iran's theocracy defies the international community by pursuing a nuclear weapon, the regime also continues to defy its own people. Recent protests in Iran once again showed the Iranian people's courage and democratic spirit; even in the face of state intimidation and brutality they bravely stand for freedom and liberty.”
02.05.2010	U.S. Representative Michael R. Turner received a verbal commitment from Defense Secretary Robert Gates to meet and discuss legislation he has introduced to protect the child custody rights of military parents. share: f t Secretary Gates Agrees to Meeting with Rep. Turner to Discuss his Child Custody Rights Bill for Military Parents U.S. Representative Michael R. Turner received a verbal commitment from Defense Secretary Robert Gates to meet and discuss legislation he has introduced to protect the child custody rights of military parents. During a House Armed Services Committee hearing Wednesday morning, Secretary Gates committed to meet with Rep. Turner to discuss enhancing child custody rights for service members. Last year, Rep. Turner wrote Secretary Gates on two occasions requesting a meeting to discuss the Defense Department’s opposition to his legislation. “I look forward to meeting with Secretary Gates to discuss the Defense Department’s opposition to strengthening child custody rights for military personnel,” said Rep. Turner, a senior member of the House Armed Services Committee. “Military parents don’t expect to find themselves fighting two battles: fighting for their country while at the same time fighting to keep custody of their children.” Due to the varied custody laws in each state, some state courts have used a military parent’s deployment or even the possibility of deployment as a factor in awarding child custody. This may result in a change in child custody rights due to the parent’s military service obligations. On four occasions since 2007, the U.S. House has passed provisions Rep. Turner authored to add custody protections for military parents to the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA). Turner re-introduced his legislation, H.R. 4469, in January. Rep. Turner’s legislation precludes courts from permanently altering an existing custody agreement while a military parent is deployed. Additionally, upon the service member’s return from deployment, any temporary change in custody arrangements would immediately be reversed, unless the reinstatement of custody is not in the best interest of the child. Finally, Rep. Turner’s legislation would not allow courts to consider a military parent’s deployment or possibility of deployment as a basis for determining the best interest of the child in custody court cases. “I am committed to working with Secretary Gates and the Defense Department on this issue as long as necessary to ensure that the custodial rights of our military are protected,” Rep. Turner added.
02.03.2010	U.S. Representative Mike Turner, the Ranking Member of the House Armed Services Strategic Forces Subcommittee, today issued the following statement on the Administration’s Fiscal Year 2011 budget request for the Department of Defense and Missile Defense related programs share: f t U.S. Representative Mike Turner, the Ranking Member of the House Armed Services Strategic Forces Subcommittee, today issued the following statement on the Administration’s Fiscal Year 2011 budget request for the Department of Defense and Missile Defense related programs: “As Ranking Member of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Strategic Forces, I commend the Administration’s decision to increase funding for key strategic forces capabilities in recognition of today’s complex and uncertain security landscape. The $600 million increase in missile defense programs is a welcome indication that the Administration took note of concerns expressed by many of us in Congress that a topline increase was necessary to sustain our homeland missile defense capabilities, fund the new Phased Adaptive Approach for missile defense in Europe, and expand missile defense inventories. I hope these funding increases also enable better utilization of the skilled American workforce employed in these important national security programs. “I am pleased to see an additional $624 million allocated to nuclear weapons activities and $550 million for nuclear nonproliferation at the National Nuclear Security Administration. The nuclear deterrence triad still plays an important role in reassuring allies and deterring potential adversaries. Though the Administration is pursuing nuclear force reductions, this budget request reflects a realization that—for the foreseeable future—steps will be required to sustain our confidence in our nuclear deterrence capabilities and bolster the underpinning science base. It appears that the Administration has embraced the Stockpile Management Program established by Congress last year and will fund more extensive life extension programs, warhead safety and security enhancements, and infrastructure modernization. “However, commitment to the sustainment and modernization of our nation’s deterrence capabilities cannot be measured with a single year’s budget request. I look forward to reviewing the budget details and out year plans in greater depth over the next several weeks and asking Administration officials about the assumptions and analysis that led to these budget decisions. “While I await details on the Administration’s commitment to future capabilities, I welcome the overall increase in the Defense Department’s budget. Specifically, I was pleased that the Administration will continue to support the ongoing overseas contingency operations, including funds to execute its strategy for Afghanistan and Pakistan. To fight the wars of today and tomorrow, the Administration’s budget bolsters capabilities in Unmanned Aerial Vehicles, helicopters, cybersecurity and electronic warfare.”
02.01.2010	Congressman Michael Turner has sent a letter to National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) Administrator Charles F. Bolden reiterating his support of the space agency assigning a retired space shuttle orbiter for public display at the National Museum of the United States Air Force (NMUSAF) at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base in Dayton, Ohio share: f t Congressman Michael Turner has sent a letter to National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) Administrator Charles F. Bolden reiterating his support of the space agency assigning a retired space shuttle orbiter for public display at the National Museum of the United States Air Force (NMUSAF) at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base in Dayton, Ohio. Congressman Turner’s letter is a follow up to a meeting with NASA Administrator Bolden on January 20 in which he continued to advocate on behalf of NMUSAF as the site of a NASA orbiter. Last April, Congressman Turner led the Ohio Congressional Delegation in the state’s initial request that a space orbiter be designated to the Air Force museum. NASA recently issued a follow-up Request for Information (RFI) to organizations interested in acquiring and publicly displaying a Space Shuttle Orbiter at the conclusion of NASA’s Space Shuttle Program. “The NMUSAF is ideally suited to house one of the space shuttles set to be retired.” Congressman Turner’s letter continues: “With approximately 1.3 million visitors annually, and located 600 miles from 60 percent of the U.S. population, the NMUSAF has identified the Air Force’s space missions as their most important exhibit opportunity. The museum is the world's largest and oldest military aviation museum and has an outstanding reputation in preserving and displaying America’s aviation history.” “Retiring a space shuttle orbiter at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base will serve as an educational attraction for students and those interested in learning more about the history of America’s space program. In addition, it will encourage local tourism, job creation and economic growth across the Dayton region,” Turner added.
01.28.2010	Congressman Michael Turner today presented Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner with an additional 30 questions examining the Treasury Department’s involvement in the decision to cut Delphi salaried retirees’ pension plans. share: f t Congressman Michael Turner today presented Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner with an additional 30 questions examining the Treasury Department’s involvement in the decision to cut Delphi salaried retirees’ pension plans. Congressman Turner handed Secretary Geithner the additional questions prior to this morning’s House Oversight and Government Reform Committee. Last week, Congressman Turner sent three questions to Secretary Geithner questioning the Treasury Department’s decision to allow a cut in Delphi salaried retirees’ pension benefits in advance of the secretary’s testimony to the panel of lawmakers. According to a unanimous consent agreement adopted by the committee, Secretary Geithner will have seven days after the committee has dispatched all committee members’ questions, to respond to Congressman Turner’s inquiry. Furthermore, Congressman Turner’s questions will be submitted into the Oversight and Government Reform Committee hearing record. “Delphi’s salaried retirees demand answers as to Treasury's role in cutting in their promised pension benefits,” said Turner, a member of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee. “These men and women deserve to know why the benefits they were promised have been slashed. Secretary Geithner must go on record and answer for his department’s decision.” Below are the additional 30 questions Congressman Turner presented to Secretary Geithner: 1. The administrative record produced by the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (“PBGC”) indicates that PBGC staff discussed the Delphi pension plans with officials from the Treasury Department and the Auto Task Force before the plan was finalized to cut the pension plans. At what date did the Treasury Department know about the cuts to the Delphi pension plans? 2. In what manner was the Treasury informed about the cuts to the Delphi Salaried Retiree pension plans? 3. Does the Treasury Department acknowledge that they knew about the Delphi Salaried Retiree pension cuts prior to final administrative action from PBGC to implement any cuts to those pensions? 4. With what frequency did these discussions occur, and at what level? 5. Did the Treasury Department initiate the discussions with the PBGC regarding the Delphi Salaried Pension plans? 6. Is the Treasury Department consulted in PBGC pension fund plan settlement negotiations? 7. Did the Treasury Department authorize, approve, or consent to the PBGC terminating the Delphi Salaried workers pension plans? 8. Does the Treasury Department deny it had the authority to disapprove of the cuts to the Delphi Salaried Retiree pension plans? 9. What authority does the Department of the Treasury have to prevent the cuts to the Delphi Salaried Retiree pension plans? 10. In the discourse between the Treasury, the PBGC and any other parties, what role did the Treasury Department play in the decision to terminate the pension plan of the Delphi Salaried workers? 11. What was the position of the Treasury Department in any of those discussions and the reasoning behind any decision to force only the Delphi Salaried workers to undergo substantial cuts in their pensions? 12. Recently, it was decided that certain hourly retirees and other union workers whose pensions were cut by the PBGC would have those pensions “topped-up” by the new GM. What role did the Treasury Department have in that decision? 13. How much is the “topping-up” costing New GM? 14. The Secretary of the Treasury sits as one of three board members of the PBGC. Did the Secretary of the Treasury take any action to prevent the cuts to the Delphi Salaried Retiree pension plans? 15. The Secretary of the Treasury sits as one of three board members of the PBGC. Did the Secretary affirmatively consent and/or approve of cuts to the Delphi Salaried Retiree pension plans? 16. The Secretary of the Treasury sits as one of three board members of the PBGC. Why did the Secretary not exercise any authority to prevent the cuts to the Delphi Salaried Retiree pension plans? 17. Did the PBGC vote on the cuts to these plans, and what was the Treasury Secretary’s vote? 18. The Secretary of the Treasury sits as one of three PBGC board members. What does the Secretary see as his responsibilities to the PBGC as a board member? 19. Please describe the actual conflicts and potential conflicts between the Secretary’s duties as a PBGC board member and the Treasury Department’s duties as the majority owner of New GM? 20. How does the Secretary prevent conflicts between those two roles? 21. After the Treasury Department’s increased involvement in General Motor’s operations, General Motors seemed to reverse its position with respect to assuming the obligations of Delphi’s pension plan for salaried workers. Please describe the role of the Treasury Department in that decision? 22. Please provide and describe any communications between the Treasury Department and General Motors with respect to General Motors’ position of assuming the obligations of Delphi’s pension plan for salaried workers. 23. By the time the PBGC initiated termination proceedings against Delphi’s pension plans, the PBGC held approximately $200 million in liens against Delphi foreign assets, and estimated that there were approximately $2.4 billion in Delphi foreign assets that the PBGC could potentially assert liens against. The PBGC ultimately released these liens as part of settlement agreements with New GM and Delphi, in exchange for payments by New GM which did not include Delphi Salaried Retirees pension plans. What role did the Treasury Department play in approving and/or crafting this settlement? 24. When did the Treasury Department become aware that the PBGC believed that there were $2.4 billion in foreign Delphi assets upon which the PBGC could assert liens? 25. Had the PBGC refused to remove the liens, would the Treasury Department have been willing to permit New GM to assume sponsorship of the Salaried pension plan? 26. Did the Treasury Department (or the Auto Task Force) take part in negotiations with the PBGC in an attempt to have the PBGC release its liens against Delphi Assets? And in what manner? 27. When the Treasury Department communicated with the PBGC regarding the negotiation of a settlement agreement and the release of the PBGC’s liens, did the Treasury Department take any measures to ensure that the PBGC would not give undue weight to the negotiation position of GM and/or the Treasury Department due to political considerations? 28. Salaried Delphi retirees have made requests under the Freedom of Information Act to the Treasury Department and the Auto Task Force, respectively, regarding their involvement in the termination of the Salaried pension plan. These requests have so far been ignored. Can you explain why the Treasury Department and Auto Task Force have refused to comply with these requests? 29. Members of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee, as well as other House Members have requested documentation related to the Treasury Department’s knowledge and role in the cuts to the Delphi Salaried Retiree pension plans. These requests have so far been ignored. Please explain the Department’s reasoning behind ignoring Congressional requests for information, and please describe when the Department will provide the requested information to the Members of Congress. 30. The United Auto Workers has recently stated that Delphi Salaried Retirees should be treated with “fairness and equity”. Additionally, the UAW stated in a letter dated January 15, 2010 that it supports providing the same "top-ups" to the Salaried workers as a matter of "fairness and equity" that were provided to the other Delphi workers. Does the Administration agree?
01.26.2010	Congressman Mike Turner today announced he has submitted questions to Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner investigating the Treasury Department’s involvement in the decision to cut Delphi salaried retirees’ pension plans. share: f t Congressman Mike Turner today announced he has submitted questions to Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner investigating the Treasury Department’s involvement in the decision to cut Delphi salaried retirees’ pension plans. Congressman Turner submitted the questions in advance of Secretary Geithner’s scheduled testimony on Wednesday, January 27 before the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee. “Secretary Geithner owes an explanation to Delphi’s salaried retirees as to the Treasury's decision to permit a cut in their promised pension benefits,” said Turner, a member of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee. “These men and women were promised benefits as part of their loyalty and hard work during their careers at Delphi. They deserve to know why this promise was broken and the factors leading to the Treasury Department’s decision. Secretary Geithner should explain his department’s reasoning.” Below are the questions Congressman Turner submitted: 1. Since the beginning of 2009, the Obama Administration has exercised an unprecedented amount of control over the American automotive industry. Some believe this control has resulted the picking of winners and losers among those retirees who have been impacted by auto bankruptcies. What role did the Treasury Department play in the decision to terminate the pension plan of the Delphi Salaried workers? Did the Treasury Department participate in discussions with the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation about the termination of the Delphi Salaried workers pension plan? If so, what was the position of the Treasury Department in those discussions and the reasoning behind any decision to force only the Delphi Salaried workers to undergo substantial cuts in their pensions? 2. Currently, the Federal Government owns 60% of General Motors. During the Government’s majority ownership of GM, decisions have been made which have favorably impacted some groups, while detrimentally impacting others. Recently, it was decided that hourly retirees and other union workers whose pensions were cut by the PBGC would have those pensions “topped-up” by the new GM. What role did the Treasury Department have in that decision? ??? 3. The United Auto Workers has recently stated that Delphi Salaried Retirees should be treated with “fairness and equity”. Additionally, the UAW stated in a letter dated January 15, 2010, that it supports providing the same "top-ups" to the Salaried workers as a matter of "fairness and equity" that were provided to the other Delphi workers. Does the Administration agree?
01.19.2010	“DHL’s decision to donate the Wilmington Air Park is tremendous news for families and residents of Clinton County and Southwest Ohio. The community and local officials worked diligently with DHL to make this donation possible. I believe the air park can be a key component of the region’s economic recovery. share: f t Congressman Mike Turner today issued the following statement in response to DHL’s announcement they will transfer ownership of the Wilmington Air Park and donate the facility to the Clinton County Port Authority: “DHL’s decision to donate the Wilmington Air Park is tremendous news for families and residents of Clinton County and Southwest Ohio. The community and local officials worked diligently with DHL to make this donation possible. I believe the air park can be a key component of the region’s economic recovery. “I applaud Board Chairman John Limbert of the Clinton County Port Authority for his tireless effort in negotiating the donation from DHL and Wilmington Mayor David Raizk, and the members of the Economic Task Force for their hard work and commitment to ensure the Wilmington Air Park remains in local control .”
01.14.2010	From the US State Department on Haiti: For missing U.S. citizen family members, call 1-888-407-4747. For more information you can visit the State Department website at http://www.state.gov/p/wha/ci/ha/index.htm share: f t From the US State Department U.S. Citizen Inquiries: The U.S. Embassy in Port Au Prince has set up a task force at the Embassy which is taking calls as conditions permit. The Embassy is working to identify U.S. citizens in Haiti who need urgent assistance and to identify sources of emergency help. U.S. citizens are urged to contact the Embassy via email to request assistance. U.S. citizens in Haiti can also call the Embassy’s Consular Task Force at 509-2229-8942, 509-2229-8089, 509-2229-8322, or 509-2229-8672. The State Department has also created a task force to monitor the emergency. People in the U.S. or Canada with information or inquiries about U.S. citizens in Haiti may reach the Haiti Task Force at 888-407-4747 or email. Outside of the U.S. and Canada, call 202-501-4444. For further information and updates, please see the State Department’s Consular Affairs website. Haitian Citizens in the U.S.: Haitian citizens in the U.S. should call the Haitian Embassy in Washington, D.C., 202-332-4090, or the Haitian Consulate in New York City, 305-859-2003. To find information about how you can help, also visit: http://www.usaid.gov/ http://www.redcross.org/ http://www.whitehouse.gov/ The USAID Fact Sheet about the earthquake can be found at: http://www.usaid.gov/locations/latin_america_caribbean/country/haiti/eq/documents/01.13.10-USAID-DCHAHaitiEarthquakeFactSheet01.pdf The USAID information on how you can help can be found at: http://www.usaid.gov/our_work/humanitarian_assistance/disaster_assistance/help/index.html Travel Alert: United States Department of State Bureau of Consular Affairs Washington, DC 20520 HAITI January 13, 2010 The Department of State alerts U.S. citizens to the situation in Haiti and urges them to avoid travel to Haiti in the aftermath of a powerful earthquake that struck Haiti on January 12. An earthquake measuring 7.0 on the Richter scale struck near Port Au Prince, followed by multiple aftershocks. The U.S. Embassy is working to ascertain the extent of the damage and check on the status of U.S. citizens around the island. This Travel Alert expires on March 13, 2010. There are reports of extensive damage, and communications remain extremely difficult. Additional aftershocks remain a possibility. A Tsunami Watch for Haiti and neighboring islands issued by the Pacific Tsunami Alert Center has expired. U.S. citizens in Haiti should remain in shelter. If exposed when an aftershock hits, take steps to avoid falling debris by getting to as open a space as possible, away from walls, windows, buildings and other structures. If indoors, take shelter under a heavy table or desk, or in a doorway. Avoid damaged buildings, and obey all instructions from local authorities. Do not use matches, lighters, candles or other flame in case of disrupted gas lines. Avoid downed power lines. If possible, U.S. citizens in Haiti should contact friends and relatives outside of Haiti to inform them of their welfare. The U.S. Embassy in Port Au Prince has set up a task force at the Embassy which is taking calls as conditions permit. The Embassy is working to identify U.S. citizens in Haiti who need urgent assistance and to identify sources of emergency help. U.S. citizens are urged to contact the Embassy via email to request assistance. U.S. citizens in Haiti can call the Embassy’s Consular Task Force at 509-2229-8942, 509-2229-8089, 509-2229-8322, or 509-2229-8672. The State Department has also created a task force to monitor the emergency. People in the U.S. or Canada with information or inquiries about U.S. citizens in Haiti may reach the Haiti Task Force at 888-407-4747. Outside of the U.S. and Canada, call 202-501-4444. For further information and updates, please see the State Department’s Consular Affairs website.
12.17.2009	Congressman Michael R. Turner today announced that $10,200,000 in appropriations funding for Dayton-area defense projects and Wright-Patterson Air Force Base (WPAFB) are included in the Fiscal Year 2010 Department of Defense Appropriations Act. share: f t Congressman Michael R. Turner today announced that $10,200,000 in appropriations funding for Dayton-area defense projects and Wright-Patterson Air Force Base (WPAFB) are included in the Fiscal Year 2010 Department of Defense Appropriations Act. The bill, H.R. 3326, passed the House of Representatives Wednesday by a 395 to 34 vote. “These projects are essential to Wright-Patterson’s mission in defending our homeland and supporting our men and women in uniform. This funding will help encourage economic growth and job creation across Dayton,” said Rep. Turner, a senior member of the House Armed Services Committee. Below is a list of local projects included in the FY 2010 Defense Appropriations bill: 1. ADVANCED TECHNICAL INTELLIGENCE CENTER (ATIC) - $5,200,000 Advanced Technical Intelligence Center (ATIC) is an industry-focused research, education and training facility in the Dayton region established to increase the number of expert staff in the field of technical intelligence analysis. ATIC is a leader in training future intelligence and radar analysts who operate Air Force and military radar equipment. 2. INTEGRATED ELECTRICAL STARTER GENERATOR (IESG) - $1,600,000 This project funding will complete the process of designing and developing an advanced electrical starter/generator system for the benefit of the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter, and risk-reduction on the emerging Long Range Strike/Next Generation Bomber program. 3. PRODUCTION OF NANOCOMPOSITES FOR AEROSPACE APPLICATIONS- $1,600,000 This project will transition nano-materials technology into Air Force applications. This technology provides for rapid and immediate improvements in performance and cost reductions for military machines that experience degradation in harsh Middle East environments. 4. OPEN SOURCE RESEARCH CENTERS - $1,000,000 This funding will establish the Space Open Source Research Centers and create new jobs in Ohio’s Third Congressional District. The center’s primary focus will provide relief for federal and state government analysts currently over-burdened with dual research requirements on classified and open source information. This program will enhance the ability of our intelligence community to collect the necessary information vital to our national security while expanding job training and employment for the Dayton community. This project will support federal and military intelligence agencies, including the National Air and Space Intelligence Center (NASIC) at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base (WPAFB); U.S. Department of Homeland Security, Ohio Homeland Security Fusion Centers, and local security efforts in the collection and execution of valuable, time-sensitive data. 5. TACFAB - $800,000 The TacFab system (Tactical Metal Fabrication) will containerize a portable casting facility and deploy it for test and evaluation. Additionally, new types of metals beyond those currently supported by the RMS can be deployed rapidly. There will be faster turn-around for parts currently manufactured by the RMS from existing metals; and there will be significantly less wasted metal and energy by the RMS. This system will have dual-use application, specifically within the nation’s energy sector, municipalities, and Homeland Security, both for emergency and post-disaster response. H.R. 3326, the FY 2010 Department of Defense Appropriations Act, now must pass the Senate before it goes to the President for his signature.
12.16.2009	U.S. Representative Mike Turner today called for the Obama Administration to present a detailed plan to Congress on the cost to modify the Thomson Correctional Center in Thomson, Illinois. share: f t U.S. Representative Mike Turner today called for the Obama Administration to present a detailed plan to Congress on the cost to modify the Thomson Correctional Center in Thomson, Illinois. “While our nation’s unemployment hovers at 10 percent and the conflict in Afghanistan continues to escalate, the administration will spend more than half a billion dollars transforming the Illinois facility into GITMO North, all while making our nation less safe,” Rep. Turner said, a senior member of the House Armed Services Committee. During a briefing this morning, officials from the Departments of Defense and Justice estimated the cost to modify the Illinois prison into a detention facility exceeding “supermax standards” will total $450 million. This includes $150 million to acquire the prison and $300 million for facility modification. The annual operating costs for GITMO North were projected between $70 and $80 million. “The administration needs to come before Congress and present a comprehensive operation plan for the Thomson facility and explain this $500 million cost before bringing these terror suspects on American soil,” Rep. Turner added.
12.15.2009	Congressman Mike Turner, Co-Chair of The Revitalizing Older Cities Congressional Task Force and The Congressional Urban Caucus, encourages community and business leaders to participate in an informational webinar about opportunities for financing renewable energy projects to help rebuild the local economy and encourage brownfield reuse through renewable energy. share: f t Congressman Mike Turner, Co-Chair of The Revitalizing Older Cities Congressional Task Force and The Congressional Urban Caucus, encourages community and business leaders to participate in an informational webinar on Wednesday, December 16, 2009 beginning at 3:00 p.m. about opportunities for financing renewable energy projects to help rebuild the local economy and encourage brownfield reuse through renewable energy. During the hour-long informational webinar, Thomas Cochran and Steven Klein, program advisors from the U.S. Department of Energy, will provide a general overview of the Loan Guarantee Program and examine the process for submitting eligible alternative energy and manufacturing projects, the review and evaluation process, and examples of appropriate ventures that qualify for financing. Those who should participate in the webinar include: municipal officials, community development organizers, economic development agencies, foundation executives, brownfield developers, renewable energy stakeholders, and legal and financial professionals. Interested participants must register in advance at: https://www1.gotomeeting.com/register/145688793. WHO: The Northeast-Midwest InstituteThomas Cochran, U.S. Department of Energy Steven Klein, U.S. Department of Energy WHAT: Informational Webinar on Federal Opportunities for Financing Renewable Energy Projects WHEN: Wednesday, December 16, 2009, 3:00 p.m. – 4:00 p.m.
12.03.2009	U.S. Representative Mike Turner this morning testified before the House Education and Labor Subcommittee on Health, Employment, Labor and Pensions hearing investigating the management of former Delphi Corporation employees’ pension plans. share: f t U.S. Representative Mike Turner this morning testified before the House Education and Labor Subcommittee on Health, Employment, Labor and Pensions hearing investigating the management of former Delphi Corporation employees’ pension plans. Capitol Hill lawmakers heard statements from several Members of Congress, including Rep. Turner, and former Delphi employees on how the impact of the automotive parts manufacturer bankruptcy has affected retirees’ pensions. Approximately 1,000 salaried Delphi retirees from the Dayton region have been impacted as a result of Delphi’s bankruptcy. Rep. Turner shared with the congressional panel the impact of Delphi’s bankruptcy to the Dayton region. “The effect of these plant closures has been felt throughout the Dayton region as many of our family members, neighbors, and friends were Delphi employees. The closure of these facilities also has an impact beyond individual job loss. Whole neighborhoods have been affected by Delphi’s bankruptcy through increased foreclosures, and community services have been affected because of an eroded tax base,” Turner said at this morning’s hearing. In July, the U.S. Bankruptcy Court granted authority to the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (PBGC) to assume responsibility for the pension plans of thousands of Delphi Corporation salaried retirees. As a result, many employees faced as much as a 70 percent reduction in pension benefits. “All of these retirees, regardless of labor affiliation or not, worked alongside each other during their careers. They should not be treated differently in their retirement,” Rep. Turner said. “Congress and President Obama’s Administration owe it to these hard working men and women to pursue aggressive oversight in this matter, and to work toward a solution. Today’s hearing is the first step to finding the answers and assisting these retirees.” Tom Rose, a leader of the Dayton chapter of the Delphi Salaried Retirees Association (DSRA), drove to Capitol Hill to attend this morning’s hearing. “It’s disheartening Delphi and General Motors has backed away from the deferred compensation promised to their former employees,” said Rose, a former GM/Delphi salaried employee with nearly 40 years of service. “This morning’s congressional hearing is the beginning of seeking fair and equitable treatment of our pension benefits. We will continue to work with Congressman Turner and other officials as we seek answers.”
12.03.2009	U.S. Representative Mike Turner today announced the House of Representatives approved H.R. 1242, legislation to amend the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 to provide for additional monitoring and accountability of the Troubled Assets Relief Program. H.R. 1242 passed the House Wednesday evening by a 421 to 0 vote. share: f t U.S. Representative Mike Turner today announced the House of Representatives approved H.R. 1242, legislation to amend the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 to provide for additional monitoring and accountability of the Troubled Assets Relief Program. H.R. 1242 passed the House Wednesday evening by a 421 to 0 vote. H.R. 1242 calls for increased transparency and accountability monitoring and accountability of the Troubled Assets Relief Program (TARP). The bill addresses many of the concerns Americans have raised regarding how taxpayer dollars have been used to bailout banks and other financial service corporations. The bipartisan legislation calls for increased transparency from financial institutions receiving TARP funds. H.R. 1242 requires enhanced reporting where the bailed-out banks and other entities are lending TARP funding and the value of all the assets the Treasury Department has accumulated as a result of TARP. “The lack of transparency and monitoring the use of taxpayer dollars to bailout Wall Street was one of my objections in voting against the Troubled Assets Relief Program. The Administration has yet to answer many of the concerns raised by the American people on the use of TARP funds,” said Rep. Turner, an original co-sponsor of H.R. 1242. “During this troubling economic period, the federal government must take the necessary steps to ensure there is no fraud or misuse of TARP funds. This bill further empowers Americans with greater access to monitor Washington’s use of their tax dollars.”
11.25.2009	House Minority Leader John Boehner (Ohio-8) and Congressman Michael R. Turner (Ohio-3) today commended the House Committee on Education and Labor for scheduling a congressional hearing to investigate the management of former Delphi Corporation employees’ pension obligations. share: f t House Minority Leader John Boehner (Ohio-8) and Congressman Michael R.Turner (Ohio-3) today commended the House Committee on Education andLabor for scheduling a congressional hearing to investigate themanagement of former Delphi Corporation employees’ pension obligations.The House Committee on Education and Labor hearing “Examining theDelphi Bankruptcy’s Impact on Workers and Retirees” will take place onWednesday, December 2, 2009. Former Delphi employees are among thoseexpected to testify at the Capitol Hill hearing. In July, the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (PBGC) announced theywould assume responsibility for the pension plans of thousands of localDelphi Corporation retirees. As a result, many employees whose planswere not entirely eliminated faced as much as a 70 percent reduction inpension benefits. Reps. Turner and Boehner joined several Members ofCongress calling for a congressional investigation.“It is important Congress exercise its oversight authority andinvestigate this matter impacting thousands of former workers, many ofwhom have spent their entire career committed to Delphi,” Rep. Turnersaid. “Delphi’s retired workforce deserve answers about the benefitspromised to them and their families. I am hopeful this hearing willexamine Delphi’s treatment of their former employees.” “For years, Delphi’s dedicated hourly and salaried retirees worked asGeneral Motors employees, yet now they are being treated sodifferently,” Congressman Boehner said. “I’m pleased that the HouseCommittee on Education and Labor has decided to examine this disparatetreatment, and I will continue to advocate for the thousands ofretirees and their families who are depending on these promised pensionbenefits for their financial security.” “As a result of the expedited General Motors bankruptcy, Delphisalaried retirees were singled out for unique sacrifices. We asked fora congressional hearing seeking fair and equitable treatment of ourpension benefits. We are deeply appreciative of Congressmen Boehner andTurner for their efforts to obtain Congressional hearings,” said TomRose, a Dayton leader for the Delphi Salaried Retirees Association(DSRA) and a former GM/Delphi salaried employee with 39 years ofservice.
11.08.2009	U.S. Representative Mike Turner issued the following statement in response to the House of Representatives passage of Speaker Pelosi’s health care bill: share: f t U.S. Representative Mike Turner issued the following statement in response to the House of Representatives passage of Speaker Pelosi’s health care bill:“It is unfortunate the Majority in Congress, led by Speaker Pelosi, has decided to support a government takeover of our nation’s health care system. They have decided to ignore the wishes of the American people and push forward with their vision of reform which will only further impair our economic recovery.“Ohioans continue to ask why Congress feels compelled to implement an absolute health care overhaul when common sense measures such as prohibiting insurance companies from denying coverage based on pre-existing conditions, allowing small businesses to pool coverage, offering the ability to deduct the full cost of their health insurance premiums, and tort reform, should first be considered. I remain committed to supporting Ohioans call for common sense health care reforms.”
11.07.2009	U.S. Representative Mike Turner today applauded Secretary of Defense Robert Gates’ decision to reverse his elimination of Missile Field No. 2 at Fort Greely in Alaska. share: f t U.S. Representative Mike Turner today applauded Secretary of Defense Robert Gates’ decision to reverse his elimination of Missile Field No. 2 at Fort Greely in Alaska. Earlier this year, the Defense Department announced in its 2010 fiscal year budget request, Secretary Gates’ decision to eliminate one-third of the number of Ground-based Midcourse Defense (GMD) interceptors from 44 to 30 and to terminate construction of a partially complete missile field at Fort Greely. The Department of Defense announced Secretary Gates’ reversal and decision to proceed on Friday, November 6. “I commend Secretary Gates for understanding the necessity of the Fort Greely site,” said Turner, Ranking Member of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Strategic Forces. “Completing the Fort Greely missile field will provide the defense shield necessary to guard against an attack from any rouge governments such as North Korea or Iran.” Secretary Gates’ decision follows numerous efforts by Rep. Turner and other Republican members of the House Armed Services Committee including Ranking Member Howard “Buck” McKeon (R-Calif.-36) emphasizing the importance of the Fort Greely site as the only missile defense system capable of protecting the United States from long-range ballistic missile threats.In June, Rep. Turner offered an amendment to the 2010 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) to restore funding missile defense systems. His amendment would have required the completion of Fort Greely’s Missile Field No. 2, but was defeated along party lines. In addition, Rep. Turner supported efforts to shore up missile defense funding as the House debated passage of the NDAA.Secretary Gates' reversal of his original decision means Fort Greely will now house 14 completed silos in Missile Field No. 2; 6 of those 14 silos will house operational interceptors and the remaining 8 silos provide the flexibility to add interceptors to increase the defense of the United States. “I look forward to working with Secretary Gates, Pentagon officials, and the White House, to ensure our nation's missile defense programs are fully funded to safeguard America’s borders, our forward-deployed forces, and our allies against the full-range of ballistic missile threats.”
11.05.2009	U.S. Representative Mike Turner today announced the House of Representatives approved H.R. 3548, the Unemployment Compensation Extension Act of 2009. H.R. 3548 overwhelmingly passed the House by a 403 to 12 vote. The bill now goes to the President for his signature. share: f t U.S. Representative Mike Turner today announced the House of Representatives approved H.R. 3548, the Unemployment Compensation Extension Act of 2009. H.R. 3548 overwhelmingly passed the House by a 403 to 12 vote. The bill now goes to the President for his signature. The bill will extend unemployment benefits by six weeks up to a maximum 20 weeks, and provides tax relief for struggling businesses. It also extends for an additional five months the $8,000 tax credit for first-time homebuyers for homes under contract by April 30, 2010. The credit was set to expire at the end of this month. In addition, under the new legislation, homeowners who have lived in their current residences for at least five years may be eligible for a $6,500 tax credit toward the purchase of a new home. The credit would be available only for the purchase of principal residences priced at $800,000 or less. The measure increases the income ceiling to $125,000 for individuals and $225,000 for married couples, up from $75,000 and $150,000, respectively. “As unemployment across southwest Ohio continues to rise, I believe Congress took the necessary steps today to help address the escalating jobless rate. This extension of benefits will help Ohio families weather these tough economic times,” said Rep. Turner. “The first-time homebuyer tax credit has encouraged many Ohioans to purchase their first home. Now the tax credit goes even further to assist additional homeowners.”
10.29.2009	U.S. Representative Mike Turner today issued the following statement responding to the health care reform bill released today: share: f t U.S. Representative Mike Turner today issued the following statement responding to the health care reform bill released today: “As I review the nearly 2,000 page health care bill released today by Speaker Nancy Pelosi, my concerns remain the same. This legislation will significantly affect nearly every American family, small businesses, and millions of seniors, especially in Ohio, who are certain to be impacted by the $500 billion in cuts to Medicare, including $156 billion in Medicare Advantage cuts. “I agree that the current system must be reformed. However, if Speaker Pelosi is serious about health care reform, she should start with simple, mutually agreeable principles rather than trying to force through sweeping, costly legislation that will likely result in negative consequences for all Americans.”
10.20.2009	Mike Turner announced he has successfully included provisions to strengthen the response and investigation of alleged sexual assault cases involving members of the armed services in the fiscal year 2010 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) Conference Report. share: f t Mike Turner announced he has successfully included provisions to strengthen the response and investigation of alleged sexual assault cases involving members of the armed services in the fiscal year 2010 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) Conference Report. These provisions are nearly identical to those included in H.Con.Res. 28, authored by Reps. Turner and Jane Harman (D-Calif.-36). The FY 2010 NDAA conference report, H.R. 2647, passed the House of Representatives Thursday, October 8th by a 281 to 146 vote. The new provisions added to the FY 2010 NDAA would increase protections that Reps. Turner and Harman already included in the FY 2009 NDAA, adding greater emphasis to sexual assault prevention measures as well as investigation and response to alleged incidents. “I worked with Rep. Harman to include provisions in the 2010 NDAA to increase accountability of Department of Defense and military personnel services to better monitor, report and investigate sexual assault allegations and to implement improved prevention programs,” said Rep. Turner, a senior member of the House Armed Services Committee. “Our military personnel deserve increased protections on and off the battlefield. These new provisions are designed to ensure the safety and security of our men and women in uniform.” The provisions Rep. Turner added to the NDAA would require: A GAO study of each military service’s ability to investigate and adjudicate sexual assault allegations. The Department of Defense would create a sexual assault prevention program and report to Congress on its status including an action plan for reducing sexual assaults and a timeline for implementation; a mechanism for outcome measurement; and, training courses for commanders and senior enlisted personnel. The Department of Defense must report on the availability of sexual assault forensic exams in combat zones; any barriers that exist; and, legislative actions needed to improve availability of forensic exams. The Department of Defense will report annually to Congress whether a Military Protective Order (MPO) was issued in a sexual assault in the armed services. The Secretary of Defense will ensure that when a military protective order is issued, the service member requesting the MPO is informed of their right to request a transfer. Last year, Rep. Turner successfully added language to the Defense Authorization bill that would make Military Protective Orders (MPO) “standing orders” and notify civilian authorities when an MPO is issued and affects off-base personnel. After considerable review, Members of Congress agreed that the Military Protective Orders which were in use did not provide sufficient protection to uniformed personnel.
10.08.2009	U.S. Representative Michael R. Turner (Ohio-3) announced passage of H.R. 2647, the FY2010 National Defense Authorization Act Conference Report, which includes over $102 million in mission funding Rep. Turner requested for Dayton’s Wright-Patterson Air Force Base. share: f t U.S. Representative Michael R. Turner (Ohio-3) announced passage of H.R. 2647, the FY2010 National Defense Authorization Act Conference Report, which includes over $102 million in mission funding Rep. Turner requested for Dayton’s Wright-Patterson Air Force Base. “The conference report for the 2010 National Defense Authorization Act continues America’s strong commitment to provide our military personnel with the training, equipment, and resources they need to safely complete their missions,” said Rep. Turner, a senior member of the House Armed Services Committee. “In addition to providing funding for our military in Iraq and Afghanistan, as well as needed weapon system investments, this defense bill conference report also continues the nation’s ongoing investment in the critical missions at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base.” The FY 2010 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) authorizes $102,450,000 in project funding for Wright-Patterson AFB. This amount includes $43.85 million in defense related requests and $58.6 million for military construction projects including: 1. INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY COMPLEX (ITC) - $27,000,000 This facility at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base will provide model time critical scenarios such as Middle East battlefield simulations. This site will help with the development of tactics, techniques and procedures through the simulation of offensive and defensive cyberspace missions in a controlled environment. 2. CONVERSION FOR ADVANCED POWER RESEARCH LAB - $21,000,000 This funding will provide for the renovation and construction of a new research laboratory at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base. The facility will house a new power and thermal research lab supporting research, development and the transition of advanced electrical power and thermal technologies for the F-22, Joint Strike Fighter and also future aircraft, spacecraft and directed energy weapon (DEW) systems. This research lab will be housed in Wright-Patterson’s Center for Excellence for Power Technologies. 3. REPLACE WEST RAMP, PHASE 2 - $10,600,000 This project will fund Phase Two of the construction project to replace the west ramp of taxiway pavement, provide taxiway edge lighting and blast deflectors for the ramp. This project will support the 445th Airlift Wing’s C-5 Aircraft which will include expanded runways for the aircraft to taxi and warm up without interfering with the existing navigational aids. 4. ADVANCED TECHNICAL INTELLIGENCE CENTER - $9,000,000 Advanced Technical Intelligence Center (ATIC) is an industry-focused research, education and training facility in the Dayton region established to increase the number of expert staff in the field of technical intelligence analysis. The close proximity of ATIC to the National Air and Space Intelligence Center, the nation’s premier technical exploration center, housed at Wright-Patterson AFB, provides world class scientists and engineers for the Air Force Research Laboratory and the Air Force Institute of Technology. ATIC is a leader in training future intelligence and radar analysts who operate Air Force and military radar equipment. The bill also includes several provisions Rep. Turner fought for to strengthen service members’ protections against sexual assault. This will add greater emphasis to sexual assault prevention as well as enhanced investigation and response to alleged incidents involving members of the armed forces. Rep. Turner worked with Rep. Jane Harman (CA-36) to include provisions calling for increased accountability of the Defense Department and military officials in monitoring, reporting and investigating sexual assaults and to establish programs to implement preventative measures. The passage of the 2010 National Defense Authorization Act Conference Report now heads to the Senate for final approval and then to the President’s desk.
10.07.2009	U.S. Representative Mike Turner today was named as a conferee for H.R. 2647, the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for the 2010 Fiscal Year. This legislation is critical to supporting our nation’s men and women in uniform and the mission of Dayton’s Wright-Patterson Air Force Base. share: f t U.S. Representative Mike Turner today was named as a conferee for H.R. 2647, the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for the 2010 Fiscal Year. This legislation is critical to supporting our nation’s men and women in uniform and the mission of Dayton’s Wright-Patterson Air Force Base. Conferees are senior members from both the House and Senate Armed Services Committees who are charged with defending their respective chambers’ positions on measures when they negotiate differences in the bill. “Serving as a conferee on the FY2010 Defense Authorization Act gives me the opportunity to advocate for defense-related projects essential to the mission of Wright-Patterson Air Force Base,” said Rep. Turner, a senior member of the House Armed Services Committee (HASC). “Wright-Patterson plays a pivotal role in defending our homeland and supporting our men and women in uniform. In addition, these military projects will help to encourage economic growth and create jobs across the Miami Valley region.” “From ensuring that vital military intelligence and technology programs at Wright-Patterson AFB are fully funded, to leading the House Armed Services Committee effort to protect America’s missile defense system from short-sighted cuts, Mike Turner has proven to be a passionate defender of our national security,” said Rep. Howard “Buck” McKeon, Ranking Member of the House Armed Services Committee. “Mike Turner is also a strong advocate for military family quality of life issues. He will bring needed focus to these key priorities through his position on the Defense Authorization Conference Committee.” The FY 2010 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) authorizes $102,450,000 in project funding for Wright-Patterson AFB. This amount includes $43.85 million in defense related requests and $58.6 million for military construction projects. Congressman Turner will work to protect funding for Wright-Patterson projects including: 1. INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY COMPLEX (ITC) - $27,000,000 This facility at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base will provide model time critical scenarios such as Middle East battlefield simulations. This site will help with the development of tactics, techniques and procedures through the simulation of offensive and defensive cyberspace missions in a controlled environment. 2. CONVERSION FOR ADVANCED POWER RESEARCH LAB - $21,000,000 This funding will provide for the renovation and construction of a new research laboratory at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base. The facility will house a new power and thermal research lab supporting research, development and the transition of advanced electrical power and thermal technologies for the F-22, Joint Strike Fighter and also future aircraft, spacecraft and directed energy weapon (DEW) systems. This research lab will be housed in Wright-Patterson’s Center for Excellence for Power Technologies. 3. REPLACE WEST RAMP, PHASE 2 - $10,600,000 This project will fund Phase Two of the construction project to replace the west ramp of taxiway pavement, provide taxiway edge lighting and blast deflectors for the ramp. This project will support the 445th Airlift Wing’s C-5 Aircraft which will include expanded runways for the aircraft to taxi and warm up without interfering with the existing navigational aids. 4. ADVANCED TECHNICAL INTELLIGENCE CENTER - $9,000,000 Advanced Technical Intelligence Center (ATIC) is an industry-focused research, education and training facility in the Dayton region established to increase the number of expert staff in the field of technical intelligence analysis. The close proximity of ATIC to the National Air and Space Intelligence Center, the nation’s premier technical exploration center, housed at Wright-Patterson AFB, provides world class scientists and engineers for the Air Force Research Laboratory and the Air Force Institute of Technology. ATIC is a leader in training future intelligence and radar analysts who operate Air Force and military radar equipment. Rep. Turner will also work to defend provisions in the FY2010 Defense Authorization bill to strengthen service members protections against sexual assault adopted in the 2009 NDAA. This will add greater emphasis to sexual assault prevention as well as enhanced investigation and response to alleged incidents involving members of the armed forces. Reps. Turner and Jane Harman (CA-36) worked to include provisions calling for increased accountability of the Defense Department and military officials in monitoring, reporting and investigating sexual assaults and to establish programs to implement preventative measures.
10.05.2009	U.S. Representative Mike Turner today announced the establishment of a Priority Development Review Committee (PDRC) to review the community earmark process and make recommendations for its enhancement. share: f t U.S. Representative Mike Turner today announced the establishment of a Priority Development Review Committee (PDRC) to review the community earmark process and make recommendations for its enhancement. In April, Rep. Turner informed local leaders of his intent to call for the independent panel to improve the current system for determining which regional projects are selected as federal funding priorities. “The Dayton region is unique in its objective of ensuring that the most pressing local needs are advanced to Congress,” Rep. Turner said. “At present, the Priority Development Advocacy Committee (PDAC) includes regional leaders – both public and private – who work to form a consensus on annual federal funding priorities. As effective as the process has been, it’s important to seek the best possible outcome on behalf of the citizens of the Dayton region.” The PDRC has been empanelled for the purposes of undertaking a community review of the PDAC process, which is managed by the Dayton Development Coalition, to establish federal funding priorities for the region. The members on the independent panel have been selected because of their long-standing service to the Miami Valley region, their familiarity, but not direct involvement with the current PDAC process, and their recognized contributions to the advancement of Dayton region priorities. “The creation of the Priority Development Review Committee will facilitate a comprehensive review of the PDAC process to make it even more responsive, and, ultimately, more effective in advocating regional priorities,” Rep. Turner added. Panel members include Chairwoman Marni Flagel, former president of CountyCorp; Vice Chairman William Gillispie, retired Dayton deputy city manager; Oakwood Mayor Judy Cook; Larry Janning, a former executive of the Science Applications International Corporation; Mary Sue Kessler, retired executive, National City Bank; Bill Schneider, Miller Valentine Group; and Don Vermillion, a former Montgomery County administrator.
10.01.2009	U.S. Representative Michael R. Turner sent a letter to Secretary of Defense Robert Gates Wednesday afternoon calling on the Pentagon to support a federal solution that safeguards military parents’ custody rights just as the military protects a service member from penalties associated with utility and auto lease contracts. share: f t U.S. Representative Michael R. Turner sent a letter to Secretary of Defense Robert Gates Wednesday afternoon calling on the Pentagon to support a federal solution that safeguards military parents’ custody rights just as the military protects a service member from penalties associated with utility and auto lease contracts. Currently, military parents have no guarantee that their child custody agreements will be preserved while they are called away on deployment. In some states, military parents have lost custody of their children due to their military service or even the possibility of their deployment. For the last three years, Rep. Turner has offered an amendment to the annual National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) providing military parents basic child custody protection while on active duty, yet each time the amendment has been opposed by the Pentagon. Rep. Turner continues to call on the Defense Department to drop its long-standing opposition to granting federal child custody protections to deployed military personnel. “What is particularly troubling is that the DoD has misplaced priorities with regard to federal protections for service members. It has no objection to the FY10 NDAA House language allowing service members to cancel their cell phone contracts without penalty after orders of deployment, yet it opposes protecting the child custody rights of these same service members. Surely custody rights are at least equally important,” Rep. Turner said. In his opposition to Rep. Turner’s child custody protections, Secretary Gates expressed the desire to allow states to individually pass their own custody protections. According to the Defense Department, approximately 28 states currently afford some level of custody protections for service members, but their approaches vary widely. Still other states offer no such protections for military personnel at all. Such disparities underscore precisely why it is necessary to enact a baseline of federal protections for service members. Rep. Turner’s child custody protection amendment was included in the House-passed FY10 NDAA. The Senate companion bill does not contain custody protection language. Both bills are now in conference.
09.18.2009	U.S. Representative Michael R. Turner, Ranking Member on the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Strategic Forces, charged the Obama administration’s proposed new missile defense program with potentially leaving the United States vulnerable to an Iranian ICBM attack for a period of five years. share: f t U.S. Representative Michael R. Turner, Ranking Member on the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Strategic Forces, charged the Obama administration’s proposed new missile defense program with potentially leaving the United States vulnerable to an Iranian ICBM attack for a period of five years. In response to the president’s announced scrapping of a proposed European-based missile defense system in favor of a scaled back program, Turner pointed to U.S. intelligence which reveals a five-year gap between when Iran is expected to achieve long range missile capability in 2015 and the administration’s stated plan of deploying its new missile defense system by 2020. This decision comes on the heels of a decision earlier this year by the administration to curtail the number of missile defense interceptors in Alaska, which provide protection of the U.S. homeland, by one-third. “It is completely unacceptable that the administration’s just-announced ‘phased, adaptive’ approach to missile defense leaves the United States vulnerable to ICBM attack from Iran for five years,” said Congressman Turner. The administration states in Phase Four of its new missile defense strategy that it will deploy a system to “better cope” with potential future ICBM threats to the United States by 2020. However, unclassified intelligence reports state “With sufficient foreign assistance, Iran could develop and test an ICBM capable of reaching the United States by 2015.” After Iran’s successful space launch in February 2009, then-director of the Defense Intelligence Agency, General Michael Maples, stated that “Iran’s February 2, 2009, launch of the Safir space launch vehicle shows progress in mastering technology needed to produce ICBMs.” Later in March 2009, General Craddock, then Commander of U.S. European Command, testified before the House Armed Services Committee, “By 2015 Iran may also deploy an Intercontinental Ballistic Missile (ICBM) capable of reaching all of Europe and parts of the U.S.” Turner’s concerns follow published reports which cite International Atomic Energy Agency experts agreeing that Iran already has the ability to make a nuclear bomb and is likely to “overcome problems” in constructing a missile delivery capability for such a weapon. “It is absolutely irresponsible of the administration to scrap the planned European missile defense program which could have been in place ahead of Iran’s ability to launch ICBMs,” Turner said. “There can be no justification for shirking our responsibility to protect Americans from a radical regime bent on obtaining nuclear weapons technology and the ability to deliver them. I call on the administration to rethink its hasty and unilateral decision to leave the United States vulnerable to Iranian ICBM attack.”
09.17.2009	U.S. Representative Michael R. Turner today sent a letter to Secretary of Defense Robert Gates requesting that a July 2008 report on the cost effectiveness of the planned European missile defense system be declassified. Since the Obama Administration’s decision to cancel the proposed system based on cost effectiveness is contrary to the recommendations of this report, Rep. Turner believes it is essential that the report be declassified for a robust debate on how best to deploy a missile defense system to protect the U.S. and its allies. share: f t U.S. Representative Michael R. Turner today sent a letter to Secretary of Defense Robert Gates requesting that a July 2008 report on the cost effectiveness of the planned European missile defense system be declassified. Since the Obama Administration’s decision to cancel the proposed system based on cost effectiveness is contrary to the recommendations of this report, Rep. Turner believes it is essential that the report be declassified for a robust debate on how best to deploy a missile defense system to protect the U.S. and its allies. Rep. Turner’s letter requested the declassification of the July 2008 report, “Independent Assessment of the Proposed Deployment of Ballistic Missile Defense Systems in Europe,” was prepared by the Institute for Defense Analysis (IDA). The letter was co-signed by House Armed Services Committee Ranking Member Howard “Buck” McKeon (R-Calif.) and House Republican Conference Chairman Mike Pence (R-Ind.). “In light of today’s decision by the Obama Administration to abandon our planned European missile defense system, it is critical that this report be declassified,” said Turner, Ranking Member of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Strategic Forces which has jurisdiction over our nation’s nuclear arsenal and missile defense systems. “I call on Secretary Gates to declassify this report for a vigorous debate on the future of our nation’s missile defense systems.” The Obama Administration announced this morning it plans to scrap the European ballistic missile defense system planned for deployment in Poland and the Czech Republic. Rep. Turner, along with Ranking Member McKeon and other members of the committee have called for the Administration to reconsider this proposal.
09.17.2009	Mike Turner, Ranking Member of the House Armed Services Strategic Forces Subcommittee which has jurisdiction over our nation’s nuclear arsenal and missile defense systems, issued the following statement responding to the Obama Administration’s proposal to shelve the European ballistic missile defense system planned for deployment in Poland and the Czech Republic: share: f t Mike Turner, Ranking Member of the House Armed Services Strategic Forces Subcommittee which has jurisdiction over our nation’s nuclear arsenal and missile defense systems, issued the following statement responding to the Obama Administration’s proposal to shelve the European ballistic missile defense system planned for deployment in Poland and the Czech Republic: “The Obama Administration has placed America and its allies in the position where we could face a nuclear Iran with missiles capable of reaching the United States and no European-based missile defense system to protect our homeland. By taking this unilateral action, the Administration is failing to adequately recognize the threat posed by Iran. Furthermore, the Administration is placing our security interests in the hands of the Russian government in an effort to pressure Iran to halt its nuclear and ballistic missile programs. “If the Administration pursues this course of action, it will result in a loss of confidence by our European allies and embolden Iran just as the Administration plans to sit down to talks with the Iranian government. This will seriously weaken our position in bilateral arms control negotiations with the Russians this year. “The Obama Administration needs to seriously reconsider this course of action.”
09.10.2009	“I think the president missed an important opportunity tonight to answer many questions on the public’s mind. Rather than providing meaningful details, the president has simply presented broad objectives. share: f t U.S. Representative Michael R. Turner last evening issued the following statement in response to President Barack Obama’s health care address before a Joint Session of Congress Wednesday evening:“I think the president missed an important opportunity tonight to answer many questions on the public’s mind. Rather than providing meaningful details, the president has simply presented broad objectives. “So far, all we have to go on are a handful of healthcare reform bills before Congress. The president didn’t rule out the House plan supported by Speaker Pelosi which calls for a public option as well as $500 billion in cuts to Medicare and another $150 billion in cuts to Medicare Advantage to pay for it. “Many Ohioans I’ve talked to want to know why the government needs to implement a complete healthcare overhaul when common sense measures such allowing small businesses to pool coverage, offering the ability to deduct the full cost of their health insurance premiums, and tort reform, should be considered.”
09.02.2009	Congressman Mike Turner today issued the following statement in response to the announcement of a tentative agreement between IUE-CWA and General Motors and Delphi on health care benefits for retirees: share: f t Congressman Mike Turner today issued the following statement in response to the announcement of a tentative agreement between IUE-CWA and General Motors and Delphi on health care benefits for retirees:“As I relayed to General Motors president and CEO Fritz Henderson in July, these are critical benefits that represent promises made by General Motors and Delphi. Although this concession on the part of GM is not sufficient to meet the full needs of these former auto workers, it is important that this settlement be offered. “I join the IUE-CWA leadership in calling on the Administration and the Treasury Department to seek a final agreement that provides IUE-CWA members with the benefits they worked for and were promised.”
08.26.2009	Congressman Michael R. Turner today co-hosted a panel discussion with the Northeast-Midwest Institute examining the impact of the national housing crisis in the Dayton region and communities across the country. Nearly a dozen local and national experts assembled in the Commissioners' Hearing Room at the Montgomery County Administration Building in downtown Dayton to discuss the broad range of issues involved in the housing crisis. share: f t Congressman Michael R. Turner today co-hosted a panel discussion with the Northeast-Midwest Institute examining the impact of the national housing crisis in the Dayton region and communities across the country. Nearly a dozen local and national experts assembled in the Commissioners' Hearing Room at the Montgomery County Administration Building in downtown Dayton to discuss the broad range of issues involved in the housing crisis.Following welcoming remarks from Congressman Turner and the Northeast-Midwest Institute’s Director of Policy Diane DeVaul, the morning’s first panel examined the local effects of the housing crisis on the Miami Valley. Panelist included Beth Deutscher, Executive Director of the Homeownership Center of Greater Dayton, Dayton City Commissioner Dean Lovelace, Jim McCarty, President of the Miami Valley Fair Housing Center, Kiya Patrick, Community and Economic Development Specialist for Montgomery County and Amy Redachi, Executive Director of Rebuilding Together Dayton. “I am excited to have the opportunity to present testimony to Congressman Turner and the Northeast-Midwest Institute,” said Jim McCarthy, President and CEO of the Miami Valley Fair Housing Center, Inc. “I believe that it is through these important dialogues, that better public policy is realized. I appreciate Congressman Turner’s ongoing interest and leadership on the housing challenges we are confronting.”“Over 6,000 foreclosures were reported across Ohio’s Third Congressional District in 2008. This represents a three-fold increase from a decade ago. Each of these foreclosures symbolizes a family, a neighbor, or a friend who have lost their home,” Rep. Turner said. Wednesday morning’s second panel is comprised of federal experts who will discuss Washington’s responses to this crisis. This panel included U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development Cincinnati Field Office Director Jim Cunningham, Sarah McGraw Greenberg, Community Stabilization Manager for NeighborWorks America, David H. Hehman, President and CEO of the Federal Home Loan Bank of Cincinnati and Alan Mallach, Senior Fellow at the Brookings Institution.“The federal government’s approach to the housing crisis needs to be tailored to the different realities facing communities, particularly where recent employment losses have compounded its impact,” said Diane DeVaul, Director of Policy for the Northeast-Midwest Institute. “A one-size-fits-all approach fails those communities hardest hit.” The Northeast-Midwest Institute is a Washington, D.C.-based, nonprofit, nonpartisan research organization dedicated to economic vitality, environmental quality, and regional equity for Northeast and Midwest states. “There’s no question that mortgage foreclosures have played a major role in destabilizing the foundation of our economy,” Rep. Turner said. “The influx of toxic mortgage loans and economic destabilization has led to increasing home foreclosures, home abandonment, and falling housing prices throughout the country. The Dayton area has been particularly negatively impacted by this crisis. It is my hope that this discussion will generate ideas for further federal policies to help address this issue.”Congressman Turner is Co-Chairman of the Revitalizing Older Cities Congressional Task Force, a bipartisan member organization that brings together Members of Congress who have an interest in exchanging legislative ideas and creating policy that will rejuvenate America's historic industrial cities.
07.29.2009	A member of the Kentucky National Guard is meeting with lawmakers on Capitol Hill Wednesday to build support for legislative efforts to protect child custody rights of military service members, Congressman Mike Turner, announced. share: f t A member of the Kentucky National Guard is meeting with lawmakers on Capitol Hill Wednesday to build support for legislative efforts to protect child custody rights of military service members, Congressman Mike Turner, announced. Turner, who authored language to enhance child custody protections for military personnel, invited Lt. Eva Slusher to Washington, DC to speak on behalf of military parents who are disadvantaged by a lack of custody protections under current law.In 2004, Lt. Eva Slusher, of Frankfort, was deployed as a member of the Kentucky National Guard when she lost custody of her daughter, Sara. After a two-year, $25,000 court battle, Lt. Slusher was ultimately successful in regaining custody of her child, but at great cost. Lt. Slusher explained her frustration and that of many military parents in similar circumstances: “Soldiers are protected under the Servicemember’s Civil Relief Act, or so I thought; an employer has to give me my job back after I return from a deployment, but they don’t have to give me my child back.”“Many military parents don’t expect to find themselves having to fight to keep custody of their children while also fighting for their country,” Congressman Turner said. “Unfortunately, the case of Lt. Slusher is typical for many military parents who have answered the call of duty only to learn later that they’ve lost custody rights over their children due to their service to their country,” said Turner, a senior member of the House Armed Services Committee. “This is an unconscionable situation that should never occur, yet a failure in current law allows state courts to rule against military parents based on their deployment.”On four occasions since 2007 the U.S. House has passed provisions Congressman Turner has authored to add custody protections for military parents. Regrettably, the Department of Defense continues to oppose them all. This year, Congressman Turner has included provisions in the 2010 Defense Authorization Act, which passed the U.S. House on June 25, 2009, to enhance military parents’ custody rights. The defense bill is now headed to conference with the U.S. Senate.“No parent, courageous and honorable enough to volunteer to serve in the U.S. military should have their time spent overseas in defense of our nation used against them in child custody disputes. It’s time to finally afford the protectors of our freedom equal protection under the law,” Congressman Turner added.
07.24.2009	An amendment offered by Congressman Mike Turner, to facilitate the construction of veteran preference senior housing on the campus of the Dayton VA Medical Center, has passed the U.S. House of Representatives. share: f t An amendment offered by Congressman Mike Turner, to facilitate the construction of veteran preference senior housing on the campus of the Dayton VA Medical Center, has passed the U.S. House of Representatives by voice vote today.“The need for affordable senior housing in Dayton remains high and, unfortunately, bureaucratic red tape has so far prevented progress in forging an agreement to make this project a reality,” Congressman Turner said.“My amendment brings two well-intentioned federal agencies together to assist the St. Mary Development Corporation to construct much-needed senior housing on the VA campus,” Turner added.Because of its proposed location at the Dayton VA campus, this new housing requires approval from the Veterans’ Administration. Additionally, St. Mary has sought HUD financing to help complete the project. While the VA has given a green light for the new housing project, in the past HUD has asserted that the housing cannot contain a preference for veterans.Congressman Turner’s amendment prohibits HUD funding from blocking veteran preference for housing at the Dayton VA campus.Congressman Turner’s amendment was attached to the Departments of Transportation, Housing and Urban Development and Related Agencies Appropriations Act of 2010 which also passed the House Thursday evening.
07.24.2009	Congressman Mike Turner announced that $1,300,000 in project funding for area transportation, urban and economic development-related priorities passed the U.S. House of Representatives Thursday evening. share: f t Congressman Mike Turner announced that $1,300,000 in project funding for area transportation, urban and economic development-related priorities passed the U.S. House of Representatives Thursday evening by a vote of 256 to 168. The Departments of Transportation, Housing and Urban Development and Related Agencies Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year 2010, H.R. 3288, provides funding for four transportation, urban and economic development-related projects across Ohio’s Third Congressional District.“Community leaders worked with me to identify local transportation and economic development projects to improve and enhance our region for residents and visitors,” Rep. Turner said. “These federal dollars will help encourage local job creation, stimulate economic growth and bring together communities all across Ohio’s Third Congressional District.” Regional priorities included in the House-passed FY 2010 transportation, urban and economic development-related appropriations bill are: 1. GREATER DAYTON REGIONAL TRANSIT AUTHORITY (RTA) - $400,000The Greater Dayton Regional Transit Authority (RTA) requested this funding for upgrades to their bus transit fleet.2. ST. MARY DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION - $400,000The St. Mary Development Corporation requested this funding that will go toward the acquisition and demolition of buildings on Salem Avenue, and blighted residential buildings identified by the Five Oaks Neighborhood Improvement Association for redevelopment. 3. WRIGHT-DUNBAR ECONOMIC REDEVELOPMENT PROJECT - $250,000The Wright-Dunbar Redevelopment Project will provide build-out of historic buildings in this neighborhood to make them tenant-ready for business occupancy. 4. THE MURPHY THEATRE RESTORATION PROJECT - $250,000The Murphy Theatre Community Center board requested this funding to begin restoration of the historic theatre.The FY 2010 Transportation, Housing and Urban Development and Related Agencies Appropriations Act now must be reconciled with the Senate version before it can be sent to the President for his signature.
07.24.2009	Congressman Mike Turner Thursday fought off an attempt by Arizona Congressman Jeff Flake (R-06) to remove his request for funding the Murphy Theatre restoration project. share: f t Congressman Mike Turner Thursday fought off an attempt by Arizona Congressman Jeff Flake (R-06) to remove his request for funding the Murphy Theatre restoration project from H.R. 3288, the Departments of Transportation, Housing and Urban Development and Related Agencies Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year 2010. Rep. Flake’s amendment failed in the House Thursday evening by a 105 to 328 vote.Congressman Turner secured this funding at the request of the Murphy Theatre board members and Wilmington city officials. The funding will go towards restoring the historic theatre including replacing the 50-year old boiler heating system, repairing the theatre roof and performing electrical work. “For over 90 years, the Murphy Theatre has been a cornerstone of the Wilmington community,” Rep. Turner said. “I appreciate the House voting to approve this funding. By working with regional leaders, we were able to identify funding that will go towards the restoration of this community hub.” The Murphy Theatre continues to be a focal point of Wilmington’s downtown historic district for more than 90 years. It serves as a community center, live theatre and arts center for local residents and hosts 35 events in a typical year, attracting more than 6,000 adults and 4,000 children annually.“We are certainly very grateful for Congressman Mike Turner’s continued outstanding support to the Wilmington area,” Wilmington Mayor David L. Raizk said. “This latest assistance to the Murphy Theatre – one of our historic treasures, a building central to the business and cultural life of the community – will turn the theatre into a 365-day facility and will enable it to survive in these economically difficult times. We join the Board of the Murphy Theatre in thanking Congressman Turner for his help and pledge to him that ‘the show will go on.’”Funding for the Murphy Theatre, which is included in the FY 2010 Transportation, Housing and Urban Development and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, passed the House of Representatives late Thursday evening by a vote of 256 to 168.
07.23.2009	Congressman Michael R. Turner today called for a comprehensive review of the Priority Development Advocacy Committee (PDAC) process to increase the accountability and transparency of the current process. The Dayton Development Coalition (DDC) uses the PDAC process to establish the region’s federal funding priorities which are submitted to Congress annually. share: f t Congressman Michael R. Turner today called for a comprehensive review of the Priority Development Advocacy Committee (PDAC) process to increase the accountability and transparency of the current process. The Dayton Development Coalition (DDC) uses the PDAC process to establish the region’s federal funding priorities which are submitted to Congress annually. Congressman Turner informed community leaders participating in the Coalition’s annual Washington fly-in on April 1st of his intent to undertake a review of the process.“The current PDAC process allows a broad coalition of public and private leaders to speak with one voice,” said Rep. Turner. “The current PDAC review process could be a model for other regions, but as a community, we should always look for increased transparency and grassroots support and advocacy for the process. The panel review will ensure the Dayton region has an open, region-wide evaluation for projects seeking state or federal support.”“I applaud Congressman Turner for his request of a review panel for the PDAC process,” said Phil Parker, President and CEO of the Dayton Area Chamber of Commerce. “We have a process that works and as a community we need to strengthen and defend the process. I look forward to beginning work on the review.”The panel will identify ways to:Increase accountability of the funding recipient; Increase transparency and community participation in the project selection process; Enhance mechanisms for advocating and validating project requests. Congressman Turner today sent a letter to community leaders involved in establishing the region’s federal funding priorities to request a review of the PDAC process.
07.22.2009	Congressman Michael R. Turner today announced that Arizona Congressman Jeff Flake (R-06) has introduced an amendment to remove his $250,000 funding request for the Murphy Theatre restoration project from the Department of Transportation, Housing and Urban Development and Related Agencies Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year 2010. share: f t Congressman Michael R. Turner today announced that Arizona Congressman Jeff Flake (R-06) has introduced an amendment to remove his $250,000 funding request for the Murphy Theatre restoration project from the Department of Transportation, Housing and Urban Development and Related Agencies Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year 2010. “Congressman Flake should not succeed at blocking this funding,” Rep. Turner said. “Wilmington officials and the theatre board have voiced their support for this project. I will fight to keep the funding I have secured for the historic Murphy Theatre. Flake’s attempt to obstruct this funding will not save one federal dime. This is money approved for spending and the Wilmington community should get its share.” Congressman Turner secured the funding at the request of the Murphy Theatre board members and Wilmington city officials. The funding will go towards restoring the historic theatre including replacing the 50-year old boiler heating system, repairing the theatre roof and performing electrical work. The Murphy Theatre continues to be a focal point of Wilmington’s downtown historic district for more than 90 years. It serves as a community center, live theatre and arts center for local residents and hosts 35 events in a typical year, attracting more than 6,000 adults and 4,000 children annually.Congressman Flake’s amendment will go before the House Rules Committee Wednesday afternoon to determine whether or not it will be voted on Thursday by the entire House of Representatives.
07.17.2009	Congressman Michael R. Turner announced that $2,300,000 in project funding for area energy and water development-related projects passed the U.S. House of Representatives share: f t Congressman Michael R. Turner announced that $2,300,000 in project funding for area energy and water development-related projects passed the U.S. House of Representatives Friday afternoon by a vote of 320 to 97. The Energy and Water Development and Related Agencies Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year 2010, H.R. 3183, provides funding for four energy and water related projects across Ohio’s Third Congressional District.“By working with regional leaders, we identified local infrastructure projects to improve and enhance these communities for residents and visitors,” Rep. Turner said. “These appropriated funds will help encourage local job creation and economic growth across the region.” The projects included in the FY 2010 energy and water related appropriations bill are: 1. MIAMISBURG MOUND REDEVELOPMENT - $1,000,000This city of Miamisburg and the Miamisburg Mound Community Improvement Coalition requested this funding for the redevelopment of the Miamisburg Mound, a former Department of Energy facility which has been undergoing extensive environmental remediation. The site will be development into a business technology park.2. HOLES CREEK FLOOD CONTROL - $500,000The city of West Carrollton and the Miami Conservancy District requested funding to construct a levee and floodwall to protect approximately 600 homes and 13 commercial and industrial properties in West Carrollton, Moraine and Miami Township from flooding. 3. BLANCHESTER WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT IMPROVEMENTS - $400,000The village of Blanchester requested funding to increase the capacity of the villages’ wastewater treatment plant. The plant is currently over capacity. The funding will make the facility compliant with state and federal Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) standards.4. HILLSBORO ENVIRONMENTAL INFRASTRUCTURE IMPROVEMENTS - $400,000The city of Hillsboro requested funding for upgrades to their wastewater treatment plant and supporting infrastructure. The funds will go toward the installation of additional equalization basins and upgrades to the aging water infrastructure for the treatment of waste. The funding will make the facility compliant with state and federal Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) standards. The FY 2010 Energy and Water Development and Related Agencies Appropriations Act now must be reconciled with the Senate version before it can be sent to the President for his signature.
07.15.2009	Mike Turner today announced that he has received an official response from Vice President Joseph Biden addressing his concern that federal stimulus dollars may have been used to fund NCR Corporation’s relocation to new facilities in Duluth, GA and Columbus, GA. share: f t Mike Turner today announced that he has received an official responsefrom Vice President Joseph Biden addressing his concern that federalstimulus dollars may have been used to fund NCR Corporation’srelocation to new facilities in Duluth, GA and Columbus, GA. In his response, Vice President Biden said “the use of federal recoveryfunds for the potential relocation of jobs from one State to another isnot an approved use of Recovery funds.” Biden’s letter dated July 14added, “If the City of Columbus applied for Recovery Act funds topurchase a facility to house NCR to facilitate the relocation of jobsfrom Ohio to Georgia, the request would not be granted.”Vice President Biden’s letter was responding to Congressman Turner andHouse Republican Leader John Boehner’s (R-Ohio-08) letter to PresidentObama in early June inquiring if this was an appropriate use of federal recovery act dollars.“The Obama Administration has finally responded to the Dayton communityconcerns about NCR Corporation relocation,” said Rep. Turner. “VicePresident Biden says no stimulus funds will be used to fund the new NCRfacility. However, previous media reports and even a NCR Corporationpress release announced the use of federal stimulus dollars.” Last week during a House Oversight and Government Reform committeehearing, Congressman Turner questioned U.S. Office of Management andBudget (OMB) Deputy Director Robert Nabors, on the use of federalstimulus dollars as part of an incentive package that may have luredNCR Corporation jobs from states like Ohio. Nabors promised CongressmanTurner that OMB would investigate the City of Columbus use of federalstimulus dollars.In addition, Congressman Turner sent a letter last week to OhioGovernor Ted Strickland urging him to ask Vice President Biden toinvestigate whether federal stimulus dollars are being used as part ofan incentive package to relocate jobs from other states, includingOhio. Additionally, Turner called on Biden to use his oversight role toensure that stimulus funds are not used as part of the package that mayhave resulted in shifting jobs from Ohio, and from other states, toGeorgia.Media reports in publications such as the Dayton Daily News,highlighted NCR Corporation’s use of federal stimulus dollars to opennew facilities in Duluth, GA and Columbus, GA. Additionally, on June 2,NCR Corporation issued a press release announcing the use of federalstimulus funds to purchase a facility in Columbus, GA.
07.15.2009	Congressman Michael R. Turner announced that $58,600,000 in project funding for Wright-Patterson Air Force Base passed the House of Representatives. share: f t Congressman Michael R. Turner announced that $58,600,000 in project funding for Wright-Patterson Air Force Base passed the House of Representatives Friday afternoon by a vote of 415 to 3. The Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year 2010, H.R. 3082, provides funding for three military construction projects at Wright-Patterson AFB. “This funding is an investment in Wright-Patterson’s workforce and their mission to defend our homeland and support our men and women in uniform,” Rep. Turner said. “In addition, these military construction projects will help to encourage job creation and economic growth across the Dayton region.” The projects included in the FY 2010 military construction appropriations bill are: 1. INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY COMPLEX (ITC) - $27,000,000 This facility at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base will provide model time critical scenarios such as Middle East battlefield simulations. This site will help with the development of tactics, techniques and procedures through the simulation of offensive and defensive cyberspace missions in a controlled environment. 2. CONVERSION FOR ADVANCED POWER RESEARCH LAB - $21,000,000 This funding will provide for the renovation and construction of a new research laboratory at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base. The facility will house a new power and thermal research lab supporting research, development and the transition of advanced electrical power and thermal technologies for the F-22, Joint Strike Fighter and also future aircraft, spacecraft and directed energy weapon (DEW) systems. This research lab will be housed in Wright-Patterson’s Center for Excellence for Power Technologies. 3. REPLACE WEST RAMP, PHASE 2 - $10,600,000 This project will fund phase two of the construction project to replace the west ramp of taxiway pavement, provide taxiway edge lighting and blast deflectors for the ramp. This project will support the 445th Airlift Wing’s C-5 Aircraft which will include expanded runways for the aircraft to taxi and warm up without interfering with the existing navigational aids. The FY 2010 Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations Act now must be reconciled with the Senate version before it can be sent to the President for his signature.
07.14.2009	Senior members of the House Armed Services Committee will be in Dayton, Ohio, later this week to participate in the inaugural United States Air, Trade and Technology Expo, an event which brings together domestic and foreign leaders in the military, civilian government, academia and industry in an effort to discuss issues affecting the aerospace industry. share: f t Senior members of the House Armed Services Committee will be in Dayton,Ohio, later this week to participate in the inaugural United StatesAir, Trade and Technology Expo, an event which brings together domesticand foreign leaders in the military, civilian government, academia andindustry in an effort to discuss issues affecting the aerospaceindustry. Rep. Howard P. “Buck” McKeon (R-CA), the Ranking Member of the HouseArmed Services Committee, and Mike Turner, the top Republican on theHouse Armed Services Subcommittee on Strategic Forces, are scheduled toparticipate in a breakfast and panel discussion on space situationalawareness on Saturday morning, July 18, 2009, beginning at 8:30 a.m. atthe Dayton Airport Expo Center. Lt. General Larry James, who commandsthe U.S. Air Force Command’s 14th Air Force and the U.S. StrategicCommand’s Joint Functional Component Command for Space, is alsoscheduled to participate. “I’m looking forward to joining my friend and colleague, Mike Turner,in the birthplace of aviation for a series of great discussionssurrounding the aerospace industry,” said Rep. Buck McKeon. “EveryAmerican is dependent upon space although most of us rarely stop toconsider this fact when we use the ATM or make a phone call. It is myhope that Saturday’s discussion will help build further awareness ofour dependence on space, the vulnerabilities of our commercial andmilitary space assets, and potential measures we must take to ensurethe continued viability of these tools.” “I look forward to Ranking Member McKeon’s visit to Dayton where hewill experience first-hand the region’s rich aviation history andinnovative aerospace industry,” said Rep. Turner. “The inaugural UnitedStates Air, Trade and Technology Conference and Expo offers a domesticvenue to showcase our aeronautics innovations and aerospace technologyto the world. Saturday’s panel discussion will bring together a widerange of leaders in the aerospace community to discuss America’saviation and space future.”The inaugural United States Air, Trade and Technology Expo 2009 (USATT)brings together domestic and foreign leaders in the military, civiliangovernment, academia and industry. USATT's goal is to addresschallenges and discuss issues across the aerospace industry. For moreinformation about the U.S. Air, Trade, and Technology Expo, pleasevisit the following link: https://www.usattexpo.org.In addition to participating in the Expo, Ranking Member McKeon andRep. Turner will help honor the legendary astronauts of the Apolloprogram at the National Aviation Hall of Fame (NAHF) President’sReception and Dinner at the Air Force Museum on Friday, July 17, 2009. Ranking Member McKeon and Rep. Turner also intend to receiveintelligence updates at the National Air and Space Intelligence Center(NASIC), discuss efforts in intelligence, surveillance, andreconnaissance (ISR) and space science and technology at the Air ForceResearch Lab (AFRL) and meet with leaders from Air Force MaterielCommand at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base.
07.09.2009	Mike Turner has asked Governor Ted Strickland to urge Vice President Biden to investigate whether federal stimulus dollars are being used as part of an incentive package to relocate jobs from other states, including Ohio. share: f t Mike Turner has asked Governor Ted Strickland to urge Vice President Biden to investigate whether federal stimulus dollars are being used as part of an incentive package to relocate jobs from other states, including Ohio. Additionally, Turner called on Biden to use his oversight role to ensure that stimulus funds are not used as part of the package that may have resulted in shifting jobs from Ohio, and from other states, to Georgia. Vice President Biden will visit Cincinnati Thursday to check on the status of stimulus money in that city.In particular, Rep. Turner cited the case of long-time Dayton employer, NCR Corporation. On June 2, 2009, NCR, headquartered in Dayton, announced that it would take steps to centralize its operations in Georgia, including the relocation of its Dayton headquarters. In NCR’s press release, the company cited stimulus funds in the centralization of operations in Georgia. “It is troubling that stimulus funding could be used as part of a package to bring jobs from other states, including Ohio, to Georgia. Upon the release of reports stating that stimulus funds could be part of the package benefitting NCR job relocations, Republican Leader John Boehner and I wrote President Obama asking if this was an appropriate use of such taxpayer funds and asking him to take steps to prevent this from happening. The residents of Ohio will be forced to pay for, in effect, the removal of jobs from their state to another.“It is my understanding that you could be meeting with the Vice President during his visit tomorrow,” Turner wrote Strickland. “The Vice President is leading the Administration’s effort to ensure that the $787 billion stimulus is spent appropriately. It is, therefore, critical that he be made aware of the reported use of stimulus funds as part of the incentive package by Georgia officials to lure NCR to their state. Please bring this matter to the attention of the Vice President and ask that he use his oversight role to ensure that such funds not be used as part of the package that shifted jobs from Ohio.”Obama’s OMB Deputy Director Questions Appropriateness of Funding:During a Wednesday House Government Reform Committee hearing on federal oversight of the stimulus funding, Rep. Turner asked Deputy Director of the U.S. Office of Management and Budget (OMB), Mr. Rob Nabors, whether the use of stimulus money to relocate jobs from one state to another is an appropriate and allowable expense under the stimulus guidelines. In response, Deputy Director Nabors said: “I don’t have the specifics on this example but it is disturbing.” He also noted “based on what you’ve just said that does not sound like an appropriate use of recovery dollars.” Furthermore, Deputy Director Nabors promised to review the case and follow up with Turner’s office.“This matter is one that the people of my district and the State of Ohio find particularly distressing given the significant local job loss and the fact that our tax dollars will be used,” Turner said.
07.08.2009	Congressman Michael Turner today questioned Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Deputy Director Rob Nabors, on the use of federal stimulus dollars as part of an incentive package that may have lured NCR jobs from states like Ohio. share: f t Mike Turner questioned Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Deputy Director Rob Nabors, on the use of federal stimulus dollars as part of an incentive package that may have lured NCR Corporation jobs from states like Ohio. Deputy Director Nabors testified during a House Oversight and Government Reform committee hearing this morning examining the oversight and use of federal stimulus funding. “Supporters of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act said the purpose of this legislation was to create thousands of new jobs across the country,” said Rep. Turner, a member of the House Oversight and Government Reform committee. “However, in the case of NCR, stimulus funds may have played a role as part of a package to lure away approximately 2,000 jobs from other states including Ohio. I believe this is an inappropriate use of stimulus funds and violates the spirit of the law.”The Office of Management and Budget (OMB) is a cabinet-level office within the Executive Office of the President. OMB is charged with coordinating with federal agencies to report on the use and implementation of federal stimulus funding. Congressman Turner asked Deputy Director Nabors if this was an appropriate use of federal recovery act dollars. Nabors responded that the use of federal recovery dollars to lure NCR Corporation from Ohio “…is disturbing” and “does not sound like an appropriate use of recovery dollars.” Congressman Turner and House Republican Leader John Boehner (R-Ohio-08) sent a letter to President Obama on June 3, asking if this was an appropriate use of federal recovery act dollars. The Administration has not yet responded to the letter.“Ohio has faced significant economic challenges with the loss of thousands of jobs across the state. The closure of NCR’s worldwide headquarters represents further economic losses for Ohio and the Miami Valley region. I do not believe backers of the stimulus bill intended to use taxpayer dollars to entice corporations to leave one state in favor of another,” Rep. Turner added.
07.04.2009	While North Korea continues to play target practice with its missile systems, the Obama Administration chose the wrong time to cut funding for missile defense programs. share: f t U.S. Representative Mike Turner, ranking member of the House Armed Services Strategic Forces subcommittee, today issued the following statement in response to reports of another North Korea missile launch: "While North Korea continues to play target practice with its missile systems, the Obama Administration chose the wrong time to cut funding for missile defense programs. Unfortunately, the Administration’s $1.2 billion dollar cut has set up a false choice between protection of the U.S. homeland and protection of our forward-deployed troops and allies. Both are necessary and both could have been adequately funded without such deep cuts. "Furthermore, Kim Jong Il's continued defiance of United Nations Security Council resolution 1874 and the international community raises serious questions about the viability of the Obama Administration's current approach to engagement."
06.30.2009	Congressman Michael R. Turner has introduced H. J. Res 57, the “Preserving Capitalism in America” amendment in the U.S. House of Representatives. The constitutional amendment, which has 102 cosponsors, would prohibit the United States government from owning any stock in corporations. share: f t Congressman Michael R. Turner has introduced H. J. Res 57, the “Preserving Capitalism in America” amendment in the U.S. House of Representatives. The constitutional amendment, which has 102 cosponsors, would prohibit the United States government from owning any stock in corporations. “A growing number of Americans are concerned about the future of capitalism in this country,” Rep. Turner said. “The current economic recession has opened the door to government intervention in private enterprise on a scale that many have never seen.” “Eight months after the passage of Troubled Asset Relief Program funding, the federal government continues to reach beyond the original intent of lawmakers, including taking ownership of one of America’s largest auto manufacturers, General Motors,” Turner said. “A majority of Americans oppose the government take-over of the auto manufacturers and want the government out as soon as possible,” Rep. Turner added. “Just as troubling as the government’s rapid control over private industry, is its failure to present an exit strategy.” “With no apparent limit on the government’s ability to expand its ownership of business, the only solution is a constitutional amendment,” Rep. Turner said. “I have, therefore, introduced the ‘Preserving Capitalism in America Amendment’ to prohibit federal government acquisition of any stock or equity interests in private corporations.” Eight states currently have constitutional prohibitions against government investment in private corporations. Those states are Arkansas, Colorado, Montana, Nebraska, Oregon, Utah, Washington, and West Virginia. “A constitutional amendment would provide a guarantee that the government could not gain control of private enterprise and place our capitalist system at risk,” Rep. Turner added. Congressman Turner’s Preserving Capitalism in America constitutional amendment would preserve the government’s right to provide loans or to acquire equity interests in any public authority or public use corporation as well as investments by any government pension fund.
06.29.2009	Congressman Michael R. Turner today announced that $102,450,000 in authorized project funding for Wright-Patterson Air Force Base is in the Fiscal Year 2010 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA). share: f t Congressman Michael R. Turner today announced that $102,450,000 in authorized project funding for Wright-Patterson Air Force Base is in the Fiscal Year 2010 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA). This amount includes $43.85 million in defense funding requests and $58.6 million for military construction projects. The Defense Authorization bill passed the House of Representatives Thursday afternoon by a 389 to 22 vote. “Authorizing these projects is important to the expansion of Wright-Patterson and the Miami Valley,” said Rep. Turner, a member of the House Armed Services Committee. “Wright-Patterson plays a pivotal role in defending our homeland and supporting our men and women in uniform. These projects will encourage economic growth and job creation in the Dayton region.” Below are some of the key local defense and military construction projects included in the FY 2010 Defense Authorization bill: INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY COMPLEX (ITC) - $27,000,000 This facility at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base will provide model time critical scenarios such as Middle East battlefield simulations. This site will help with the development of tactics, techniques and procedures through the simulation of offensive and defensive cyberspace missions in a controlled environment. CONVERSION FOR ADVANCED POWER RESEARCH LAB - $21,000,000 This funding will provide for the renovation and construction of a new research laboratory at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base. The facility will house a new power and thermal research lab supporting research, development and the transition of advanced electrical power and thermal technologies for the F-22, Joint Strike Fighter and also future aircraft, spacecraft and directed energy weapon (DEW) systems. This research lab will be housed in Wright-Patterson’s Center for Excellence for Power Technologies. REPLACE WEST RAMP, PHASE 2 - $10,600,000 This project will fund phase two of the construction project to replace the west ramp of taxiway pavement, provide taxiway edge lighting and blast deflectors for the ramp. This project will support the 445th Airlift Wing’s C-5 Aircraft which will include expanded runways for the aircraft to taxi and warm up without interfering with the existing navigational aids. ADVANCED TECHNICAL INTELLIGENCE CENTER - $9,000,000 Advanced Technical Intelligence Center (ATIC) is an industry-focused research, education and training facility in the Dayton region established to increase the number of expert staff in the field of technical intelligence analysis. The close proximity of ATIC to the National Air and Space Intelligence Center, the nation’s premier technical exploration center, housed at Wright-Patterson AFB, provides world class scientists and engineers of the Air Force Research Laboratory and the Air Force Institute of Technology. ATIC is a leader in training future intelligence and radar analysts who operate Air Force and military radar equipment. H.R. 2647, the FY 2010 Defense Authorization Bill, passed the House of Representatives Thursday afternoon. The bill must be reconciled with the Senate version before it can be sent to the President for his signature.
06.29.2009	Congressman Michael R. Turner announced his amendment to the 2010 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) to protect the child custody rights of deployed military service personnel today passed the House of Representatives by a 389 to 22 vote. share: f t Congressman Michael R. Turner announced his amendment to the 2010 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) to protect the child custody rights of deployed military service personnel today passed the House of Representatives by a 389 to 22 vote. This amendment has previously passed the House three times. “For two years, I have offered amendments to the National Defense Authorization Act to address the custody rights of our men and women in uniform,” said Rep. Turner, a member of the House Armed Services Committee. “Although my amendments were included in the House versions of the FY 2008 and FY 2009 defense bills, each time they were opposed by the Defense Department. My new amendment ensures custody rights while also recognizing the jurisdiction of state courts in custody cases and the ability for states to provide stricter protections.” Rep. Turner’s amendment would ensure that: No court may permanently alter an existing custody agreement while a military parent is deployed. A court may issue a temporary order if it’s in the best interest of the child. Upon the return of the service member from deployment, any temporary change in custody shall be immediately reversed, unless the change is not in the best interest of the child. Allows states to adopt stricter protections for parents, and upholds state jurisdiction over custody matters. The issue of judges using military service and deployment of parents as grounds to change their custody arrangements first came to Congressman Turner’s attention in the 2004 case of Kentucky National Guard Lt. Eva Slusher who lost custody of her daughter after her deployment. After a two-year, $25,000 battle to regain custody, Lt. Slusher was ultimately successful in regaining custody of her daughter. Unfortunately, this was not an isolated incident and efforts to ensure military personnel are not disadvantaged due to their service are on-going. “No parent, courageous and honorable enough to volunteer to serve in the U.S. military, should have their time spent overseas in defense of our nation used against them in their custody disputes. I have offered this new amendment to strengthen custody rights of military personnel and to clarify the role of state courts in these cases. I am committed to pursuing this issue as long as necessary to ensure that the custodial rights of our military are safeguarded,” Rep. Turner added. H.R. 2647, the FY 2010 Defense Authorization Bill, passed the House of Representatives Thursday afternoon. The bill must be reconciled with the Senate version before it can be sent to the President for his signature.
06.29.2009	United States Representatives Michael R. Turner and Jane Harman (D-Calif-36) today announced they have successfully included provisions in H.R. 2647, the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for fiscal year 2010 to improve the response and investigation of alleged sexual assault of members of the armed services. share: f t United States Representatives Michael R. Turner and Jane Harman (D-Calif-36) today announced they have successfully included provisions in H.R. 2647, the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for fiscal year 2010 to improve the response and investigation of alleged sexual assault of members of the armed services. These provisions are nearly identical to those included in H.Con.Res. 28, authored by Reps. Turner and Harman. The NDAA passed the House of Representatives by a 389 to 22 vote. The new provisions would strengthen protections Rep. Turner added to the Fiscal Year 2009 NDAA, adding greater emphasis to sexual assault prevention measures as well as investigation and response to alleged incidents. “This year, the new Defense Authorization Act includes provisions Rep. Harman and I have advocated for: increased accountability of the Department of Defense and the military services in monitoring, reporting and investigating sexual assault and to implement sexual assault prevention programs,” said Rep. Turner, a member of the House Armed Services Committee. “Our military personnel deserve the fullest measure of protection on and off the battlefield. These provisions are designed to ensure the safety and security of our troops.” “Rape and sexual assault in our military ranks is pernicious – and statistics show it’s not going away. For the thousands of brave women and men serving in theatre overseas, even their own barracks aren’t sanctuary from danger,” said Harman. “The provisions in the Defense Authorization call for stronger efforts at prosecuting offenders, a more coherent prevention strategy, and opportunities for base transfers.” The provisions Reps. Turner and Harman added to the NDAA would require: A GAO study of each military service’s ability to investigate and adjudicate sexual assault allegations. The Department of Defense would create a sexual assault prevention program and report to Congress on its status including an action plan for reducing sexual assaults and a timeline for implementation; a mechanism for outcome measurement; and, training courses for commanders and senior enlisted personnel. The Department of Defense must report on the availability of sexual assault forensic exams in combat zones; any barriers that exist; and, legislative actions needed to improve availability of forensic exams. The Department of Defense will report annually to Congress whether a Military Protective Order (MPO) was issued in a sexual assault in the armed services. The Secretary of Defense will ensure that when a military protective order is issued, the service member requesting the MPO is informed of their right to request a transfer. Last year, Rep. Turner successfully added language to the defense authorization bill that Military Protective Orders be made standing orders and that civilian authorities be notified when an MPO is issued and affects off-base personnel. After considerable review, Members of Congress agreed that the Military Protective Orders which were in use did not provide sufficient protection to uniformed personnel. “In the months following the alleged rape and murder of Marine Lance Corporal Maria Lauterbach, I worked with her family to identify failures in the system which may have led to her death,” Rep. Turner said. “It’s important we work together to prevent a similar tragedy from ever occurring again.” “This is another crucial step forward. Congressman Turner is an outstanding partner; he and I are anxious to see the Pentagon’s strategic plan and Defense Task Force findings that will be released later this summer,” said Harman. The FY 2010 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) must now be reconciled with the Senate version of the bill before it goes to the President for his signature.
06.29.2009	Congressman Michael R. Turner today announced that $500,000 has been appropriated for regional priorities in the House-passed Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year 2010. share: f t Congressman Michael R. Turner today announced that $500,000 has been appropriated for regional priorities in the House-passed Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year 2010. The bill passed the House of Representatives Friday by a vote of 254 to 173. Congressman Turner secured $500,000 for the city of Vandalia to begin the expansion of water and sanitary sewer lines west from Peters Pike across the Airport Access Road. The appropriated funds will help pave the way for the future economic development of nearly 400 acres of land on the west side of Vandalia adjacent to the Dayton International Airport. “Working with Vandalia officials on projects such as the expansion around the airport not only helps local leaders address their regional priorities, it will lead to the creation of new jobs and encourage economic growth in the Dayton region and Montgomery County,” Congressman Turner said. “We appreciate very much the work that Congressman Turner and his staff have done on our behalf,” Vandalia Mayor Bill Loy said. “This is a very important project for Vandalia, as it will allow us to better utilize land adjacent to the airport for development. We are very excited about the possibilities this bill creates.” The FY 2010 Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies Appropriations bill must now be reconciled with the Senate version of the bill before it can be sent to the President for his signature.
06.29.2009	Congressman Michael R. Turner today issued the following statement in opposition to the Waxman–Markey Climate Cap & Trade Bill (HR 2454): share: f t Congressman Michael R. Turner today issued the following statement in opposition to the Waxman–Markey Climate Cap & Trade Bill (HR 2454): “I voted against both the $700 billion in TARP funding last October and the $800 billion economic stimulus in February. I opposed both because I felt they were poorly considered, did nothing to help those who lost their homes and jobs, and lacked specifics to show how these huge taxpayer investments would be spent. The nation is now racking up an enormous budget deficit and adding trillions to the national debt as a result of these hastily-passed spending plans. “Likewise, the Cap & Trade bill that came before the House today fails to address the important energy needs Ohioans face everyday. This bill could prove devastating to many Ohio families and small businesses who are experiencing financial difficulties as a result of the current economic crisis. Because of our manufacturing base, the state of Ohio would be particularly hard-hit and the Third Congressional District even more so. Ohio’s manufacturing base has already suffered tremendously. This legislation would further burden our manufacturing base and cause additional job loss. “Congress must move to enact policies that would help rebuild our economy, create more jobs, and provide consumers with reliable, affordable and renewable energy.”
06.25.2009	Rep. Michael Turner, the Ranking Member of the Armed Services Subcommittee on Strategic Forces, today released the following prepared remarks for House consideration of H.R. 2647, the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010 share: f t Rep. Michael Turner, the Ranking Member of the Armed Services Subcommittee on Strategic Forces, today released the following prepared remarks for House consideration of H.R. 2647, the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010: “I thank the gentleman from California, Mr. McKeon. He has demonstrated great leadership in a short period of time as our new Ranking Member, and I look forward to working with him. “Mr. McHugh, a close friend of this committee, also deserves recognition. His dedication and commitment to our men and women in uniform is unparalleled. I wish him all the best in his new position as Secretary of the Army. “I would also like to thank Ms. Tauscher, chairwoman of the Strategic Forces subcommittee. She has provided a strong and thoughtful voice on national security issues. I wish her the very best in her new position as Undersecretary of State for Arms Control and International Security. “I support H.R. 2647—the Fiscal Year 2010 National Defense Authorization Act. “The bill contains sound, bipartisan provisions that provide key capabilities to our warfighters, strengthens our nation’s strategic forces, and sustains the intellectual capital supporting our national security infrastructure. “The National Nuclear Security Administration is provided with the flexibility necessary to increase the long-term reliability, safety, and security of our nuclear weapons stockpile. “The bill provides stable funding for key programs in satellite communications, GPS, missile warning and Operationally Responsive Space. “Furthermore, it highlights the need for greater analytical capabilities and resources in the area of foreign ballistic missile intelligence, particularly longer-range missiles. “I was disappointed, however, that the bill sustains the Administration’s missile defense cut of $1.2 billion dollars. Given North Korea’s widely publicized nuclear test and missile launches, not to mention Iran’s recent missile tests, cuts in missile defense challenge common sense. “I cannot reconcile why the Administration has decided to decrease missile defense funding – including the 35-percent cut to the Ground-based Midcourse Defense (GMD) system in Alaska and California – while daily news reports, substantiated by our own intelligence agencies, articulate an increasing missile threat. “Should these cuts be sustained, we stand to lose over 11,000 American jobs across the country. “Despite the current threat posed by North Korea—including reports of a potential ICBM launch—the committee rejected amendments that I offered, along with my colleagues, to restore missile defense funds. This included providing a modest amount of funds to complete a partially constructed missile interceptor field in Alaska designed to protect the U.S. homeland. The equipment has already been purchased and holes already dug. My amendment would have paid for this activity with funds set aside to dismantle North Korea’s nuclear program, assuming Kim Jong Il gave his permission. “I strongly support the bill’s increase in theater missile defenses. These systems, Aegis and THAAD in particular, provide protection of our forward-deployed troops and allies from shorter-range missiles. “Unfortunately, the Administration’s $1.2 billion dollar cut has set up a false choice between protection of the U.S. homeland and protection of our forward-deployed troops and allies. Both are necessary and both could have been adequately funded without such deep cuts. “I am pleased this bill included key provisions of the bipartisan ‘NATO First’ bill that my colleague, Mr. Marshall, and I introduced to fortify America’s transatlantic security links with our European allies. “Lastly, strengthening the personal safety and family rights of military personnel are issues that I have long advocated for. Therefore, I am pleased that this bill contains language I authored to enhance sexual assault protections for women in uniform and expand the child custody rights of military parents. “I believe the 2010 National Defense Authorization Act continues a fundamental commitment to protecting our nation while also providing our military personnel with the resources they need to effectively and safety perform their missions. I urge its adoption.” The following is a video of this statement:
06.19.2009	Congressman Michael R. Turner today announced that $1 million has been appropriated for regional priorities in the House-passed FY 2010 Commerce, Justice, Science, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act. share: f t Congressman Michael R. Turner today announced that $1 million has been appropriated for regional priorities in the House-passed FY 2010 Commerce, Justice, Science, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act. The bill passed the House Thursday evening. Congressman Turner secured $860,000 for the Improved Solutions for Urban Systems (ISUS) 21 Century Jobs for Disengaged Youth. ISUS’ goal is to counter the high school dropout rate in the Dayton region and better prepare youth for work in high-demand industries. ISUS provides education and job training programs for youth ages 16-22, many of whom are returning high school dropouts. The funding will support ISUS training of youth and teenagers interested in 21st Century careers, such as ‘green jobs.’ “The Improved Solutions for Urban Systems program offers a unique model working to keep youth engaged and prepare them for future careers,” Rep. Turner said. “Ann Higdon and her staff work hard to encourage students to avoid many of the temptations that can stray students off track in pursuing a fulfilling future career.” “This funding is invaluable as ISUS helps deserving young adults to recover from their mistakes by completing high school and preparing for college and the workforce,” said Ann Higdon, president and founder of Improved Solutions of Urban Systems. “ISUS students make contributions such as, green-building affordable homes, refurbishing computers, operating an advanced manufacturing facility and volunteering in hospitals and nursing homes.” Congressman Turner also secured $140,000 for the Wilmington Police Department. This funding will be used to replace and update equipment for the police department to increase public safety. “It is critical for police and first responders to have the equipment necessary to ensure public safety for Wilmington residents,” Rep. Turner said. “This funding will provide the Wilmington Police with updated technology to better serve the community.” “This is a fantastic opportunity for us to use technology to do more with less,” Wilmington Police Chief Michael Hatten said. “The addition of mobile data to our cruisers should allow our officers to be safer while doing a better job for the citizens.” The FY 2010 Commerce, Justice, Science, and Related Agencies Appropriations bill must also pass the Senate before it can be sent to the President.
06.18.2009	Congressman Michael R. Turner today announced that $102,450,000 in authorized project funding for Wright-Patterson Air Force Base is in the 2010 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA). This amount includes $43.85 million in defense funding requests and $58.6 million for military construction projects. share: f t Congressman Michael R. Turner today announced that $102,450,000 in authorized project funding for Wright-Patterson Air Force Base is in the 2010 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA). This amount includes $43.85 million in defense funding requests and $58.6 million for military construction projects. The Defense Authorization passed the House Armed Services Committee late Tuesday evening by a voice vote. “Authorizing these projects is important to the future of Wright-Patterson and the Miami Valley region,” Rep. Turner said. “Wright-Patterson plays a pivotal role in defending our homeland and supporting our men and women in uniform. These projects will encourage economic growth and job creation in the Dayton region.” Below are some of the key local defense and military construction projects included in the FY 2010 Defense Authorization bill: INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY COMPLEX (ITC) - $27,000,000 This facility at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base will provide model time critical scenarios such as Middle East battlefield simulations. This site will help with the development of tactics, techniques and procedures through the simulation of offensive and defensive cyberspace missions in a controlled environment. CONVERSION FOR ADVANCED POWER RESEARCH LAB - $21,000,000 This funding will provide for the renovation and construction of a new research laboratory at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base. The facility will house a new power and thermal research lab supporting research, development and the transition of advanced electrical power and thermal technologies for the F-22, Joint Strike Fighter and also future aircraft, spacecraft and directed energy weapon (DEW) systems. This research lab will be housed in Wright-Patterson’s Center for Excellence for Power Technologies. REPLACE WEST RAMP, PHASE 2 - $10,600,000 This project will fund phase two of the construction project to replace the west ramp of taxiway pavement, provide taxiway edge lighting and blast deflectors for the ramp. This project will support the 445th Airlift Wing’s C-5 Aircraft which will include expanded runways for the aircraft to taxi and warm up without interfering with the existing navigational aids. ADVANCED TECHNICAL INTELLIGENCE CENTER - $9,000,000 Advanced Technical Intelligence Center (ATIC) is an industry-focused research, education and training facility in the Dayton region established to increase the number of expert staff in the field of technical intelligence analysis. The close proximity of ATIC to the National Air and Space Intelligence Center, the nation’s premier technical exploration center, housed at Wright-Patterson AFB, provides world class scientists and engineers of the Air Force Research Laboratory and the Air Force Institute of Technology. ATIC is a leader in training future intelligence and radar analysts who operate Air Force and military radar equipment. The FY 2010 Defense Authorization Bill passed the House Armed Services Committee with Congressman Turner’s support late Tuesday evening. The bill will now head to the House floor for full consideration by the House of Representatives. Upon passage by the House, the bill must be reconciled with the Senate version before it can be sent to the President for his signature.
06.17.2009	Congressman Michael R. Turner has successfully included provisions in the 2010 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) to improve the response and investigation of alleged sexual assault of members of the armed services. share: f t Congressman Michael R. Turner has successfully included provisions in the 2010 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) to improve the response and investigation of alleged sexual assault of members of the armed services. These provisions are nearly identical to those included in H.Con.Res. 28, authored by Rep. Jane Harman (D-CA-36) and Congressman Turner. The NDAA passed out of the House Armed Services Committee Tuesday night by voice vote. The new provisions would strengthen protections Congressman Turner added to the 2009 NDAA, adding greater emphasis to sexual assault prevention measures as well as investigation and response to alleged incidents. “This year, the new Defense Authorization Act includes provisions Rep. Harman and I have advocated for: increased accountability of the Department of Defense and the military services in monitoring, reporting and investigating sexual assault and to implement sexual assault prevention programs,” Rep. Turner said. “Our military personnel deserve the fullest measure of protection on and off the battlefield. These provisions are designed to ensure the safety and security of our troops and I will work to see that they are passed when the NDAA comes before the full House in the coming weeks.” The provisions Congressman Turner added to the NDAA would require: A GAO study of each military service’s ability to investigate and adjudicate sexual assault allegations. The Department of Defense would create a sexual assault prevention program and report to Congress on its status including an action plan for reducing sexual assaults and a timeline for implementation; a mechanism for outcome measurement; and, training courses for commanders and senior enlisted personnel. The Department of Defense must report on the availability of sexual assault forensic exams in combat zones; any barriers that exist; and, legislative actions needed to improve availability of forensic exams. The Department of Defense will report annually to Congress whether a Military Protective Order (MPO) was issued in a sexual assault in the armed services. The Secretary of Defense will ensure that when a military protective order is issued, the service member requesting the MPO is informed of their right to request a transfer. Last year, Congressman Turner successfully added language to the defense authorization bill that Military Protective Orders be made standing orders and that civilian authorities be notified when an MPO is issued and affects off-base personnel. After considerable review, Members of Congress agreed that the Military Protective Orders which were in use did not provide sufficient protection to uniformed personnel. “In the months following the alleged rape and murder of Marine Lance Corporal Maria Lauterbach, I worked with her family to identify failures in the system which may have led to her death,” Rep. Turner said. “It’s important we work together to prevent a similar tragedy from ever occurring again.”
06.17.2009	Congressman Michael R. Turner announced his amendment to the 2010 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) to protect the child custody rights of deployed military service personnel today passed by voice vote in the House Armed Services Committee. share: f t Congressman Michael R. Turner announced his amendment to the 2010 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) to protect the child custody rights of deployed military service personnel today passed by voice vote in the House Armed Services Committee. This amendment has previously passed the House three times. “For two years, I have offered amendments to the National Defense Authorization Act to address the custody rights of our men and women in uniform,” Rep. Turner said. “Although my amendments were included in the House versions of the FY 2008 and FY 2009 defense bills, each time they were opposed by the Defense Department. My new amendment ensures custody rights while also recognizing the jurisdiction of state courts in custody cases and the ability for states to provide stricter protections.” Rep. Turner’s amendment would ensure that: No court may permanently alter an existing custody agreement while a military parent is deployed. A court may issue a temporary order if it’s in the best interest of the child. Upon the return of the service member from deployment, any temporary change in custody shall be immediately reversed, unless the change is not in the best interest of the child. No court may consider a military parent’s past deployment or possible future deployment as a basis for determining the best interests of the child in custody court cases. Allows states to adopt stricter protections for parents, and upholds state jurisdiction over custody matters. The issue of judges using military service and deployment of parents as grounds to change their custody arrangements first came to Congressman Turner’s attention in the 2004 case of Kentucky National Guard Lt. Eva Slusher who lost custody of her daughter after her deployment. After a two-year, $25,000 battle to regain custody, Lt. Slusher was ultimately successful in regaining custody of her daughter. Unfortunately, this was not an isolated incident and efforts to ensure military personnel are not disadvantaged due to their service are on-going. “No parent, courageous and honorable enough to volunteer to serve in the U.S. military, should have their time spent overseas in defense of our nation used against them in their custody disputes. I have offered this new amendment to strengthen custody rights of military personnel and to clarify the role of state courts in these cases. I am committed to pursuing this issue as long as necessary to ensure that the custodial rights of our military are safeguarded,” Rep. Turner added.
06.12.2009	Sometime between 6:00 pm and midnight on Friday, June 12, television broadcasting will only be available as a digital signal, and those consumers with analog-only televisions will need a converter box or a subscription service such as cable or satelite TV to view programs. share: f t Sometime between 6:00 pm and midnight on Friday, June 12, television broadcasting will only be available as a digital signal, and those consumers with analog-only televisions will need a converter box or a subscription service such as cable or satellite TV to view programs. Before I was elected to the House of Representatives, Congress passed legislation that established a goal of having 85% of American households equipped to receive digital television broadcasts by December 31, 2006. Unfortunately, it became clear that the federal government was unprepared to deliver this result and I voted with a majority of my colleagues to push this deadline back. Congress also established a digital-to-analog converter box program administered by the National Telecommunications and Information Administration (NTIA) of the Department of Commerce that will partially subsidize consumer purchases of converter boxes. In addition, public education and outreach has attempted to ensure that Americans are prepared for the digital transition. The next deadline was set for February 18, 2009, but it was still found that too many people would be unprepared by that date. The final date is June 12, 2009. Why is the nation transitioning to digital television? A key factor behind the digital transition is to reclaim a portion of the analog spectrum currently occupied by television broadcasters. Digital television uses radio frequency spectrum more efficiently than traditional analog television, thereby taking up less bandwidth. The goal of the FCC and Congress was to complete the transition so that the analog spectrum could be reclaimed and subsequently reallocated for other purposes. Some of the analog spectrum has been auctioned off for commercial wireless services and some will be used for new public safety communications services. In addition, it is hoped that the revenue raised in the spectrum action will be returned to the U.S. Treasury, thereby contributing toward the federal budget. If you or a friend or family member currently uses an analog only television there are a few things you can do to continue to watch programs. You can either buy a digital-to-analog converter box to hook up to an analog television set, buy a digital television, or subscribe to cable, satellite, or telephone company television services, which will likely provide for the conversion to it’s customers. The digital-to-analog converter box program provides up to two forty-dollar coupons to requesting U.S. households. This coupon can still be requested by calling 1-888-DTV-2009. The last day to order these coupons is July 31, 2009. The coupon must be used within three months after issuance toward the purchase of a stand-alone device used solely for digital-to-analog conversion. Coupons mailed to consumers will be accompanied by information listing approved box models and local (and online) retailers certified to participate in the converter box coupon program. Please note that households eligible for converter box coupons must have a United States Postal Service mailing address. Post office box addresses are not accepted unless the applicant is a resident of a rural area without home mail delivery. For further information on the switch to digital television or for more information on digital-to-analog converter box coupons please visit www.dtv2009.gov or www.dtv.gov or call 1-888-DTV-2009. For instructions on setting up a converter box, or other frequently asked questions, please go to http://www.dtvanswers.com/ If you have any other further questions please feel free to contact my Dayton district office at 937-225-2843 or 202-225-6465.
06.11.2009	As the Obama Administration pursues a policy to “reset” America’s relationship with Russia, Rep. Michael Turner and Rep. Jim Marshall (D-GA) yesterday introduced the bipartisan NATO First Act (H.R. 2797) to fortify America’s transatlantic security links with our European allies and partners share: f t As the Obama Administration pursues a policy to “reset” America’s relationship with Russia, Rep. Michael Turner and Rep. Jim Marshall (D-GA) yesterday introduced the bipartisan NATO First Act (H.R. 2797) to fortify America’s transatlantic security links with our European allies and partners. By building a robust, integrated U.S. and allied security framework in Europe, the NATO First Act will bolster common defenses, protect the United States homeland, and strengthen an alliance that has ensured peace and stability in Europe for over 60 years. The legislation, which Rep. Turner and Rep. Marshall will attempt to incorporate into the National Defense Authorization Act during committee consideration next week, would also strengthen the United States’ negotiating position during ongoing engagement with Russia on key issues, such as the START Treaty. “The NATO First Act would assure our European allies and partners that America remains fully committed to preserving the role of NATO for our mutual security. This legislation will continue American’s strong commitment to European defense while taking steps to strengthen our NATO allies and partner nations,” said Rep. Turner. “As we begin new START negotiations, the NATO First Act would bolster America’s negotiating position with Russia and ensure that our defense and security interests are preserved.” “Our effective support of NATO is vital to European and global security. The specific NATO support priorities advocated by this legislation should assist and guide the Obama Administration in its strategic arms negotiations with Russia,” said Rep. Marshall. On the occasion of the 60th anniversary of the Alliance, the Heads of State and Government of NATO signed the Declaration on Alliance Security in Strasbourg and Kehl. The NATO First Act would implement the principles outlined in this declaration and demonstrate the United State’s commitment to Article 5 of the NATO Treaty and transatlantic security by mandating policies that would support the indivisibility of Allied security. Specifically, the NATO First Act achieves the following goals: Maintains Current U.S. Military Force Presence in Europe. The NATO First Act makes it the policy of the Congress that the current U.S. military force structure in Europe upholds the U.S.’s commitments under Article 5 of the NATO Treaty, addresses the current strategic environment in Europe, and contributes to peace and stability in Europe. Specifically, the legislation would maintain the current basing arrangements of U.S. military units that are currently in Europe. Maintaining our current force presence in Europe contributes directly to NATO dissuasion and deterrence efforts; increases flexibility in dealing with crises; and improves the capability of allied forces over time because of their ability to build capacity within the host country. Increases Building Partnership Capacity (BPC) Funding for NATO allies and Partners. The NATO First Act authorizes $200 million for programs to build the capacity of the national military forces of certain NATO and NATO partner countries. Under the legislation, the Secretary of Defense could provide equipment, supplies and training to the program participants. An increase in our partners’ capacity strengthens our ability to maintain security in Europe and abroad. Over 85% of the countries that contribute forces in Afghanistan come from the European Command area of operations. Specifically, these programs would contribute to building the vital relationships that bolster U.S. strategic interests; enhance partner security capabilities; provide essential access; and improve information exchanges and intelligence sharing. Supports the NATO Special Operations Coordination Center (NSCC). The NATO First Act authorizes $45 million to promote and support coordination, cooperation, command and control, information sharing, and interoperability between NATO members’ special operations forces. It is directly in the United States’ national security interests that other allies possess highly trained special operations forces whose capabilities have been developed with, and are known to, US special operations forces. Ensures Extended Deterrence Commitment in Europe. The NATO First Act would prohibit any action taken to reduce United States nuclear forces that are based in Europe unless required by law and the President makes a series of certifications. The legislation would also provide $50 million for upgrading the safety, security, and reliability of the nuclear forces in Europe. As the United States moves forward with a Russia reset policy, it is vital that we maintain our commitment to extended deterrence. The nuclear alliance of NATO is an important component for ensuring the security of our European allies. Thus, United States forward-deployed nuclear forces shall remain based in Europe in support of the nuclear policy and posture of NATO. Provides $500 Million for Long-Range Missile Defense in Europe. The NATO First Act would protect the U.S. homeland and America’s allies from long-range missile threats by providing $500 million for the proposed missile defense system in Europe in Poland and Czech Republic. This legislation supports keeping U.S. and NATO collective security closely linked by providing all members of the Alliance with defense against the full range of missile threats. The European locations allow the defense of both Europe and the U.S. against longer-range threats launched from the Middle East. Establishes a Short-Range Air and Missile Defense Battery in Poland. The NATO First Act would require the Secretary of Defense establish a garrison for the deployment of a short-range air and missile defense battery to Poland. The bipartisan legislation reaffirms our commitment to expand air and missile defense cooperation between the United States and Poland. In this regard, we reaffirm our support to establish a U.S. Army Patriot air and missile defense garrison in Poland by 2012. Limits the Russian Federation’s Ability to Reduce Certain Capabilities Pursuant to Treaty or Other Agreement. The NATO First Act would prohibit the use of Department of Defense funds to reduce U.S. strategic nuclear forces as part of START unless Russian tactical nuclear weapons are reduced and a modernization program is established for the remaining U.S. nuclear weapons and infrastructure. Additionally, the treaty or agreement with Russia must not reduce or limit U.S. ballistic missile defenses, space, or advanced conventional weapons capabilities. The bill would ensure Russian tactical nuclear weapons (which far exceed U.S. ones) are included in any nuclear arms control agreement with Russia, and remaining U.S. nuclear forces and related infrastructure are modernized to assure long-term reliability and sustainability. It also prevents Russia from reducing or “boxing in” U.S. conventional weapons and defensive capabilities such as missile defense. The U.S. conventional deterrent becomes more important if its nuclear deterrent is reduced. Expands the United States-Russian Federation Joint Center to Allow the Exchange of Data on Missile Defense. The legislation would provide $5 million toward expanding the US-Russian Joint Data Exchange Center to include information sharing on missile defense-related activities. The NATO First Act supports the objective of a strong, cooperative partnership between the United States, NATO and Russia by funding a joint US-Russian data exchange center on missile defense. This will ease Russian concerns about missile defense in Europe and demonstrate that the missile defense program is not directed at the Russian Federation.
06.05.2009	U.S. Congressman Michael Turner today announced that his appointee, Thomas H. Rupp of Sabina, Ohio, has been chosen by the House Congressional leadership to serve as a Page in the U.S. House of Representatives this summer in Washington, DC. share: f t U.S. Congressman Michael Turner today announced that his appointee, Thomas H. Rupp of Sabina, Ohio, has been chosen by the House Congressional leadership to serve as a Page in the U.S. House of Representatives this summer in Washington, DC. The Congressional Page program gives students the opportunity to experience the inner workings of Capitol Hill. Thomas’ service as a Congressional Page begins on July 5, 2009 and concludes on August 1, 2009. Thomas is the son of Thomas and Kathy Rupp of Sabina and he is a junior at East Clinton High School, where he ranks first in a class of 107 students. “The Congressional Page Program offers high school students the unique opportunity to serve their country while witnessing firsthand how our government works,” said Turner. “The young men and women who serve as Congressional Pages represent a cross-section of America, and play an important role in helping the U.S. House of Representatives operate.” East Clinton High School Dean of Students, Ms. Robbin Luck, described Thomas as “a fabulous young man who will be an outstanding representative for the area and our high school.” The Congressional Page program is open to high school juniors who are at least 16 years old. The Page Program is administered through the Office of the Clerk of the House, and the selection process is very competitive. Academic standing is one of the most important criteria used in the selection of pages. A summer Page workday begins at 9:00 a.m. and extends to at least 5:00 p.m., or until the House adjourns for the day – whichever is later. Pages serve primarily as messengers, delivering legislative material between various buildings on Capitol Hill. “I congratulate Thomas on his appointment to the summer Congressional Page Program,” Congressman Turner said. “His hard work and exemplary academic record have made him worthy of this prestigious honor. I am confident that Thomas will represent our community and the state of Ohio honorably,” Turner concluded.
06.02.2009	The spirit of Dayton is not tied to any one company, it lies with its people. I’ll continue to work with state and local leaders to transition the region’s economy.” share: f t U.S. Congressman Michael R. Turner issued the following statement responding to NCR’s decision to leave the Dayton community: “NCR’s decision to leave Dayton comes as a profound disappointment. NCR’s legacy is directly tied to the innovative spirit, ingenuity and hard work of the region. The NCR workforce deserves much credit for the company’s success, and its mark on our community remains strong today. NCR may be leaving Dayton, but the creative spirit that gave birth to it remains in the Miami Valley. The spirit of Dayton is not tied to any one company, it lies with its people. I’ll continue to work with state and local leaders to transition the region’s economy.” During an interview with WDTN's Dan Edwards, Congressman Turner made these remarks about NCR's recent decision to leave Dayton.
06.02.2009	John McHugh is an outstanding choice to be the new Secretary of the Army and I would like to personally congratulate him on his nomination. share: f t U.S. Congressman Michael R. Turner, the Ranking Member of the House Armed Services Strategic Forces Subcommittee, issued the following statement in response to Rep. John McHugh (R-NY) nomination as Secretary of the Army: “John McHugh is an outstanding choice to be the new Secretary of the Army and I would like to personally congratulate him on his nomination. John and I have served together for 7 years on the House Armed Services Committee where I have found him to be a man of great integrity and an uncompromising supporter of our service members. Under his leadership as the Ranking Member of the full committee, John has kept the focus on adequate funding for our troops. I am confident as Secretary of the Army he will remain a strong voice for our national security and our Army personnel. I look forward to his confirmation as the new Secretary of the Army.”
05.26.2009	U.S. Rep. John M. McHugh (R-NY), the top Republican on the Armed Services Committee, and Rep. Michael Turner (R-OH), the Ranking Member of the committee’s Strategic Forces Subcommittee, today released the following joint statement condemning North Korea’s nuclear test: share: f t U.S. Rep. John M. McHugh (R-NY), the top Republican on the Armed Services Committee, and Rep. Michael Turner (R-OH), the Ranking Member of the committee’s Strategic Forces Subcommittee, today released the following joint statement condemning North Korea’s nuclear test: “North Korea’s declared nuclear test, happening on the same day as reported short-range ballistic missile tests, is unacceptable and antagonistic. It demands firm action from the United States and international community, which should generate tough consequences for Pyongyang. “We are deeply disturbed that Kim Jong Il continues to use his nuclear and ballistic missile programs as tools of coercion. This does the people of North Korea a great disservice. “Such tests, one month after Pyongyang defied a U.N. Security Council resolution by demonstrating a long-range ballistic missile, highlights the ineffectiveness of our responses to-date. These have resulted in little more than the occasional ‘wrist slap’. The international community's response to such actions may have implications beyond the region as other nations, especially Iran, take note.”
05.11.2009	Congressman Michael Turner visited the Franklin Yards Transload Terminal and spoke at the ceremony celebrating the redevelopment of the facility. The ceremony showcased the newly established facility and the freight options available to existing local businesses and companies looking to relocate to Southwest Ohio. share: f t Congressman Michael Turner visited the Franklin Yards Transload Terminal and spoke at the ceremony celebrating the redevelopment of the facility. The ceremony showcased the newly established facility and the freight options available to existing local businesses and companies looking to relocate to Southwest Ohio.“The redevelopment of Franklin Yards is a pro-jobs, pro-growth initiative for the region,” Congressman Turner said. “Franklin Yards is strategically located in the middle of the Dayton-Cincinnati corridor, thus offering regional businesses an alternative to centralized freight services. Franklin Yards delivers a rail alternative that Southwest Ohio currently lacks. The redevelopment of this transload facility will attract additional companies to the region.” “Franklin Yards will afford businesses in the City of Franklin, Warren County and Southwest Ohio an alternative freight option that will provide cost savings, new market opportunities and a stronger logistically advantage to customers,” Warren County Commissioner Dave Young said.Franklin Yards is a 220,000 square foot abandoned shingle factory currently undergoing a transformation into a multi-functional transload terminal. The city of Franklin was awarded a $1.6 million dollar State of Ohio Logistics and Distribution loan for the acquisition of capital equipment and renovations to the facility. “Franklin Yards’ centralized facilities will help local companies expand their transport operation. Not only will Franklin Yards provide increased shipping options, but the new transload facility will create new jobs, both at Franklin Yards and throughout the regional business community. I am committed to working with community leaders on projects such as the Franklin Yards redevelopment which will create jobs and stimulate economic growth across Southwest Ohio,” Congressman Turner added.
05.08.2009	Congressman Michael Turner announced that James D. Washburn of Greenfield, Ohio, received his official appointment to the United States Military Academy in West Point, NY. share: f t Congressman Michael Turner announced that James D. Washburn of Greenfield, Ohio, received his official appointment to the United States Military Academy in West Point, NY. Washburn is one of a set of triplet boys, all who received their nominations to the United States Military Academy from Congressman Turner. Washburn was first nominated in 2008 and subsequently offered an appointment to the United States Military Academy Preparatory School (USMAPS) in Fort Monmouth, NJ. USMAPS, also referred to as West Point Prep, prepares candidates for admission to the United States Military Academy. Washburn’s hard work and dedication during the past year at West Point Prep prepared him for his appointment to the United States Military Academy.“James’s appointment to the U.S. Military Academy will offer him a world class education and prepare him for a successful future in any career field he desires,” said Congressman Turner, a member of the House Armed Services Committee. “Attending a military academy offers a solid foundation for future personal success in both the public and private sector. It also gives students an opportunity to proudly serve our nation. I congratulate James on his appointment and wish him the best as he prepares for West Point.”“James was a dedicated student-athlete and he worked hard to achieve his goals in high school,” said Dr. Danny Strain, Principal of Edward Lee McClain High School in Greenfield, Ohio. “I know he had a dream to attend West Point and now he will get to achieve this dream. We are very proud of him.”Washburn is a 2008 graduate of McClain High School in Greenfield, Ohio where he was freshman class secretary and a member of the football and basketball teams. He was also a member of the Boy Scouts of America, the Junior Grange, 4-H Club, a Highland County poll-worker and active in his church. Next month, James reports to West Point to begin his appointment.Annually, Congressman Turner accepts requests for nominations to all of the United States military service academies including the U.S. Air Force Academy in Colorado Springs, CO, the U.S. Coast Guard Academy in New London, CT, the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy in Kings Point, NY, the U.S. Military Academy in West Point, NY, and the U.S. Naval Academy in Annapolis, MD.
05.08.2009	Congressman Michael Turner announced that Emerson Babington of Hillsboro, Ohio, received his official appointment to the United States Air Force Academy. share: f t Congressman Michael Turner announced that Emerson Babington of Hillsboro, Ohio, received his official appointment to the United States Air Force Academy in Colorado Springs, CO. Emerson will report to the Academy in June to begin his appointment.“Emerson’s appointment to the U.S. Air Force Academy will offer him a world class education and prepare him for a successful future in any career field he desires,” said Congressman Turner, a member of the House Armed Services Committee. “I am confident Emerson will represent Ohio well at the Air Force Academy and in his future endeavors. I congratulate him on his appointment and wish him the best as he prepares for Colorado Springs.”“Emerson has been a very hard working student. He has set very high goals for himself and we are very happy that he has received this appointment and realized his dream. We are very proud of him,” says Dr. Danny Strain, Principal of Edward Lee McClain High School in Greenfield, Ohio. Emerson will graduate this month from Edward Lee McClain High School in Greenfield, Ohio. He participated in many extracurricular activities including cross country and track and was captain of the McClain swim team. He has worked on numerous community service initiatives in Highland County and was elected by his “Youth in Government” peers to serve as the 2009 Speaker of the House. Emerson served as a member of the Rock Fork Civil Air Patrol and has worked as a lifeguard and swim instructor at the Highland County Family YMCA. Annually, Congressman Turner accepts requests for nominations to all of the United States military service academies including the U.S. Air Force Academy in Colorado Springs, CO, the U.S. Coast Guard Academy in New London, CT, the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy in Kings Point, NY, the U.S. Military Academy in West Point, NY, and the U.S. Naval Academy in Annapolis, MD.
05.07.2009	The top Republicans on the Armed Services Committee and the Subcommittee on Strategic Forces today called attention to a new report released by the Congressional Commission on the Strategic Posture of the United States. The findings, which were delivered to Congress at an Armed Services Committee hearing today, reaffirm the need for the United States to maintain a strong, diverse, and credible nuclear deterrent. share: f t The top Republicans on the Armed Services Committee and the Subcommittee on Strategic Forces today called attention to a new report released by the Congressional Commission on the Strategic Posture of the United States. The findings, which were delivered to Congress at an Armed Services Committee hearing today, reaffirm the need for the United States to maintain a strong, diverse, and credible nuclear deterrent. The Commission’s final report can be found at http://www.usip.org/strategic_posture/.“The Commission’s report is thoughtful and thorough. It is refreshing that such unanimous bipartisan consensus can be reached on such a complex set of issues. I am hopeful that the Administration, working with members of Congress on both sides of the aisle, can build upon this bipartisan momentum as it works to define America’s nuclear policies and posture. I commend these twelve senior statesmen on their efforts,” said Rep. John M. McHugh (R-NY), the Ranking Member of the House Armed Services Committee.“The consensus reached in this report establishes a welcome framework for upcoming discussions regarding our strategic deterrence and weapons capabilities. Among other issues, the report calls for a renewed commitment for supporting our scientists and engineers who support our Strategic Weapons complex. As the Strategic Forces Subcommittee works with the Administration on budget and policy issues regarding our strategic assets, I hope we can continue a similar bi-partisan approach. The Commission’s report will help inform that process. In particular, the Administration and the Congress must understand the ramifications or unintended consequences of any decisions they make,” said Rep. Michael R. Turner (R-OH), the Ranking Member of the House Armed Services Strategic Forces Committee.McHugh and Turner underscored the following key points from their review of the Commission’s final report:Reaffirms the need to maintain U.S. nuclear deterrence despite calls for abolition. In a speech in Prague on April 5, President Obama called for a “world without nuclear weapons.” While a noble intent, the bipartisan Commission, however, unanimously reaffirmed the need for the United States to maintain its nuclear deterrent. The Executive Summary of the report states: “The conditions that might make possible the global elimination of nuclear weapons are not present today and their creation would require a fundamental transformation of the world political order.” According to the Commission, “As long as nuclear dangers remain, the U.S. must have a strong and credible deterrent.” Reaffirms the United States’ commitment to extended deterrence. The Commission’s report reaffirms that the United States nuclear deterrence is still required in order to assure our allies of the U.S. commitment to their security. Specifically, the report highlights that the nuclear umbrella provided to our allies supports global nonproliferation efforts. Without extended deterrence guarantees from the United States, our allies may feel enormous pressure to possess their own nuclear weapons. This perception of the credibility of the U.S. nuclear deterrent is an important consideration in U.S. nuclear posture, force size, and specific capability decisions. Urges caution on U.S. reductions and arms control in an uncertain strategic environment. The Commission noted that Russia and China are engaged in broad strategic modernization programs, and in particular raised concern about the Russian-favored imbalance in non-strategic nuclear weapons. The reports states that U.S. stockpile reductions are possible, but should not be unilateral. Also, U.S. allies should be consulted and assured that such changes do not weaken U.S. extended deterrence guarantees. Supports modernization of our nuclear stockpile and infrastructure. According to the commissioners, the United States possesses an aging nuclear stockpile that “cannot be relied upon for the indefinite future.” The Commission supports a modernization approach to sustain the long-term reliability, safety, and security of our stockpile and does not believe it conflicts with our nonproliferation objectives. Additionally, the report stated that the U.S. nuclear weapons complex “is in serious need of transformation” but “lacks the needed funding.” Urges focus on immediate nuclear dangers and expansion of U.S. deterrence options. HASC Republicans applaud the President’s vision for a “world without nuclear weapons” but worry its allure may be a distraction from the near-term nuclear security and proliferation challenges facing our nation and the international community. The report supports the urgent need to address the threat posed by Iran and North Korea’s nuclear programs, and recognizes the motivations driving these actors to go nuclear are complex and not easily removed with changes to U.S. nuclear posture. The Commission puts forth a comprehensive strategy that advocates for a decrease in our dependence on nuclear forces but recognizes that the U.S. must also provide the President a broad set of capabilities and deterrence options to strengthen our security and that of our allies, including missile defenses, advanced conventional capabilities, unconventional capabilities, intelligence, and nonproliferation measures.
04.17.2009	U.S. Congressman Michael Turner today issued the following statement in response to DHL’s decision to relocate their operations to Northern Kentucky: share: f t U.S. Congressman Michael Turner today issued the following statement in response to DHL’s decision to relocate their operations to Northern Kentucky: “I am disappointed in DHL’s decision to relocate their international business operations to Northern Kentucky. The community and local officials have worked diligently to make Clinton County an attractive place to do business. “Instead of standing by their commitment, DHL executives have decided to walk away from the community and abandon an exceptional and dedicated workforce. “The town of Wilmington came together to speak as one voice. Citizens have put up a good fight in an effort to keep DHL in Clinton County. I know the community is resilient and will recover. I will continue to work with residents and local officials for the future economic success of Wilmington.”
04.15.2009	U.S. Congressman Michael Turner today met with Farhan Ftaikhan Al-Farhan, Mayor of Al Qaim, Iraq, at his office on Capitol Hill. They discussed U.S. – Iraq relations, current security conditions in the Al Anbar province, and reconstruction efforts in the region. share: f t U.S. Congressman Michael Turner today met with Farhan Ftaikhan Al-Farhan, Mayor of Al Qaim, Iraq, at his office on Capitol Hill. They discussed U.S. – Iraq relations, current security conditions in the Al Anbar province, and reconstruction efforts in the region. Following their meeting, Congressman Turner then gave Mayor Al-Farhan a tour of the U.S. Capitol, the House floor, and the recently-opened Capitol Visitors Center. Congressman Turner’s meeting today developed following his previous visit with elected officials in the Al Anbar province. Congressman Turner, ranking member on the House Armed Services Strategic Forces Subcommittee, toured the province during an August 2008 Congressional Delegation visit to Iraq. Congressman Turner and Mayor Al-Farhan shared their experiences as local officials. Turner served as mayor of Dayton, Ohio prior to his election to the U.S. Congress in 2003. Al-Farhan was elected Al Qaim mayor in 2006 and has been instrumental in developing a strong civil government in Al Qaim. With a population of 230,000, Al Qaim is situated along the Euphrates River near the Syrian border and 200 miles northwest of Baghdad. Al Qaim is the third largest city in the Al Anbar governorate, Iraq’s largest geographic province. Early in the Iraq War, Al Qaim was a hotbed of attacks by Iraqi insurgents against U.S. military personnel. However, through the leadership of local officials like Mayor Al-Farhan, attacks have dramatically decreased and the region is becoming safer for both Iraqi citizens and U.S. military personnel. “Mayor Al-Farhan’s visit to the United States provides him with firsthand knowledge of the inner-workings of the U.S. democratic system,” said Congressman Turner. “As Iraq continues to advance toward a path of independence and sovereignty, I welcome Mayor Al-Farhan to the U.S. and look forward to working with him to strengthen U.S. – Iraqi relations and security efforts in the Al Anbar province.” Mayor Al-Farhan’s visit to the United States was arranged by the U.S. State Department’s International Visitor Leadership Program. His itinerary is tailored to provide him with a valuable prospective on Western government and culture and broaden his commitment to democracy. An objective of Mayor Al-Farhan’s visit is to learn more about the inner workings of municipalities and gain a better understanding of the overall system of government and the balance of power in the United States.
04.14.2009	U.S. Congressman Michael Turner presented Mayor Richard Zink and Hillsboro city officials with a ceremonial check in the amount of $1 million to assist in the cost for needed infrastructure improvements to the Hillsboro Wastewater Treatment Plant. share: f t U.S. Congressman Michael Turner presented Mayor Richard Zink and Hillsboro city officials with a ceremonial check in the amount of $1 million to assist in the cost for needed infrastructure improvements to the Hillsboro Wastewater Treatment Plant. At the request of local officials, Congressman Turner secured $1 million in federal support for Hillsboro’s infrastructure enhancements as part of his Fiscal Year 2009 Energy and Water funding requests. “The city of Hillsboro, like many small towns, has an aging infrastructure in need of critical improvements,” Congressman Turner said. “Hillsboro’s existing wastewater treatment plant does not meet current EPA standards. This presents problematic environmental concerns for the safety of the local water supply. These dollars will help as the city moves forward with planned upgrades to the facility. I look forward to working with Mayor Zink and local officials on future projects to improve Hillsboro’s infrastructure.”The funding will help Hillsboro officials pay for upgrades to the wastewater treatment plant that will make the facility compliant with environmental protection agency (EPA) regulations, including provisions in the federal Clean Water Act. The city also plans to make upgrades to equipment required for the treatment of waste, such as pumps and clarifiers, which are used to remove solids from liquids and the construction of a levy, since the plant is located in a floodway.
04.10.2009	Congressman Michael Turner announced that his office is eligible to sponsor a Congressional Page for the Summer II Session, which begins on July 5, 2009 and concludes on August 1, 2009. The Congressional Page program gives students the opportunity to experience the inner workings of Capitol Hill. share: f t Congressman Michael Turner announced that his office is eligible to sponsor a Congressional Page for the Summer II Session, which begins on July 5, 2009 and concludes on August 1, 2009. The Congressional Page program gives students the opportunity to experience the inner workings of Capitol Hill. A summer Congressional Page receives a stipend and resides in the Page Residence Hall on Capitol Hill. A summer Page workday begins at 9:00 a.m. and extends to at least 5:00 p.m., or until the House adjourns for the day – whichever is later. Pages serve primarily as messengers, delivering legislative material between various buildings on Capitol Hill.The Page Program is administered through the Office of the Clerk of the House, and the selection process is very competitive. Academic standing is one of the most important criteria used in the selection of pages. Congressman Turner will nominate one student but the final selection is determined by the House Congressional leadership.“The Congressional Page Program offers high school students the unique opportunity to serve their country while witnessing firsthand how our government works,” said Turner. “I strongly encourage students interested in government and public service to apply. I look forward to nominating one of the best and brightest students from Ohio’s Third Congressional District for this unique opportunity.”Students entering into their junior or senior year this fall are encouraged to apply. Applicants must be at least 16 years of age; reside in the Third Congressional District; have a grade point average of 3.0 or higher; submit a 250-300 word essay on why they want to be a Congressional Page; include an official high school transcript; a resume of extra-curricular activities, and three letters of recommendation.Applications must be submitted to Congressman Turner’s office by Thursday, April 30, 2009 at 12:00 noon. High school students interested in applying for the Congressional Page program should contact Congressman Turner’s Washington, D.C. office at 202-225-6465 or the Dayton district office at 937-225-2843. Students may also visit his website at http://turner.house.gov/ConstituentServices/PageProgram.htm for additional information
04.09.2009	Congressman Mike Turner will appear on Fox News Channel’s “Hannity” cable television show this Thursday, April 9 at 9:00 p.m. ET. share: f t Congressman Mike Turner will appear on Fox News Channel’s “Hannity” cable television show this Thursday, April 9 at 9:00 p.m. ET. During the hour-long special “Six Ideas to Save America,” Sean Hannity will feature proposals from Republican officials to help address the country’s current economic challenges. Congressman Turner will share his ideas to correct the home foreclosure and mortgage lending crisis. In addition, he will discuss the “Rehabarama” housing revitalization program he implemented while mayor of the city of Dayton.
04.06.2009	North Korea’s launch of a Taepodong-2 ballistic missile on Saturday is provocative and demonstrates a clear and present threat to the U.S. and U.S. forces and allies in the Pacific region. share: f t U.S. Congressman Michael R. Turner (R-Ohio-3), the Ranking Member of the House Armed Services Strategic Forces Subcommittee, issued the following statement in response to Saturday’s missile launch by North Korea:“North Korea’s launch of a Taepodong-2 ballistic missile on Saturday is provocative and demonstrates a clear and present threat to the U.S. and U.S. forces and allies in the Pacific region. It violates UN Security Council Resolution 1718 and was done in defiance of numerous international warnings.“This launch demonstrates North Korea’s continued focus on developing long-range ballistic missiles that have the potential to reach Guam, Hawaii, and the western U.S. With their history of ballistic missile and nuclear proliferation, we must be vigilant in seeing that North Korea does not proliferate this technology to Iran and others. “It is important that the U.S. broaden its efforts to address the security challenges posed by North Korea. The U.S. must leverage all the tools of national power at its disposal, including diplomacy and the Six-Party talks aimed at denuclearizing the Korean peninsula, economic sanctions, engagement with other influential nations, and continued investment in the protective capabilities that missile defense provides.“On a related note, I want to commend the men and women of the National Air and Space Intelligence Center (NASIC) in Dayton, Ohio who are providing our national leaders with immediate assessments of this launch. Much of their work is classified so they often go unnoticed in the district, but members of Congress, our national leaders, and military commanders rely on their expertise and analysis to make informed policy and defense decisions.”
04.06.2009	Congressman Turner announced that the Ohio Congressional Delegation has sent a letter to NASA in support of the space agency assigning a retired space shuttle for public display at the Air Force Museum. share: f t U.S. Congressman Michael R. Turner announced that the Ohio Congressional Delegation has sent a letter to the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) in support of the space agency assigning a retired space shuttle orbiter for public display at the National Museum of the United States Air Force at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base in Dayton, Ohio.“The National Museum of the United States Air Force is the ideal facility to preserve the legacy of NASA’s Space Shuttle program,” Congressman Turner said. “The U.S. Air Force played a significant role in developing the nation’s space program. Retiring a space shuttle orbiter at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base will serve as an educational attraction for students and residents interested in learning more about the history of America’s space program. In addition, the attraction will help encourage local tourism and economic growth. I appreciate the support of the entire Ohio Congressional Delegation in this effort.”Congressman Turner coordinated the Ohio Congressional Delegation correspondence to NASA. The letter was mailed and faxed to NASA’s Acting Administrator Christopher J. Scolese. *** A text of the Ohio Congressional Delegation letter follows. *** April 3, 2009Mr. Christopher J. ScoleseActing AdministratorNational Aeronautics and Space Administration300 E Street, S.W.Washington D.C. 20546-0002Dear Mr. Scolese:America’s Space Shuttle program is nearing the completion of its scheduled service to our nation’s space program. At that time, it will be important to recognize and preserve the great successes, achievements, and sacrifices of the orbiter program on behalf of the American people. The disposition of the orbiter fleet, along with the residual space shuttle artifacts, is a key ingredient in interpreting the remarkable story of both NASA and the Air Force’s roles in space exploration and the practical applications of space-based systems.The National Museum of the United States Air Force (NMUSAF) at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base, Ohio, has identified the Air Force’s space mission as its most important exhibit priority. The Air Force was deeply involved in determining the orbiters’ design and capabilities, and many shuttle astronauts have been Air Force members. At least ten shuttle flights have been devoted exclusively to Department of Defense projects, and several Air Force experiments have flown on other flights. The Air Force’s role in shuttle development and missions demonstrates the close connection between NASA and the Air Force. Placing a space shuttle orbiter on display at the National Museum would provide the ideal backdrop to this story. To that end, we fully support the request by the Air Force for a retired operational orbiter, such as “Atlantis,” for long term preservation and public display at the National Museum of the United States Air Force.With 1.3 million visitors annually, and located within a 600-mile radius of more than 60 percent of the U.S. population, the NMUSAF is an appropriate and accessible venue to exhibit an important American treasure such as the space shuttle orbiter. As one of the few institutions able to display and preserve a shuttle orbiter indoors for year-round visitor comfort, the NMUSAF offers a professional aerospace vehicle restoration staff of Air Force civilian technicians, specialized equipment, and resources to accomplish the necessary preparations on the orbiter in order to place it on public display and ensure its preservation. The orbiter would be housed in a proposed Space Shuttle Gallery, which will also house Mercury, Gemini and Apollo capsules, and other space artifacts currently in the NMUSAF collection. Expanded exhibits will also include a range of satellites and booster systems already in the national historic collection in order to present the full array of space-related activities illustrating the NASA-Air Force partnership.Charged with the stewardship of the Air Force’s national historic collection, the National Museum of the United States Air Force is the ideal destination for one of the remaining space shuttle orbiters at the conclusion of the active flight program. To be included in the world’s oldest and largest collection of military aviation artifacts will assure the preservation of one of America’s most priceless historical artifacts and tell the story of its remarkable achievements in this nation’s rich history. Sincerely,Michael R. Turner George V. VoinovichJohn A. Boehner Sherrod BrownSteve Driehaus Charlie WilsonMarcia Fudge Steven C. LaTouretteTim Ryan Jean SchmidtSteve Austria Marcy KapturPatrick J. Tiberi Mary Jo Kilroy Zack Space Jim JordanRobert E. Latta Dennis J. KucinichBetty Sutton John Boccieri
04.01.2009	I am pleased to announce the 2009 Congressional Art Competition for Ohio’s Third Congressional District. The Competition is open to all high school students who live in Ohio’s Third Congressional District. share: f t I am pleased to announce the 2009 Congressional Art Competition for Ohio’s Third Congressional District. The Competition is open to all high school students who live in Ohio’s Third Congressional District. Students will compete for one of four generous academic scholarships and the opportunity to visit Washington, D.C. this summer. The annual competition was created in 1982 as a way to showcase the artistic talents of young people throughout the country. The goal of the contest is to support and promote the arts and reward artistic expression in our youth. This contest will further develop creativity and original thought in our young people. These skills may prove to be invaluable as they move forward with their education and careers. The rules for participating in the contest are as follows: The competition is open to all high school students, Grades 9-12, who live in Ohio’s Third Congressional District. Students may obtain entry forms from their high school art teachers. Parents of home-schooled students should contact my district offices in Dayton to receive entry forms. Each student may submit one piece of two-dimensional artwork. Framed artwork must be no larger than 30 inches by 30 inches by 4 inches deep, and may include: Paintings (oils, watercolors, acrylics, etc.); Drawings (pencil, colored pencil, charcoal, pastels, ink, markers, etc.); Collages (must be two-dimensional); Prints (lithographs, silks screens, block prints) and Mixed media. Art work must be matted and should be in white, cream, or black. Each entry must be original in concept, design, and execution and may not violate U.S. copyright laws. Teachers must schedule an appointment with the Dayton Art Institute to drop off artwork or make an appointment with Jim Knupp in my Dayton District office to have artwork picked up. Our goal is to make entry as easy as possible for parents, teachers and students. The deadline for submissions is Tuesday, April 14, 2009. There are up to four scholarship opportunities available to the contest winners. The first place winner of the Congressional Art Competition has the choice of either a $1,500 annual scholarship from the Savannah College of Art and Design (SCAD) or a one-time general study scholarship to one of the following institutions: The University of Dayton ($2,000 scholarship), Sinclair Community College ($1,000 scholarship), and Wright State University ($2,000 scholarship). The remaining scholarships will be awarded to other winners of the competition. In addition, the first place winner will also receive a trip to Washington, D.C. to attend a ceremony at the U.S. Capitol, where their artwork will be on display for one year along with the work of Congressional Art contest winners across the nation. The Congressional Art Competition continues to receive fabulous support from the local community. The Dayton Art Institute, WHIO-TV and Time Warner Cable join me in supporting this annual art contest. The artwork will be on display at the Dayton Art Institute from Friday, April 17 through Sunday, May 10, 2009. I encourage all Ohioans to visit the museum so that they can see all the entries. A panel of local artists, art teachers, and local community leaders will select four winners and six honorable mentions. I look forward to seeing the many entries in this contest from talented young local artists. This is a great opportunity to support the arts. One of our nation’s future prominent artists may be growing up right now in Ohio’s Third Congressional District and this contest is a great way to encourage that talent. Anyone seeking additional information should contact Jim Knupp in my Dayton district office at (937) 225-2843.
03.30.2009	Congressman Mike Turner today attended the White House ceremony where he witnessed President Barack Obama sign into law legislation authored by Turner to include Hawthorn Hill and the Wright Factory buildings under the protection of the National Park Service. share: f t Congressman Mike Turner (R-Ohio-3) today attended the White House ceremony where he witnessed President Barack Obama sign into law legislation authored by Turner to include Hawthorn Hill and the Wright Factory buildings under the protection of the National Park Service. Congressman Turner’s legislation was part of an omnibus land package that was stalled in the Senate in the previous session of Congress and received final Congressional passage last week. Amanda Wright Lane, the Wright Brothers’ great grandniece, joined Congressman Turner for the ceremony held in the White House East Room.“Adding Hawthorn Hill and the Wright Factory buildings to the Dayton Aviation National Heritage Historic Park is a significant milestone for the community,” Congressman Turner said. “These historic landmarks will be protected by the National Park Service for the enjoyment of residents and visitors for years to come.”“I thank Congressman Turner for his hard work to preserve Dayton’s aviation heritage,” said Amanda Wright Lane, the Wright Brothers’ great-grandniece. “His advocacy in pressing this legislation will make certain the historic achievements of my great-granduncles will forever live in the Dayton community.” Hawthorn Hill was designed by Wilbur and Orville Wright and was the home of the Wright family until 1948. Adding the Oakwood residence to the National Park Service will ensure that this architectural landmark remains available for public appreciation. The Wright Company Factory buildings in west Dayton are the first American facilities specifically designed and built for the manufacture of airplanes. The Wright Company operated at the site from 1910-1916 and produced 13 different models of airplanes. In addition to including the two local landmarks as part of the Dayton Aviation Heritage National Historic Park, Congressman Turner’s legislation authorizes grants for local community organizations such as Dayton History to help with operating costs.
03.25.2009	Congressman Mike Turner’s legislation that will place Hawthorn Hill and the Wright Factory buildings in the Dayton area under the protection of the National Park Service today passed the House of Representatives. share: f t Congressman Mike Turner’s (R-OH) legislation that will place Hawthorn Hill and the Wright Factory buildings in the Dayton area under the protection of the National Park Service today passed the House of Representatives. Congressman Turner’s legislation passed as part of an omnibus land package that had stalled in the Senate in the previous Congress. This legislation passed the Senate late last week and now heads to the President’s desk for his signature. Congressman Turner’s legislation is supported by descendents of the Wright Brothers. His bill has passed the House of Representatives in previous Congresses. “This legislation will help our community preserve the spirit and story of the Wright Brothers,” Congressman Turner said. “Now that this legislation has passed both the House and Senate, I look forward to seeing it signed into law by the President. Once this happens, these historic sites will have the federal protection that the Wright Brothers and our community deserve.” Hawthorn Hill was designed by Wilbur and Orville Wright and was the home of the Wright family until 1948. Adding the Oakwood residence to the National Park Service will ensure that this architectural landmark remains available for public appreciation. The Wright Company Factory buildings in west Dayton are the first American facilities specifically designed and built for the manufacture of airplanes. The Wright Company operated at the site from 1910-1916 and produced 13 different models of airplanes. In addition to including the two local landmarks as part of the Dayton Aviation Heritage National Historic Park, Congressman Turner’s legislation authorizes grants for local community organizations such as Dayton History to help with operating costs. Addition of these sites to the Dayton Aviation Heritage National Historic Park is supported by the Wright family.
03.19.2009	Congressman Mike Turner today led an Ohio Delegation letter supporting continued negotiations between DHL and local employers ABX and ASTAR. share: f t Washington, D.C.- Congressman Mike Turner (OH-03) today led an Ohio Delegation letter supporting continued negotiations between DHL and local employers ABX and ASTAR. The negotiations have begun as a result of the expiration of an exclusivity agreement that would not allow DHL to negotiate with anyone other than UPS and could allow DHL to maintain its international operations in Wilmington. “I am hopeful that these negotiations will result in an arrangement that is beneficial to all of these companies and to workers throughout Southwest Ohio,” Congressman Turner said. “I will work with the Ohio Delegation and leaders throughout our community to offer any assistance that might be needed.” Congressman Turner sent the letter with Senators George Voinovich and Sherrod Brown and the entire Ohio Congressional Delegation. Congressman Turner has testified before the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee and the House Judiciary Committee regarding the ongoing issue at the Wilmington Airpark. Congressman Turner has also worked with the Ohio Delegation to successfully secure retraining and transition benefits for displaced workers in Southwest Ohio.
03.16.2009	Congressman Mike Turner recently sought the assistance of Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton in extraditing Marine Corporal Cesar Laurean from Mexico so that he may be charged with the rape and murder of Lance Corporal Maria Lauterbach. share: f t Congressman Mike Turner (OH-03) recently sought the assistance of Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton in extraditing Marine Corporal Cesar Laurean from Mexico so that he may be charged with the rape and murder of Lance Corporal Maria Lauterbach. Rep. Turner has worked with the Lauterbach family, who are his constituents, to reform the process of reporting sexual assault for those serving in the military. “Cesar Laurean is charged with the heinous crimes of rape and murder and it is imperative that he be brought to justice,” Congressman Turner said. “I hope that Secretary Clinton will be able to help the Lauterbach family in their efforts to bring closure to this process and peace to Maria and her unborn child.” Lance Corporal Maria Lauterbach and her unborn child were murdered in December 2007 and buried in the backyard of fellow Marine Cpl Cesar Laurean in Camp Lejeune North Carolina. Lauterbach had previously accused Laurean of rape. Laurean fled to Mexico where he was arrested in April of 2008 and was ordered to be extradited back to the United States in September. Laurean appealed this order and since that time the Lauterbach family has received no news regarding the status or progress of the extradition order. Because Cesar Laurean is eligible to claim dual American and Mexican citizenship, it is critical that proper diplomatic efforts be made. “Our nation owes Maria, her unborn child, and the Lauterbach family every possible effort to bring Cesar Laurean to justice,” Rep. Turner said. “I am hopeful that Secretary Clinton and the State Department can help to finally resolve this sad case.”
03.13.2009	Congressman Michael R. Turner, cosponsored bipartisan legislation to ensure increased transparency and accountability in the use of TARP funds. share: f t Congressman Michael R. Turner, cosponsored bipartisan legislation to ensure increased transparency and accountability in the use of TARP funds. TARP is the Troubled Asset Relief Program created as part of the $700 billion bank bailout passed by Congress, and opposed by Congressman Turner, in October of 2008. One of the main reasons Congressman Turner opposed the bank bailout bill was because it failed to provide sufficient oversight and accountability of taxpayer money being given to troubled banks. During the original debate of the legislation, Congressman Turner said, “I believe that making the wrong choice today places a risky and heavy burden on taxpayers. Any legislation we bring forward must hold the right people accountable and prohibit the bad lending actions that led to this crisis.”The TARP Accountability and Disclosure Act is designed to help repair some of the lack of accountability in the original bank bailout bill. The legislation being introduced will require the creation of a database enabling the analysis and monitoring of how the TARP funds are being used by the recipient banks. It will require that all relevant TARP data, from both government and third-party sources, be collected by the Department of Treasury and be put into a consistent and standardized format, making TARP funds more transparent and traceable. The database will also allow the Treasury to monitor inconsistencies in near real time, alerting officials to the misuse of funds at both the corporate and individual officer level. Congressman Turner said, “I am committed to holding these lenders accountable and to finding solutions that provide real help to both our economy and to American taxpayers.” Congressman Turner believes that this legislation is a good first step towards achieving that goal.
03.13.2009	Washington, D.C.- Congressman Mike Turner has been named to the Readiness Subcommittee of the House Armed Services Committee. share: f t Washington, D.C.- Congressman Mike Turner (R-OH) has been named to the Readiness Subcommittee of the House Armed Services Committee. Rep. Turner is also the Ranking Member of the Strategic Forces Subcommittee and has served on the House Armed Services Committee since coming to Congress in 2003. “I am very proud to serve on the House Armed Services Committee and look forward to serving on the Readiness Subcommittee,” Congressman Turner said. “This subcommittee is not only responsible for our military’s state of readiness, it also plays a major role in the Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) Process. They also have oversight of all military construction projects and military training. Clearly, the work done in this subcommittee is critical to both our nation’s continued military superiority and to Southwest Ohio.”Congressman Turner also serves on the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform where he serves on the National Security and Foreign Affairs Subcommittee as well as the Domestic Policy Subcommittee. “My work on this subcommittee will directly impact Wright-Patterson Air Force Base, the largest employer in our region,” Rep. Turner said. “I look forward to working with Chairman Ortiz and Ranking Member Forbes to strengthen our nation’s military.”
03.06.2009	Congressman Mike Turner recently joined House Armed Services Committee Ranking Member John McHugh (R-NY) in expressing to President Obama their strong concerns over a proposal to discard a missile defense system that is being developed to protect America and it’s European allies. share: f t As Ranking Member of the Strategic Forces Subcommittee, Congressman Mike Turner recently joined House Armed Services Committee Ranking Member John McHugh (R-NY) in expressing to President Barack Obama their strong concerns over a reported proposal to discard a missile defense system that is being developed to protect America and it’s European allies. The Strategic Forces Subcommittee has jurisdiction over missile defense issues. Turner and McHugh were joined by more than forty of their colleagues in a letter to the President where they expressed concern over news reports that the Obama Administration proposes to halt the development of a European missile defense system in return for assurances from the Russian government that they will assist in preventing Iran from developing nuclear warheads and ballistic missiles. The text of the letter follows:Dear President Obama:If reports are accurate, it is our understanding that you sent a letter to Russian President Medvedev last month suggesting your Administration would halt the development of a European missile defense system in exchange for Russian assistance to stop Iran from developing nuclear warheads and ballistic missiles. We are concerned that the Administration may be undertaking a surprisingly unilateral action. Though we share your strong devotion to our national security and the security of our allies, we believe it is unwise and premature to offer such a concession. We urge you to clarify your Administration’s position and respectfully caution against a policy that relies too heavily on Russian cooperation.Reports of the letter are disconcerting for a number of reasons. Foremost, the policy does not adequately recognize the threat posed by Iran. Moreover, it rests on a questionable assumption that Russia can effectively curb Iran’s nuclear ambitions and weakens our position in future bilateral negotiations. Lastly, it undermines NATO’s endorsement of the European missile defense proposal. In particular, it undercuts our allies—the Czech Republic and Poland—who received bipartisan assurances that once they approved the missile defense agreements, the U.S. would provide support and funding. Russia’s actions, particularly in Eastern Europe, give us little confidence that they can be relied upon to follow through with such a commitment. Over the last year, as you know, Russia has pursued a divisive policy to re-exert its Soviet-era sphere of influence. During this time, Russia invaded Georgia, intimidated other nations from joining NATO, and threatened to target Eastern Europe with nuclear missiles should the proposed European missile defense sites be built. Further, amidst a global economic crisis, Russia has disrupted shipments of natural gas to Europe for the second time in three years. Most recently, Russia used financial incentives to persuade Kyrgyzstan to deny the U.S. access to its Manas military base in order to support coalition operations in Afghanistan. Given these events, we seriously question reliance upon Russia’s support for a common approach on Iran or missile defense. Iran has clearly indicated they have no intention of halting their nuclear or ballistic missile programs, and their recent actions substantiate this point. Last month, they launched a satellite into orbit using dual-use, long-range ballistic missile technology. Last weekend, the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff announced that Iran has enough enriched uranium for a nuclear weapon. Two weeks ago, the International Atomic Energy Agency found that Iran underestimated by a third how much uranium it has enriched and noted that Iran has a total of 5,600 centrifuges—an increase from the 3,800 listed in a November 2008 report—despite three rounds of United Nations Security Council sanctions. Despite these developments, Russian leaders have indicated a fundamental disagreement with the West’s views on the threat posed by Iran. Simply put, they apparently do not see a threat. Furthermore, Moscow continues to benefit economically from its support of Iran’s nuclear program, specifically through the Bushehr nuclear reactor it has helped Iran build. For all these reasons, we remain skeptical that Russia would be in a position to halt Iran’s nuclear and ballistic missile ambitions, and cautious of a strategy that relies on that nation’s action vis-à-vis Iran to protect us and our allies. Furthermore, we anticipate bilateral arms control negations with Russia this year and are concerned that any concessions promised in this regard may prejudice favorable outcomes. As Robert Kagan recently noted, “If Russian leaders believe that the United States is looking for a way out... they will negotiate accordingly. They might ask why they should make a deal at all.” If Russia perceives it can gain U.S. concessions on missile defense now, will it be more likely to demand greater concessions later in negotiations on arms control, nonproliferation, and counter-terrorism? Lastly, as you know, the European missile defense proposal is a NATO policy. During last year’s Bucharest Summit, its leaders endorsed the proposal to place 10 interceptors in Poland and a radar in the Czech Republic, citing its “substantial contribution to the protection of Allies.” According to the studies we’ve seen, this proposal is cost-effective and the technology, which is largely based on systems fielded today in Alaska and California, works. Should the United States jettison this proposal, we risk losing our credibility both in the alliance and as a global leader in building collective security. In today’s complex geopolitical environment, our relationship with our allies and friends is paramount to addressing our mutual security concerns. What message does it send to our allies—specifically the Czech Republic and Poland—that the United States may not carry out its security commitments? We strongly support the goal of preventing Iran from developing nuclear weapons and ballistic missiles, and believe it is in Russia’s interests to work with the international community to achieve this goal. However, we do not believe that terminating the European missile defense proposal in exchange for Russian assistance with Iran is the best course of action to meet our national security objectives. Mr. President, in the future, we hope you will choose consultation with the Congress and our allies instead of unilateral action when crafting such important policy proposals. There is bipartisan support in Congress for European missile defense and we look forward to the clarification of your position on this vital issue. As you discuss our collective security challenges with the international community, we encourage you to send a clear, transparent, and consistent message to our allies that we will honor our collective security commitments. Sincerely,Michael Turner (OH)John Boehner (OH)Eric Cantor (VA)Mike Pence (IN)John M. McHugh (NY)Robert B. Aderholt (AL)Todd Akin (MO)Michele Bachmann (MN)Spencer Bachus (AL)Rob Bishop (UT)Marsha Blackburn (TN)Roy Blunt (MO)Kevin Brady (TX)Dan Burton (IN)Mike Coffman (CO)Mike Conaway (TX)Lincoln Diaz-Balart (FL)Mario Diaz-Balart (FL)Mary Fallin (OK)John Fleming (LA)Trent Franks (AZ)Phil Gingrey (GA)Louie Gohmert (TX)Kay Granger (TX) Jeb Hensarling (TX)Duncan Hunter (CA)Steve King (IA)John Kline (MN)Doug Lamborn (CO)Don Manzullo (IL)Howard P. “Buck” McKeon (CA)Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA)Jeff Miller (FL)Randy Neugebauer (TX)Pete Olson (TX)Joseph R. Pitts (PA)Mike Rogers (AL)Mike Rogers (MI)Tom Rooney (FL)Aaron Schock (IL)Jim Sensenbrenner (WI)John Shadegg (AZ)Bill Shuster (PA)Glenn “GT” Thompson (PA)Joe Wilson (SC)Rob Wittman (VA)
03.06.2009	Congressman Mike Turner (OH-03) today sent a letter to Delphi Corporation Executive Chairman Steve Miller urging him to reconsider the company’s recent proposal to eliminate the healthcare and insurance benefits of 15,000 Delphi employees, retirees, and family members. share: f t Congressman Mike Turner (OH-03) today sent a letter to Delphi Corporation Executive Chairman Steve Miller urging him to reconsider the company’s recent proposal to eliminate the healthcare and insurance benefits of 15,000 Delphi employees, retirees, and family members. The Dayton area is the historical home of the Delphi company and is also home to thousands of workers and families who will be affected by the decision. “These are clearly difficult times and Delphi is obviously facing tough choices,” Rep. Turner said. “However, there must be a better way than giving 15,000 working families and retirees one month in the middle of a recession to find health care. I urge Delphi and all parties involved in the process to work together to find a better solution.”Estimates show that the financial burden of replacing their health insurance coverage will likely cost a retiree approximately $14,000 per year. Additionally, the termination date has been set for April 1 and will not allow even those who can weather the financial burden sufficient time to replace their health coverage. “This situation is gravely serious for thousands in our community and across the country,” Rep. Turner said. “I am hopeful that an accommodation can be reached that will allow the company to remain competitive and protect employees, retirees, and their families.”
03.04.2009	Congressman Mike Turner today introduced legislation that seeks to create a Congressional Commission on the nation’s current foreclosure and mortgage lending crisis. share: f t Congressman Mike Turner (OH-03) today introduced legislation that seeks to create a Congressional Commission on the nation’s current foreclosure and mortgage lending crisis. Rep. Turner originally proposed the Commission last week as an amendment to H.R. 1106. The bi-partisan commission would consist of ten members, including two co-chairmen. “The current foreclosure and mortgage crisis facing our nation has threatened homeowners and communities across the country. This crisis has significantly impacted the very foundation of our economy,” Congressman Turner said. “Literally trillions of taxpayer dollars have been spent trying to address our current global economic crisis and yet millions of Americans are still in danger of losing their homes and their piece of the American dream. It is of vital importance that Congress establish a Commission to review how and why this alarming situation came about and to recommend the necessary changes to both help solve this issue and to make certain that we never find ourselves in this situation again.”The Commission will be enlisted with the following responsibilities: Study and assess the current legal and regulatory framework governing the housing mortgage lending markets and investigate how the current legal and regulatory framework contributed to the increased foreclosure rate: including refinancing practices; loan to value ratios; and the prevalence of fraudulent industry practices. Recommend changes to the current legal and regulatory framework to prohibit lending practices that have contributed to the mortgage lending crisis. Review impact of subprime abuses and predatory lending practices. Assess the role of states in enacting policies to reduce predatory lending practices, and abuses in the subprime markets. Assess the role of the impact of mortgage backed securities, and Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac on the mortgage lending crisis. Assess the impact of the Community Reinvestment Act on the mortgage lending crisis. “I believe that the creation of this Commission will lead to real bipartisan work and solutions for working American families,” Rep. Turner said. “The time to establish a bipartisan Commission so Congress has the information it needs to protect American homeowners is now.”
01.28.2009	Congressman Mike Turner sent a letter today to Inspector General Gordon Heddell demanding a progress report on the state of their efforts to investigate the circumstances surrounding the sexual assault, harassment, and subsequent murder of Lance Corporal Maria Lauterbach. share: f t Washington, D.C.- Congressman Mike Turner sent a letter today to Inspector General Gordon Heddell demanding a progress report on the state of their efforts to investigate the circumstances surrounding the sexual assault, harassment, and subsequent murder of Lance Corporal Maria Lauterbach. Congressman Turner, the Ranking Member of the Strategic Forces Subcommitee of the House Armed Services Committee, also questioned witnesses at a hearing today on the issue of sexual assault prevention in the military while accompanied by Maria’s mother, Mary Lauterbach. “We have been in contact with the Secretary of Defense, the office of the Inspector General, and have simply not gotten any answers or any real update on their progress since it was initiated,” Congressman Turner said. “The time for action on this issue is now. I am committed to working with the House Armed Services Committee to get answers for the Lauterbach family and better protection for the fine people that make up the United States military.” Congressman Turner has been a member of the House Armed Services Committee since taking office in 2003 and introduced legislation yesterday calling on the Department of Defense to overhaul their procedures dealing with reports of sexual assault. His legislation was co-authored with Congresswoman Jane Harman (D-CA) and was also introduced in the 110th Congress.
01.27.2009	Congressman Michael R. Turner (R-OH) and Rep. Jane Harman (D-CA) re-introduced legislation that calls on the Department of Defense (DOD) to develop a comprehensive system to prevent sexual assault in the military. share: f t Congressman Michael R. Turner (R-OH) and Rep. Jane Harman (D-CA) re-introduced legislation that calls on the Department of Defense (DOD) to develop a comprehensive system to prevent sexual assault in the military. Turner, the Ranking Member of the Strategic Forces Subcommittee of the House Armed Services Committee, introduced this legislation in the 110th Congress with the Senate support of current Secretary of State Hillary Clinton. “Women serving in our Armed Forces who come forward and report a sexual assault must be protected from their alleged attackers,” Rep. Turner said. “DOD’s record of protecting women who report a rape and prosecute their case is shocking and unacceptable. I believe the legislation that Congresswoman Harman and I have put forward is a critical step in helping to solve this problem.” According to the DOD, only eight percent, of subjects investigated for sexual assault during Fiscal Year 2007 were referred to a court martial. At the same time, 40 percent of civilians arrested for rape are prosecuted according to the Department of Justice. The resolution calls on the Department of Defense to develop a strategy to reverse this troubling trend. The resolution calls on the Department of Defense to review the military’s legal infrastructure for investigation and prosecution of sexual assault cases and asks them to establish a policy that mandates that local law enforcement be notified of any military protective order issued on base among many other recommendations. “Immediate action must be taken to correct the terrible problem of sexual assault in the military,” Congressman Turner said. “Our nation’s military is the greatest in the world and our servicemembers deserve the greatest protection we can offer them. I am hopeful that Congress will act quickly on our legislation to help correct this hugely important problem.”
01.12.2009	“Generations of hardworking Ohio families have been fortunate to have Sen. George Voinovich advocating for their interests and I congratulate Sen. Voinovich on his upcoming retirement.” share: f t “Generations of hardworking Ohio families have been fortunate to have Sen. George Voinovich advocating for their interests and I congratulate Sen. Voinovich on his upcoming retirement,” Congressman Turner said. “From George’s time as Mayor of Cleveland, he has worked to find effective and pragmatic solutions to the challenges facing our communities and our nation. While we will miss his voice in Washington, we all owe George, his wife Janet, and the entire Voinovich family a dept of gratitude for their lifetime of public service.”
11.20.2008	Dayton, Ohio- Congressman Mike Turner (OH-03) today stated that the $3.8 million in National Emergency Grant funding is the first step in the recovery process. share: f t Congressman Mike Turner (OH-03) today stated that the $3.8 million in National Emergency Grant funding is the first step in the recovery process. The grant was awarded to the Ohio Department of Job and Family Services by the U.S. Department of Labor to assist workers and families affected by the layoffs at the Wilmington Airpark in Clinton County. Congressman Turner and his colleagues in the Ohio Delegation were early advocates for the grant funding. “The emergency grant awarded by the Department of Labor should be treated as a down payment on future federal assistance,” Congressman Turner said. “The economic situation facing our region is on the scale of a national disaster and more assistance will be desperately needed. The funding we received today will go directly to assisting workers and families in our community and will allow workers to receive training in new skills to become competitive in the global economy. We must continue these efforts and focus on obtaining more assistance in the future.”Congressman Turner has also successfully advocated for federal funding to establish an economic plan for the entire region that looks for new uses for the Wilmington Airpark. “We must also work with DHL on the reuse of the Wilmington Airpark,” Congressman Turner said. “I am committed to making sure every federal resource is available to assist the community in its transition.”
11.10.2008	Congressman Mike Turner (OH-03) calls on DHL to work with the Wilmington community after their decision to abandon the North American hub at the Wilmington Airpark. DHL decided to cut 9,500 jobs after accepting hundreds of millions in incentives from the State of Ohio and Clinton County to come to Wilmington in 2004. share: f t Dayton, Ohio- Congressman Mike Turner (OH-03) calls on DHL to work with the Wilmington community after their decision to abandon the North American hub at the Wilmington Airpark. DHL decided to cut 9,500 jobs after accepting hundreds of millions in incentives from the State of Ohio and Clinton County to come to Wilmington in 2004. The company announced this morning that they plan to eliminate their domestic shipping operations in the United States. “While our community is looking to the future, DHL must be held accountable for its responsibility to their workforce and to our community,” Congressman Turner said. “We have a great asset in the Airpark and a dedicated and experienced workforce here in Wilmington. We must immediately begin to build on this asset for our future economic success.” “While DHL’s decision to cease their domestic operations in the United States is unfortunate, our community has worked to prepare itself for this possibility for months. Our region’s leaders and elected officials must continue to work together on this vital issue. It is imperative that the workers and families at this facility receive full severance packages and have access to retraining benefits. We must also work with DHL on the reuse of the Wilmington Airpark. I am committed to making sure every federal resource is available to assist the community in its transition.” Congressman Turner has successfully advocated for federal funding to establish an economic plan for the entire region that looks for new uses for the Wilmington Airpark.
10.03.2008	Mike Turner Remains Opposed to Bailout share: f t Turner Remains Opposed to $700 Billion Blank Check Bailout Washington, D.C. – Congressman Michael R. Turner today voted in opposition to the $700 billion blank check bailout of American banking and financial institutions. Rep. Turner supports bringing legislation forward to address our current financial crisis but believes that this rashly considered bailout fails to address the real issues plaguing our markets and may do more harm than good to taxpayers. “While it is clear that action must be taken to address our current crisis, this legislation fails to solve the underlying problems that led to this alarming financial situation,” Congressman Turner said. “Though I support taking action to help correct the damage done to our markets, I believe that making the wrong choice today places a risky and heavy burden on taxpayers. Any legislation we bring forward must hold the right people accountable and prohibit the bad lending actions that led to this crisis. Today’s bill fails in this respect and therefore leaves us vulnerable to this same situation in the future. This ill-considered proposal still does not offer enough relief to impacted neighborhoods and homeowners. Our region has suffered greatly during this foreclosure crisis and I am greatly disappointed that this legislation again fails to truly address the real problem.” Recently, Rep. Turner introduced the Preserve Our Neighborhoods Act of 2008 in response to the $700 billion proposed bailout of the financial system. Congressman Turner’s legislation would provide assistance to municipalities in permitting them to take possession of mortgages that the bailout legislation would transfer to the federal government. This legislation would help prevent properties and cities from going into blight through neglect. “My district has some of the highest foreclosure rates in the nation,” Rep. Turner said. “This crisis demands immediate action but it also demands accountability and responsibility. I will continue to work with my colleagues to find actual solutions to these problems and to provide real help to both our economy and to American homeowners.”
09.29.2008	Mike Turner Opposes $700 Billion Bailout share: f t Turner Opposes $700 Billion Blank Check Bailout Washington, D.C. – Congressman Michael R. Turner today opposed the unprecedented $700 billion bailout of American banking and financial institutions. Congressman Turner opposes this bailout because: · the bill fails to hold accountable those whose actions imperiled our financial system and endangered American homeowners · it does not prohibit the bad lending actions that led to this crisis, · the legislation provides no real relief for affected communities and loan victims · no information has been provided on what mortgage backed securities will be bought, what value the underlying properties have, how many there will be, and what condition the properties are in · there has been no real consideration of any alternative to this specific bailout package that was rushed to the floor · there is no guarantee this bailout will work and there is no plan for what will be done if the bailout does not succeed. “While action is urgently needed to address this crisis, I am not convinced that this bailout offers real relief to American homeowners or adequately addresses the issues that brought about this alarming situation,” Congressman Turner said. “Our entire financial system has been imperiled by the greed of the people that run some of these companies. The same people could continue to offer these same loans that caused all this trouble: this bill will not prevent it. . Our region has suffered greatly during this foreclosure crisis. I am disappointed that this legislation fails to address this problem.” Congressman Turner has been actively involved in community efforts to address issues of affordable housing and predatory lending since his service as Mayor of Dayton, when he worked on a bipartisan basis with City Commissioner Dean Lovelace. He has co-sponsored legislation that would allow bankruptcy judges to modify mortgage agreements when a home is in imminent threat of foreclosure, potentially helping over 600 families in the Miami Valley. He also sponsored an amendment to the FY2008 Transportation and HUD Appropriations bill to provide an additional $6.7 million in funding for agencies that offer housing counseling to homeowners. Recently, Rep. Turner introduced the Preserve Our Neighborhoods Act of 2008 in response to the $700 billion proposed bailout of the financial system. Congressman Turner’s legislation would provide assistance to municipalities in taking possession of mortgages that the bailout legislation would transfer to the federal government. This legislation would help prevent properties and cities from going into blight through neglect. “My district has some of the highest foreclosure rates in the nation,” Rep. Turner said. “This crisis demands immediate action but it also demands accountability. I will continue to work with my colleagues to find a solution that provides real help to both our economy and to American homeowners.”
09.25.2008	Mike Turner and NDAA Military Sexual Assault Protections share: f t Turner Provisions in FY09 Defense Authorization Bill Seek to Improve Military Sexual Assault Protection Procedures Washington, D.C. – Congressman Michael R. Turner successfully advocated for provisions included in the recently passed National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) that will seek to improve sexual assault protection procedures in the military. Congressman Turner has worked with the Lauterbach family to address this issue following the tragic rape and murder of Marine Lance Corporal Maria Lauterbach. “For months, Mary Lauterbach and I have been working together to review the system which left her daughter vulnerable to the tragedy which befell her. I was pleased that my colleagues agreed that the Military Protective Orders (MPO) currently in use by the military do not provide sufficient protection to our men and women in uniform. Several Members of Congress who met with Mary Lauterbach and others familiar with Maria’s case understood the need for change,” Rep. Turner said. “I believe we need a comprehensive review of sexual assaults in the military. Once that review is complete, I expect more extensive changes to military laws and policies will be recommended.” The provisions Congressman Turner included in the NDAA will require that military protective orders be made into standing orders and will require civilian authorities to be notified whenever an MPO is issued and affects off-base personnel. The MPOs issued for Maria Lauterbach following her allegation of rape were allowed to expire on two separate occasions. “The safety and security of our troops are among the most important responsibilities for Members of Congress,” Rep. Turner said. “I will continue to push for changes on this issue.”
09.11.2008	Mike Turner George Voinovich share: f t Turner Lauds Senator Voinovich for Offering Amendment that Protects Custody Rights of Military Parents Turner Authored Companion Legislation and Was Original House Sponsor Washington, D.C. – Congressman Michael R. Turner (OH-03) today thanked Senator George Voinovich (R-OH) for his work in introducing an amendment in the Senate that works to protect the child custody rights of deployed military parents. Congressman Turner has been a lead advocate on the issue in the House of Representatives and authored the companion legislation in the House, H.R. 6048. This child custody legislation sponsored by Rep. Turner has passed the House of Representatives on three separate occasions. “Senator Voinovich has long been an advocate for our men and women in uniform and his sponsorship of this amendment reflects this,” Congressman Turner said. “I congratulate him for his work on behalf of military families and appreciate his leadership on this issue.” Military parents have been penalized for their military service and deployment during child custody proceedings. The amendment introduced by Senator Voinovich and Congressman Turner includes three main conditions: 1) no court may permanently alter an existing custody agreement while a military parent is deployed; 2) upon the return of the service member from deployment, any temporary change in custody shall be immediately reversed; and 3) no court may consider a military parent’s deployment or possible deployment as a basis for terminating permanent custody. “No parent, courageous and honorable enough to volunteer to serve in the U.S. military, should have their time spent overseas in defense of our nation used against them in their custody disputes,” Congressman Turner said. “These brave men and women are heroes and deserve our deepest gratitude. I am proud of the work that we have done in advocating for military families and I am committed to working with Senator Voinovich to protect their interests in the future.”
09.09.2008	Mike Turner Lauds Chairman Conyers Request for More DHL Hearings share: f t Turner Lauds Chairman Conyers’ Request to Suspend DHL-UPS Transaction Pending Judiciary Committee Review Committee Chair Says More Hearings Needed on Deal Washington, D.C. – Congressman Michael R. Turner (OH-03) today testified at a House Judiciary Committee hearing concerning the possible deal between DHL and UPS. Turner requested the hearing citing antitrust concerns. During this hearing, Committee Chairman John Conyers asked both DHL and UPS to suspend the proposed deal so that future hearings could be held to review possible antitrust implications. Congresswoman Betty Sutton (D-OH) testified at the hearing and made the first request for suspension of the deal to allow for greater scrutiny. “Chairman Conyers today did a tremendous service for the people of Southwest Ohio and for all the employees and families at the Wilmington airpark,” Congressman Turner said. “This deal raises serious antitrust concerns on both sides of the Atlantic Ocean and further hearings are necessary. I am tremendously grateful to Chairman Conyers and Ranking Member Lamar Smith for their support today and for this new opportunity to get more information.” Under the proposed terms of the partnership, DHL would be contracted by UPS to pick up and deliver products but would have no role in product shipping and sorting. These roles would be filled by UPS, which also acquired Emery Airlines in Dayton in 2005 in a consolidation move that cost approximately 1,200 jobs. The partnership could compromise over 8,000 jobs that are based in DHL’s Wilmington hub. Congresswoman Sutton said in her written testimony that, “The bottom line, Mr. Chairman, is that this agreement between DHL and UPS raises serious questions under Anti-Trust law and deserves careful examination.” “I appreciate both the Chairman and Congresswoman Sutton’s request to suspend the transaction pending further review,” Turner said. “I am hopeful DHL and UPS agree.”
08.08.2008	Mike Turner TNI Hearings DHL share: f t Turner and Ohio Delegation Efforts Result in Hearings from House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee Dayton, Ohio- Congressman Mike Turner (OH-03) received confirmation today from the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee that they will hold hearings on the proposed deal between DHL and UPS. The hearings are in response to a letter sent by Congressman Turner and the Ohio Delegation asking for hearings examining the possible consequences of the deal between DHL and UPS and how they would affect the national and international shipping markets. “I am thrilled that Chairman Oberstar and Ranking Member Mica have decided to hold hearings on the DHL proposal,” Congressman Turner said. “This deal, if it is allowed to be completed, would have consequences beyond its devastating impact on our local, state, and national economy. It would also remove a major element of the North American shipping market. This is why congressional hearings into this issue are so important. Hearings will allow our community and our nation to get more information from the people behind this decision.” Under the proposed terms of the partnership, DHL would be contracted by UPS to pick up and deliver products but would have no role in product shipping and sorting. These roles would be filled by UPS, which also acquired Emery Airlines in Dayton in 2005 in a consolidation move that cost approximately 1,200 jobs. The partnership could compromise over 8,000 jobs that are based in DHL’s Wilmington hub.
08.08.2008	Mike Turner John McCain Visits Wilmington and DHL share: f t Congressman Turner Releases Statement Responding to Sen. McCain Coming to Wilmington Dayton, Ohio- “John McCain’s visit to Wilmington shows that the possible next President of the United States takes the issue of the proposed DHL/UPS plan and the job losses that would follow very seriously. Our community invited Senator McCain to come to the region and he is taking the opportunity to discuss these pressing economic issues with the residents of Southwest Ohio. Our local, state, and federal leaders have worked together on a bipartisan basis to respond to DHL’s plan and we look forward to working with Senator McCain in the future. I greatly appreciate John McCain’s stated support for the Ohio Delegation’s efforts to make certain the transaction is reviewed by several federal and state agencies for any potential violations of applicable law.”
07.29.2008	Mike Turner DHL TNI John Mica share: f t Turner Receives Critical Support From Ranking Member of Key Congressional Committee for Hearings on UPS/DHL Deal Washington, D.C. – Congressman Michael R. Turner (OH-03) today received a letter from Transportation and Infrastructure Committee Ranking Member John Mica (R-FL) expressing his support for hearings on the proposed deal between UPS and DHL. Congressman Mica’s letter was addressed to Committee Chairman James Oberstar (D-MN) and was in response to Congressman Turner’s letter with the Ohio Delegation requesting hearings. “Ranking Member Mica’s support for hearings is a critical step,” Congressman Turner said. “This deal, if it is allowed to be completed, would have consequences beyond it’s devastating impact on our local, state, and national economy. It would also remove a major element of the North American shipping market. This is why congressional hearings into this issue are so important.” Congressman Turner brought Ranking Member Mica to visit the Wilmington Airpark in August of 2006. Mr. Mica’s home state of Florida will also be significantly impacted by the UPS/DHL deal because it is the home of ASTAR, an air cargo company that has nearly 1,000 employees in the Wilmington hub. Additionally, DHL is a minority stockholder in ASTAR. Under the proposed terms of the partnership, DHL would be contracted by UPS to pick up and deliver products but would have no role in product shipping and sorting. These roles would be filled by UPS, which also acquired Emery Airlines in Dayton in 2005 in a consolidation move that cost approximately 1,200 jobs. The partnership could compromise over 8,000 jobs that are based in DHL’s Wilmington hub.
07.24.2008	Mike Turner Guantanamo Bay Col. Vargo share: f t Rep. Turner to Visit Guantanamo Bay and Meet With Area Native in Charge of Detention Facility Washington, D.C. – Congressman Michael R. Turner (OH-03) will visit Guantanamo Bay today as part of a CODEL that will tour the military base and detention facility. While at Guantanamo, Congressman Turner will visit with Army Col. Bruce Vargo, who is Commander of the Joint Detention Group at Guantanamo Bay. Col. Vargo is a native of Huber Heights, Ohio and the son of longtime Huber Heights Councilwoman Jan Vargo. “Every time I travel to see our armed forces, I come away impressed with their patriotism and dedication to duty,” Congressman Turner said. “Though there is some question about what is the best way to detain terrorism suspects and captured prisoners, there is no debate about the extraordinary job being done by Col. Vargo and his staff. Congressman Turner was encouraged to visit Guantanamo by Mrs. Vargo, who traveled to the base to see her son and came away very impressed by the facility and the troops deployed there. “It seems that no matter where you go in the world, you always seem to find someone from our community doing something extraordinary,” Congressman Turner said. “I was glad to visit the base and meet with Col. Vargo and thank him for his service to his country.”
07.08.2008	Mike Turner Historic Preservation Legislation Hawthorn Hill Wright Company Dayton Aviation Heritage National Historic Park share: f t Rep. Turner’s Historic Preservation Legislation Up for Vote Washington, D.C. - Congressman Mike Turner (OH-03) has authored two pieces of legislation that will be voted on tomorrow by the House of Representatives. The two bills under consideration are H.R. 4199, which will add Hawthorn Hill and the Wright Company factory buildings to the Dayton Aviation Heritage National Historic Park, and H.R. 3981, the Preserve America and Save America’s Treasures Act. “The legislation under consideration today will benefit historic preservation on a local and national level,” Congressman Turner said. “Bringing the entire story of the Wright family together will have a significant impact on the Miami Valley. Our efforts to preserve our history will also benefit from Saving America’s Treasures and Preserve America becoming permanent programs.” H.R. 4199 was authored by Congressman Turner and H.R.3981 was written in cooperation with Rep. Turner’s Historic Preservation Caucus Co-Chair Congressman Brad Miller (D-NC). In 2007, both Congressman Turner and Congressman Miller appeared with First Lady Laura Bush and Senator Hillary Clinton (D-NY) at an event to announce the legislation. The Wright Company Factory buildings in West Dayton are the first American facilities specifically designed and built for the manufacture of airplanes. Hawthorn Hill was designed by Wilbur and Orville Wright and was the home of the Wright family until 1948. In addition to including the two local land marks as part of the Dayton Aviation heritage National Historic Park, Congressman Turner’s bill, H.R. 4199, authorizes grants for local community organizations such as Dayton History to help with operating costs. Addition of these sites to the Dayton Aviation Heritage National Historic Park is supported by the Wright family. Saving America’s Treasures was created in 1998 and provides “bricks and mortar” support to preserve historic structures. Preserve America was started in 2001 to be used in collaboration with Saving America’s Treasures to help increase heritage tourism. Because both programs currently depend on executive orders for their continued existence, they could expire in a new presidential administration. H.R. 3981 will make both programs permanent once it is signed into law. ###
06.30.2008	Mike Turner ABX Meeting Wilmington share: f t Rep. Turner Meets with ABX Employees in Wilmington Facility Dayton, OH—Congressman Mike Turner met today with ABX employees in their Wilmington facility to discuss efforts to respond to a proposed deal between DHL and UPS that could cause the loss of as many as 8,000 jobs. UPS and DHL have reportedly recently agreed to a deal, the terms of which would allow UPS to assume much of DHL’s American business operations. Congressman Turner discussed his collaboration with local, state, and federal officials to respond to DHL’s reorganizational plan. “I appreciate the opportunity to talk with the ABX employees here in Wilmington,” Congressman Turner said. “The proposed deal between DHL and UPS would have a devastating impact on the local economy and on local families. That is why it was so important to speak to these workers and reassure them that every possible step is being taken on their behalf.” Since DHL’s surprise announcement that it was considering a deal with UPS to consolidate their North American shipping operations, Congressman Turner has worked as part of a task force with local community leaders like Wilmington Mayor David Raizk and Clinton County Commissioner Randy Riley. Rep. Turner has also worked with Ohio’s Congressional Delegation to seek a Department of Justice investigation into the antitrust implications of the proposed deal. This weekend, Rep. Turner brought officials from the Department of Labor, the Department of Commerce and the Small Business Administration to Wilmington to detail what assistance would be available to the community should the proposed deal be completed. “While there is great concern about the facility’s future, the employees at the ABX facility are continuing to work hard,” Congressman Turner said. “I am committed to working on their behalf to respond to DHL’s proposed deal with UPS.”
06.27.2008	Mike Turner Hale House Clinton Memorial Hospital Children's Greentree Parachute Boonshoft Dream It Do It Supply Chain Management share: f t Funding for Community Hospitals and Employee Retraining Passes Committee WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Michael R. Turner (R-Centerville) announced today that funding for key projects in the Miami Valley moved one step closer by passing through the House Appropriations Committee. Nearly $1.5 million in funding for hospitals, museums, employee retraining, and economic development will be headed to the Third District once the bill is signed into law. “These projects will help improve medical care in our community and provide stimulus for our local economy,” Congressman Turner said. “I look forward to continuing to advocate for our region by advancing projects like these in the future.” The projects were funded through the Subcommittee on Labor, Health and Human Services, Education, and Related Agencies. A full list of projects supported by Congressman Turner that were funded through this subcommittee follows: Historic Hale Hospital Revitalization Project, Clinton Memorial Hospital Regional Health System -- $250,000 Clinton Memorial Hospital is a county owned, medical/surgical, acute care hospital serving the rural Clinton County region. Specifically, funds will be used to stabilize this historic structure, and to renovate the facility for viable use. Pediatric Trauma and Emergency Center Renovation – The Children’s Medical Center of Dayton -- $200,000 As the only pediatric trauma center in the region, Dayton Children’s sees nearly 50,000 patient visits annually, ranking them in the top ten percent of children’s hospitals nationally. Funds for this project will go toward Children’s Medical Center’s renovation of their Pediatric Trauma and Emergency Center. Greentree Health Sciences Academy – Premier Health Campus – Middletown, Ohio -- $250,000 The Greentree Health Sciences Academy addresses the challenge of meeting workforce needs in allied health care fields. This Academy has been a successful partnership between regional health and educational facilities. Specifically, funds will go toward the expansion of it’s health and health education facilities. Interactive and visual exhibits, David Gold Parachute Museum, Aviation Heritage Foundation, Inc. -- $100,000 Building upon Dayton’s heritage as the Birthplace of Aviation, the National Aviation Heritage Area will use these funds to complete interactive and visual displays at the David Gold Parachute Museum. Specifically funds will support exhibits showing the development from the world’s first free-fall parachute to today’s usage in both military and sport aviation along with the parachute’s important role in the international exploration of outer space. Boonshoft Museum of Discovery Space Science Gallery, Planetarium, and Zoo Renovation -- $150,000 In order to increase Science, Technology, Engineering, and Math (STEM) education in the region, The Boonshoft Museum of Discovery is installing new educational exhibits. Funds will provide new interactive space science exhibits, a new planetarium projector and planetarium refurbishment, and a “NOAA Science on a Sphere” Global Display System. Dream It Do It Training & Development Program – Montgomery County, Ohio $100,000. As the Dayton economy transitions from a traditional manufacturing to a high tech economy, our community is working to transition workers into new fields of employment. Funds for the Dream It Do It program will provide for the training and development of displaced automotive and manufacturing workers to fill jobs in advanced manufacturing, tooling, and maching sectors that have significant job opportunities. Supply Chain Management (SCM) Training and Development – Montgomery County, Ohio -- $500,000 The Dayton Region is a leader in supply chain management and logistics research. Funds for the SCM Training and Development program will coordinate and develop the training and curriculum needed to train displaced manufacturing workers for this growing sector of the Dayton regional economy.
06.26.2008	Mike Turner Security Forces Turning Point Lynchburg Wright-Patterson share: f t Millions in Funding for Wright-Patterson and Community Priorities Clears Appropriations Committee Markup WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Michael R. Turner announced today that $14 million dollars in funding for Wright-Patterson Air Force Base cleared an important step by passing through the Appropriations Committee. Once passed, the $14 million will go toward the construction of a new security forces building at Wright-Patterson. Additionally, several other important community projects in Hillsboro, Lynchburg, and more passed through committee markup. Currently, Security Forces at Wright-Patterson are located in a facility originally constructed in 1934 as a garage. After undergoing numerous renovations, the decaying facility lacks a separate prisoner entrance, processing room, and crime scene investigation training area. The new Security Forces building will consolidate operations for the 88th Security Forces Squadron near a primary base entry gate, greatly improving the response time of the Security Forces to many areas of Wright-Patterson. “Federal support for Wright-Patterson is critical in helping the personnel there fulfill their mission,” Congressman Turner said. “Wright-Patterson is also a critical economic engine for our region. The renovation of the Security Forces Building is just one of the exciting changes happening out at Wright-Patterson.” The Turning Point Applied Learning Center in Hillsboro has been allotted $97,000 in funding by the Commerce, Justice, and Science Subcommittee. The funding will go for employment training for offenders who are reentering society. Turning Point works with community, school, and agency partners to assist people in gaining economic self-sufficiency through an innovative program that combines classroom instruction with actual manufacturing work experience. Students are required to work at Turning Point for 32 hours a week. The Lynchburg Police Department is currently slated to receive $30,000 in equipment replacement and modernization funding under the Community Oriented and Policing Services (COPS) program. The funding will be used to provide the police department with new computers. “After working with community leaders and local institutions, these projects demonstrated both great need and widespread consensus. I am confident that these projects will prove to be greatly beneficial for our region,” said Congressman Turner. “Today’s committee markup is an important first step in the process of bringing each project to fruition.”
06.26.2008	Mound Mike Turner Holes Creek Wastewater Tech Town Fairview share: f t Funding for Mound and Community Priorities Clears Committee Markup Washington, D.C. Congressman Michael R. Turner (OH-03) announced today that nearly $10 million in federal funding for community priorities has passed through the Appropriations Committe. One of the projects funded in the bill is an additional $5 million in funding to help complete the cleanup of the Miamisburg Mound. Infrastructure improvement projects in Hillsboro, West Carrollton, Fairview Commons, and downtown Dayton were also funded in the markup. Rep. Turner said, “After working with Congressman Dave Hobson to secure $30 million for the Miamisburg Mound cleanup in 2005, I am proud to help deliver an additional $5 million this year. I am glad I could help secure the funding to help finish this project. The Mound cleanup is important for both health and economic development reasons and will benefit our region for many years to come.” Also funded in the markup were: Wastewater Infrastructure Improvements, City of Hillsboro, Ohio -- $1 Million Hillsboro, Ohio, located in rural Highland County is in need of updating its Wastewater Treatment Facility and wastewater infrastructure. Specifically the funds requested would be used for the construction of needed improvements to their wastewater treatment plant and the installation of additional equalization basins. Funds will also be used to upgrade aging water infrastructure for the treatment of waste. West Carrolton, Ohio Holes Creek Local Flood Protection project -- $2.6million This project protects approximately 600 homes in West Carrollton, Moraine and Miami Township from flooding. Funds will go toward the construction of a levee and floodwall to protect and purchase three flood prone properties south of the creek and remove the structures, completing this flood protection project. Fairview Commons Infrastructure Project CityWide Development Corporation -- $300 Thousand This project is part of a larger revitalization plan for Northwest Dayton, Ohio. Specifically, funds will provide water and sewer infrastructure to neighborhood revitalization efforts underway in low-income neighborhoods in Northwest Dayton near Good Samaritan Hospital. Tech Town Water and Sewer Infrastructure – CityWide Development Corporation – $500 thousand This community supported project will support the revitalization of a former brownfield site in downtown Dayton, Ohio into a viable commercial property. These funds, authorized by the 2007 WRDA will provide additional water, sanitary and storm sewer infrastructure to the Tech Town Campus.
06.26.2008	DHL UPS Wilmington Mike Turner Hearings Judiciary TNI share: f t Turner and Ohio Delegation Push for Hearings into DHL/UPS Deal WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Michael R. Turner (OH-03) announced today that he and Ohio’s Congressional Delegation are seeking Congressional hearings on the proposed deal between DHL and UPS. The proposed deal would consolidate DHL’s North American shipping operations into UPS and in the process eliminate competition in the shipping market as well as over 8,000 jobs from their Wilmington hub. “This transaction between UPS and DHL raises serious questions and seems to break promises that were made to our community,” Congressman Turner said. “If the deal goes through, the impact will be significant for families throughout the region and for our local economy. It will also in essence leave only two competitors in the North American shipping market which will hurt American consumers. This deal needs to be reviewed with the highest possible scrutiny and urgency.” The Ohio Congressional Delegation sent letters to the Chairmen and Ranking Members of the House Judiciary Committee and the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure asking for each committee to hold hearings on the proposed deal. The letter to Judiciary Committee Chairman John Conyers and Ranking Member Lamar Smith asks the committee to investigate the deal to see if it violates federal antitrust law. The letter to Transportation and Infrastructure Committee Chairman James Oberstar and Ranking Member John Mica urges their committee to examine the devastating impact the deal would have on the North American shipping market and it’s implications on American consumers. Congressman Turner and the Ohio Delegation have also recently sent a letter to Attorney General Michael Mukasey asking him to investigate the deal for possible antitrust violations.
06.19.2008	Wright Patterson Security Forces Building Mike Turner share: f t Millions in Funding for Wright-Patt Move Through Subcommittee WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Michael R. Turner announced today that $14 million dollars in funding for Wright-Patterson Air Force Base cleared an important first step by passing through the Appropriations Subcommittee on Military Construction and Veterans Affairs. Once passed, the $14 million will go toward the construction of a new security forces building at Wright-Patterson. Currently, Security Forces at Wright-Patterson are located in a facility originally constructed in 1934 as a garage. After undergoing numerous renovations, the decaying facility lacks a separate prisoner entrance, processing room, and crime scene investigation training area. The new Security Forces building will consolidate operations for the 88th Security Forces Squadron near a primary base entry gate, greatly improving the response time of the Security Forces to many areas of Wright-Patterson. “Federal support for Wright-Patterson is critical in helping the personnel there fulfill their mission,” Congressman Turner said. “Wright-Patterson is also a critical economic engine for our region. The renovation of the Security Forces Building is just one of the exciting changes happening out at Wright-Patterson.” The next step for the funding will be a meeting of the full Appropriations Committee in the House.
06.19.2008	Turning Point Mike Turner Lynchburg C.O.P.S. share: f t Funding for Community Priorities Clears Important Committee Markup WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Michael R. Turner (R-Centerville) announced today that key projects for Hillsboro and Lynchburg cleared an important first hurdle by passing through the Appropriations Committee markup. The Turning Point Applied Learning Center in Hillsboro has been allotted $97,000 in funding by the Commerce, Justice, and Science Subcommittee. The funding will go for employment training for offenders who are reentering society. Turning Point works with community, school, and agency partners to assist people in gaining economic self-sufficiency through an innovative program that combines classroom instruction with actual manufacturing work experience. Students are required to work at Turning Point for 32 hours a week. The Lynchburg Police Department is currently slated to receive $30,000 in equipment replacement and modernization funding under the Community Oriented and Policing Services (COPS) program. The funding will be used to provide the police department with new computers. “After working with community leaders and local institutions, these projects demonstrated both great need and widespread consensus. I am confident that these projects will prove to be greatly beneficial for our region,” said Congressman Turner. “Today’s committee markup is an important first step in the process of bringing each project to fruition.” --30--
06.06.2008	Mike Turner DHL UPS Justice Department share: f t Press Release Ohio Delegation Calls for Justice Department to Investigate UPS/DHL Transaction Washington, D.C. – Following a meeting convened by Congressman Mike Turner (OH-03), a bipartisan group of Members of Congress and Ohio’s two United States Senators are urging the Justice Department to investigate the upcoming partnership between DHL and UPS. The bipartisan group of legislators sent a letter to Attorney General Michael Mukasey, requesting that he employ a high degree of scrutiny in examining the antitrust implications of the proposed transaction. “My colleagues and I are committed to making sure that this process receives a thorough review by the Department of Justice and that our constituents are extended every possible resource and protection,” Congressman Turner said. ”The proposed partnership between UPS and DHL raises many questions about what would happen to Ohio’s economy and the national and international shipping markets.” UPS and DHL recently agreed to enter into a partnership, the terms of which would allow UPS to assume much of DHL’s American business operations. The proposed reorganization plan would cause DHL to close operations at their hub in Wilmington, Ohio and cause the loss of an anticipated 8,000 jobs. Under the proposed terms of the agreement, DHL would pick up and deliver products but would have no role in product shipping and sorting. These roles would be filled by UPS, which also acquired Emery Airlines in Dayton in 2005 in a consolidation move that cost approximately 1,200 jobs. These consolidations could have a detrimental impact to Ohio’s economy as well national and international implications. # # #
06.04.2008	Dayton Aviation Heritage National Historic Park Mike Turner Amanda Wright Lane share: f t Media Advisory Rep. Turner’s Hawthorn Hill Legislation Moves through Committee Washington, D.C. – Congressman Michael R. Turner (OH-03) will testify before the Subcommittee on National Parks, Forests, and Public Lands about legislation he has sponsored that would add the Wright Factory Buildings and Hawthorn Hill to the Dayton Aviation Heritage National Historic Park. The Subcommittee hearing will be held in room 1324 of the Longworth Building at 2:00 p.m. and, in addition to Congressman Turner, testimony will be heard from Amanda Wright Lane, who is the great-grandniece of Orville and Wilbur Wright. The Wright Company Factory buildings in West Dayton are the first American facilities specifically designed and built for the manufacture of airplanes. The Wright Company operated at the site from 1910-1916 and produced 13 different models of airplanes. Hawthorn Hill was designed by Wilbur and Orville Wright and was the home of the Wright family until 1948. Adding the Oakwood residence to the National Park Service will ensure that this architectural and mechanical national landmark remains available for public appreciation. In addition to including the two local landmarks as part of the Dayton Aviation Heritage National Historic Park, Congressman Turner’s bill, H.R. 4191, authorizes grants for local community organizations such as Dayton History to help with operating costs. Addition of these sites to the Dayton Aviation Heritage National Historic Park is supported by the Wright family.
06.04.2008	National Park Rep. Turner Hawthorn Hill share: f t Rep. Turner to Speak Regarding Local National Park Legislation Washington, D.C. – Congressman Michael R. Turner (OH-03) will testify before the Subcommittee on National Parks, Forests, and Public Lands about legislation he has sponsored that would add the Wright Factory Buildings and Hawthorn Hill to the Dayton Aviation Heritage National Historic Park. The Wright Company Factory buildings in West Dayton are the first American facilities specifically designed and built for the manufacture of airplanes. These buildings had a production capability that was greater than any other manufacturing facility at the time. The Wright Company operated at the site from 1910-1916 and produced 13 different models of airplanes. The Wright Company Factory buildings are currently part of a Delphi facility that will close in 2008. Hawthorn Hill was designed by Wilbur and Orville Wright and was the home of the Wright family until 1948. Adding the Oakwood residence to the National Park Service will ensure that this architectural and mechanical national landmark remains available for public appreciation. Addition of these sites to the Dayton Aviation Heritage National Historic Park is supported by the Wright family.
05.23.2008	Mike Turner Mound Defense Authorization share: f t $10 Million for Mound Clean-Up Passes House in FY09 Defense Authorization Bill Washington, D.C. - Rep. Michael R. Turner (OH-03) announced that $10 million passed the U.S. House last night in the FY09 Defense Authorization Bill for the clean-up of the Miamisburg Mound. Rep. Turner said, “After working with Congressman Dave Hobson to secure $30 million for the Miamisburg Mound cleanup in 2005, this final investment should be what is needed to reach the finish line. Completing the cleanup will be a great accomplishment for the people of Miamisburg and I am glad I could help secure the funding to finish this project. The Mound cleanup is important for both health and economic development reasons and will benefit our region for many years to come.” The authorized funds would go specifically to finish the remaining cleanup of Operable Unit 1 (OU-1) at the Miamisburg Mound. OU-1 is the remaining site of contamination at the Miamisburg Mound. The $10 million authorization would permit the final cleanup and eventual reuse of the property. Congressman Turner worked with Congressman Dave Hobson to obtain a $30 million appropriation for the Miamisburg Mound cleanup in the FY06 Energy and Water Development Appropriations Bill. The FY09 Defense Authorization Bill passed by the House included $41.5 million for projects at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base and $10 million for the clean-up of the Miamisburg Mound. The $51.5 million in projects approved by the Committee for Rep. Turner this year (FY09) represents a 49% increase over the $34.6 million secured by the Miami Valley Congressman in last year’s bill. The FY09 Defense Authorization Bill passed the House Armed Services Committee with Congressman Turner’s support last week. The bill must pass the Senate in an identical form before it can be sent to President Bush, where it may be signed into law or vetoed, and returned for further debate. # # #
05.20.2008	Military Parents Mike Turner Custody share: f t House Protects Custody Rights of Military Parents Washington, D.C. - For the second time in two years, the U.S. House has passed Congressman Michael Turner’s (OH-03) provision to protect the custody rights of military parents. In May of 2007, the U.S. House passed, as part of the Defense Authorization Bill, a provision Rep. Turner introduced to restrict courts from changing the custody of a service member’s child while they are deployed and unable to participate in the proceeding. Today, the House expanded on Rep. Turner’s custody provision by unanimously passing H.R. 6048. “No parent, courageous and honorable enough to volunteer to serve in the U.S. military, should have their time spent overseas in defense of our nation used against them in their custody disputes. These brave men and women are heroes and deserve every measure of our support while they are deployed and when they return home to their families.” H.R. 6048 amends the Servicemembers Civil Relief Act to provide for the protection of child custody arrangements for parents who are members of the Armed Forces deployed in support of a contingency operation. H.R. 6048 includes three main conditions that: 1) No court may permanently alter an existing custody agreement while a military parent is deployed; 2) Upon the return of the servicemember from deployment, any temporary change in custody shall be immediately reversed; and 3) No court may consider a military parent’s deployment or possible deployment as a basis for terminating permanent custody. In 2007, Rep. Turner met Lt. Eva Slusher who lost custody of her daughter because of her 18-month mobilization with the Kentucky National Guard. Lt. Slusher was only able to regain custody of her daughter after a two-year, $25,000 battle. As recently as January of this year, National Guard Specialist Tanya Towne was stripped of custody of her son because of her deployment to Iraq, demonstrating a need for Rep. Turner’s custody provision. “Unfortunately, these cases are not isolated incidents. In some cases, courts are overturning established custody arrangements while the custodial parent is serving in Iraq or Afghanistan,” Rep. Turner said. “To use a person’s service to our nation against them as a parent is indefensible, and something that the bill I sponsored will correct. This bill protects our service members and it protects their children.”
05.15.2008	Mike Turner Maria Lauterbach MPO Reforms share: f t House Committee Amends Military Protective Order Process After Maria Lauterbach Case Ohio Congressman Seeks MPO Reforms and Calls for Further Review WASHINGTON, D.C. - The House Armed Services Committee passed two amendments last night sponsored by Ohio Congressman Michael Turner (OH-03) as a result of the case of Marine Lance Corporal Maria Lauterbach who was allegedly raped and murdered by fellow Marine Corporal Cesar Laurean. “For months, Mary Lauterbach and I have been working together to review the system which left her daughter vulnerable to the tragedy which befell her. I was pleased that my colleagues on the Committee agreed that the Military Protective Orders currently in use by the military do not provide sufficient protection to our men and women in uniform. Several members of the Committee who met with Mary Lauterbach and others familiar with Maria’s case understood the need for change,” Rep. Turner said. “I believe we need a comprehensive review of sexual assaults in the military. Once that review is complete, I expect more extensive changes to military laws and policies will be recommended.” Congressman Turner’s amendments were accepted by the House Armed Services Committee on Wednesday, May 14, 2008 as part of consideration of the FY 2009 Defense Authorization Bill. Rep. Turner’s amendments are: 1) Military Protective Orders should not expire when during an ongoing investigation (in the case of LCpl Lauterbach, the MPO was renewed in four times and lapsed between December 24, 2007 and January 7, 2008); 2) When a Military Protective Order is issued, local civilian authorities should be notified (according to the Marine Corps, there is no system to notify civilian authorities of the presence of an MPO. In addition, LCpl Lauterbach was not advised to seek a civil protective order) On March 11, 2008, at the request of the Lauterbach family, Congressman Turner submitted questions to General James T. Conway, Commandant of the U.S. Marine Corps, about the handling of the murder and rape investigation by Marine officials. On March 31, Lt. Gen. R. S. Kramlich, Director of Marine Corps Staff, submitted responses to Congressman Turner’s letter. In April, Rep. Turner hosted meetings for Mary Lauterbach, the mother of Maria Lauterbach, with 19 Memebrs of Congress. On April 24, Rep. Turner sent a letter to Defense Secretary Robert Gates calling for a Defense Department investigation of the handling of the rape and murder investigation by Marine Corps officials. The FY09 Defense Authorization Bill passed the House Armed Services Committee with Congressman Turner’s support. The bill must pass the House and Senate in a final form before it can be sent to President Bush.
04.24.2008	Mike Turner Investigation Maria Lauterbach share: f t Congressman Mike Turner Calls on DOD to Investigate Marines’ Handling of Rape and Murder Case of Maria Lauterbach Victim’s Mother and Ohio Congressman Call for Answers at Press Conference WASHINGTON, D.C. - Congressman Michael Turner (OH-03) today called on Defense Secretary Robert Gates to begin an investigation into the handling of the rape and murder case of Marine Lance Corporal Maria Lauterbach. Rep. Turner, who represents Vandalia, Ohio, the hometown of the Lauterbach family, has met with representatives of the family since attending the funeral of Maria Lauterbach in February. This week, he hosted meetings for Mary Lauterbach, the mother of Maria Lauterbach, in Washington, D.C. with 19 Members of Congress to discuss the Lauterbach case and ways to protect women serving in the military. “Since Maria first disappeared in December of last year, our nation grieved with the Lauterbach family over the death of Maria and her unborn child. Unfortunately, as additional details of the rape investigation have become public, it is now clear that the Marine Corps should have done more to protect Maria and her unborn child,” said Rep. Michael Turner. On May 11, 2007, Marine Lance Corporal Maria Lauterbach filed a claim that fellow Marine Corporal Cesar Laurean had sexually assaulted her on the base of Camp Lejeune, North Carolina. On or about December 14, 2007, LCpl Maria Lauterbach was murdered and was buried in a shallow grave in the backyard of the home of Cpl Laurean. On March 11, 2008, at the request of the Lauterbach family, Congressman Turner submitted 29 questions to General James T. Conway, Commandant of the U.S. Marine Corps, about the handling of the murder and rape investigation by Marine officials. In a letter dated March 31, 2008, Lieutenant General R. S. Kramlich, Director of Marine Corps Staff, submitted responses to Congressman Turner’s letter. “Maria Lauterbach’s story can be described as nothing less than a tragedy. For eight months, Maria felt alone in her struggle. Today, knowing the fate which has befallen Maria, the Marine Corps continues to defend its actions rather than examine what decisions could have prevented this tragedy. It has become clear that a thorough self-analysis by the Marine Corps is now beyond their ability or intentions and will require an investigation from the Department of Defense,” said Congressman Turner. Today, Congressman Turner sent a letter to Defense Secretary Robert Gates calling for a Defense Department investigation of the handling of the rape and murder investigation by Marine Corps officials. In his letter, Rep. Turner cited several examples of errors in judgment by the chain of command at Camp Lejeune, NC and within the Marine Corps as a whole including: - The Marine Corps repeatedly stating that there was “never any alleged violence or threat of violence in either sexual encounter.” - The Marine Corps allowing the Military Protective Order (MPO) to lapse for a 2-week period between December 24th and January 7th over the holidays before reissuing a renewed MPO. - The Marine Corps not advising LCpl Lauterbach to seek a civil protective order. - The Marine Corps delaying 7 days before NCIS interviewed Cpl Laurean regarding the rape allegations made by LCpl Lauterbach. - The Marine Corps chain of command remaining uninformed of the discovery of several crucial investigatory items regarding the disappearance of Maria Lauterbach for as much as three weeks such as: o The discovery of LCpl Lauterbach’s cell phone, ATM withdrawals, the discovery of her car, the bus ticket purchase. - The Marine Corps not requesting a DNA sample from Cpl Laurean at any time. - Marine Commanders referred to Laurean as a “stellar” Marine and Lauterbach as a “solid” Marine four days after LCpl Lauterbach was found buried in the backyard of Cpl Laurean. - The Marine Corps not offering LCpl Lauterbach reassignment to another base after either the rape, the vandalizing of her car, or being punched in the face on base. - The Marine Corps never issuing a formal “gag order” for Cpl Laurean or LCpl Lauterbach.
03.11.2008	Maria Lauterbach Mike Turner Demands Answers share: f t Ohio Congressman Demands Answers on Death of Maria Lauterbach Rep. Mike Turner (OH-03) seeks answers from U.S. Marine Corps on death of Lance Corporal Maria Lauterbach WASHINGTON, D.C. - Congressman Michael Turner (OH-03) today demanded answers to multiple questions on the death of Marine Lance Corporal Maria Lauterbach. Rep. Turner who represents the Lauterbach family in Vandalia, Ohio, met with the family prior to attending the funeral of Maria Lauterbach in February. At the family’s request, Rep. Turner is requesting answers from the U.S. Marine Corps about Maria Lauterbach’s death. “The entire nation grieved with the Lauterbach family at the tragic death of Maria and her unborn child. For Maria and other women serving, we must determine what should have been done to protect her and her unborn child,” said Rep. Michael Turner. “Lance Corporal Lauterbach’s case highlights the need to elevate the protection accorded female military personnel who file claims that they have been sexually assaulted and raises serious questions about the procedures that the military has in place for responding to sexual assault claims,” Rep. Turner said. “I have been briefed by General Michael Regner. He has informed me that the Marine Corps has reviewed their internal procedures, determined that appropriate procedures have been followed and that the ‘matter was concluded’. I disagree.” On May 11, 2007, Marine Lance Corporal Maria Lauterbach filed a claim that fellow Marine Corporal Cesar Laurean had sexually assaulted her on the base of Camp Lejeune, North Carolina. On or about December 14, 2007, LCpl Maria Lauterbach was murdered and was buried in a shallow grave in the backyard of the home of Cpl Laurean. Congressman Turner transmitted more than two dozen questions from the Lauterbach family in a letter to General James T. Conway, Commandant of the U.S. Marine Corps, summarized below: - After the accusation of rape by LCpl Maria Lauterbach in May of 2007 against Cpl Cesar Laurean, what was done to protect Maria Lauterbach? - Once accused of rape, did LCpl Lauterbach and Cpl Laurean continue their assignment in the same unit? Would this continued assignment have resulted in regular contact between the two? Would this continued assignment have also resulted in LCpl Lauterbach’s regular contact with Marines who would have been in regular contact (perhaps even maintained close friendships) with Cpl Laurean? - What details of harassment or physical abuse had been detailed by LCpl Lauterbach during her time of service? - In view of the confirmation of LCpl Lauterbach’s pregnancy on June 27th, why was no DNA sample taken from Cpl Laurean? - Is there any system to notify civilian authorities when a person who is the subject of a Military Protective Order moves off base? - When LCpl Lauterbach did not report for duty on Monday, December 17, 2007, why, in view of the pending rape claim against a fellow Marine, was no attempt made to search for her or question Cpl Laurean? - Was there any mechanism in place to trigger a special reporting requirement up the chain of command when the victim of a claimed sexual assault goes UA? # # #
02.27.2008	Mike Turner Delphi Buyout share: f t Rep. Turner Verifies Delphi Workers’ Eligibility for Economic Stimulus Rebates Southwest Ohio Congressman seeks written confirmation from IRS WASHINGTON, D.C. - Congressman Michael Turner (OH-03) received word from staff of the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) that Delphi Employees that accepted lump-sum and buyout payments will still be eligible to receive the tax rebates in the recently enacted economic stimulus package. Rep. Turner met with IRS officials after hearing concerns from former Delphi employees who received one-time buyout payments which may have caused their 2007 income to exceed the income cap under the economic stimulus plan. IRS staff members verified that Delphi employees and others who did not qualify for a stimulus payment based on the 2007 taxes may qualify for a stimulus payment based on 2008 taxes after their taxes are filed in 2009. Also, those accepting buyouts in 2008 will not be penalized and will be eligible for stimulus package rebates. Seeking written confirmation of Delphi Employees’ eligibility for the rebates, Rep. Turner today sent the following letter to (IRS) Commissioner Mark Everson: Dear Commissioner Everson, Recently, my office was contacted by former Delphi Corporation employees who accepted a buyout and are concerned that they may not be eligible to receive tax rebates under Title I of HR 5140. They are concerned that, as a result of the buyout their 2007 income is higher than the income cap signed into law by the President. In 2006 and 2007, Department of Labor Secretary Chao certified that former Delphi employees who accepted buyouts would be considered “adversely affected workers.” As a result, these former Delphi employees would be eligible to receive TAA or ATAA benefits. It is important to note that while these “adversely affected workers” may have incomes that exceed the income cap for a rebate, this is a result of a one-time buyout payment, and is not representative of their base income. Your staff has indicated, however, that those whose incomes may be temporarily higher than the income cap for tax year 2007, might be eligible for the rebate when they file their 2008 tax returns in calendar year 2009. Additionally, those who receive the rebate in 2008, and accept a buyout in that year, will not be penalized on their 2008 tax returns if their income is over the qualifying limit at that time. I am requesting confirmation that these “adversely affected workers” who accepted buyouts will in fact be eligible for their rebate when they file their 2008 tax return in calendar year 2009. Finally, I request that the Internal Revenue Service publish instructions that will help these workers access this rebate when it becomes available to them. Sincerely, Michael R. Turner Member of Congress
02.04.2008	Budget CDBG Mike Turner share: f t Rep. Turner Comments on President’s FY2009 Budget Proposal WASHINGTON, D.C. - Congressman Michael Turner (R-Centerville) issued the following statement on the FY2009 budget proposal released earlier today by President Bush: “The President’s budget is an effort to reduce spending and balance the budget while providing for our nation’s priorities. While the administration has proposed a budget which seeks to ensure fiscal responsibility without raising taxes, I am concerned about funding reductions of several programs that could impact our community. I am particularly disturbed by the reduced funding for the Community Development Block Grants (CDBG). CDBG is essential to our nation’s communities and neighborhoods. Reducing funding to this program hurts people trying to recapture their neighborhoods and revitalize their communities.” “I do applaud the President for the proposed 30% increase in housing counseling funding for the coming year. Last year, the House accepted my amendment to increase funding available for housing counselors by $6.7 million. During this time of uncertainty in our housing markets, I am pleased that housing counseling remains a priority. While ultimately, every proposal by the President will not be accepted by Congress, the administration has given us a starting point for our work over the next year.”
02.01.2008	Rangel Delphi Workers Economic Stimulus Tax Rebate share: f t Rep. Turner Seeks Tax Rebate for Delphi Employees in Economic Stimulus Plan WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today, Congressman Michael Turner (OH-03) sent the following letter requesting that key Democrats and Republicans in the House and Senate allow former Delphi employees to receive the tax rebates in the upcoming economic stimulus package. After hearing concerns from former Delphi employees who received one-time buyout payments which may have caused their 2007 income to exceed the income cap set under the proposed economic stimulus plan, Rep. Turner sent the following letter: Dear Chairmen Rangel and Baucus and Ranking Republicans McCrery and Grassley: I am writing to request that clarifying language be added to the Economic Stimulus package that ensures tax rebates will be given to workers who have been termed “adversely affected workers” in order to receive Trade Adjustment Assistance or Alternative Trade Adjustment Assistance (TAA and ATAA respectively). Recently, my office was informed that some former Delphi Corporation employees who accepted a buyout may not be eligible to receive tax rebates under Title I of HR 5140 if their 2007 income is higher than the income cap passed by the House. In 2006, Department of Labor Secretary Chao certified that former Delphi employees who accepted buyouts would be considered “adversely affected workers.” As a result, these former Delphi employees would be eligible to receive TAA or ATAA benefits. It is important to note that while these “adversely affected workers” may have incomes that exceed the income cap for a rebate, this is a result of a one-time buyout payment, and is not representative of their base income. As a result, these workers should receive tax rebates under Title I of HR 5140. I would like to request that the tax rebate language in HR 5140 be clarified to reflect that any worker who is an “adversely affected worker” and eligible for TAA or ATAA be eligible for a tax rebate. The amount of money these workers received as part of their buyout package should not be included in their adjusted gross income for purposes of calculating their rebate. Sincerely, Michael R. Turner Member of Congress
01.31.2008	Custody NDAA Defense Authorization Bill Mike Turner Deployed Military Parents share: f t Custody Rights of Deployed Military Parents Protected with President’s Signature Provision authored by Rep. Mike Turner (R-OH) ends year-long battle Washington, D.C. - Since first learning that some judges used deployed military service as grounds to reverse the custody arrangements of service member parents, Congressman Michael Turner (R-OH) has fought to end what he calls “undue judicial intervention.” Monday, Turner’s nearly year-long fight to protect the custody rights of deployed service members ended favorably with the President’s signature of the Defense Authorization Bill. “When I first learned of the fight our service members had to go through to regain custody of their children when they returned home from serving our country abroad, I was struck by the lack of fairness in our judicial system,” said Rep. Turner. “No parent, courageous and honorable enough to volunteer to serve in the U.S. military, should have their time spent overseas in defense of our nation used against them in their custody disputes. These brave men and women are heroes and deserve our deepest gratitude.” Turner’s compromise includes two main conditions: 1) the provision restricts courts from changing the custody of a service member’s child while they are deployed and unable to participate in the proceeding; and 2) courts are also advised against using a military parent’s deployment as the sole reason that custody of a child is taken away. The provision amends the Servicemembers Civil Relief Act which eases the legal and economic burdens on military personnel called to active duty. Rep. Turner met one parent who successfully fought to regain custody of her daughter, but at a high personal cost. Lt. Eva Crouch-Slusher served an 18 month mobilization with the Kentucky National Guard. Her service was later used as the basis to strip her of custody of her daughter Sara. After a two-year, $25,000 battle to regain custody – that was ultimately successful – Lt. Slusher has joined Rep. Turner to advocate for the protection of custody rights. (Source, AP May 6, 2007: www.house.gov/miketurner/custody.shtml, AP January 31, 2008: www.house.gov/miketurner/custodyresolved.shtml) “Unfortunately, Eva’s story is not an isolated incident. Family courts have chosen to use the time our men and women serve away in active military duty against the service members in custody decisions. In some cases, courts are overturning established custody arrangements while the custodial parent is serving in Iraq or Afghanistan,” Rep. Turner said. “To use that service against them as a parent is inexcusable, and something that the provision I offered corrects legislatively. The provision protects our service members and it protects their children.”
01.30.2008	Mike Turner Chaka Fattah Urban Caucus One Economy share: f t Congressional Urban Caucus Names Turner Vice Chair Washington, DC – The newly reestablished Congressional Urban Caucus has bi-partisan leadership. Representative Michael Turner (R-OH) accepted an invitation by Caucus Chairman, Congressman Chaka Fattah (D-PA) to become Vice Chair for the organization. Fattah said, “Congressman Turner has a long and impressive record of championing urban issues as the Mayor of Dayton, Ohio. His leadership includes his One Economy initiative to provide 250 computers and in-home Internet access to local families and his efforts to ensure the availability of well-paying manufacturing jobs for his constituents.” As Americans continue to face rising foreclosures nationwide, Fattah also cited Turner’s work to provide almost $7 million to housing counseling agencies through the 2008 Transportation, Housing and Urban Development Appropriations Act. Fattah added, “Representative Turner’s commitment to providing better services and more opportunities to America’s metropolitan areas make him the perfect candidate to assist in leading the Urban Caucus.” “As the former Mayor of Dayton, I know first-hand the needs of our urban areas. While in Congress, I have worked to maintain and enhance federal programs that are important to building strong urban communities such as Brownfields, Housing, and Community Development Block Grants,” Congressman Turner said. “As the Vice-Chair of the Congressional Urban Caucus, I look forward to continuing to work with my colleagues in Congress on these vital economic development issues.” The Urban Caucus will bring together Members who represent the nation’s metropolitan areas to formulate ideas on how best to address the challenges faced by cities while sharing innovative solutions and best practices. # # #
01.28.2008	BRAC $230 Million Wright-Patterson Mike Turner share: f t It’s Official: $230 Million Headed to Wright-Patterson Washington, D.C. - $230 million is headed to Wright-Patterson Air Force Base after President Bush’s signature on Monday of the Defense Authorization Bill. The $230 million in Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) construction funds was appropriated in December but separate legislation was required to authorize the spending. Miami Valley Congressman Michael Turner (OH-03), a leading advocate for Wright-Patterson’s funding on both the House Armed Services Committee and the Defense Authorization Conference Committee, said he was glad to see the final funding come home. “With this bill signed into law, Wright-Patterson becomes the number one U.S. Air Force Base in BRAC construction funding for Air Force operations,” Rep. Turner said. “This $230 million investment into Wright-Patterson and the Dayton region will prepare our base for the additional 1,000 jobs we are soon to receive. To put this money in perspective, the $230 million Wright-Patterson is receiving is the equivalent of the funding for the Schuster Center, Riverscape, and Fifth Third Field combined, with another $56 million left to spend.” Specifically, the BRAC funds will go toward the construction of important facilities at Wright-Patterson such as: the Aero Medical Research Laboratories, facilities for the Air Force Research Laboratories, and the Air Force School of Aviation Medicine. The $230 million investment will better prepare Wright-Patterson for the over 1,000 jobs it is due to receive as a result of BRAC. “The expansion of Wright-Patterson is important to job growth for the Dayton region and will benefit Southwest Ohio for many years to come,” Congressman Turner said. “Our base is vital to our military success and this federal funding is an investment in our future.” Congressman Turner has been a steadfast supporter of Wright-Patterson’s BRAC funding. Earlier this year, Congressman Turner testified before the House Budget Committee to advocate for the importance of the funding to the entire Dayton region. The $230 million was included in both the House Appropriations Bill and the House Defense Authorization Bill which passed with Turner’s support. As Ohio’s sole member of the House Armed Services Committee, Congressman Turner was named to the House-Senate Conference Committee which ultimately resolved differences between the two chamber’s versions of the Defense Authorization Bill. # # #
01.14.2008	Mike Turner Tony Hall Earmarking Dayton Development Coalition Community Process share: f t A Model for Congressional Earmarking—the Dayton Way By Congressman Mike Turner and Former Congressman Tony Hall In recent weeks members have once again turned their attention to the seemingly wasteful and secretive nature of the Congressional earmarking process. Much of the public’s discomfort has centered on a sense that earmarks are determined without the benefit of an open and transparent process. In Dayton we have utilized for many years a deliberative, consultative process that could serve as a model for the nation. The Dayton process is an open, region-wide evaluation of the community’s priorities. It creates a sense of consensus and also eliminates any appearance of impropriety. The Dayton Development Coalition (Coalition) is an economic development and advocacy group which serves the twelve county Dayton, Ohio region. It manages an open, bipartisan process which results in ranked lists of community priorities in several categories, including economic development, higher education, government services, health and human services, transportation, and quality of life. Any potential earmark beneficiary can submit a detailed application to the Coalition. The proposal includes documentation and a full explanation of the project’s benefit to the community. The Coalition convenes subject specific panels made up of community experts in each category to review the requests. Each panel makes ranking recommendations. A broader committee made up of business, government, and civic leaders reviews the panel recommendations to ensure that the resulting list accurately reflects the region’s needs. Finally, the Coalition delivers a lengthy document summarizing the projects and rankings to each member of the region’s Congressional delegation. For the community, the process allows a broad coalition of public and private leaders to speak in one voice. It promotes long-term strategic planning. Instead of earmark requests being scattershot projects from year to year, the community can establish multi-year goals in economic development, transportation, defense, higher education, quality of life and human services and advance projects that support those goals. This approach is more likely to bring into consideration proposals that reflect a broad range of community interests, including social services that benefit the poorest and neediest of our citizens. The Congressional delegation has the benefit of receiving a list of community priorities that have been developed, reviewed and ranked in an open and fair process. The resulting priorities can have bipartisan support. Moreover, the airing of earmark requests before they are submitted to Congress insures quality projects and eliminates any sense of impropriety. The priority list developed through this process remains advisory. The responsibility for selecting earmarks remains with Congress and the elected members who represent the project sponsors. Those members are charged with using their best judgment, which may sometimes differ from the community ranking. However, there is a higher burden to demonstrate that a project that did not go through the process is the best earmark candidate. The Dayton region’s process should be a model for other regions. It provides sunshine to the earmark process without diminishing the ability of members of Congress to fund causes that benefit their constituents. It is a time-consuming effort and requires extensive regional cooperation to make it work. Still, the concepts of openness, speaking in one voice, strategic planning, and taking care of all the needs of a community should be welcome to any region that asks its members of Congress for earmarked funding. Mike Turner (R) represents Ohio’s Third Congressional District in the House of Representatives. Tony Hall (D) represented Ohio’s Third Congressional District for 24 years.
