01.17.2019	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) reintroduced legislation, H.R. 646, to name the Murrieta postal facility located at 24930 Washington Avenue in honor of the Riverside County veterans of the Iraq and Afghanistan wars. This bill would designate the post office as the “Riverside County Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans Memorial Post Office.” “Veterans from Riverside County made significant contributions and sacrifices while taking part in the Iraq and Afghanistan wars,” said Rep. Calvert. “Naming this facility in honor of our veterans is a small token of appreciation from our community for their service. I’m hopeful the House will act on this bill in the very near future.” ###
01.15.2019	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) reintroduced legislation, H.R. 552, to establish a new, unique zip code for the city of Eastvale. “Eastvale residents and businesses deserve to have a unique zip code that helps people identify their city,” said Rep. Calvert. “The city has asked the Postal Service for this seemingly simple request for years with no movement. It’s ridiculous that it takes an act of Congress to change a zip code, but if that’s the case I’m happy to do it. I’ll continue to work with Eastvale officials to get this done.” Currently, the city of Eastvale is split between two zip codes, which are both shared with other cities. The city of Eastvale incorporated in 2010 and has a population of more than 63,000. ###
01.15.2019	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) reintroduced the Ensuring the Safety Our Mail Act, H.R. 551, which will double the maximum jail sentence for anyone convicted of mail theft. “Mail theft continues to be serious problem throughout southern California, and beyond,” said Rep. Calvert. “The best way to dissuade a criminal from preying upon mailboxes is for them to know that if they get caught stealing mail, they are going to do serious jail time. Americans deserve to have confidence that sensitive documents and checks delivered their mailbox are safe.” Currently, the maximum jail sentence for anyone convicted of mail theft is five years under Section 1708 of Title 18 of the U.S. Code. The Ensuring the Safety Our Mail Act increases the maximum jail sentence to ten years. ###
01.15.2019	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42), along with Reps. Jim Costa (CA-16), Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05), Doug LaMalfa (CA-1), Tom McClintock (CA-4), and Mike Simpson (ID-2) introduced the FISH (Federally Integrated Species Health) Act, H.R. 548, to consolidate the protection of fish and the regulation of waterways under the Endangered Species Act (ESA) into a single agency. Currently, both the Fish and Wildlife Service (FWS) and the National Marine Fisheries Service (NMFS) have split authority over many of the same waterways under the ESA. This has caused differing – and even contradictory – regulations at times. The FISH Act places the regulatory authority solely within the FWS. “The FISH Act moves us toward a more consolidated and logical management of our endangered species and our rivers,” said Rep. Calvert. “It simply makes no sense to have multiple federal agencies responsible for enforcing the ESA. This unnecessary bureaucratic duplication delays the deployment and operation of critical infrastructure that drives our economy and enhances the natural environment. The FISH Act is a good government approach that will benefit species and all stakeholders affected by the ESA through a unified approach to managing threatened and endangered species. I want to thank the bipartisan group of my colleagues who have cosponsored the bill and join me in supporting this needed change.” “This legislation is a commonsense way to keep the important environmental regulations we need in place while getting rid of the illogical and redundant processes that prevent us from accessing and storing our water wisely,” said Congressman Jim Costa, lead Democratic co-sponsor on the FISH Act. “Having two different agencies regulating the same species can lead to contradictory or conflicting requirements, which is exactly what happened at Shasta Dam in 2016. The FISH Act should eliminate these types of conflicting requirements and has broad support from water managers across the country, including multiple California water agencies.” “When multiple federal resource agencies are attempting to manage Endangered Species Act (ESA) recovery, miscommunication and bureaucratic hurdles can stifle progress and make it more difficult to meet our goals,” said Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers.” By consolidating management of ESA salmon recovery within the Department of Fish and Wildlife, and not spreading enforcement authority among numerous federal agencies, we can more effectively recover endangered salmon in the Pacific Northwest and ensure dams and fish can coexist.” “The Endangered Species Act, while certainly a well-intentioned law, hasn’t been updated since its inception in 1973 and is in desperate need of modernization,” said Congressman Doug LaMalfa. “The FISH Act is one way we can do that. By consolidating the ESA under the Fish and Wildlife Service, we’re streamlining the process for those affected by the law while also improving results for protecting endangered fish and wildlife.” “ACWA commends Representative Calvert for his leadership in reintroducing the FISH Act- commonsense legislation to better align federal resources and agency responsibilities to improve implementation of the Endangered Species Act and help provide access to sustainable water resources for the human and ecological needs of California,” said Dave Eggerton, Executive Director of The Association of California Water Agencies (ACWA). The ESA is currently administered by FWS and the Commerce Department’s NMFS. The FWS has primary responsibility for terrestrial and freshwater organisms, while the responsibilities of NMFS are mainly marine wildlife such as whales and anadromous fish, such as salmon. The Federally Integrated Species Health Act would transfer NMFS’ ESA responsibilities for management of anadromous species to the FWS. ###
01.15.2019	Today it was announced that Rep. Ken Calvert (CA-42) will serve as the Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Defense (HAC-D). “First and foremost, I extend my gratitude to Full Committee Ranking Member, Kay Granger (R-TX), for selecting me as Ranking Member of HAC-D,” said Rep. Calvert. “She was a champion for our men and women in uniform as HAC-D Chairwoman and I look forward to building upon her success. I also look forward to working with HAC-D Chairman, Rep. Pete Visclosky (D-IN), who I have worked with in many capacities over the years and whom I consider a close friend.” “As Ranking Member, my priorities align with the Department and the imperative that we not lose momentum in rebuilding our military. The last two years have done much to course-correct eight years of a budget driven strategy, but we still have much more to do to improve readiness; provide U.S. servicemembers with the best equipment possible; and ensure we maintain superiority on land, sea, and air. I also look forward to working with the Department on new challenges in the areas of cyber, space, AI, and in maintaining our technological superiority. At the same time, the role of Congress is strenuous oversight and I will continue to question Department Leadership on how we can achieve efficiencies, reduce overhead, improve acquisition processes, and work together to make the Department a more efficient, agile, and responsive organization. As Ranking Member, I also welcome the input from the entire Republican Conference on their priorities and ideas. “Congress’ first responsibility is for the defense of our nation and I look forward to serving as the next Ranking Member of HAC-D. It is an honor and privilege to serve and to be a part of providing for our men and women in uniform.” Rep. Calvert has served on the House Appropriations Committee since 2009 and the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Defense since 2011. Rep. Calvert is one of three appropriations liaisons to the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence. He previously served on the House Armed Services Committee from 2001 to 2009. ###
01.11.2019	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) reintroduced the Certainty, Assistance, and Relief for Everyone (CARE) Act, H.R. 505. The legislation reauthorizes grant programs for eligible entities to provide training, consultation, and information on domestic violence, dating violence, stalking, and sexual assault against individuals with disabilities. “Protecting vulnerable populations, like disabled Americans, must be a priority for Congress,” said Rep. Calvert. “The CARE Act will ensure vital programs continue to provide resources addressing domestic violence, dating violence, stalking, and sexual assault against individuals with disabilities. Congress should act now to provide safeguards for some of the most vulnerable Americans.” Authority for these grants, as authorized in the Violence Against Women Act, expired on December 21, 2018. The CARE Act reauthorizes these grants to ensure continuing support for the most vulnerable individuals. Grants can be used for a number of purposes, including: To provide personnel, training, technical assistance, advocacy, intervention, risk reduction designed to prevent domestic violence, dating violence, stalking, and sexual assault against disabled individuals; To conduct outreach activities to ensure that disabled individuals who are victims of domestic violence, dating violence, stalking, or sexual assault receive appropriate assistance; To conduct cross-training for victim service organizations, governmental agencies, courts, law enforcement, and nonprofit nongovernmental organizations serving individuals with disabilities about risk reduction, intervention, prevention and the nature of domestic violence, dating violence, stalking, and sexual assault for disabled individuals; To provide technical assistance to modify existing policies, protocols, and procedures to ensure equal access to the services, programs, and activities of victim service providers for disabled individuals; To provide training and technical assistance on the requirements of shelters and victim service providers under federal antidiscrimination laws; To modify facilities, purchase equipment, and provide personnel so that shelters and victim service organizations can accommodate the needs of disabled individuals; To provide advocacy and intervention services for disabled individuals who are victims of domestic violence, dating violence, stalking, or sexual assault; and To develop model programs providing advocacy and intervention services within organizations serving disabled individuals who are victims of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, or stalking. The bill also includes a requirement that the Attorney General submit to Congress a report regarding best practices to address the disproportionally high incidence of sexual assault against individuals with disabilities. ###
01.11.2019	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) introduced legislation, the Employee Bonus Protection Act, H.R. 488, aimed at protecting employee bonuses from overly complex federal requirements. "American workers should never be denied bonus compensation simply because government regulations make it too complicated for employers,” said Rep. Calvert. "The government needs to get out of the way and make it easier, not harder, for businesses who want to reward employees with additional compensation. The Employee Bonus Protection Act is a commonsense solution that will help hard working Americans and small businesses." Under the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938 (FLSA), the Department of Labor requires that any employer calculate and factor in earned bonuses (including bonuses paid and lodging provided) when determining an employee's "regular rate of pay" for purposes of overtime compensation for each pay period. This requirement poses an unnecessary burden on businesses and employers, large and small alike, who are required to recalculate each employee's rate of pay depending on different bonuses earned every month. In fact, many businesses are forced to eliminate these incentives entirely because they cannot afford to hire an accountant or designate an employee to determine these changing rates of pay, disincentivizing employees to innovate and produce results for their employers, and ultimately their customers. The Employee Bonus Protection Act would amend the FLSA to provide that an employee's regular pay rate, for purposes of calculating overtime compensation, will not be affected by additional payments to reward an employee or group of employees for meeting or exceeding productivity, quality, efficiency, or sales goals under a gain sharing, incentive bonus, commission, or performance contingent bonus plan. ###
01.11.2019	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) released the following statement after voting against the Fiscal Year 2019 Interior and Environment Appropriations bill, H.R. 266: “The funding bill considered by the House today is almost entirely a Senate product. As such, it ignores the bipartisan priorities of the House. I don’t want to see these agencies shutdown, but that does not mean we should hastily approve bad legislation. Furthermore, the Senate has already indicated it will not take up this bill and the administration has indicated the President will not sign it. “Specifically, the bill fails to include protections for the California WaterFix, a critical project that will enhance water deliveries to Southern California. The bill also provides $12 million less than last year’s House-passed bill for the U.S. Geological Survey’s natural hazards research and early warning systems – including a significant cut to the earthquake early warning system for West Coast. There’s also $21 million less for the Forest Service and Department of the Interior to clear dead and dying trees from our forests in order to prevent more catastrophic wildfires like the kind we experienced in my own State of California. Additionally, the bill provides $77 million less than the House Republican bill for EPA's WIFIA, Brownfields, and Superfund Remedial programs. These programs provide regulatory relief, leverage Federal dollars, improve water infrastructure, and spur economic development. Even popular EPA grant programs, like the Diesel Emission Reduction grants (DERA) and Targeted Airshed grants, were significantly reduced in this bill. “By bringing these Senate bills to the floor, rather than the conferenced bills, House Democrats show they are more concerned about scoring political points against the President to appease their base than reopening the government. The President has come to the table several times to negotiate on border security and reopen the government, but House Democrats must appease the far-left elements of their party that demand open borders and opposition to the President at all costs – which includes forcing 800,000 federal workers to miss a paycheck.” ###
01.10.2019	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) reintroduced legislation aimed at preventing criminal illegal immigrants from being released back in our communities. The Help Ensure Legal Detainers (HELD) Act, H.R. 438, would require state and localities to adhere to Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) detainers. “The safety of American families is jeopardized by states and localities that require their law enforcement officers to ignore ICE detainers,” said Rep. Calvert. “One of the few areas of widespread agreement regarding illegal immigrants is the desire to see dangerous and violent criminal illegal immigrants deported from our country. Congress should pass the HELD Act and send a strong message that the safety of our communities – including our immigrant communities – comes before political games.” The HELD Act would deny all federal funding to any locality that has a law, policy or procedure in place that prevents local law enforcement from maintaining the custody of an alien pursuant to an ICE detainer. Specifically the bill: Would require local municipalities to promptly respond to an ICE Detainer notice issued by the Secretary of Homeland Security (DHS) that requests information about alien in custody in order for the Secretary to arrange for custody of the alien. Would require local municipalities to maintain custody of an alien for up to 48 hours pursuant to an immigration Detainer so that the alien can be transferred to the custody of DHS. The HELD Act includes an exception in the bill in cases where counties may have a policy in place that prevents local law enforcement from working with ICE while cities within that county may have no such policy. In these cases, the flow of federal funding that would normally go through the county would go directly to the city. ###
01.10.2019	Today, the California Republican Delegation sent a joint letter to California Democratic Delegation Chair Zoe Lofgren regarding the President’s threat to withhold FEMA funds from California. The letter states: Thank you for your invitation to an “emergency bipartisan meeting of our delegation to discuss” the President’s threat to withhold FEMA funds from California. We, the Republican House members from California, have already issued statements expressing our opposition to the President’s position and have strongly advised him to reconsider. We are actively working within the Administration to lay out our reasons clearly, calmly and compellingly and are confident that we can prevail upon the President. In the spirit of bipartisanship espoused in your invitation, and in order to effectively address this issue, we would urge the entire California delegation to heed Lincoln’s wise advice that “A drop of honey gathers more flies than a gallon of gall.” ###
01.09.2019	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) reintroduced the Secure Accountability for Emigres and Refugees (SAFER) Act, H.R. 364, to establish a vigorous security vetting process for Syrian and Iraqi refugees seeking to immigrate to the United States. “America should continue to be one of the most generous nations in the world in terms of admitting refugees, but we must know who we are allowing into our county through a robust vetting process,” said Rep. Calvert. “It’s a major challenge to figure out who refugees are and what their background is when their home countries either don’t have an adequate intelligence agency or their home country simply refuses to share information with U.S. intelligence. The SAFER Act will ensure we have a policy in place that protects Americans while providing for the admittance of additional refugees from war-ravaged nations.” The SAFER Act would define the requirements to fully vet Syrian and Iraqi refugees before they can be admitted into the United States: All Syrian and Iraqi refugees regardless of background or religious affiliation must pass a certified polygraph examination.A polygraph will be essential in determining whether a refugee is truly coming to the United States to escape oppression or if they are coming here with possibly violent intentions. This is necessary since for many refugees we only have their word to rely on as to who they are, where they are from and why they are coming here.There are no corresponding government databases to verify their claims nor is there the ability to conduct a sufficient background check due to the conflicts in the region and displacement of entire communities. All Syrian and Iraqi refugees regardless of background or religious affiliation must agree to provide biometric data and have that data compared to known databases in order to validate they have no known history of terrorist activities. All Syrian and Iraqi refugees regardless of background or religious affiliation must agree to provide DNA samples and have those samples compared to known databases in order to validate they have no known history of terrorist activities. All Syrian and Iraqi refugees will be subject to a background check that includes an investigation of all online activity, including posts to social media. ###
01.09.2019	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) reintroduced the Reducing Environmental Barriers to Unified Infrastructure and Land Development (REBUILD) Act, H.R. 363, to reduce the cost and speed up the construction of infrastructure projects while maintaining strong environmental protections. "The REBUILD Act reduces the cost and time necessary to build infrastructure projects at a time when many California communities are struggling to find the resources necessary to construct them,” said Rep. Calvert. "For far too long we have allowed our regulatory red-tape to grow into a complex web that makes it too costly and time consuming to build adequate infrastructure. As a result, our communities are unable to upgrade their critical systems, jeopardizing public safety and thwarting economic growth.” The REBUILD Act allows any state to enter into a Memorandum of Understanding with a designated federal agency that has environmental review responsibilities under NEPA and assume the review responsibilities of that agency. Under the REBUILD Act, states would still be required to uphold the same NEPA standards or greater. By assuming these responsibilities states could integrate NEPA compliance into their own state approval processes, thereby streamlining construction timelines and eliminating the need for redundant reviews at the federal level, all while upholding high standards of environmental stewardship. The streamlined process is modeled after a pilot program created in SAFETEA-LU (Section 327 - Title 23 USC) that allowed a limited number of states to take on the task of ensuring National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) compliance for highway projects under the Federal Highway Administration (FHWA). In those states that chose to assume this responsibility, the length of time to complete a project review was reduced by an average of 17 months while also ensuring the goals of the NEPA process were not compromised. ###
01.09.2019	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) issued the following statement: "During the partial government shutdown I’ve asked for my Congressional pay to be withheld. No one benefits from a government shutdown. We need to get to the negotiating table and work out a common sense solution." CongressionalPay.jpg
01.04.2019	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) reintroduced the Federal Accountability in Chemical Testing (FACT) Act, H.R. 249. The FACT Act would improve reporting by EPA, FDA, NIH, USDA and other government agencies about their efforts to replace inefficient, multi-million-dollar animal tests with faster, less costly and more effective alternative methods for assessing the safety of chemicals, drugs, foods, cosmetics and other substances. “I am reintroducing the FACT Act in order to protect animals and taxpayers from unnecessary animal tests funded by the federal government,” said Rep. Calvert. “For many years, I’ve worked closely with animal advocates to curb testing that can otherwise be done without using animals. The FACT Act will ensure that Congress has the information necessary to determine if federal agencies are meeting their mandates to replace expensive and preventable animal testing whenever possible, because evidence suggests they are not.” The common-sense, bipartisan FACT Act amends the Interagency Coordinating Committee on the Validation of Alternative Methods (ICCVAM) Authorization Act of 2000, which was created thru legislation authored by Rep. Calvert. The FACT Act specifies that biennial progress reports already required under the Act include details on how many animals were used by each agency and for what tests, as well as those it required in regulatory submissions. Some individual animal tests can cost taxpayers $4 million, use thousands of animals and take more than five years to complete. Federal laws require agencies to minimize animal tests in favor of high-tech alternatives like cell-based tests and sophisticated computer models. However, federal agencies do not currently report how many animals they use in testing or what they’re used for, making it impossible for Congress to assess their compliance and progress to replace wasteful animal tests. A review by the non-profit White Coat Waste Project – which has endorsed the FACT Act – found that government agencies are regularly conducting hundreds of animal tests on cosmetics ingredients, foods, natural supplements, tobacco products, industrial chemicals, and drugs using mice, rats, rabbits, dogs, monkeys, and other animals.
01.04.2019	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) introduced the Legal Workforce Act, H.R. 250, which preserves jobs for citizens and legal workers by requiring U.S. employers to check the work eligibility of all future hires through the E-Verify system. “Fixing our broken immigration system is long overdue and requires solutions like the Legal Workforce Act,” said Rep. Calvert. “By requiring the use of E-Verify, we can send a strong and clear message that people looking to come to America to improve their economic outlook must do so legally if they want to work here. We want and need immigrants to come to our nation to contribute to our success, but we must also remain a sovereign nation governed by the rule of law.” In 1996, Rep. Calvert authored the law that created the E-Verify program, the only tool available for employers to voluntarily check the legal work status of newly hired employees. Since then, Rep. Calvert has worked steadily over the years to expand E-Verify and pushed to make it mandatory. E-Verify is operated by U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS), E-Verify checks the social security numbers of newly hired employees against Social Security Administration and Department of Homeland Security records to help ensure that they are genuinely eligible to work in the U.S. The program quickly confirms 99.8% of work-eligible employees and takes less than two minutes to use. Nearly 750,000 American employers currently use E-Verify. Summary of the Legal Workforce Act: Repeals I-9 System - The Legal Workforce Act repeals the current paper-based I-9 system and replaces it with a completely electronic work eligibility check, bringing the process into the 21st century. However if an employer chooses to keep using the paper-based I-9 system they may do so. Gradual Phase-In – Phases-in mandatory E-Verify participation for new hires in six month increments beginning on the date of enactment. Within six months of enactment, businesses having more than 10,000 employees are required to use E-Verify. Within 12 months of enactment, businesses having 500 to 9,999 employees are required to use E-Verify. Eighteen months after enactment, businesses having 20 to 499 employees must use E-Verify. And 24 months after enactment, businesses having 1 to 19 employees must use E-Verify. Allows a one-time six month extension of the initial phase-in. It also requires that employees performing “agricultural labor or services” are subject to an E-Verify check within 30 months of the date of enactment. Strengthened Penalties – The bill raises penalties on employers who knowingly hire illegal immigrants in violation of the requirements of the bill. The bill also creates a penalty for individuals (employees or employers) who knowingly submit false information to the E-Verify system. Safe Harbor – Grants employers safe harbor from prosecution if they use the E-Verify program in good faith, and through no fault of their own, receive an incorrect eligibility confirmation.
01.04.2019	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) reintroduced legislation aimed at creating a more efficient civilian workforce at the Department of Defense (DOD). The Rebalance for an Effective Defense Uniform and Civilian Employees (REDUCE) Act (H.R. 248) would require the DOD to make civilian workforce reductions in a systematic manner without compromising our ability to maintain a strong national defense over the long term. “Over the course of many years, the Defense Department bureaucracy has been allowed to grow into a costly, unwieldy threat to taxpayers and our national security,” said Rep. Calvert. “Tough decisions must be made within the civilian workforce at the Defense Department in order to ensure our limited resources are focused on our servicemembers. We have made significant strides rebuilding our military in the past two years, but we will struggle to maintain our military superiority without improving our efficiency. The REDUCE Act can save an estimated $125 billion which can be better spent on other taxpayer priorities rather than sustaining an unnecessary bureaucracy.” The Growth in the Civilian Workforce within the DOD: A report produced by the Defense Business Board found that modest cuts to the back end bureaucracy at the Defense Department could save $125 billion over five years. Significant savings could be achieved through attrition and early retirements. According to an investigative report by the Washington Post, senior leadership at the Defense Department tried to keep the Defense Business Board’s report from public view. The requirements of the REDUCE Act will accomplish the following: Reduce our Defense civilian workforce by 15% by FY 2025.This percentage was recommended by the Defense Business Board, a trusted, authoritative, and independent source of expertise. The Department of Defense civilian workforce would remain at or below this established cap of a 15% reduction for Fiscal Years 2025 through 2029. The Department of Defense civilian Senior Executive Service career appointee workforce will be reduced to 1,000 by 2025 and remain at or below 1,000 employees for Fiscal Years 2025 through 2029. Provide the Secretary of Defense the authority to use voluntary separation incentive payments and voluntary early retirement payments in order to achieve the required reductions in personnel. Provide the Secretary of Defense the authority to assign greater weight to job performance versus tenure in a Reduction in Force then the Secretary currently has. Require a two-fold reporting requirement for this Act: (1) a report from the Secretary of Defense covering the progress and impact of the requirements of this Act in the annual budget request for Fiscal Years 2021 through 2029. The Secretary of Defense may also report to Congress on the impact of the provisions at any time throughout the year (such as when submitting the report on achievement of performance goals as required by Sec. 116 of title 31 of the United States Code on “Agency performance rating.”), (2) a GAO study, no later than three years after enactment of this Act, that shall examine the progress and impact of the requirements of this Act. In the development of the REDUCE Act, Rep. Calvert and his office consulted with respected defense officials and experts, including: Former Deputy Secretary of Defense Gordon R. England, Former Under Secretary of Defense Dr. Dov Zakheim, Former Secretary of the Navy John Lehman, and Major General (Ret.) Arnold Punaro (Member of the Defense Business Board).
01.03.2019	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) voted against legislation put on the House floor by Speaker Nancy Pelosi that fails to address our crisis at the southern border and fails to move us closer to ending the partial government shutdown. Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell has alreadyannounced the Senate would not take up the bill. Rep. Calvert issued the following statement following the vote: “The record is clear – Speaker Pelosi, Senate Minority Leader Schumer, and most Democrats in Washington have already voted to fund portions of the wall along our southern border. At this point, the only difference is the amount of funding for Fiscal Year 2019. As a businessman, I understand how financial negotiations work. To come to an agreement both sides need to meet somewhere. I voted for the FY2019 Homeland Security appropriations bill in committee with included the $5 billion requested by the President. I believe we can provide robust funding for the wall while negotiating on other items important to the Majority and reopen the affected government agencies as soon as possible. Unfortunately, this fight isn’t about the border but rather Democrats are using border security as a proxy to demonstrate to their base they are standing up to the President. While they carry on with this effort to appease their political base, a large portion of our federal government remains closed and hundreds of thousands of federal workers are affected. It’s time to stop playing politics and get to the negotiating table.” Democrat Support for Border Wall Funding Last March, Speaker Pelosi and 110 of her Democratic colleagues in the House voted to approve $1.6 billion for Fiscal Year 2018 for over 90 miles of physical barrier construction along our southern border. Last June, the Senate Appropriations Committee – by a bipartisan majority vote – approved $1.6 billion for Fiscal Year 2019 to construct approximately 65 miles of pedestrian fencing in the Rio Grande Valley Sector in Texas along our southern border. On January 25, 2017, President Trump issued an Executive Order (EO) to “secure the southern border of the United States through the immediate construction of a physical wall on the southern border, monitored and supported by adequate personnel so as to prevent illegal immigration, drug and human trafficking, and acts of terrorism.” The EO referenced the authority provided to the President under the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1101 et seq.) (INA), theSecure Fence Act of 2006 (Public Law 109 367), and the Illegal Immigration Reform and Immigrant Responsibility Act of 1996 (Public Law 104-208 Div. C) (IIRIRA). The U.S. Border Patrol began constructing a wall along the US-Mexico border in 1990, with construction of a 14 mile “primary fence” along the San Diego-Tijuana border. In 1996, President Bill Clinton signed the Illegal Immigration Reform and Immigrant Responsibility Act of 1996 (P.L. 104-208), which expressly authorized the construction and improvement of fencing and other barriers along the Southwest border. Barrier construction continued at a slow pace until the passage in October 2006 of the Secure Fence Act. Originally introduced by Rep. Peter King, it passed the House 283-138 and later the Senate by 80-19. Senators voting in favor included Sens. Obama, Biden, Boxer, Feinstein, Clinton, and Schumer. The bill required the Secretary of Homeland Security to build at least “two layers of reinforced fencing” at various hot spots along the border equaling about 650-700 miles in total. Subsequent efforts to pass legislation to extend the fence never made it out of committee in either Chamber. The Bush Administration began the construction project and the Obama Administration completed construction. As of May 2015, DHS installed 353 miles of primary pedestrian fencing, 300 miles of vehicle fencing (total of 653 miles), 36 miles of secondary fencing behind the primary fencing, and 14 miles of tertiary pedestrian fencing behind the secondary fence. The Border Patrol reportedly had identified a total of 653 miles of the border as appropriate for fencing and barriers. The requirement to build two layers of reinforced fencing was weakened by subsequent legislation passed by the Democratically-controlled Congress and signed by President Bush. ###
12.21.2018	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) issued the following statement regarding Secretary of Defense James Mattis: “Secretary of Defense James Mattis is a patriot who has dedicated his life to serving our great nation. Like all Americans, I am forever grateful for the many sacrifices and selfless actions throughout his military and civilian service. On the battlefield, Secretary Mattis has few peers. Simply put, he will go down in history as one of the finest American generals of all time. Secretary Mattis possesses an unrivaled ability to inspire those under his command. He also has a clear-eyed view on what motivates our adversaries and what is required to defeat them. Throughout his distinguished career spanning multiple administrations, Secretary Mattis presented his superiors with frank and honest counsel – even if it was a point of view they didn’t want to hear. That’s exactly the type of leadership and integrity we need to keep our nation safe.” ###
12.18.2018	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) announced the students from the 42nd Congressional District that he has nominated to attend the U.S. Service Academies. As a Member of Congress, Rep. Calvert has the privilege of nominating a select group of highly qualified young men and women from the 42nd District for an appointment to one or more U.S. Service Academies—Air Force, Naval, Military and Merchant Marine. Congressman Calvert’s Academy Nominations Selection Committee evaluated candidates from the 42nd Congressional District, who were seeking a nomination to one or more of our nation’s military service academies. Thirty five candidates were selected to receive Congressman Calvert’s nomination. They are as follows: U.S. AIR FORCE ACADEMY: Andres Barrera, Chaparral High School Joseph Delaney, Centennial High School Brandon Fuentes, Elsinore High School Jacob Galindo, Temescal Canyon High School Evaline Jun, Santiago High School Blake Murray, Norco High School Kaitlin Nethercutt, Murrieta High School Madison Orchard, Norco High School Shaine Sargis, Murrieta Valley High School Maverick Villon, Chaparral High School U.S. NAVAL ACADEMY: Karl Adriano, Great Oaks High School Madison Arias, San Diego High School Andres Barrera, Chaparral High School Michael Bronder, Ernest J. High School Talib Bryant, Eleanor Roosevelt High School Clayton Castro, Murrieta Valley High School Natalia Catena, Chaparral High School Reese Clifford, Santiago High School Justin Diamond, Santiago High School Mason Dowell, California Baptist University Seth Grundmeyer, Norco High School Evan Hall, Chaparral High School Ricardo Herzog-Balderas, Northwestern Prep-School Enrique Izquierdo, Elsinore High School Luke Pae, Santiago High School James Romero, Vista Murrieta High School Nathaniel Tinh, Chaparral High School Eli Williams, United States Naval Academy Preparatory School U.S. MILITARY ACADEMY AT WEST POINT: Antonio Amador, Chaparral High School Mason Dowell, California Baptist University Michael Eskola, Hillcrest High School Christopher Frey, United States Military Academy Preparatory School Sang Jung, Centennial High School Vishnu Kumar, Centennial High School Alyssa Manno, University of California, San Diego Hayden William, Santiago High School Ethan Wu, Murrieta Mesa High School U.S. MERCHANT MARINE ACADEMY: Madison Arias, San Diego High School Natalia Catena, Chaparral High School Seth Grundmeyer, Norco High School Nathaniel Tinh, Chaparral High School Hayden Williams, Santiago High School Ethan Wu, Murrieta Mesa High School The Service Academies will evaluate the nominees based on their academic, athletic and physical qualifications and extend an appointment to the best qualified students that Rep. Calvert has nominated. “These young men and women who I have nominated to the service academies have character, integrity, motivation and pride, and I am proud to nominate them,” stated Rep. Calvert. “They will serve our country well.” ###
12.01.2018	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) issued the following statement: “I had the pleasure of visiting President George H.W. Bush at the White House in 1993 shortly after I was sworn into the House of Representatives. I recall standing in awe of the ultimate patriot who had served his nation as a Navy pilot, Congressman, ambassador, Director of the CIA, Vice President – and now President. George Bush lived his life believing better days were ahead for America so long as individuals realized the importance of serving their neighbors and their country. The Bush family legacy carries on the tradition and beliefs of its patriarch. Today, many years after shaking hands with President George H.W. Bush in the White House, I remain in awe of one of the finest Americans we’ve ever known. I offer my deepest condolences to the entire Bush family.”
10.26.2018	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) and Congressman Darrell Issa (CA-49) praised the announcement by the U.S. Navy that it will be funding the construction of a new Fire Emergency Response Station at Marine Corps Base Camp Pendleton. The Navy is providing $15.5 million for the construction of the new fire station. “Our Marines at Camp Pendleton deserve to have the emergency response protection from a modern fire station,” said Rep. Calvert. “I’m tremendously pleased that the Navy is responding to an overdue need to replace and update fire stations for the Camp Pendleton Fire Department. There is more work to be done to ensure our Marines at Camp Pendleton enjoy the latest force protection, but this project is a great start.” "Camp Pendleton is a place without peer,” said Rep. Issa. “For decades, the outstanding Marines who call it home have consistently set a new and better standard for valor, loyalty and service to our nation. When they are given the tools they need, they perform magnificently. I trust that this much-needed resource will give them the protections they need and deserve." The new Fire Emergency Response Station will be used by the Camp Pendleton Fire Department and replaces a facility that was constructed in 1943, is outdated and beyond its useful economic and functional life. On October 5, 2018, Rep. Calvert sent a letter to the Navy requesting Fiscal Year 2019 funding to address the fire station deficiencies at Camp Pendleton. ###
10.22.2018	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) praised the announcement by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) that it awarded $9.6 million in Diesel Emission Reduction Act (DERA) grants to public and private partners in California. “I have proudly supported increased funding for the EPA’s DERA grant program because the resources make a real impact in improving our air quality in Southern California,” said Rep. Calvert. “As Chairman of the Interior and Environment Appropriations Subcommittee, I have and I will continue to make DERA funding and improved air quality a priority for all Americans.” According to the EPA, the funds will be used to retrofit and replace old, polluting diesel vehicles and equipment, including school buses, heavy-duty trucks, tractors and port equipment. The DERA leverages public and private funds to reduce emissions from the most polluting diesel sources. The 2018 DERA grants awarded to California will fund the following projects in Southern California: California Air Resources Board (CARB) received $435,149 to replace 5 heavy-duty school buses with all-electric alternatives throughout California. The funds will be combined with $379,516 in matching funds from CARB, and $1,280,000 in cost-shared funds from participating fleets. City of Los Angeles Harbor Department (LAHD), Port of Los Angeles received $279,750 to replace four older Tier 2 diesel engines on two tugboats operating in San Pedro Bay, with cleaner Tier 4 engines. The project will also replace one diesel sweeper at the Port of Los Angeles with two cleaner Tier 4 engines. The funds will be combined with $544,250 in matching funds from LAHD and partners. Los Angeles World Airports (LAWA) received $674,865 to replace three diesel-powered shuttle buses with zero-emission, battery-electric buses. The funds will be combined with $824,835 in cost-shared funds from United Airlines. South Coast Air Quality Management District (SCAQMD) received a total of $2,321,023 for two projects. SCAQMD received $719,500 to replace an older 2007 Tier 2 locomotive at the Port of Long Beach with a new Tier 4 diesel locomotive. The older Tier 2 unit will then displace an even older Tier 0 locomotive within the Mojave Desert Air Quality Management District. The funds will be combined with $2,158,500 in matching funds from SCAQMD. SCAQMD also received $1,601,523 to replace 16 diesel trucks with newer compressed natural gas engines certified to meet CARB’s optional low oxides of nitrogen (NOx) emission standard. The funds will be combined with $1,600,000 in cost-shared funds from participating fleets. ###
09.27.2018	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) voted along with a bipartisan majority (361 to 61) of the House of Representatives to approve the Conference Report to the Department of Defense, and the Labor, Health and Human Services Appropriations bills for Fiscal Year 2019. Rep. Calvert is the Vice-Chairman of the Defense Appropriations Subcommittee and was a member of the Conference Committee for this bill. “Providing our men and women in uniform with the tools, training and resources they need to carry out their challenging missions is one of the most important Congressional responsibilities,” said Rep. Calvert. “The bill approved today makes much needed investments to rebuild our military and gives our troops a much deserved pay raise. Getting this funding to our military on time will make a big impact – something I’m hopeful we can make the norm rather than the exception in the future.” “I am also glad we were able to provide a funding increase for the National Institutes of Health and the vital research they make possible to find cures for serious illnesses and diseases. The bill also provides a record, robust level of funding to combat the opioid epidemic and activities authorized under the 21st Century Cures Act. As a strong supporter of empowering parents, I supported the increased funding in the bill for charter schools.” This package of bills also includes a short-term “Continuing Resolution (CR),” which will provide continued funding to keep the federal government operating until all yearly Appropriations funding bills can be signed into law. The CR extends current levels of funding for federal agencies until December 7, 2018. Bill Highlights (Provided by the House Appropriations Committee) Defense Appropriations: The bill continues to rebuild the military with a boost of $17 billion above the fiscal year 2018 level in base discretionary funding. Supports our warfighters by including the authorized 2.6% pay raise for our troops – the largest such pay raise in nine years. Boosts troop levels – supports 1,338,100 active-duty troops and 817,700 Guard and Reserve troops and meets the requested 16,400 end-strength increase. Cares for our troops, military families, and retirees by including $34.4 billion for the Defense Health Program. Includes funding above the request for cancer research, traumatic brain injury and psychological health research, and sexual assault prevention and response. Labor, Health and Human Services Appropriations: Includes vital funding for the National Institutes of Health – $39 billion, an increase of $2 billion – for research to cure diseases such as cancer and Alzheimer’s. Saves taxpayers $50 million in future appropriations by creating the first Infectious Diseases Rapid Response Reserve Fund, where funds only become available for use in the event of a future public health emergency. Encourages economic growth with funding for job training programs and grants, Job Corps, and veterans employment services. Prepares the next generation through education programs, including college preparation and Pell grant funding, special education programs, pre-school grants, charter schools, and state support and achievement grants. Helps to combat the opioid epidemic by providing $6.7 billion, a historic level of funding, for programs that fight, treat, and stop substance abuse and support access to mental health services. This includes $5.7 billion for the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration, a $584 million increase. This will fund activities authorized under the 21st Century Cures Act and other addiction and recovery programs. The legislation also provides increases for State opioid response grants and criminal justice programs such as drug courts. ###
09.12.2018	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) voted along with a bipartisan majority (377 to 20) of the House of Representatives to approve a three-bill Appropriations “minibus” funding bill. The package of bills includes funding for the Energy and Water, Military Construction and Veterans Affairs, and Legislative Branch Appropriations bills for Fiscal Year 2019. Rep. Calvert served as a member of the joint House and Senate Conference Committee on the legislation. “Approving legislation that funds our veterans, military construction, flood control, energy, and legislative branch programs before the end of the current fiscal year is a major step in returning to regular order,” said Rep. Calvert. “By providing significant funding for our veterans programs, Congress is upholding our commitment to those who sacrificed so much for our nation. As a senior member of the Appropriations Committee I am proud of the work we have done to provide necessary resources for important national priorities within agreed upon spending limits.” By sending the three bill package to the President’s desk before the end of the fiscal year, Congress delivered on its promise to move towards a return to regular order. Riverside County Priorities: Santa Ana River Mainstem $15 million was provided to the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to continue work on the Santa Ana River Mainstem flood control project. Murrieta Creek The bill included report language urging the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to update the cost-benefit analysis of the updated Murrieta Creek flood control project design: Murrieta Creek, California. —The Committee is aware that the Corps has been working on a Validation Report to detail a re-scoped project for a more cost-effective flood protection solution while it proceeds with construction. The Committee urges the Corps to finish the Report, as the Corps turns over the completed elements of the project to the local sponsor and constructs Phase IIB of the project. Bill Highlights (Provided by the House Appropriations Committee): Energy and Water Appropriations: Supports a strong nuclear national security strategy with a total of $15.23 billion for the Department of Energy's nuclear weapons security programs, including the maintenance and readiness of the nuclear stockpile and Naval nuclear reactors. Increases funding for the nation's water resources infrastructure by directing $7 billion to the Army Corps of Engineers, an increase of $172 million, which will boost navigation and flood control improvements. Promotes economic competitiveness and energy independence by including $13.5 billion for energy programs, including protecting the safety of the nation’s electrical grid and investments in fossil and nuclear energy research. Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations: Includes the highest dollar level ever for the Department of Veterans Affairs – $86.5 billion discretionary funding – an increase of $5 billion. This includes funds for new and expanded Mission Act programs, increases in mental health services, modernizing the VA’s health records system, and addressing the claims backlog. Provides resources for improved infrastructure for our service members and their families – $10.3 billion for military construction projects, an increase of $241 million, including: Upgrades to infrastructure for deterrence operations and unique training requirements to counter challenges posed by Russia and threats from the Middle East and Africa; Increases for infrastructure and facilities construction and improvements on U.S. military bases; and Housing for all 1,400,000 military families currently served. Legislative Branch Appropriations: Bolsters the safety and security of the Capitol Complex for Members, staff, and the thousands of guests who visit every day by increasing funds for the Capitol Police and security infrastructure improvements. Provides funding for the Office of Employee Advocacy, which provides legal consultation, representation, and assistance on allegations, claims, and complaints under the Congressional Accountability Act. Opens the door for Congressional service to students and young people of all economic backgrounds by dedicating funds for paid internships. Continues the Member of Congress pay freeze. ###
07.24.2018	Join U.S. Representative Ken Calvert (CA-42) for a Telephone Town Hall Meeting on Wednesday, August 1st, 2018 at 6:00 p.m. PST. Representative Calvert will provide an update on what’s happening in Congress and take questions from his constituents live on the call. Register HERE to receive an invitation call to join this live virtual forum.
07.19.2018	Today, the House of Representatives approved (217 to 199) the Fiscal Year 2019 Interior and Environment Appropriations bill, which was authored by Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42). Rep. Calvert serves as the Chairman of the Interior and Environment Appropriations Subcommittee. “I want to thank my colleagues for supporting the FY19 Interior Appropriations bill,” said Rep. Calvert. “I am proud to have crafted a bill that balances fiscal restraint with the need to fund a number of American priorities like our National Park Service, the Smithsonian, Native American programs, efforts to prevent and combat wildfires, and the development an earthquake early warning system for the West Coast. We also continue to work towards shrinking the bureaucracy at EPA by focusing funds on programs that actually clean our air and water.” ###
07.18.2018	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) voted along with a majority (244 to 35, 133 Present) of the House of Representatives in support of House Resolution 990, supporting the officers and personnel who carry out the important mission of the United States Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE). “The men and women at ICE are dedicated professionals who make tremendous sacrifices in order to protect America – and they deserve our full support,” said Rep. Calvert. “ICE officers work every day to defend the sovereignty of our borders and protect us by apprehending dangerous murderers, rapists, human/drug traffickers and potential terrorists. Democrats who have advocated abolishing ICE are out of touch with the American people. If Democrats want to advocate changing the immigration enforcement policies carried out by ICE so be it, but they should stop vilifying the proud Americans who work there and keep us safe.” ###
07.09.2018	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) issued the following statement on President Trump’s nomination of Judge Brett Kavanaugh to the Supreme Court: “The nomination of Judge Brett Kavanaugh to the Supreme Court is a tremendous choice. By selecting a judge with a proven record on the bench of strictly adhering to the principles laid out in our Constitution, the president has ensured we will have another well qualified justice serving on the Supreme Court. I look forward to Judge Kavanaugh’s confirmation by the Senate in the near future.” ###
06.28.2018	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) voted along with a majority (359 to 49) of the House of Representatives to approve the Fiscal Year 2019 Defense Appropriations bill. Rep. Calvert serves as the Vice-Chairman of the Defense Appropriations Subcommittee, which is responsible for funding our military programs. “The security of our nation, and the peace of the world, depends on a strong U.S. military,” said Rep. Calvert. “The FY19 Defense funding bill meets the demands of our military to restore our readiness levels, invest in lethality, buy the equipment that will maintain our military superiority, and provide for the health and welfare of our men and women in uniform.” “We are at a unique time in history that demands U.S. leadership throughout the world. As we know all too well, a power vacuum breeds instability and extremism. A strong U.S. military, with our allies, creates stability. After too many years of a budget driven strategy, this bill reflects the investment needed to maintain and secure U.S. interests around the world. The investment we make here today – about 16% of our entire federal budget - has dividends down the road for many years.” FY2019 Defense Appropriations Bill: REBUILDING OUR ARMED FORCES Boosts base funding for our military by $17.1 billion above FY18 levels to $606.5 billion total, continuing to rebuild our military – consistent with the House-passed National Defense Authorization Act and enacted budget agreement. Ensures our military has the resources needed to continue ongoing Overseas Contingency Operations and Global War on Terrorism efforts with a total of $68.1 billion for personnel requirements, operational needs, equipment procurement and upgrades, and support for key allies. RESTORING MILITARY READINESS Increases funding for military readiness programs that ensure our troops are ready for their missions – providing $245.9 billion (an increase of $9.3 billion above base FY18 funding levels) for training, maintenance, and base operations. Prepares and modernizes our Armed Forces for the future of warfare by providing $92.4 billion for research and development into new defense systems and technologies. SUPPORTING OUR WARFIGHTERS Boosts troop end strength by providing $144 billion for military personnel and pay – supporting 1,338,100 active-duty troops and 817,700 Guard and Reserve troops. Includes the authorized 2.6% pay raise for our troops – the largest pay raise in nine years. Cares for our troops, military families, and retirees by including $34.4 billion for the Defense Health Program. Includes funding above the request for cancer research, traumatic brain injury and psychological health research, and sexual assault prevention and response. Ensures our troops can rely on an efficient, well-run Pentagon by making commonsense decisions to save taxpayer dollars where possible and in areas that will not affect the safety or success of our troops and missions. ###
06.28.2018	The U.S. House of Representatives today announced that Rep. Ken Calvert (CA-42), along with other Appropriations Committee Colleagues, will participate in the Conference Committee to finalize the Energy and Water, Military Construction and Veterans Affairs, and Legislative Branch Appropriations bills for fiscal year 2019. “I look forward to getting to work on the mini-bus with our Senate counterparts,” said Rep. Calvert. “After years of Continuing Resolutions, going to conference on some of our most important federal priorities -- including national defense, caring for our veterans, the nuclear modernization effort, and vital infrastructure – shows that the Congress is fulfilling its Constitutional responsibilities. I thank Chairman Frelinghuysen for the responsibility and for his dedication to regular order.” The GOP Members of the Conference Committee include: Rep. Rodney Frelinghuysen Rep. Mike Simpson Rep. John Carter Rep. Ken Calvert Rep. Jeff Fortenberry Rep. Charles Fleischmann Rep. Jamie Herrera Beutler Rep. Scott Taylor ###
06.20.2018	Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) issued the following statement on the executive order signed today regarding the separation of families detained illegally crossing our border: “Like most Americans, I do not want to see children unnecessarily separated from their families. Over the past few days, my colleagues and I in the House have been working on legislation to address the issue and I welcome today’s executive order to allow families to remain together in custody while their case is adjudicated. Ultimately, Congress needs to update our immigration laws to provide legal clarity on this and other elements of our broken immigration system. As I stated when DACA was established by executive order, Congress has the constitutional responsibility of establishing our immigration policies, not the President. That is why I look forward to voting in support of both Securing America's Future Act (H.R. 4760) and the Border Security and Immigration Reform Act (H.R. 6136) in the House tomorrow. H.R. 4760 comprehensively addresses our border security issues, including mandating the use of E-Verify, a program I created. The Border Security and Immigration Reform Act, will enhance our border security and ensure that children who are apprehended at the border with their parents are not separated while in custody. A secure border can only be achieved by making it clear that anyone caught illegally crossing our border will be returned to their home country. A secure border protects Americans and will protect Central American and other children from being subjected to a long, dangerous journey.” ###
06.14.2018	This week, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) supported the passage of a series of bills aimed at confronting the ongoing opioid abuse crisis. “American families across the country are grappling with the devastating effects of opioid abuse, and find themselves in desperate need of help,” said Rep. Calvert. “This week, the House of Representatives took a number of bipartisan steps to address the opioid crisis head-on. These actions come in the wake of Congressional action earlier this year that provided nearly $4 billion in resources to combat the opioid crisis. By working together and making this a priority, we can bring an end to this epidemic.” This week, the House of Representatives voted individually on dozens of bills to combat the opioid crisis. A complete list is provided HERE by the House Energy and Commerce Committee. ###
06.11.2018	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) praised the inclusion of funding for several projects in the 42nd Congressional District in the Fiscal Year 2018 Corps of Engineers Work Plan. “The funding provided today by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers will have a significant impact here in Riverside County and get us closer to completing these important projects,” said Rep. Calvert. “I am especially pleased to see a much needed influx of federal funding going towards the Murrieta Creek project following significant local investments. The completion of the Murrieta Creek project continues to be a high priority for the cities of Murrieta and Temecula, and I have been proud to join them in advocating for these critical resources. I look forward to working together with all of the stakeholders involved with these projects for additional funding in the future.” The following projects in the 42nd Congressional District received funding in the FY18 Work Plan: Murrieta Creek ($9.9 million): Remove vegetation and sediment from Phase 1 project component and complete Phase 2A project component; Phases 1 and 2A for future Operation and Maintenance. Santa Ana River Mainstem ($58 million): Award small contracts such as aerial mapping, value engineering, surveys, GIS and CAD engineering support; Facility site maintenance and utility services; Fully fund Norco Bluff contract; Cost increases on budgeted work. South Perris Desalter ($2.8 million): Brackish water well siting analysis; Program Management for well construction; Sherman Road pipeline. ###
06.07.2018	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) voted along with a majority (210 to 206) of the House of Representatives in support of H.R. 3, the Spending Cuts to Expired and Unnecessary Programs Act, which claws back federal funding for a number of programs. “After former President Obama and Democrats added an astounding $9 trillion to our national debt in eight years, we owe it to the American taxpayers to do everything we can to be good stewards of their hard earned dollars,” said Rep. Calvert. “The rescissions package approved today will not cure our significant fiscal challenges, but it does demonstrate that House Republicans are committed to cutting spending. I look forward to the House taking additional steps in tackling our fiscal challenges on both the mandatory and discretionary federal spending.” H.R. 3 bill rescinds nearly $15 billion of unobligated balances from previously appropriated funding. Specifically, the bill includes 34 rescissions totaling $14.835 billion and affects programs at the Departments of Agriculture, Commerce, Energy, Health and Human Services, Justice, Labor, State, Transportation, Treasury, and the Railroad Retirement Board. ###
06.06.2018	Today, the House Appropriations Committee approved the Fiscal Year 2019 Interior and Environment Appropriations bill, which was introduced by Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42). Rep. Calvert serves as the Chairman of the Interior and Environment Appropriations Subcommittee. “I want to thank my colleagues on the Appropriations Committee for supporting the FY19 Interior Appropriations bill,” said Rep. Calvert. “Our bill funds a number of American priorities like our National Park Service, the Smithsonian, Native American programs, efforts to prevent and combat wildfires, and the development an earthquake early warning system for the West Coast. Once again we provide important funding for EPA programs that clean our environment, but do not increase the size of the federal bureaucracy.” Fiscal Year 2019 Interior and Environment Appropriations Bill Highlights: (Provided by the House Appropriations Committee) Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) – The bill funds EPA at $7.958 billion, $100 million below the fiscal year 2018 level. Within this total, EPA’s regulatory programs are reduced by $228 million below the current level. The bill also targets additional funding to critical EPA air quality and infrastructure programs, including: $100 million for the Diesel Emissions Reduction Act grant program and $55 million for the Targeted AirShed Grant program to reduce air pollution in the nation's areas with the highest levels of ozone and PM2.5 ambient air concentrations; A total of $2.6 billion for the Clean Water and Drinking Water State Revolving Loan fund, which states and localities use for water infrastructure projects; An increase of $40 million to accelerate the cleanup of Superfund sites to return them to productive use and spur economic development; and A total of $75 million for the Water Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act (WIFIA) program to leverage federal dollars to provide financing for more than $8 billion in water infrastructure projects. This bill reflects the Administration’s goal to rein in outdated, unnecessary and potentially harmful regulations at the EPA. For example, it includes a full repeal of the economically damaging “Waters of the United States” regulation. Wildland Firefighting and Prevention – In total, the bill funds wildland firefighting and prevention programs at $3.9 billion, fully funding the 10-year average for wildland fire suppression costs for both the Department of the Interior and the Forest Service, and providing robust additional funding – $500 million– for Forest Service suppression operations. The legislation also includes $655 million for hazardous fuels management, which is $30 million above the fiscal year 2018 level. U.S. Geological Survey (USGS) – The bill includes $21 million for an earthquake early warning system to help save lives during natural disasters. Native American Programs – The bill increases the Federal commitment to honoring government-to-government treaty and Trust agreements entered into with American Indians and Alaska Natives. The Indian Health Service is funded at $5.9 billion, $370 million above the fiscal year 2018 level. The Bureaus of Indian Affairs and Indian Education are funded at $3.1 billion, $40 million above the fiscal year 2018 enacted level. Proposed cuts are restored and fixed costs are funded. Increases are provided for staffing newly constructed hospitals; urban health clinics; the Indian Health Care Improvement Fund; road maintenance; police officers and courts; schools and colleges; economic development; and forest management. Contract Support Costs continue to be fully funded. Federal Payments to Local Communities – The bill provides $500 million for “Payments In Lieu of Taxes” (PILT), $35 million above the budget request. PILT provides funds for local governments in 49 states to help offset losses in property taxes due to nontaxable federal lands within their counties. Without congressional action, many rural communities would face huge budget shortfalls impacting public safety, education, and other local government responsibilities. National Park Service (NPS) – The legislation includes $3.25 billion for the NPS, an increase of $53 million above the fiscal year 2018 level. Within the total, the bill provides an additional $50 million in funding for park operations. The bill also includes a $175 million increase above fiscal year 2018 levels to address longstanding deferred maintenance needs, including a $40 million increase for maintenance, repair, and rehabilitation projects, and a $135 million increase for deferred maintenance of park service facilities. U.S. Forest Service – The bill includes $6.1 billion for the Forest Service, of which $3 billion is targeted to wildland fire prevention and suppression. The bill also provides a $19.5 million increase to combat pests, diseases, and invasive species in our Nation’s forests and includes a provision prohibiting the Forest Service or BLM from issuing new closures of public lands to hunting and recreational shooting, except in the case of public safety. For the text of the bill, please visit: https://docs.house.gov/meetings/AP/AP06/20180515/108314/BILLS-115HR-SC-AP-FY2019-Interior-SubcommitteeDraft.pdf
05.31.2018	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) announced and congratulated the 2018 Service Academy Appointments from the 42nd Congressional District of California. As a Member of Congress, Rep. Calvert has the privilege of nominating a select group of highly qualified young men and women for admission to the United States Service Academies – Army, Navy, Air Force and Merchant Marine. “I’m incredibly proud to nominate and see these students appointed to our extraordinary service academies,” said Rep. Calvert. “These are among the finest students and young adults in our region, and they have a tremendous future ahead of them. I also want to congratulate and thank their family, friends, teachers and everyone who helped them achieve this tremendous honor.” The following is a list of the candidates nominated by Congressman Calvert who have also received and accepted an Offer of Appointment to our nation's service academies, and will be part of the Class of 2022 entering in June 2018: U.S. Air Force Academy: Aaron Miranda, Vista Murrieta High School (Class of 2017), currently attending Northwestern Prep School U.S. Naval Academy: Aubrey Calef, John F. Kennedy Middle College Kimberly Lynch, Murrieta Valley High School (Class of 2017), currently attending United States Naval Academy Preparatory School U.S. Military Academy at West Point: Marja Crawford, Murrieta Valley High School Bianca Gonzalez, Norco High School Cooper Smith, Temescal Canyon High School Merchant Marine Academy: Evan Boas, Chaparral High School Katherine Gal, Vista Murrieta High School Each Appointee to the Armed Service Academies will receive an education valued in excess of $400,000. Rep. Calvert's appointments to the Armed Service Academies are awarded on a strictly competitive basis through a Congressional Nominations Selection Committee. The Committee evaluates each candidate and makes recommendations. ###
05.23.2018	Yesterday, an amendment to the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA), sponsored by Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) and Congresswoman Grace Napolitano (CA-32), supporting the National Guard Youth Challenge program was approved by the House of Representatives. The amendment will facilitate the establishment of a National Guard Youth Challenge program in Riverside County at the Naval Operational Support Center (NOSC) Moreno Valley located at March Air Reserve Base. “The National Guard Youth Challenge program is a terrific opportunity to help at-risk youth at an important time in their lives,” said Rep. Calvert. “I’m proud to play a small role in bringing the Challenge program to Riverside County and March Air Reserve Base. I want to thank my friend and colleague, Rep. Napolitano, for her work on this important issue.” The mission of the National Guard Youth Challenge program is to intervene in and reclaim the lives of at-risk youth to produce program graduates with the values, skills, education and self-discipline necessary to succeed as adults. The Challenge program accomplishes this by: Providing a safe, structured environment that promotes academic achievement. Developing leadership traits, which improve self-esteem, pride, and personal confidence. Teaching life skills that will benefit young men and women in the adult working world (such as budgeting, personal hygiene, punctuality, teamwork, responsibility, and cooperation). The Moreno Valley Navy Operation Support Center (NOSC) is the most appropriate facility to be used to establish a National Guard Youth Challenge program in Riverside County. However, current U.S. law prevents the facility, when it is expected to be declared excess by the Navy in two years, to be transferred to the National Guard to be used for the Youth Challenge Program. The Calvert-Napolitano amendment provides the necessary legislative fix by permitting excess federal military installations to be transferred to the National Guard for use by the State’s National Guard to support a Youth Challenge program. ###
05.15.2018	Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) has released the Fiscal Year 2019 Interior and Environment Appropriations bill. Rep. Calvert serves as the Chairman of the Interior and Environment Appropriations Subcommittee. “The Interior Subcommittee has made every effort to balance a host of competing needs and provided the Interior Department, EPA and other agencies under our jurisdiction with the resources necessary to carry out their mission,” said Rep. Calvert. “Our bill funds a number of American priorities like our National Park Service, the Smithsonian, Native American programs, efforts to prevent and combat wildfires, and the development an earthquake early warning system for the West Coast. Once again we provide important funding for EPA programs that clean our environment, but do not increase the size of the federal bureaucracy. I appreciate the input of all of our Subcommittee members.” Fiscal Year 2019 Interior and Environment Appropriations Bill Highlights: (Provided by the House Appropriations Committee) Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) – The bill funds EPA at $7.958 billion, $100 million below the fiscal year 2018 level. Within this total, EPA’s regulatory programs are reduced by $228 million below the current level. The bill also targets additional funding to critical EPA air quality and infrastructure programs, including: $100 million for the Diesel Emissions Reduction Act grant program and $55 million for the Targeted AirShed Grant program to reduce air pollution in the nation's areas with the highest levels of ozone and PM2.5 ambient air concentrations; A total of $2.6 billion for the Clean Water and Drinking Water State Revolving Loan fund, which states and localities use for water infrastructure projects; An increase of $40 million to accelerate the cleanup of Superfund sites to return them to productive use and spur economic development; and A total of $75 million for the Water Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act (WIFIA) program to leverage federal dollars to provide financing for more than $8 billion in water infrastructure projects. This bill reflects the Administration’s goal to rein in outdated, unnecessary and potentially harmful regulations at the EPA. For example, it includes a full repeal of the economically damaging “Waters of the United States” regulation. Wildland Firefighting and Prevention – In total, the bill funds wildland firefighting and prevention programs at $3.9 billion, fully funding the 10-year average for wildland fire suppression costs for both the Department of the Interior and the Forest Service, and providing robust additional funding – $500 million– for Forest Service suppression operations. The legislation also includes $655 million for hazardous fuels management, which is $30 million above the fiscal year 2018 level. U.S. Geological Survey (USGS) – The bill includes $21 million for an earthquake early warning system to help save lives during natural disasters. Native American Programs – The bill increases the Federal commitment to honoring government-to-government treaty and Trust agreements entered into with American Indians and Alaska Natives. The Indian Health Service is funded at $5.9 billion, $370 million above the fiscal year 2018 level. The Bureaus of Indian Affairs and Indian Education are funded at $3.1 billion, $40 million above the fiscal year 2018 enacted level. Proposed cuts are restored and fixed costs are funded. Increases are provided for staffing newly constructed hospitals; urban health clinics; the Indian Health Care Improvement Fund; road maintenance; police officers and courts; schools and colleges; economic development; and forest management. Contract Support Costs continue to be fully funded. Federal Payments to Local Communities – The bill provides $500 million for “Payments In Lieu of Taxes” (PILT), $35 million above the budget request. PILT provides funds for local governments in 49 states to help offset losses in property taxes due to nontaxable federal lands within their counties. Without congressional action, many rural communities would face huge budget shortfalls impacting public safety, education, and other local government responsibilities. National Park Service (NPS) – The legislation includes $3.25 billion for the NPS, an increase of $53 million above the fiscal year 2018 level. Within the total, the bill provides an additional $50 million in funding for park operations. The bill also includes a $175 million increase above fiscal year 2018 levels to address longstanding deferred maintenance needs, including a $40 million increase for maintenance, repair, and rehabilitation projects, and a $135 million increase for deferred maintenance of park service facilities. U.S. Forest Service – The bill includes $6.1 billion for the Forest Service, of which $3 billion is targeted to wildland fire prevention and suppression. The bill also provides a $19.5 million increase to combat pests, diseases, and invasive species in our Nation’s forests and includes a provision prohibiting the Forest Service or BLM from issuing new closures of public lands to hunting and recreational shooting, except in the case of public safety. For the text of the draft bill, please visit: https://docs.house.gov/meetings/AP/AP06/20180515/108314/BILLS-115HR-SC-AP-FY2019-Interior-SubcommitteeDraft.pdf ### ###
05.09.2018	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) issued the following statement regarding the release of three Americans who have been detained in North Korea: “This is a day the friends and family of Tony Kim, Kim Hak-song, and Kim Dong-chul, have been hoping and praying for since their loved ones were taken captive. As a nation, we share the relief and happiness they are feeling today. I have personally met with Tony Kim’s son, Sol Kim, and know their family has anguished every day for the past year about Tony’s fate. I want to express my thanks and appreciation for the tremendous work done by everyone at the State Department, including Secretary of State Mike Pompeo and former Secretary of State Rex Tillerson, who worked tirelessly to bring our Americans home.” Rep. Calvert worked with Sol Kim, a constituent of CA-42, and communicated directly with the Trump Administration on the need to bring Tony home. ###
05.03.2018	Rep. Calvert, Chairman of the Interior Appropriations Subcommittee which funded Targeted Air Shed Grants at $30 million in the FY2017 appropriations bill, was pleased to announce that the South Coast Air Quality Management District in California would be receiving funds for the following activities: $3,184,875 to replace old diesel school buses in the LA Unified School District’s fleet. $3,184,875 to replace 36 diesel and gas airport shuttle buses with battery-electric models manufactured in the South Coast. “Southern California has come a long way in improving air quality but our region continues to have the worst air quality in the nation, despite those improvements,” said Rep. Calvert. “During my time in Congress, and especially as Chairman of the Interior Appropriations Subcommittee, I have fought to fund programs proven to improve air quality, including the Targeted Air Shed Grant program which focuses on non-attainment areas, and the Diesel Emissions Reduction Account Program, which removes the dirtiest engines from our roads. I am proud to announce the two grants today and will continue to fight for cleaner air for our region, state and country.” The Targeted Air Shed Grant Program assists local, state and/or tribal air pollution control agencies in developing plans, conducting demonstrations, and implementing projects to reduce air pollution in non-attainment areas that EPA determines are the top five most polluted areas relative to National Ambient Air Quality Standards (NAAQS). Chairman Calvert included an increase of $10 million to the Targeted Air Shed Grant program in the FY2018 Consolidated Appropriations Act passed into law, which will distribute $40 million in grant funding for FY2018. ###
04.30.2018	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) announced his 26th Annual Academy Night event for high school students in the 42nd Congressional District who are interested in attending one of the U.S. military academies. Academy Night features presentations from the U.S Air Force Academy, the U.S. Military Academy at West Point, the U.S. Naval Academy, the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy and the U.S. Coast Guard Academy. When: Wednesday, May 16, 2018 6:00 p.m. to 8:00 p.m. Where: Ortega High School Conference Center 520 Chaney Street in Lake Elsinore Students will learn about the admission requirements and the congressional nomination process, and will have the opportunity to meet with representatives from each academy, members of Rep. Calvert's Academy Nominations Selection Committee, and his congressional staff – all of whom will be more than willing to help the students throughout the application process. For more information about Rep. Calvert's military academy nomination process please click here. The 42nd District encompasses the western edge of Riverside County including the cities of Eastvale, Norco, Corona, Lake Elsinore, Wildomar, Canyon Lake, Menifee, Murrieta and a portion of Temecula. ###
04.20.2018	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) invited high school students throughout the 42nd Congressional District to participate in the 36th Annual Congressional Art Competition. "The artistic talents of Riverside County students never cease to amaze me," said Rep. Calvert. "The Congressional Art Competition is a fantastic way to showcase the talents of young Americans from around the country at the Capitol." This year marks the thirty-sixth anniversary of the Congressional Art Competition,An Artistic Discovery. Each year, Members of Congress hold contests within their districts to choose winning pieces of art by high school students. Since this competition was created in 1982, hundreds of thousands of high school students have participated at the local level. The winning student from each district is invited to Washington, DC for the ribbon-cutting ceremony, and will have his or her artwork displayed in the U.S. Capitol for one year. Competition Guidelines: Only high school students residing in the 42nd Congressional District may enter. A student release form must be attached to the art work submitted. All artwork must be original and may not violate any U.S. copyright laws. All artwork must be two-dimensional. Artwork, when framed, can be no larger than 26" high x 26" wide x 4" deep. Acceptable categories include: Paintings, Drawings, Collage, Prints, Mixed Media, Computer generated art, and Photography. The deadline for submission is Friday, May 4, 2018. Artwork must adhere to the policy of the House Office Building Commission. In accordance with this policy, exhibits depicting subjects of contemporary political controversy or a sensationalistic or gruesome nature are not allowed. For more information, please contact my District Office at (951) 277-0042. ###
04.19.2018	Earlier this week, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) was presented with the National Park Foundation’s (NPF) 2017 Park Champion award in honor of his longtime support of our national parks and his leadership as Chairman on the House Appropriations Interior Subcommittee. “I’m honored to receive the National Park Foundation’s Park Champion award and join them in advocating for our extraordinary National Parks,” said Rep. Calvert. “Americans, as well as people from across the world, have enjoyed visiting our National Parks since their creation. I strongly believe that Congress must provide the resources necessary to ensure our Parks are properly maintained and protected for future generations.” The National Park Foundation, the official charitable partner of the National Park Service, enriches America’s national parks and programs through the support of private citizens, park lovers, stewards of nature, history enthusiasts, and wilderness adventurers. Chartered by Congress in 1967, the Foundation grew out of a legacy of park protection that began over a century ago, when ordinary citizens took action to establish and protect our national parks. ###
04.18.2018	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) introduced the Certainty, Assistance, and Relief for Everyone (CARE) Act, H.R. 5547. The legislation reauthorizes grant programs for eligible entities to provide training, consultation, and information on domestic violence, dating violence, stalking, and sexual assault against individuals with disabilities. “I came across an NPR article that found that intellectually disabled people are seven times more likely to be sexually assaulted,” said Rep. Calvert. “It is absolutely shocking and disturbing that these individuals are targeted so often and I wholeheartedly believe we must do more to protect them. That is why I am introducing the CARE Act, which will provide vital assistance to our most vulnerable populations.” Authority for these grants, as authorized in the Violence Against Women Act, is currently set to expire at the end of 2018. Grants reauthorized by the CARE Act can be used for a number of purposes, including: To provide personnel, training, technical assistance, advocacy, intervention, risk reduction (including using evidence-based indicators to assess the risk of domestic and dating violence homicide) and prevention of domestic violence, dating violence, stalking, and sexual assault against disabled individuals; To conduct outreach activities to ensure that disabled individuals who are victims of domestic violence, dating violence, stalking, or sexual assault receive appropriate assistance; To conduct cross-training for victim service organizations, governmental agencies, courts, law enforcement, and nonprofit nongovernmental organizations serving individuals with disabilities about risk reduction, intervention, prevention and the nature of domestic violence, dating violence, stalking, and sexual assault for disabled individuals; To provide technical assistance to modify existing policies, protocols, and procedures to ensure equal access to the services, programs, and activities of victim service providers for disabled individuals; To provide training and technical assistance on the requirements of shelters and victim service providers under federal antidiscrimination laws; To modify facilities, purchase equipment, and provide personnel so that shelters and victim service organizations can accommodate the needs of disabled individuals; To provide advocacy and intervention services for disabled individuals who are victims of domestic violence, dating violence, stalking, or sexual assault; or To develop model programs providing advocacy and intervention services within organizations serving disabled individuals who are victims of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, or stalking. The bill also includes a requirement that the Attorney General submit to Congress a report regarding best practices to address the disproportionally high incidence of sexual assault against individuals with disabilities. ###
04.12.2018	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) voted in support of House Joint Resolution 2, an amendment to the Constitution of the United States requiring a balanced budget. The Resolution failed to receive the two-thirds vote (223 to 184) necessary for approval. “I have always supported a balanced budget amendment because we must address the budgetary challenges our country continues to face,” said Rep. Calvert. “The critics who opposed today’s vote continue to avoid the reality staring us in the face – we spend too much. We have to tackle our fiscal challenges and a balanced budget amendment will help us do that. I also strongly support changing the Senate filibuster rules on appropriation bills so we can avoid having to pass huge omnibus bills and instead pass fiscally responsible appropriations bills via regular order.” ###
04.11.2018	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) released the following statement on Speaker Paul Ryan’s announcement that he will not seek re-election: “It has been an honor and privilege to serve with Speaker Ryan and we will sorely miss his expertise, leadership, and wit. Speaker Ryan led a diverse Republican Conference with skill and integrity. When I was a member of the Budget Committee during his Chairmanship, I witnessed first-hand a brilliant policy mind dedicated to fiscal responsibility. As Speaker, he passed one of the most significant reforms to our tax code in history. Through all these accomplishments, he has remained humble and grateful. Thank you Speaker Ryan for all you have done for this institution and we wish you well as you return to your most cherished role, a Dad.” ###
03.22.2018	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) voted along with a majority (256 to 167) of the House of Representatives to approve the Fiscal Year 2018 Omnibus Appropriations Act. Rep. Calvert is the Chairman of the Interior and Environment Appropriations Subcommittee. “While long overdue, the funding bill passed by the House today provides the necessary resources for our important federal programs,” said Rep. Calvert. “A number of priorities for the 42nd Congressional District and our region were included in the bill, including funding for flood control projects, the earthquake early warning system, and an expansion of infrastructure programs. As a member of the House Appropriations Committee, I am proud of the bipartisan work by the members of our committee, and I look forward to shifting our focus to the Fiscal Year 2019 appropriation process.” “The significant funding provided in the bill will help ensure that the West Coast has a functioning earthquake early warning system in the near future. I will continue to be a champion for this life-saving technology that can have a significant impact when big earthquakes strike. Let’s take the steps we can to save Americans from preventable injuries during natural disasters.” “The inclusion of the Wildfire Disaster Funding Act in the bill is a major step towards giving the Forest Service the budgetary certainty it has been lacking for far too long. We know all too well that our current approach to wildfire management and budgeting just isn’t working. By taking this important step, we can devote more resources to wildfire prevention efforts and start to curb the rise in catastrophic wildfires.” Rep. Calvert Priorities Included in the Fiscal Year 2018 Omnibus Appropriations Act: Earthquake Early Warning System: The Interior and Environment portion of the bill includes $22.9 million requested by Rep. Calvert for the continued development of an earthquake early warning system to help save lives during natural disasters. Of the $22.9 million provided, $12.9 million is for the earthquake early warning program while $10 million funds infrastructure buildout of the system (new sensors and equipment). The funding is an increase of $12.7 million above the previous year’s funding level. Santa Ana River Mainstem Project: The Energy and Water portion of the bill includes $40 million requested by the Trump administration and Rep. Calvert for continued construction of the Santa Ana River Mainstem flood control project. Wildfire Disaster Funding Act: The bill includes the legislative text of the Wildfire Disaster Funding Act which fixes the way we currently budget for wildfire suppression by treating catastrophic wildfires like other natural disasters. As a result, the Forest Service can focus its resources on maintenance and prevention work without fear of losing those dollars to address fire suppression needs. Supporting Our Troops: $654.6 billion in total discretionary funding for the Department of Defense – the largest investment in our Armed Forces since the beginning of the War on Terror. The funding level represents a $61.1 billion increase in the investment in our troops, the biggest year-to-year increase in defense funding in 15 years. The bill also fully funds a 2.4% pay raise for our troops. Air Quality Improvement Programs: The bill includes $75 million for the Diesel Emissions Reduction Act (DERA) grant program, an increase of $15 million compared to the previous year. The funding helps retrofit older diesel emission engines and bring cleaner burning engines to our roads. A significant amount of the DERA funding is spent in California's South Coast Air Quality Management District. The bill also contains $40 million for the EPA’s Targeted Airshed Grant program, an increase of $10 million compared to the previous year. The program awards grants to the regions in the country with the most severe air pollution. E-Verify: The bill includes $108.8 million for E-Verify as well as an additional $22.6 million to prepare the program to become mandatory. Birth Tourism: The Homeland Security portion of the bill included report language requested by Rep. Calvert addressing the rise in visa fraud for the purpose of having children in the United States. The growth of so-called birth tourism has resulted in a number of raids and arrests throughout southern California over the past few years. More recently, the city of Eastvale has reached out to Rep. Calvert about the growth of suspected birthing homes in the city. The language in the bill states: The Committee is concerned by a reported increase in individuals fraudulently entering the United States on non-immigrant visas in order to give birth in this country. While individuals are welcome to come to the U.S. on a tourist or other visa, it is against the law to apply for admission under false pretenses. The Committee is also concerned with reports that different ports of entry may not be consistently applying CBP guidance in this area, allowing individuals seeking to exploit the visa process to direct pregnant women to specific ports of entry with more lenient admission practices. The Committee directs CBP to investigate these fraud allegations and take steps to ensure that admission criteria are applied uniformly across ports of entry. Indian Health Care: The Interior and Environment portion of the bill includes $72 million requested by Rep. Calvert for the Indian Health Care Improvement Fund to address the shortfalls in the allocations of base funding across the Indian Health Service system. The funding is particularly important to rural California tribes. ###
03.06.2018	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) issued the following statement in response to the Department of Justice’s lawsuit challenging the sanctuary state policies enacted by the California legislature and Governor Jerry Brown: “I welcome any actions that will bring an end to California’s sanctuary state policy that does nothing but protect dangerous felons who are in our country illegally. By not allowing cooperation between local law enforcement and our federal law enforcement officials, Democrats in Sacramento have placed our communities and our men and women in law enforcement in greater danger. MS-13 gang members and other violent felons should be deported, not allowed to prey on our residents – particularly our immigrant communities. I thank the Department of Justice for standing together with our law enforcement officers as well as our law abiding citizens and immigrants who want to see the rule of law restored in our country.” ###
02.21.2018	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) issued the following statement on the passing of the Rev. Billy Graham: “Rev. Billy Graham said "My home is in Heaven. I'm just traveling through this world.” Throughout his travels, Rev. Graham was an inspirational messenger of faith. Like so many around the world, I was incredibly moved by his words and feel fortunate to have had the opportunity to meet him. God has called home another one of his children, but the world is a much better place because of Rev. Graham’s grace and devotion to Jesus Christ and his calling to serve.” ###
02.16.2018	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) issued the following statement regarding the Department of Justice indictments against 13 Russian nationals and three Russian entities: “Attacks by foreign nationals on our elections process are a threat to our democracy. The allegations contained in the indictment confirm what we have known and suspected about Russia’s nefarious intentions, and they should alarm all Americans. There must be consequences for the Russians involved in these actions as well as for those who authorized them. The indictment handed down today also provides important clarity that no one on the Trump campaign knowingly colluded with the Russian individuals who are accused of meddling in the election. By illustrating the fact that these Russian individuals started their operation before the Trump campaign began, supported other candidates like Bernie Sanders, and organized events protesting President Trump, the indictment makes clear that the true motivation of the perpetrators was to fuel partisan discord among Americans. Despite our political differences, we are all Americans first and united in the defense of the liberties we hold dear.” ###
02.15.2018	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) voted along with a majority (225 to 192) of the House of Representatives to approve H.R. 620, the ADA Education and Reform Act. Rep. Calvert is an original cosponsor of the bill. “The goal of the Americans with Disabilities Act is to provide access for the disabled, not to give money hungry trial lawyers the opportunity to abuse small businesses,” said Rep. Calvert. “Protecting small businesses from abusive lawsuits and ensuring disabled Americans have adequate access are not mutually exclusive goals. That’s why I am an original cosponsor of H.R. 620 and believe its passage is critical to both the disabled and small business communities. By giving business owners adequate time to make the appropriate changes to provide access, we are returning the original spirit and intent of the ADA.” H.R. 620 would alleviate the financial burden small businesses are facing as a result of ADA lawsuits, while still fulfilling the purpose of the Act. Any person aggrieved by a violation of the ADA would provide the owner or operator with a written notice of the violation, specific enough to allow such owner or operator to identify the barrier to their access. Within 60 days the owner or operator would be required to provide the aggrieved person with a description outlining improvements that would be made to address the barrier. The owner or operator would then have 120 days to remove the infraction. The failure to meet any of these conditions would allow the suit to go forward. As a former small business owner and past president of the Corona Chamber of Commerce, Rep. Calvert has seen firsthand the devastating effects of frivolous ADA lawsuits. As such, Rep. Calvert has long led the effort in Congress to reform the ADA and looks forward to continuing the fight on these important issues. The following organizations have endorsed the bill: American Hotel and Lodging Association, American Resort Development Association, Asian American Hotel Owners Association, Building Owners and Managers Association (BOMA) International, CCIM Institute, Institute of Real Estate Management, International Council of Shopping Centers, International Franchise Association, NAIOP, the Commercial Real Estate Development Association, National Apartment Association, National Association of REALTORS®, National Association of Theatre Owners, National Council of Chain Restaurants, National Federation of Independent Business, National Multifamily Housing Council, National Restaurant Association, NATSO, Representing America's Travel Plazas and Truck Stops, Retail Industry Leaders Association, U.S. Chamber of Commerce. ###
02.12.2018	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) issued the following statement on the President’s Proposed Fiscal Year 2019 budget request: “All budget proposals involve tough decisions and establishing priorities. I am pleased to see a number of important programs emphasized in the proposal, including our military, veterans programs, school choice and efforts to combat the opioid epidemic. The budget request from the administration is just the first step in the annual appropriations process. In the weeks and months ahead, I will be working with my colleagues on the Appropriations Committee to determine the resources our agencies and programs require to fulfill their missions. As I've noted in the past, I simply do not believe a bigger bureaucracy is needed to accomplish our federal goals. I am hopeful that our recently passed bipartisan budget agreement will pave the way to a more timely enactment of our necessary spending bills in regular order." ###
02.08.2018	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) voted along with a bipartisan majority (240 to 186) of the House of Representatives to approve the Bipartisan Budget Act. The legislation also provides almost $90 billion in emergency supplemental appropriations for disaster relief efforts for affected communities. “The passage of a budget agreement that ends the budget caps on defense is long overdue,” said Rep. Calvert. “Our military budgets have been under strain for years due to the Budget Control Act. The approved agreement will help reverse funding trends that have degraded our military readiness, training and equipment to dangerous levels. After years of a budget driven strategy, our defense leaders will be able to plan, resource and execute the missions necessary to keep our country safe as well as protect our national interests around the world. I’m pleased that this bill will now allow the Appropriations Committee to complete its work on the FY2018 appropriations bills. The bill also contains emergency supplemental funding, including critical resources and tax relief benefits for individuals and businesses affected by California wildfires that had the bipartisan support of our entire delegation.” Bipartisan Budget Act (Courtesy of the Speaker's Office) The two-year budget agreement makes critical investments in America’s veterans, disaster relief, infrastructure, and further combatting opioid abuse and drug addiction. This agreement will unwind the sequestration cuts that have hamstrung America’s armed forces and jeopardized our national security by funding the military at this year’s National Defense Authorization Act levels. It breaks the spending “parity” demanded for years by Democrats by giving defense a larger funding increase than non-defense discretionary spending. Compared to current law spending caps, the agreement increases defense discretionary funding by $80 billion in Fiscal Year (FY) 2018 and $85 billion in FY 2019 vs. an increase in non-defense domestic discretionary of $63 billion in FY 2018 and $68 billion in FY 2019. This agreement provides for America’s veterans by helping reduce the maintenance backlog at the Veterans Administration. This agreement includes $6 billion over two years to bolster the ongoing fight against opioid addiction and substance abuse by funding grants, prevention programs, and law enforcement efforts in vulnerable communities across the country. The agreement includes a $20 billion new investment in America’s infrastructure -- a bipartisan priority shared by the President and lawmakers in both parties. It includes an extension of funding for Community Health Centers. This agreement includes an extension of tax relief provisions that are supported by Republicans and Democrats. It includes $2 billion in funding over two years for the National Institutes of Health (NIH). It establishes two committees to address pension and budget/appropriations reform. Continuing Resolution & Disaster Supplemental: The agreement includes a Continuing Resolution (CR) that funds the government at current levels through March 23, 2018 in order for the Appropriations Committees to negotiate detailed appropriations and deliver full funding for the remainder of FY 2018, and begin the process for FY 2019. The legislation also contains almost $90 billion in emergency supplemental appropriations to help states, communities, businesses, and individuals respond and recover from recent hurricanes, wildfires and other disasters. Within in this funding, $4.9 billion is provided to increase Medicaid caps for Puerto Rico and U.S. Virgin Islands for two years, along with program requirements. Tax & Health Care Policies: The agreement includes a one-year extension of critical tax provisions that help families, individuals and small businesses across the country. These provisions expired at the end of 2016. It includes an additional four years of authorization for the Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP). The measure also includes a package of bipartisan Medicare provisions, known as Medicare extenders, and funding for community health centers. ###
02.02.2018	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) released the following statement regarding the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence memo concerning abuses of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act (FISA): “The memo released today by the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence highlights a troubling abuse of our intelligence surveillance process. Any abuse of our FISA process should concern everyone. Americans deserve to be aware of these disturbing actions and should expect anyone involved in the FISA process to take steps to prevent them from happening again. As I have said before, the investigations surrounding the 2016 election should go wherever the facts lead. The memo released today is not intended to influence the investigation by the Special Counsel, it is intended to shine light on an abuse of the FISA process. Furthermore, a great majority of the men and women at the FBI and Department of Justice do an extraordinary job protecting Americans. The memo released today highlights actions taken by a small number of people in the upper echelons of those agencies and should in no way be used to impugn the fine work performed every day by federal law enforcement officials.”
01.30.2018	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) issued the following statement regarding President Donald Trump’s State of the Union address: “Our economy is growing thanks to the policies enacted by the Republican Congress and the President, but I believe the best is yet to come. Thanks to the passage of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act we are seeing a host of job creators investing in their workforce in the form of bonuses, wage increases and other benefits. We are also seeing massive amounts of money being repatriated from overseas and being invested here in America. The infusion of billions of dollars into our economy will provide a boost that our economy hasn’t seen in decades.” “I support the President’s position when it comes to providing legal certainty to DACA eligible individuals. We must secure the border, mandate the use of E-Verify and restore the rule of law to ensure we don’t find ourselves in a similar situation in just a few years. Democrats claim to support border security and enforcing our immigration laws, yet find any proposal to accomplish those goals objectionable. I find it disappointing that Democrats would rather use DACA eligible individuals as political pawns than provide them with actual solutions.” “I’m hopeful Congress can come together and provide our communities with a desperately needed infrastructure package. Many of the infrastructure solutions I hope to advance would make it possible to build projects faster and at a lower cost. When it takes longer to study and get the permits to build a project than it did to build the Hoover Dam, you know our nation has taken a step backwards. The Inland Empire got a raw deal when Sacramento Democrats raised gas taxes as part of a package that failed to make congestion relief a priority. I’ll be working to make sure any federal infrastructure package puts commuters first by delivering congestion relief projects faster and more economically.” “Finally, all of us have taken an oath to uphold and defend the U.S. Constitution which requires Congress to provide for the general defense of the nation. President Trump delivered his fiscal year 2018 budget to Congress last May and yet today marks the 122nd day that our government has been operating on a continuing resolution. Operating on continuing resolutions is detrimental to our national security, so I urge Democrats to join us in fully funding the military. I commend the President for reinvesting in our military, resetting the force and continuing President Reagan’s mantra of ‘peace through strength.’” ###
01.22.2018	Today Rep. Ken Calvert (R-CA) issued the following statement on ending the government shutdown and passage of the short-term Continuing Resolution. “I am pleased that we were able to get through the impasse and reopen the government, while not involving unrelated immigration matters that require more time to negotiate. The shutdown was orchestrated by Senate Democrats and it backfired spectacularly. I applaud President Trump and his entire Administration for working overtime to ensure that government services were still operating as much as possible. Now we need to end the cycle of CRs, negotiate a budget deal that works for the American people and our military, and get to work for the American people.” The short-term CR funds the government through February 8, 2018 and includes a six-year reauthorization of the Children’s Health Insurance Program and also delays Obamacare taxes on medical devices, “Cadillac” health plans, and health insurance providers. ###
12.21.2017	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) joined a majority (251 to 169) of the House of Representatives to approve a disaster aid package to provide additional emergency assistance for recent hurricanes, wildfires in California, and related agriculture losses. The bill, H.R. 4667, totals $81 billion, and targets funds to programs to continue relief and recovery efforts in all of the affected communities, including in California, Texas, Florida, Louisiana, Puerto Rico, and the U.S. Virgin Islands. “Congress has delivered the help these affected regions desperately need,” said Rep. Calvert. “California has experienced some of the most devastating wildfires we have ever seen. I toured northern California with my colleague Rep. Mike Thompson and saw the scale of the damage first-hand. I’m proud of the way our California delegation came together in a unified, bipartisan manner to secure the funding our state needs to recover. Our work is not done. We must continue to stand together with the communities in northern and southern California that have been scorched by wildfires and ensure they have the resources they need in the weeks and months ahead.” In addition to emergency funding, the bill approved by the House contained the legislative text of California Wildfire Disaster Tax Relief Act (H.R. 4397). Rep. Calvert is an original cosponsor of H.R. 4397, which would provide the same tax relief to victims of California wildfires as was provided to victims of Hurricanes Harvey, Maria, and Irma. Specifically, the bill allows a deduction for personal casualty losses and eliminates the current law requirements that personal casualty losses must exceed 10 percent of Adjusted Gross Income to qualify for deduction. Highlights of the Disaster Aid Package: (Provided by the House Appropriations Committee) $81 billion in FY18 emergency funding for ongoing disaster recovery needs from Hurricanes Harvey, Irma, and Maria, and wildfires. Fulfills next phase of most immediate needs to help Florida, Texas, Louisiana, Puerto Rico, the U.S. Virgin Islands, California, and other states recover from recent disasters. $28.6 billion for FEMA/Dept. of Homeland Security Provides funding for the Disaster Relief Fund to cover disaster costs for hurricane and wildfire relief and recovery. Provides up to 90% federal cost share for disasters declared in 2017 for wildfires. $541 million for watershed and flood prevention efforts. ###
12.19.2017	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) voted along with a majority (227 to 203) of the House of Representatives to approve the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act conference report. “With the House passage of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act we are on the verge of enacting the most pro-growth tax policy our country has seen in decades,” said Rep. Calvert. “Lower taxes, more jobs, and higher wages are on the way. Congress listened to the concerns voiced about the original bill and we produced an even better bill. I am confident that our economy is now poised for tremendous growth thanks to the passage of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. As soon as next month, Americans will see and feel the impact of this bill by having more money in their paychecks." “It has been 31 years since President Ronald Reagan signed our last sweeping tax reform bill into law. Over time, the tax code once again became muddled with special interest deductions and credits. We have had time to evaluate the benefits of each provision wedded in to the code, and I believe the bill considered today is a monumental step forward in cleaning out the tax code and creating a more fair system that will achieve the growth our economy experienced after the Reagan tax reform." “I was proud to support one of the most consequential pieces of legislation that I have had the opportunity to vote on in my career. This legislation provides a direct path to higher wages and more jobs. The reduction of the corporate tax rate will bring jobs back to America and unleash the untapped potential of our entrepreneurs.” “I look forward to the President signing this legislation before the end of the year, allowing constituents in my district to reap the benefits beginning January 1, 2018.” According to the independent Tax Foundation, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act will lead to an estimated 1.7 percent increase in GDP over the long term, 1.5 percent higher wages, and an additional 339,000 full-time equivalent jobs throughout the nation. It is estimated that 9 in 10 Americans will find it more beneficial to take the standard deduction, saving time and money on tax preparation and leaving more money in the pockets of Americans. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act will provide tax relief to Americans by: Lowering individual tax rates for all income levels so people can keep more of their hard-earned money. Nearly doubling the standard deduction to protect more of your annual earnings from being subject to taxation. The law increases the standard deduction for individuals from $6,500 to $12,000, and for married couples from $13,000 to $24,000. Expanding the Child Tax Credit from $1,000 to $2,000. The tax credit is fully refundable up to $1,400 and the income threshold at which the tax credit begins to phase out has been raised which means more families will qualify. Continuing to allow people to write off the cost of state and local taxes – up to $10,000. Gives individuals and families the ability to deduct property taxes and income, or sales, taxes whichever best fit their personal circumstances. Preserving the mortgage interest deduction for current and future homeowners. For all homeowners with existing mortgages that were taken out to buy a home, there will be no change to the current mortgage interest deduction. For homeowners with new mortgages on a first or second home, the home mortgage interest deduction will be available up to $750,000. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act will provide a tremendous boost to our economy by: Allowing businesses to immediately write-off the full cost of new equipment to improve operations and enhance the skills of their workers – unleashing growth of jobs, productivity, and paychecks. Lowering the corporate tax rate, which today is the highest in the industrialized world, to a more globally competitive rate. Delivering significant tax relief to Main Street job creators by offering a first-ever 20% tax deduction that applies to the first $315,000 of joint income earned by all businesses organized as S corporations, partnerships, LLCs, and sole proprietorships. Modernizing our international tax system so America’s global businesses will no longer be held back by an outdated “worldwide” tax system that results in double taxation for many of our nation’s job creators. Making it easier for American businesses to bring home foreign earnings to invest in growing jobs and paychecks in our local communities. Preventing American jobs, headquarters, and research from moving overseas by eliminating incentives that now reward companies for shifting jobs, profits, and manufacturing plants abroad. For more information on the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act please visitwww.fairandsimple.gop. ###
12.13.2017	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) and Congressman Ed Royce (CA-39) announced that the California National Guard will be receiving upgraded Blackhawk helicopters. Specifically, the Guard’s old UH-60L/A Blackhawks will be replaced by with UH-60M Mike models. “The California National Guard deserves modern equipment to carry out its mission,” said Rep. Calvert. “Providing our Guard with these upgraded Blackhawks has been a high priority. In recent days, the Guard has utilized its Blackhawk fleet to help combat the California wildfires. With upgraded aircraft, the Guard will be in a better position to help California.” “Investing in California’s National Guard has proven to save countless lives when unexpected danger strikes,” said Rep. Royce. “In Southern California, the Los Alamitos Joint Forces Training Base (JFTB) is vitally important to federal and state contingency operations and is essential to keeping the public safe. The addition of the upgraded Blackhawk helicopters means that JFTB will be able to better serve Californians when we need them the most.” "The Cal Guard is the nation's most frequently deployed National Guard force, and our Black Hawk helicopters are pivotal to many of our missions. Whether it's battling wildfires at home or terror overseas, these cutting-edge aircraft enhance our ability to respond when California or the nation calls," said Maj. Gen. David S. Baldwin, Adjutant General of the California National Guard. "I'm grateful to Congressman Calvert and Congressman Royce for their ongoing dedication to our Guardsmen. They understand our soldiers need the best and latest tools to accomplish their mission." Rep. Calvert, Vice-Chairman of the Defense Appropriations Subcommittee, and Rep. Royce, Chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee, led the effort along with other California members to advocate for the Guard’s Blackhawk upgrade through the Defense authorization and appropriations bills. The California National Guard currently has one of the oldest Blackhawk fleets while also having one of the highest utilization rates. ###
11.30.2017	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) issued the following statement in response to the verdict in the Kate Steinle murder trial: “Kate Steinle’s family has suffered an agonizing loss and now have been denied justice for the man who shot and killed her. If our immigration laws were enforced, Kate would be alive today. I defy anyone to defend that murderer’s right to be on the San Francisco pier the night he took her life.” ###
11.16.2017	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) voted along with a majority (227 to 205) of the House of Representatives to approve the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, H.R. 1. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act is the most significant overhaul of the U.S. tax code since the 1986 Tax Reform Act was signed into law by President Reagan. "I voted for the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act because it allows my constituents in the 42nd District to keep more of the money they earn and will produce tremendous economic benefits that help working families," said Rep. Calvert. "Despite the misinformed and misleading claims from tax-loving liberals, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act produces real tax relief – especially for low-income and middle-income households with children. That's not my opinion, that's math. This tax bill will allow a majority of my constituents to opt for the standard deduction and, on average, boost after-tax income for middle-class families in California by $2,932." The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act creates a simpler, fairer tax code that benefits working families by: Doubling the standard deduction: The standard deduction for individual filers will go from $6,300 to $12,000. Married couples filing jointly will be able to deduct $24,000, as opposed to $12,600 in current law. That means the first $24,000 a family earns will be tax free and more families will have a smaller tax liability by taking the standard deduction rather than itemized deductions. Lowering tax rates: Reduces the seven current income tax brackets to four brackets – 12%, 25%, 35%, continues to maintain 39.6% for high-income Americans. That means more of the money earned in the lower and middle-income tax brackets will be taxed at a lower rate. Increasing the Child Tax Credit: Raised from $1,000 to $1,600 per child, while lifting the income phase-out threshold so more families benefit. The bill also creates a new Family Credit, which provides a credit of $300 for each parent and non-child dependent. Preserving the home mortgage interest deduction: Existing mortgages are grandfathered so that their tax treatment is unchanged. The bill maintains the home mortgage interest deduction for newly purchased homes up to the first $500,000 borrowed. Preserving the property tax deduction: Continues to allow people to write off the cost of state and local property taxes up to $10,000. Preserving the Child and Dependent Care Tax Credit: The tax credit is unchanged. "My California delegation colleagues and I joined with other members from high-tax states to advocate for keeping the mortgage interest deduction and the property tax deduction. Modified versions of these deductions remain in the bill and I will continue to advocate for their inclusion in the final tax reform bill that is negotiated between the House and the Senate. I am confident we will continue to enhance the tax bill to deliver significant tax relief for California taxpayers." The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act will grow our economy, incentivize businesses to invest here in America, create jobs and spur wage growth by: Making America's tax code competitive in the global economy: The bill lowers tax rates on job creating businesses of all sizes, including reducing the tax rate on "pass-through" business income to no higher than 25% and lowering the corporate tax rate to 20%. Encouraging investments now with full and immediate expense deductions: The full cost of new capital equipment and other expenses will be fully and immediately deductible. Modernizing our international tax system: Ends our outdated "worldwide" tax system that results in double taxation for many of our nation's job creators, while making it easier and far less costly for American businesses to bring home foreign earnings. Eliminating incentives for shifting jobs overseas: The bill ends existing tax code provisions that reward companies for shifting jobs, profits, and manufacturing plants abroad. "We know from history the tremendous economic impact of letting our job creators keep and invest their money rather than forfeiting it to the federal government. After the Reagan tax cuts the economy created nearly 15 million jobs over five years and, between 1982 and 1989, real per-capita-income rose by 18 percent. I have no doubt that we can further accelerate economic growth by incentivizing job creators to bring foreign profits back home to America and by allowing them to reinvest more in their workforce." "The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act benefits 42nd District taxpayers by allowing them to keep more of the money they earn, by fueling job and wage growth, and by fixing our broken tax code to create a fairer, simpler code." ###
11.14.2017	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) voted along with a bipartisan majority (356-70) of the House of Representatives to approve the Fiscal Year 2018 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) Conference Report. "Keeping America safe is my top priority in Congress and providing the tools and training for our extraordinary men and women in uniform is critical to achieving that goal," said Rep. Calvert. "The NDAA approved today gives our troops the highest pay raise they've seen in the past eight years. The bill also takes significant steps to address the long-running training and readiness challenges our military has faced over the past number of years." NDAA Highlights: (Provided by the House Armed Services Committee) The NDAA equips, supplies, and trains our troops; cares for them and their families; and sets national security policy in a dangerous world. Provides the Necessary Topline of Nearly $700 Billion—a $26 billion increase above the President's budget requests. Largest Pay Raise for Our Troops in Eight Years Increases the Size of Army, Navy, Air Force, Army Guard and Reserve, Naval and Air Reserve, as well as Air Guard Makes Major Reforms in Pentagon Buying Practices Including E-Commerce, Defense Contract Auditing, and Increased Oversight into Service Contracts Increase of $26.4 billion to Rebuild a Worn-Out Military: o $1.9 billion for facilities maintenance o $4.4 billion to strengthen Missile Defense (includes budget amendment) o Increased End Strength o Increased Naval presence o Better-equipped Ground Forces o Enhances Aviation Readiness o Addresses Critical munitions shortage Increases Funding For Military Facilities to Restore and Maintain Infrastructure Ranging From Barracks to Hospitals and Runways to Hangars Reform the Way We Will Fight and Win Wars in Space Makes Key Investments in Critical Military Capabilities to Confront Aggression & Address Threats Around the World Implements New Oversight Tools as DOD Undergoes its First Financial Audit ###
11.02.2017	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) issued the following statement on the introduction of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act: "I am very encouraged that the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act will help us deliver the tax reform and relief that middle-income taxpayers and our job creators so desperately need. Lowering rates, doubling the standard deduction, and increasing the child tax credit are great steps that will allow working families to keep more of the money they earn. In its current form the bill maintains a deduction for state and local property taxes, as well as the mortgage interest deduction. I will be working with my California colleagues as this bill moves through Congress to ensure the final bill adequately provides relief to middle class taxpayers in my congressional district. At the end of the day, I am confident that we will enact tax reform that grows our economy, wages, jobs and is a big boost for American families." Summary of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act: HERE Text of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act: HERE ###
10.31.2017	Today, the House of Representatives unanimously approved by voice vote H.R. 3567 which was introduced by Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42). The bill authorizes the purchase of a small parcel of Natural Resources Conservation Service (NRCS) property in Riverside by the Riverside Corona Resource Conservation District (Conservation District). "I am pleased the House has passed this legislation and moved us closer to providing long-term certainty for the Riverside Corona Resource Conservation District," said Rep. Calvert. "This bill is a win-win for the Natural Resources Conservation Service and the Riverside Corona Resource Conservation District." The Conservation District is a local government agency in southern California that helps sustain the natural resources in the region and demonstrates native gardening for the community. The Conservation District provides assistance with conservation projects including reducing the negative impacts of invasive species. This new property will allow the Conservation District to continue to do research on the Glassy-winged Sharpshooter, a Pierce's Disease vector, and help both vineyards and citrus orchards combat the disease. Since 1996, the R has partnered with NRCS to acquire, co-locate and manage what was previously the USDA Salinity Lab. Following the acquisition of the property, NRCS has not obligated any federal funds for plant materials research at the Riverside location. Meanwhile, the Conservation District has invested $2.8 million in improvements and upgrades at the property. H.R. 3567 authorizes USDA to sell the NRCS property in Riverside to the Conservation District for an amount equal to the appraised value of the property. The legislation further states that current NRCS operation at the property shall be allowed to continue at no cost to the federal government. ###
10.26.2017	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) voted along with a majority (216 to 212) of the House of Representatives to approve the Fiscal Year 2018 budget resolution, paving the way for Congress to consider tax reform legislation that will provide tax relief for middle-income taxpayers. "Now that Congress has approved the budget resolution we are on a path towards much needed tax relief for middle-income taxpayers," said Rep. Calvert. "I am looking forward to the release of tax reform legislation by the House Ways and Means Committee next week. Moving forward, I will be working with my colleagues to ensure our tax reform bill fulfills our promise to deliver a pro-growth tax plan that helps our economy and eases the tax burden on working families." Earlier today, House Ways and Means Committee Chairman Kevin Brady indicated the committee will introduce its tax reform legislation on November 1st and consider the legislation in a committee markup on November 6th. ###
10.25.2017	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) applauded the passage of the Legal Workforce Act, H.R. 3711, which preserves jobs for citizens and legal workers by requiring U.S. employers to check the work eligibility of all future hires through the E-Verify system. The Legal Workforce Act was introduced by Congressman Lamar Smith (TX-21), House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (VA-6), and Rep. Calvert. "American jobs should only go to citizens and people legally authorized to work in our country," said Rep. Calvert. "I applaud the Committee passage of the Legal Workforce Act and look forward to the bill coming to the House floor in the future. I want to thank House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte and Rep. Smith for advancing this bill and their leadership on this issue." In 1996, Rep. Calvert authored the law that created the E-Verify program, the only tool available for employers to voluntarily check the legal work status of newly hired employees. Since then, Rep. Calvert has worked steadily over the years to expand E-Verify and pushed to make it mandatory. E-Verify is operated by U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS), E-Verify checks the social security numbers of newly hired employees against Social Security Administration and Department of Homeland Security records to help ensure that they are genuinely eligible to work in the U.S. The program quickly confirms 99.8% of work-eligible employees and takes less than two minutes to use. Nearly 740,000 American employers currently use E-Verify. A summary of key components of the Legal Workforce Act can be found here. ###
10.13.2017	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) issued the following statement on President Trump's new strategy on Iran: "As I have said since it was signed, President Obama's Iran deal is a bad deal for the safety and security of Americans, as well as our allies in the Middle East and throughout the world. The actions of Iranian regime continue to destabilize the region and pose a threat to America's national security interests. I applaud the designation of the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps as a terrorist organization and the implementation of additional sanctions as authorized by Congress. We must continue to send a strong and unmistakable message to the Iranian regime that their behavior must change." ###
10.12.2017	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) voted along with a bipartisan majority (353 to 69) of the House of Representatives to approve H.Res. 569, which provides $36.5 billion in emergency funding for hurricane and wildfire relief and recovery. "Over the past few months, Americans have faced the devastating effects of significant hurricanes and wildfires," said Rep. Calvert. "The passage of this emergency funding is critical to everyone impacted by these disasters and our heroes who respond to them. Tremendous challenges remain for many Americans but we will stand together in support of them throughout the recovery process." The legislation fully funds the requests submitted to Congress from the Administration. It includes $18.7 billion for the Federal Emergency Management Agency's (FEMA) Disaster Relief Fund (DRF), $576.5 million for wildfire-fighting efforts, and $16 billion for debt relief for the National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP), which now needs additional funds to make necessary insurance claims payments to individuals. In addition, it includes a provision for the Disaster Nutrition Assistance Program (DNAP) that enables low-income residents in Puerto Rico to receive the same emergency nutrition assistance that other hurricane-affected states already receive. ###
10.05.2017	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) issued the following statement on gun policy in the United States: "I have long been a strong supporter of Second Amendment rights and I will never waiver from that commitment. However, it is incumbent on all of us to reflect on our current gun laws and seek to better protect ourselves and each other. "There are steps that both the Executive and the Congress can take to protect innocent Americans from an attack such as Las Vegas. There is simply no reason for someone to be able to modify a legal weapon to shoot like a machine gun. Bump stocks should never have been made legal and we must act quickly to ban them. I have agreed to sign a letter urging the ATF to reverse their 2010 ruling that allowed the sale of bump stocks and I am working with a number of Republicans and Democrats on a potential legislative solution as well. "Protecting the rights of law-abiding American citizens while providing for the safety of our communities are not mutually exclusive goals." ###
10.05.2017	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) voted along with a majority of the House of Representatives (219 to 206) to approve the Fiscal Year 2018 Budget Resolution (H. Con. Res. 71). The resolution paves the way towards consideration of comprehensive tax reform via the budget reconciliation process, making it immune from a Senate filibuster. "The best thing Congress can do for American families and our economy is to pass tax reform that simplifies our code and lets taxpayers keep more of their hard-earned money," said Rep. Calvert. "With the passage of the budget resolution, the House has taken a major step on the path towards tax relief. I'm hopeful the Senate will follow our example so we can move on to passing a tax reform bill." Fiscal Year 2018 Budget Resolution Highlights (Provided by the House Budget Committee) Balancing the Budget The resolution draws a path toward a balanced budget within 10 years, without raising taxes, and places the government on a fiscal course sustainable for the long term. The national debt is already an impediment to greater prosperity and a threat to the security of future generations. This committee's budget significantly reduces spending and reforms government programs to put us on a sustainable spending path. Promoting Economic Growth For the past eight years, government has been a hindrance to economic growth. This budget urges reversing this trend with a combination of pro-growth policies, including deficit reduction, spending restraint, comprehensive tax reform, welfare reform, Obamacare repeal-and-replace legislation, and regulatory reform. All can promote more robust growth over the longer term. Ensuring a Strong National Defense Defending America's security is the highest priority of the Federal Government. To that end, this budget supports robust funding for troop training, equipment, compensation, and improved readiness. ###
10.03.2017	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) and Congressman Doug LaMalfa (CA-1), and others, introduced the Federally Integrated Species Health (FISH) Act, H.R. 3916. The legislation would consolidate the management and regulation of the Endangered Species Act (ESA) within the Fish and Wildlife Service (FWS). "It makes no sense to have multiple federal agencies responsible for enforcing the ESA," said Rep. Calvert. "The FISH Act is a good government bill that will benefit species and all stakeholders affected by the ESA through a unified approach to managing threatened and endangered species. As we have seen in the California Bay Delta and other complex habitats, there are often conflicting and incompatible measures taken by different resource agencies." Rep. LaMalfa said: "Last year, the conflicting ESA responsibilities of the FWS and NMFS resulted in one agency demanding that water be released from Shasta Dam for Delta smelt, while simultaneously the other agency demanded that water be held back for salmon. The right hand should know what the left hand is doing, and the FISH Act will lead to better decisions by ensuring personnel working on different species actually talk to one another when developing policies. Farmer or environmentalist, urban or rural, everyone should support cutting duplicative bureaucracies to generate ESA plans that work." The ESA is currently administered by FWS and the Commerce Department's National Marine Fisheries Service (NMFS). The FWS has primary responsibility for terrestrial and freshwater organisms, while the responsibilities of NMFS are mainly marine wildlife such as whales and anadromons fish, such as salmon. The FISH Act would transfer all of the NMFS' ESA responsibilities to the FWS. ###
10.02.2017	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) issued the following statement on the mass shooting in Las Vegas, Nevada: "My deepest condolences go out to the victims' families and friends and to those injured. I commend the rapid reaction from first responders and the medical staff who are currently treating those who were hurt. There are no words to express the sorrow at such a large number of lives lost. It defies comprehension. My prayers are with all those impacted." ###
09.27.2017	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) praised the unified tax reform framework developed by the Trump Administration, the House Committee on Ways and Means, and the Senate Committee on Finance. "The tax reform framework announced today is an important step towards making America's tax code fairer, simpler and more competitive," said Rep. Calvert. "We need a tax code that works for the middle-class and for our job creators. By putting America first we can create more economic opportunities that will benefit hard-working families throughout our country." The Trump Administration, the House Committee on Ways and Means, and the Senate Committee on Finance have developed a unified framework to achieve pro-American, fiscally-responsible tax reform. This framework will drive the debate as Congress looks to craft a 21st century tax code that is built for growth, supports middle-class families, defends our workers, protects our jobs, and puts America first. It will deliver fiscally responsible tax reform by broadening the tax base, closing loopholes and growing the economy. It includes: Tax relief for middle-class families. The simplicity of "postcard" tax filing for the vast majority of Americans. Tax relief for businesses, especially small businesses. Ending incentives to ship jobs, capital, and tax revenue overseas. Broadening the tax base and providing greater fairness for all Americans by closing special interest tax breaks and loopholes. With the release of the framework, tax-writing committees will now draft legislation through a transparent and inclusive committee process. Throughout the process, Rep. Calvert will work with his colleagues in the House to help develop additional reforms that improve the efficiency and effectiveness of our tax system. The full framework can be found HERE, and a one page overview can be found HERE. ###
09.14.2017	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) joined a majority (211-198) of the House of Representatives in supporting the Make America Secure and Prosperous Appropriations Act (H.R. 3354). The legislation contains a package of funding bills that provide all discretionary funding for the federal government for the 2018 fiscal year. "Today, the House took care of its job by passing all 12 of the appropriations bills for the first time since 2009," said Rep. Calvert. "The funding bill approved today reflects the priorities of most American families, including funding increases for our national security. The bill also contains funding for a number of southern California priorities, like continued investments in the earthquake early warning system and the Santa Ana River Mainstem flood control project. It's now time for the Senate to do its job and pass these bills." Highlights: The Defense portion of the bill contained $15 million requested by Rep. Calvert to construct a new schoolhouse at March Air Reserve Base to support the MQ-9 Reaper aircrew. The demand for of Remote Piloted Aircraft by our military continues to grow, making this investment essential to ensure March can meet the future needs of our Air Force. The Homeland Security portion of the bill included report language requested by Rep. Calvert addressing the rise in visa fraud for the purpose of having children in the United States. The growth of so-called birth tourism has resulted in a number of raids and arrests throughout southern California over the past few years. More recently, the city of Eastvale has reached out to Rep. Calvert about the growth of suspected birthing homes in the city. The language in the fiscal year 2018 Homeland Security Appropriations bill states: The Committee is concerned by a reported increase in individuals fraudulently entering the United States on non-immigrant visas in order to give birth in this country. While individuals are welcome to come to the U.S. on a tourist or other visa, it is against the law to apply for admission under false pretenses. The Committee is also concerned with reports that different ports of entry may not be consistently applying CBP guidance in this area, allowing individuals seeking to exploit the visa process to direct pregnant women to specific ports of entry with more lenient admission practices. The Committee directs CBP to investigate these fraud allegations and take steps to ensure that admission criteria are applied uniformly across ports of entry. The Energy and Water portion of the bill includes $40 million requested by the Trump administration and Rep. Calvert for continued construction of the Santa Ana River Mainstem flood control project. The Interior and Environment portion of the bill includes $10.2 million requested by Rep. Calvert for the continued development of an earthquake early warning system to help save lives during natural disasters. The Interior and Environment portion of the bill includes $130 million requested by Rep. Calvert for the Indian Health Care Improvement Fund to address the shortfalls in the allocations of base funding across the Indian Health Service system. The funding is particularly important to rural California tribes. ###
09.13.2017	In a letter sent earlier this month, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) has urged the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) to deny Nevada Hydro's request to waive pre-filing licensing requirements for its proposed Lake Elsinore Advanced Pumped Storage (LEAPS) Project due to significant local concerns with the project. "I have heard from many of my constituents and the city of Lake Elsinore regarding their concerns with the LEAPS Project," said Rep. Calvert. "FERC should deny any attempt to fast-track the project and take into account the many questions and complicated issues surrounding the LEAPS Project. The region around Lake Elsinore has changed dramatically since Nevada Hydro first submitted its environmental documents and original application in 2007. The outdated documents and significant community concerns make it vital that FERC deny the waiver request and follow a deliberative process that fully scrutinizes the project." ###
09.07.2017	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42), Congressman Lamar Smith (TX-21), and House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (VA-6) introduced the Legal Workforce Act (H.R. 3711) to preserve jobs for citizens and legal workers by requiring U.S. employers to check the work eligibility of all future hires through the E-Verify system. "Mandatory E-Verify is long overdue," said Rep. Calvert. "The program is ready to go mandatory and the Legal Workforce Act will deliver on the promise to ensure that American jobs go to American workers and those authorized to work in the U.S. Chairman Smith and Chairman Goodlatte continue to demonstrate tremendous leadership in advancing the use of E-Verify and protecting American workers." In 1996, Rep. Calvert authored the legislative language that created the E-Verify program, the only tool available for employers to voluntarily check the legal work status of newly hired employees. Since then, Rep. Calvert has worked steadily over the years to expand E-Verify and pushed to make it mandatory. E-Verify is operated by U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS), E-Verify checks the social security numbers of newly hired employees against Social Security Administration and Department of Homeland Security records to help ensure that they are genuinely eligible to work in the U.S. The program quickly confirms 99.8% of work-eligible employees and takes less than two minutes to use. Nearly 740,000 American employers currently use E-Verify. A summary of key components of the Legal Workforce Act can be found here here.
08.29.2017	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) held a Job Creator Listening Session on Tax Reform. Small business representatives and local leaders from throughout the 42nd District shared ideas and discussed tax reform with Rep. Calvert. "We need a tax code that allows our small businesses to succeed, grow and fuel economic growth," said Rep. Calvert. "Today, our job creators made it clear that they share our goal of reforming our tax code to make American companies more competitive globally. Any changes to our tax code must also take into account the important role non-profit organizations play in our communities. I plan on taking that message back to Washington and advocating for pro-growth tax policies that will truly help our economy." ###
07.28.2017	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) issued the following statement after last night's health care vote in the Senate: "Despite the political drama in the Senate, we must not lose sight of the fact that Obamacare premiums continue to rise and health insurance providers are dropping out of exchanges across the country, leaving many Americans with just one option. The House acted to replace Obamacare with a system that would lower premiums and give Americans access to a broad array of quality plans. This problem is far too big to ignore. I urge Congress to continue working and find a path forward in order to provide Americans the relief they need and deserve." ###
07.26.2017	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) delivered remarks on the House floor in support of H.R. 3219, the Make America Secure Appropriations Act. H.R. 3219 includes the appropriations bills for defense, military construction and veterans, energy and water, and the legislative branch. "Our greatest responsibility as Members of Congress is to provide the resources necessary to the men and women of our Armed Forces," said Rep. Calvert. "We are at crossroads. Right now, our military continues to operate at a high-tempo to carry out the national security interests of the U.S. However, in order to meet the next challenge – whatever that may be – we must invest now." Below are Rep. Calvert's full remarks as prepared for delivery: Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of H.R. 3219, the Make America Secure Appropriations Act. First, I would like to commend Chairman Frelinghuysen for his tireless work to report out all 12 appropriations bills from the Appropriations Committee. He did it in record time and deserves a great deal of credit for getting us to this point today. The four bills included in H.R. 3219, reflect hours of hearings, staff work, Member input and bipartisan cooperation. I would also like to express my gratitude to the Chairs and Ranking Members of the Defense; Energy and Water; Military Construction and Veterans Affairs; and Legislative Branch Subcommittees. In particular, the Energy and Water division provides robust funding for water infrastructure -- over $67 million to create much needed water storage in the west. I want to thank Chairman Simpson and his staff for their hard work. As a Member of the Defense Appropriations Subcommittee, I would like to specially thank Chairwoman Kay Granger for her leadership and her unwavering support of our men and women in uniform. I would also be remiss if I did not mention the professional staff of the subcommittee who dedicated countless hours to craft a bill that meets the needs of the Department of Defense and reflects the will of the Congress. Our greatest responsibility as Members of Congress is to provide the resources necessary to the men and women of our Armed Forces. This bill includes $584.2 billion in base defense funding and $73.9 billion for Overseas Contingency Operations. It provides for a 2.4% military pay raise and additional funding to increase end strength. The bill provides robust funding for shipbuilding, aviation, combat vehicles and more. It invests in our greatest asset – the men and women who wear the uniform – through increased funds for training, equipment and the best health care. We are at crossroads. Right now, our military continues to operate at a high-tempo to carry out the national security interests of the U.S. However, in order to meet the next challenge – whatever that may be – we must invest now. We know the situation we are in: National Security Advisor McMaster has stated that the U.S. is outranged and outgunned by potential adversaries. Out of 58 Brigade Combat Teams, the Army only has three that are combat ready. We have the lowest number of ships since World War I. And while capability is important, the vast oceans of the world desperately need our presence. Only seven out of ten aircraft in the Air Force are ready to fly and the average age of aircraft across the Service is 27 years. Airmen are flying the same planes as their grandfathers. Only 43 percent of the Marine Corps' total aircraft inventory is currently considered flyable. Our Marines deserve better. Today we have a chance to correct the course we have been on for the last eight years. The U.S. Constitution creates a government of the people to "establish Justice, insure domestic Tranquility, provide for the common defense, promote the general Welfare, and secure the Blessings of Liberty to ourselves and our Posterity." This bill fulfills the promise enshrined in our constitution to secure the blessings of liberty by providing for the defense of our nation. Thank you and yield back the balance of my time. ###
07.25.2017	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) voted along with a bipartisan majority (419 to 3) of the House of Representatives to pass H.R. 3364, a package of comprehensive sanctions against Iran, Russia, and North Korea. "Time and again Iran, Russia, and North Korea take actions that are a threat to America's interests and those of our allies," said Rep. Calvert. "The bipartisan sanctions packaged approved by the House today sends a strong message to these nations that there will be consequences for their actions. We simply cannot tolerate Iran, Russia, and North Korea taking continued provocative and dangerous measures." Sanctions Package Details IRAN The bill sanctions those involved in the Iranian regime's ballistic missile program, its efforts to destabilize the region and threaten Israel, as well as its ongoing human rights abuses. Specifically, the bill calls for a strategy to deter conventional and asymmetric Iranian activities in the region, imposes sanctions on any individual that materially contributes to Iran's ballistic missile, weapons of mass destruction programs, or international terrorism, or participates in the sale or transfer to Iran of military equipment, and imposes sanctions on the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps and affiliated foreign persons. The bill also calls for sanctions of individuals identified as responsible for extrajudicial killings, torture, or other gross violations of internationally recognized human rights. RUSSIA The bill strengthens sanctions in response to cyber-attacks and interference in Ukraine, empowers Congress to review sanctions relief, and works to strengthen transatlantic cooperation in countering Russian aggression. Specifically, the legislation provides for a mandated Congressional review if sanctions are relaxed, suspended, or terminated, as well as codified and strengthens existing sanctions contained in executive orders on Russia, including the impact on certain Russian energy projects and on debt financing in key economic sectors. New sanctions are placed on corrupt actors, those seeking to evade sanctions, involved in serious human rights abuses, supplying weapons to the Assad regime, conducting cyber activity on behalf of the Russian government, involved in corrupt privatization practices, or those doing business with Russian intelligence and defense sectors. In addition, the legislation allows new sanctions on mining, metals, and railway sectors, and authorizes assistance to central and eastern European countries vulnerable to Russian aggression and interference. NORTH KOREA The bill amends the North Korea Sanctions and Policy Enhancement Act of 2016 to modify and increase the President's authority to impose sanctions on persons in violation of certain U.N. Security Council resolutions regarding North Korea. Specifically, the bill expands sanctions to deter North Korea's nuclear weapons programs, targets those individuals overseas who employ North Korean slave labor, cracks down on North Korean shipping and use of international ports, and requires the administration to determine whether North Korea is a state sponsor or terrorism. ###
07.24.2017	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) voted along with a bipartisan majority (405 to 0) of the House of Representatives to approve H.R. 3218, comprehensive legislation to improve and extend GI Bill benefits granted to veterans. The bill contains the legislative text of H.R. 925, which was introduced by Rep. Calvert on February 7, 2017. "Those who serve in our military make tremendous sacrifices to defend our country," said Rep. Calvert. "One of our highest priorities in Congress must be taking care of our servicemembers during and after their time in our military. The legislation passed by the House today takes a number of important actions that ensure our soldiers receive the benefits they are entitled to. I would also like to thank my constituent, who is a Reservist at March Air Reserve Base, that brought this issue to my attention." "On behalf of the more than 45,000 members of the National Guard Association of the United States, we greatly appreciate Congressman Calvert's tireless efforts to ensure the passage of H.R. 925," said B.G. (Retired) J. Roy Robinson, President of the National Guard Association of the United States. "This vitally important legislation protects crucial benefits for the soldiers and airmen of the National Guard by clarifying the eligibility for a Monthly Housing Allowance (MHA) for reservists using the Post-9/11 G.I. Bill." The House also approved H.R. 282, the Military Residency Choice Act, which permits the spouse of a service member to elect to use the same residence as the service member for purposes of taxation and voting, regardless of the date on which the marriage of the spouse and the service member occurred. ###
07.19.2017	Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) offered an amendment during the Appropriations Committee markup of the Fiscal Year 2018 State and Foreign Operations Appropriations bill condemning recent actions by UNESCO to designate the Old City of Hebron and the Tomb of the Patriarchs as part of the Palestinian territory. The amendment was agreed to by the Committee by voice vote. "The recent action by UNESCO on Hebron is yet another anti-Israel measure that denies facts and only continues an abhorrent pattern of behavior from this organization," said Rep. Calvert. "Steps to refute Jewish connections to historical sites only move us further away from peaceful and sustainable solutions to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. The Palestinian people and their allies in the Arab world simply cannot continue to say they support a two-state solution while simultaneously undercutting the process with punitive actions like this and expect the world to believe them." UNESCO, the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization, is a cultural agency within the United Nations. In 2011, in compliance with statutory funding restrictions, the United States stopped funding UNESCO, due to the committee's recognition of Palestine as a sovereign state and their admittance as a member-state. According to the State Department, while the United States is still on the 58-member UNESCO Executive Board, it no longer has voting rights in the UNESCO General Conference. The Tomb of the Patriarchs in Hebron is one of the holiest sites for the Jewish people. The patriarchs and matriarchs of the Jewish people – Abraham, Isaac, Jacob, Sarah, Rebecca, and Leah – are buried at the site. The amendment by Rep. Calvert added the following language to the report: "The Committee notes with disappointment decision 41 COM 8C.1 adopted by UNESCO on July 7, 2017, which is one-sided, runs contrary to history, and is not conducive towards peace between the Israelis and the Palestinians." ###
07.19.2017	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) hailed the passage of H.R. 3218 by the House Veterans Affairs Committee. H.R. 3218, comprehensive legislation to improve and extend GI Bill benefits granted to veterans, contains the legislative text of H.R. 925, which was introduced by Rep. Calvert on February 7, 2017. "Our veterans and reservists should have the peace-of-mind of knowing that they can obtain the benefits they have earned without complications," said Rep. Calvert. "The important reform included in this bill will provide a common sense fix to the Post 9/11 GI Bill benefits our reservists receive. I appreciate Chairman Phil Roe, M.D. for including my bill in this important legislation for our veterans." Under current regulations, an individual who is released from active duty status may begin receiving the Post-9/11 GI Bill Monthly Housing Allowance (MHA) on the first day of the month following the date the individual is discharged. In addition, an individual who is released from active duty status may begin receiving their tuition and fees benefit on the first day of the enrollment period following the date the individual is discharged and begin receiving their books and supplies stipend on the first day of the month following the date the individual is discharged. However, there are cases in which a Guard or reservist's required monthly active duty would disqualify those individuals for the MHA benefit. Many reservists are required to routinely perform their jobs in a Title 10 status due to their specific job requirements and functions. These commonly include aircrew, intelligence personnel, and UAV (Unmanned Aerial Vehicle) and Remote Piloted Aircraft operators. While not in a drill status, or if in a drill status under Title 38, an individual is entitled to their MHA and book allowance. When in a drill status under Title 10, the individual is entitled to the housing allowance, but only for the first portion of the month up to when they entered active duty under Title 10. Therefore, if an individual goes on active duty on the first day of the month for three days, the individual does not receive any housing, or book allowance payments for the rest of that entire month. Just one day of Title 10 service can result in forfeiture of MHA and book allowance for all or most of the month. In order to maintain a Combat Mission Readiness state and proficiency at their job, some have to commit to a minimum of four training days a month in a Title 10 status. Many Guard and Reservists using their GI Bill benefits will be reluctant to volunteer for three to four day missions to ferry troops, equipment, and supplies into an Area of Responsibility knowing they will lose all or a portion of that month's MHA. Many reservists are full-time students and rely on their MHA to pay rent, but as a result of the current rules they are denied their full MHA causing many members to incur thousands of dollars of debt. This is compounded by the fact that members of the reserve component are used more frequently due to the increased tempo of operations around the world. The legislation introduced by Rep. Calvert essentially prorates the MHA for the portion of the month the service member is not on active duty. The bill amends Title 38, United States Code, to clarify the eligibility for monthly stipends paid under the Post-9/11 Educational Assistance Program for certain members of the reserve components of the Armed Forces. By easing restrictions on volunteers, it will increase the number of volunteers and the frequency of volunteerism while limiting the potential for personnel financial issues to arise. Most importantly, this bill seeks to enhance reserve components' military readiness during high tempo operations. "I would also like to thank my constituent, who is a Reservist at March Air Reserve Base, that brought this issue to my attention. This small, common-sense fix will impact countless reservists across the country and again I thank the Chairman, and his staff, for including this vital language in the larger veterans package," said Rep. Calvert. ###
07.18.2017	Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) voted along with a majority of the Appropriations Committee to advance the Fiscal Year 2018 Department of Homeland Security (DHS) Appropriations bill. "The first step in fixing our broken immigration system has to be securing our borders and restoring the rule of law," said Rep. Calvert. "The DHS funding bill will increase the security of our borders by expanding and improving on the physical barriers we currently have in place along the southern border. The bill also provides the resources necessary to hire additional Customs and Border Protection and Immigration and Customs Enforcement agents to better enforce our visa and other immigration laws. I strongly support the boost in funding to increase the capacity of the E-Verify system in preparation for a potential transition to mandatory use in the future. I authored the creation of E-Verify to ensure American jobs went to people who are legally in our country and I continue to believe its use should be mandatory." Highlights of the Fiscal Year 2018 Department of Homeland Security Appropriations Bill: (Provided by the House Appropriations Committee) Customs and Border Protection (CBP) – The bill contains $13.8 billion in discretionary appropriations for CBP – an increase of $1.6 billion above the fiscal year 2017 enacted level. These resources ensure our borders are protected by putting boots on the ground, improving infrastructure and technology, and helping to stem the flow of illegal goods both into and out of the country. Within this total, the legislation includes: $1.6 billion for physical barrier construction along the Southern border – including bollards and levee improvements – meeting the full White House request; $100 million to hire 500 new Border Patrol agents; $131 million for new border technology; $106 million for new aircraft and sensors; and $109 million for new, non-intrusive inspection equipment. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) – The bill provides $7 billion for ICE –$619.7 million above the fiscal year 2017 enacted level. Within this total, the legislation includes: $185.6 million to hire 1,000 additional law enforcement officers and 606 support staff; $2 billion – an increase of $30 million above the requested level – for domestic and international investigations programs, including efforts to combat human trafficking, child exploitation, cybercrime, visa screening, and drug smuggling; $4.4 billion for detention and removal programs, including: 44,000 detention beds, an increase 4,676 beds over fiscal year 2017; 129 Fugitive Operations teams; and Criminal Alien Program operations, including the addition of 26 new communities to the 287(g) program, which partners with local law enforcement to process, arrest, and book illegal immigrants into state or local detention facilities. Citizenship and Immigration Services (CIS) – The legislation does not fund most CIS activities, as these are funded outside the appropriations process through the collection of fees However, the bill does contain $131 million for E-Verify, which is funded within CIS and helps companies ensure their employees may legally work in the United States. ###
07.18.2017	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) praised the Homeland Security Appropriations bill inclusion of report language addressing the rise in visa fraud for the purpose of having children in the United States. The growth of so-called birth tourism has resulted in a number of raids and arrests throughout southern California over the past few years. More recently, the city of Eastvale has reached out to Rep. Calvert about the growth of suspected birthing homes in the city. "While we continue to welcome people to our country through legal means, it's critical that we crack down on individuals who fraudulently come to America for the sole purpose of obtaining U.S. citizenship for their child," said Rep. Calvert. "It is against the law to apply for a visa under false pretenses, yet we continue to see indications that foreign nationals are exploiting our immigration system. The growth of birthing homes in Eastvale is a concern for many of its residents. I was pleased to work with the Chairman on this language and I'm certain that it will draw the attention of Homeland Security officials to this problem." According to Eastvale city staff, there are 19 single family homes (12 on the same street) and 22 nearby apartment units which have been reported as suspected maternity homes reported. Earlier this year, the city established an ad hoc committee to explore potential solutions to the issue. The language in the fiscal year 2018 Homeland Security Appropriations bill states: The Committee is concerned by a reported increase in individuals fraudulently entering the United States on non-immigrant visas in order to give birth in this country. While individuals are welcome to come to the U.S. on a tourist or other visa, it is against the law to apply for admission under false pretenses. The Committee is also concerned with reports that different ports of entry may not be consistently applying CBP guidance in this area, allowing individuals seeking to exploit the visa process to direct pregnant women to specific ports of entry with more lenient admission practices. The Committee directs CBP to investigate these fraud allegations and take steps to ensure that admission criteria are applied uniformly across ports of entry. ###
07.12.2017	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) voted along with a majority (230 to 190) of the House of Representatives to approve H.R. 23, the GROW Act. The bill contains a number of provisions aimed at improving California's water reliability. "The GROW Act builds upon the bipartisan water bill signed into law last year by providing even more long-term water solutions for California," said Rep. Calvert. "Specifically, it expedites the consideration of feasibility studies for water storage projects that have languished for periods of time that are longer than it took to actually build the Hoover Dam. The GROW Act also includes provisions that are critical to Bay Delta operations and help improve water reliability. California can become drought proof if we build the storage and conveyance infrastructure necessary to collect and move the water we receive in wet years, so that we can utilize it during dry years. I'm a cosponsor of the GROW Act because it moves us closer in that direction." The Gaining Responsibility on Water (GROW) Act Summary: Bay-Delta Improvements: Restores water deliveries to the Central Valley communities by codifying the Bay-Delta Accord. Affirms that if the State Water Project and the Central Valley Project are operated consistent with the Bay-Delta Accord, then they are in compliance with the requirements of the Endangered Species Act. Water Reliability: Updates the Central Valley Project Improvement Act (CVPIA) to ensure water resources are reliable, predictable, and available to fulfill supply promises. Expanding Infrastructure: Enacts "one-stop-shop" permitting reforms aimed at building infrastructure to capture more water. Expanding Storage: Requires the federal government to expedite and complete consideration of feasibility studies for water storage projects that have been languishing in bureaucratic purgatory for over ten years. Water Rights Protection: Prevents federal agencies from requiring certain entities to relinquish their water rights to the United States in order to use public lands. ###
07.11.2017	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) released the Fiscal Year 2018 Interior and Environment Appropriations bill. Rep. Calvert serves as the Chairman of the Interior and Environment Appropriations Subcommittee. "The agencies funded in the Interior and Environment Appropriations bill do important work protecting public lands, the air we breathe and the water we drink," said Rep. Calvert. "Our Subcommittee prioritized proven programs that have a meaningful impact to achieve these goals while also ensuring our economy can continue to grow. I'm particularly pleased that we were able to provide significant funding for our increasingly popular National Parks, the Clean Diesel program, and ensure that the development of the USGS earthquake early warning system will continue." Fiscal Year 2018 Interior and Environment Appropriations Bill Highlights:(Provided by the House Appropriations Committee) U.S. Geological Survey (USGS) – The bill includes $1 billion for the USGS, $46 million below the fiscal year 2017 enacted level. Funding is targeted to programs dealing with natural hazards, streamgages, the groundwater monitoring network, and mapping activities. The bill includes $10.2 million for an earthquake early warning system to help save lives during natural disasters, and provides the $8.3 million increase necessary for support of "Landsat 9" – a satellite program that provides land use measurements that are important to local communities for agriculture, forestry, energy and water resource decisions. Wildland Firefighting and Prevention – In total, the bill funds wildland firefighting and prevention programs at $3.4 billion – fully funding the 10-year average for wildland fire suppression costs for both the Department of the Interior and the Forest Service. This is $334 million below the fiscal year 2017 level. Most of this reduction is the result of the transfer of the Forest Service's hazardous fuels reduction program to its National Forest System, as requested by the Administration. The legislation also includes $575 million for hazardous fuels management, which is $5 million above the fiscal year 2017 level.Federal Payments to Local Communities – The bill provides $465 million for the "Payments In Lieu of Taxes" (PILT) program. PILT provides funds for local governments in 49 states to help offset losses in property taxes due to nontaxable federal lands within their counties. Without congressional action, many rural communities would face huge budget shortfalls impacting public safety, education, and other local government responsibilities. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) – The bill funds the EPA at $7.5 billion, a reduction of $528 million below the fiscal year 2017 enacted level and $1.9 billion above the Administration's request. The legislation supports the President's proposal to reshape the agency's workforce by providing resources requested to offer buyouts and voluntary separation agreements to employees.This bill also reflects the Administration's goal to rein in outdated, unnecessary and potentially harmful regulations at the EPA. For example, it includes language authorizing the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency and the Secretary of the Army to withdraw the Waters of the United States rule.Native American Programs – The Bureaus of Indian Affairs and Education are funded at $2.9 billion – an increase of $10 million above the fiscal year 2017 enacted level. This includes necessary increases for schools, law enforcement, road maintenance, economic development, realty, and water settlements.Indian Health Care Improvement Fund - The Indian Health Care Improvement Fund is funded at $130 million to address the shortfalls in the allocations of base funding across the Indian Health Service system. The funding is particularly important to rural California tribes. Bureau of Land Management (BLM) –The bill contains $1.2 billion for the BLM, a decrease of $46 million below the fiscal year 2017 enacted level, including a $20 million decrease for federal land acquisition.The bill provides $68.9 million, which is equal to the fiscal year 2017 level, for on-the-ground sage grouse conservation to protect the species and to preserve federal lands for public and private uses, such as energy development, ranching, recreation, and military training. National Park Service (NPS) – The legislation contains $2.9 billion for the NPS, a decrease of $64 million below the fiscal year 2017 level. Much of the reduction is in land acquisition activities. Within the total, the bill retains $55 million targeted to park operations and maintenance to help reduce the deferred maintenance backlog.U.S. Forest Service – The bill includes $5.2 billion for the Forest Service. Approximately half of this funding – $2.5 billion – is targeted to wildland fire prevention and suppression. The bill also includes a provision prohibiting the Forest Service or BLM from issuing new closures of public lands to hunting and recreational shooting, except in the case of public safety.For the subcommittee draft text of the legislation, please visit:http://docs.house.gov/meetings/AP/AP06/20170712/106242/BILLS-115HR-SC-AP-FY2018-Interior-FY2018InteriorAppropriationsBill-SubcommitteeDraft.pdf ###
06.29.2017	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) voted along with a majority of the House to approve two bills that bolster our immigration laws. The No Sanctuary for Criminals Act (H.R. 3003), which strengthens the law to combat dangerous sanctuary policies, was approved by a vote of 228 to 195. Kate's Law (H.R. 3004), which enhances penalties for deported felons who return to the United States, was approved by a vote of 257 to 167. Kate's Law is named for Kate Steinle, a young woman murdered in San Francisco by an illegal immigrant who was a repeat felon. Rep. Calvert is a cosponsor of both bills. "I strongly believe that we must restore the rule of law and take responsible steps to protect Americans," said Rep. Calvert. "Fixing our broken immigration system is complicated, but we should all support deporting illegal immigrants who have committed violent crimes. We should continue America's proud tradition of welcoming legal immigrants who want to work and make the U.S. a better place. However, anyone who comes to our country illegally and commits additional crimes once they are here is a clear threat to our safety and should be deported. Unlike the actions being taken by Democrats in Sacramento, Republicans in Washington are passing bills that give our law enforcement community additional tools and put the wellbeing of legal residents first and foremost." In a White House briefing yesterday, Immigration and Customs Enforcement Director Tom Homan made the following statement regarding H.R. 3003 and H.R. 3004: "This legislation will help the fine men and women of the Border Patrol and ICE to do their job in securing the border, enforcing the immigration laws within the interior of the United States, and make our nation and our communities safer as a result. America deserves that. Law enforcement is a dangerous job, we all know that. This legislation and its effects will also help protect the law enforcement officers that work at ICE and the Border Patrol. And those officers that leave their families every day to enforce the laws of this great nation deserve that." More background on H.R. 3003 and H.R. 3004 can be found on the House Judiciary Committee website. ###
06.15.2017	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) voted for the Fiscal Year 2018 Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations bill, which was unanimously approved by the House Appropriations Committee. The bill included funding for a new Remote Piloted Aircraft Flight Training Unit facility at March Air Reserve Base. "The bill approved today by the Appropriations Committee provides critical resources for our activity duty military as well as our veterans," said Rep. Calvert. "I was pleased to support the $15 million provided by our Committee to construct a new schoolhouse at March Air Reserve Base to support the MQ-9 Reaper aircrew. The demand for of Remote Piloted Aircraft by our military will continue to grow, so this investment is essential to making sure March can meet the future needs of our Air Force. The bill approved today also helps meet our promise to our nation's veterans, who deserve nothing less than first class care and treatment by the VA." Bill Highlights: (Provided by the House Appropriations Committee) Oversight and Accountability – The legislation strengthens oversight and accountability at the Departments of Defense (DOD) and Veterans Affairs (VA) to ensure taxpayer dollars are being used to fully benefit our service members and our veterans. Several provisions are included to keep these agencies on track and to address problems that have wasted money and hurt critical services. The bill also includes funding for new oversight offices in VA, as requested, to protect whistleblowers and provide increased accountability through investigation of poorly-performing managers and instances of inferior patient care. These offices will support the Secretary's new authority to fire or demote poorly performing employees and to recoup pay, benefits and awards in cases of malfeasance. Military Construction – The bill provides a total of $10.2 billion for military construction projects – an increase of $2.1 billion – 25 percent – above the enacted fiscal year 2017 level. Within this amount, $638 million is provided in OCO funding for projects in countries with ongoing U.S. operations. These funds will provide for the construction and maintenance of facilities to enable our military to fight current and emerging threats, to support increased troop levels, and to sustain services for military families. This includes operational facilities, training facilities, hospitals, family housing, National Guard readiness centers, barracks, and other important resources. In total, 215 military construction projects across the country and overseas receive funding in the bill. Military Family Housing – The bill provides $1.4 billion to fund construction, operation, and maintenance of military family housing for fiscal year 2018. This is $131 million above the fiscal year 2017 level and the same as the budget request. The funding will ensure quality housing is sustained for all 1,388,028 military families currently served by the program. Military Medical Facilities – The bill includes $737 million for construction and alterations for new or existing military medical facilities, an increase of $433 million above the fiscal year 2017 level. This funding will allow for continued support and care for 9.8 million eligible beneficiaries, including our wounded troops abroad. DOD Education Facilities – The bill includes $249 million for essential safety improvements and infrastructure work at four DOD Education Activities facilities located within the U.S. and overseas. Guard and Reserve – The bill includes $575 million for construction or alteration of Guard and Reserve facilities in 22 states, the same as the requested level. Veterans Affairs (VA) – The legislation includes a total of $182.3 billion in both discretionary and mandatory funding for the VA, an increase of $5.3 billion above the fiscal year 2017 level. This funding will help address many of the problems currently facing the VA, and provide for better and increased access to care for our veterans. Discretionary funding alone for VA programs in the bill totals $78.3 billion, an increase of $3.9 billion above the fiscal year 2017 level. Approximately $66.4 billion of this discretionary total was provided last year via advance funding in the fiscal year 2017 Appropriations bill. These additional funds will provide resources for important priorities within the VA, such as suicide prevention, claims processing, homeless prevention and care, opioid addiction, and medical research. VA Medical Care – The bill funds VA medical care at $69 billion – providing for approximately seven million patients to be treated in fiscal year 2018. Within this total, funding includes: $8.4 billion in mental health care services; $186 million in suicide prevention activities; $316 million for traumatic brain injury treatment; $7.3 billion in homeless veterans treatment, services, housing, and job training; $751 million for hepatitis C treatment; $50 million for opioid abuse prevention; and $250 million in rural health initiatives. This total also includes full funding of the President's additional $2.6 billion request to meet higher-than-anticipated medical needs. VA Electronic Health Record – The bill contains $65 million for the modernization of the VA electronic health record system, the same as the President's request. This will ensure the swift implementation of the plan for the VA to use an identical electronic record system as the DOD. This will also ensure our veterans get proper care, with timely and accurate medical data transferred between the VA, DOD, and the private sector. Disability Claims Processing Backlog – Reducing the disability claims backlog is essential to ensuring adequate compensation and care for the 312,000 veterans still wading through the VA bureaucracy to get a final decision on their claims. The bill will help speed this process and get these veterans the decisions they are awaiting by providing $50 million above the request to be used for digital scanning of health records and overtime pay. In addition, the bill continues rigorous reporting requirements to track each regional office's performance on claims processing and appeals backlogs. Construction – Major and minor construction within the VA is funded at $753 million. The bill provides the full request for the construction of major medical facilities, and expansion of cemeteries that are reaching capacity before 2022. VA Mandatory Funding – The bill fulfills mandatory funding requirements such as: veteran disability compensation programs for 4.5 million veterans and their survivors; education benefits for one million veterans; and vocational rehabilitation and employment training for more than 145,000 veterans. Advance Appropriations – The bill contains $70.7 billion in advance fiscal year 2019 funding for veterans' medical programs – the same level as the President's request. This funding will provide for medical services, medical support and compliance, and medical facilities, and ensure that our veterans have continued, full access to their medical care needs. The bill includes $107.7 billion in advance funding for VA mandatory benefit programs, as requested in the President's budget. ###
06.14.2017	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) released the following statement in response to this morning's shooting of Majority Whip Steve Scalise, Capitol Police officers and other victims: "My thoughts and prayers are with my colleague Steve Scalise and the other victims of this morning's horrible shooting. The brave and selfless actions of the Capitol Police officers saved countless lives. I pray these heroes will recover quickly from their injuries. I also want to express my appreciation for the quick response by the Alexandria police and paramedics, as well as those at the scene. "Any attack on members of Congress is an attack on our democracy. The United States Congress is the finest legislative body in the world and its members will not be intimidated or cower in the face of threats of violence. All members, Republicans and Democrats, stand together in condemning this act of violence. "Americans have a fundamental right to express their opinions, but committing acts of violence against elected officials is never acceptable. While I think most Americans understand that, we should have an even higher goal for our political discourse. I have always believed that we can disagree without being disagreeable. Let us take pause and remember that we are all united by our love for this country and all of the values that it stands for." ###
06.13.2017	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) voted along with a bipartisan majority (368-55) of the House of Representatives to approve a bill that will protect veterans by implementing new accountability measures for employees at the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). The measure, S. 1094, The Department of Veterans Affairs Accountability and Whistleblower Protection Act makes it easier to fire VA employees who fail to live to the standards required of those who care for our nation's veterans. The legislation was previously approved by the Senate and now heads to the White House for the President's signature. "Fulfilling our promise to care for America's veterans is one of my highest priorities in Congress," said Rep. Calvert. "In far too many instances the VA has failed to uphold the standards of care and treatment that our veterans deserve. While there are many, many hard working and dedicated individuals at the VA, those who have fallen short must go – period. With the passage of this bill we take an important step towards ending a culture within the VA bureaucracy that is more committed to protecting itself than protecting the welfare of our veterans." The Department of Veterans Affairs Accountability and Whistleblower Protection Act of 2017 would create a new streamlined and efficient process to remove, demote or suspend any VA employee for poor performance or misconduct with a concrete shortened timeline, while still protecting employees' due process rights. It would also provide expanded protections for whistleblowers who highlight VA employee misconduct and would specifically bar VA from using this removal authority if the employee has an open whistleblower complaint/case with the Office of Special Counsel. ###
06.09.2017	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) announced the 2017 U.S. Military Service Academy appointments from the 42nd Congressional District. As a Member of the House of Representatives, Rep. Calvert has the privilege of recommending a select group of highly qualified young men and women for admission to the Military Service Academies, which include: U.S. Military Academy (Army), U.S. Naval Academy (Navy and Marine Corps), U.S. Air Force Academy, and the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy. The following is a list of the candidates nominated by Rep. Calvert who have received and accepted an Offer of Appointment to a U.S. Military Service Academy, and will be part of the Class of 2021 entering in June of 2017: UNITED STATES AIR FORCE ACADEMY Brennan Boone, Graduated from Santiago High School in June 2016, and graduated from the Air Force Academy Preparatory School in May 2017. James Burke, Santiago High School. Sierra Crawford, Graduated from Murrieta Valley High School in June 2016, and graduated from the Air Force Academy Preparatory School in May 2017. Breven Engelson, Graduated from Chaparral High School in June 2016, and graduated from the Air Force Academy Preparatory School in May 2017. Kyle Krepsz, Martin Luther King High School Kyle Latzke, Vista Murrieta High School Jacob Taylor, Chaparral High School UNITED STATES MILITARY ACADEMY AT WEST POINT James Bilbrey, Murrieta Valley High School Xavier Bryant, Eleanor Roosevelt High School Isaac Cunalata, Murrieta Mesa High School Scott Im, Santiago High School Courtney Springman, Graduated from Chino High School in June 2016, and graduated from the Military Academy Preparatory School in May 2017. Julia Stedman, Santiago High School UNITED STATES NAVAL ACADEMY Kyle Gibbs, Norco High School Sante Grossi, Martin Luther King High School Robert Heideman, Great Oak High School "These young men and women who have accepted an offer from one of the service academies have character, integrity, motivation and pride, and I was proud to nominate them," stated Rep. Calvert. "I have no doubt that these students represent our region with honor and will serve our country well." Each appointee to the Military Service Academies will receive an education valued in excess of $350,000. Rep. Calvert's appointments to the Military Service Academies are awarded on a strictly competitive basis through his Academy Nominations Selection Committee. The Committee evaluates and recommends each candidate based on their merits. ###
05.25.2017	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) applauded the announcement by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers that multiple projects in Riverside County were awarded funding in its fiscal year 2017 work plan. "Funding for projects, like the Murrieta Creek and Santa Ana River projects, are critical to protecting lives and property from dangerous flooding," said Rep. Calvert. "The Perris Desalter project is essential to securing a reliable water supply in our region. I have been a proud advocate for federal funding of these projects for many years because I know of their importance in the affected communities. I am grateful that the Corps of Engineers is dedicating resources to these projects and I look forward to additional federal investments in the future. I will continue to work with the local Riverside County sponsors of these projects until they are complete." The following Riverside County projects were included in the Corps of Engineers fiscal year 2017 work plan: Murrieta Creek ($2.4 million): Complete construction of Phase 2A ($2 million), Complete limited reevaluation report to establish updated cost-benefit-ratio ($400,000) Santa Ana River Mainstem ($11.8 million in addition to $37.2 million previously approved by Congress, totaling $49 million in fiscal year 2017 funding): Construction Management, Supervision & Administration, Engineering & Design and complete remaining mitigation efforts for the ongoing Reach 9 contracts ($10 million); Award Reach 9 Phase [BNSF] Railroad Bridge Protection construction contract ($33 million); Fish Translocation ($1.8 million); Economic Evaluation Update ($150,000); Award Auxiliary Dike & Floodwall Connector Contract ($2.5 million); Sediment Transport and Geomorphology Study for Santa Ana sucker fish ($1 million); Award drilling services contract ($500,000); Ongoing contract modifications ($2 million) South Perris ($4 million): Perris II Desalter Treatment Facility with construction of Site Development and Treated Water Facilities
05.22.2017	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) issued the following statement in response to the release of President Donald Trump's fiscal year 2018 budget request: "I welcome the release of the fiscal year 2018 budget and look forward to working with my colleagues on the Appropriations Committee throughout the appropriations process. The budget released today clearly emphasizes our national security and protecting our borders, which I believe are critically important. The budget also proposes some reductions for agencies that fall within the Interior Subcommittee's jurisdiction. Those agencies perform important work, so the members of our committee will be faced with making some difficult decisions. As the appropriations process moves forward, I will work to provide our agencies with the resources necessary to fulfill their missions while also finding efficiencies to ensure taxpayer dollars are being used judiciously." Rep. Calvert serves as the Chairman of the Appropriations Subcommittee on the Interior and the Environment, and as Vice-Chairman of the Defense Appropriations Subcommittee. ###
05.04.2017	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) issued the following statement following the passage (217 to 213) of the American Health Care Act by the House of Representatives: "My vote for the American Health Care Act fulfills a promise I made to voters to save them from the harmful effects far too many of them have experienced since Obamacare was enacted into law. The American Health Care Act lays the groundwork for delivering the health care system Americans deserve by dismantling one-size-fits-all Obamacare and puts in its place policies that will create sustainable, market-driven, patient-focused health care options. Every day we see more evidence that Obamacare is collapsing. Americans weren't able to keep the health plans they liked, lost access to doctors they preferred, experienced premium and deductible increases, and witnessed health care providers leave the marketplace in droves. Americans deserve real health care solutions and the peace of mind that comes along with those solutions. Many of the constituents I have heard from believe we need to fix our broken health care system, but they are understandably concerned about access to affordable health care if they have a pre-existing condition. I share those concerns and want my constituents to know that the American Health Care Act does protect people with pre-existing conditions and puts in place a number of steps to maintain affordable access to care. The American Health Care Act moves away from Obamacare's Washington-driven health care system by empowering families with their own health care decisions, giving them the flexibility to purchase health care products that meet the specific needs of their family. Our bill protects the most vulnerable Americans by strengthening Medicaid while providing a stable transition to make sure the rug is not pulled out from anyone. Unlike Americans who receive health insurance from their employer, individuals who purchase health insurance on their own don't receive a tax benefit when paying their premiums. Our bill fixes that inequity in our tax code by providing those Americans with an advanceable, refundable tax credit to help them buy insurance and create more competition in the insurance market. It is important for all Americans to know that the passage of the American Health Care Act is part of a three-pronged process to improve our health care system. This bill is not a silver bullet. The Department of Health and Human Services will need to drastically reform the health care regulations that allowed Washington bureaucrats to make far too many decisions that should be made by patients and their doctors. Lastly, Congress must pass legislation that is not restricted by the budget reconciliation process to further improve our federal health care policies and increase choice, competition and affordability." Read more about the American Health Care Act by clicking HERE. ###
05.03.2017	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) voted along with a majority (309 to 118) of the House of Representatives to approve the Fiscal Year 2017 Omnibus Appropriations bill that will provide discretionary funding for the federal government for the current fiscal year. Rep. Calvert serves as the Chairman of the Appropriations Subcommittee on the Interior and the Environment, and as Vice-Chairman of the Defense Appropriations Subcommittee. "The funding bill approved today funds a number of important priorities for the country, California and the Inland Empire," said Rep. Calvert. "As Chairman of the Interior Subcommittee, I'm especially pleased that we were able to fund increases in programs like the Diesel Emission Reduction Program, which clean our air by leveraging modest federal investments with state and private dollars. The bill also provides critical increases in resources for our military to improve readiness and training. I'm especially pleased that the bill provides our troops with a much deserved 2.1 percent pay raise for the military, instead of 1.6 percent that had been requested by former President Obama. "Make no mistake, this is not a bill that Nancy Pelosi would have written. In total, the bill includes a $1.5 billion increase in funding for border security, including more agents and tools to stop illegal activity. Combined with the Trump administration's elimination of the misguided ‘catch and release' policy, this funding will help further curtail the flow of illegal immigration across our borders. We also rejected calls to increase the D.C. bureaucracy at agencies like the EPA, which we hold to its lowest staffing level since 1989, and prohibit a number of job-killing regulations." Some of Rep. Calvert's key priorities included are: DEFENSE $34.1 billion for the Defense Health Program to provide care for our troops, military families, and retirees. The agreement provides $312 million for cancer research, $125 million for traumatic brain injury and psychological health research, and $296 million for sexual assault prevention and response programs. The bill provides increases to end strength above fiscal year 2016, including funds for an additional 1,000 active-duty Army soldiers, 1,000 Army National Guard soldiers, 1,000 Army Reserve soldiers, and 1,000 active-duty Marines. Funding for the procurement of 20 Gray Eagle UAVs to fulfill Army requirement and keep production stable. Procurement of 62 Black Hawks, which includes an increase for the National Guard, and full funding of National Guard Cyber Protection Teams. Additional $7M for Navy RDTE, anti-submarine technologies which will enable the Navy to contract with University National Oceanographic Laboratory Systems, including UC Scripps. HOMELAND SECURITY $121.1 million is included for E-Verify, a program that Rep. Calvert created through legislation in 1996. E-Verify allows employers to check the legal work status of their employees. $45.1 million for the Air and Marine Operations Center (AMOC), $19.6 million above FY 2016 level. The funding lines includes the operation of the AMOC facility located at March Air Reserve Base. $14.3 billion for U.S. Customs and Border Protection, which is $1 billion more than the FY2016 enacted level, $743.2 million more than the House level. $6.8 billion for U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, which is $629.2 million more than the FY2016 enacted level, $556.9 million more than the House level. INTERIOR AND ENVIRONMENT $4.2 billion for wildland fire including $407 million in emergency spending. An additional $10 million for WIFIA funding bringing this year's level to $30 million, which can be leveraged for $3 billion for water infrastructure. $2.3 billion for Clean Water and Drinking Water State Revolving funds. $60 million for Diesel Emission Reduction Act, $10 million above the FY2016 enacted level. $30 million for Targeted Airshed Grants directed to the top five most polluted areas for air quality, which includes Riverside County, CA. ENERGY AND WATER $230 million for activities to modernize the electricity grid, which is $5 million more than the House bill and $24 million more than the FY2016 enacted level. The Santa Ana River Mainstem project is funded at $37.2 million. Funding for California water projects, including $10 million for water recycling, $6 million for desalination projects, and $67 million for water storage projects. $7 million for Endangered Species action plans to help recover species and ultimately de-list them. $5.39 billion for the Department of Energy Office of Science, which is $8 million less than the House bill and $41.8 million more than the FY2016 enacted level. COMMERCE, JUSTICE, SCIENCE, AND RELATED AGENCIES $210 million for the State Criminal Alien Assistance Program, which helps reimburse state and local governments for the costs of incarcerating criminal illegal immigrants. $221.5 million for the Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS) Program. Within this funding, $137 million is for the hiring of law enforcement, which is the same as the FY 2016 level and $137 million above the House bill. $155 million in total for Industrial Technology Services, including $130 million for the Hollings Manufacturing Extension Partnership. $376 million for the Byrne-JAG program excluding set-asides, which is $29 million above the FY2016 enacted level and $48.5 million less than the House bill. $15 million for police officer safety and active shooter training programs, including $7,500,000 for the Officer Robert Wilson III Preventing Violence Against Law Enforcement Officer. Resilience and Survivability (VALOR) Initiative and $7,500,000 under the Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS) header for the Protecting Our Lives by Initiating COPS Expansion (POLICE) Act. TRANSPORTATION Supports the "Fixing America's Surface Transportation Act" (FAST Act), the five-year highway bill that passed Congress and was signed into law in FY2015. $500 million for National Infrastructure Investment, the same as the fiscal year 2016 enacted level. These grants are awarded by the Department of Transportation to states and local communities for infrastructure construction and improvements. $1 billion for the FAA's Next Generation Air Transportation Systems (NextGen), and funds Contract Towers at $159 million. These investments will help ease future congestion, help reduce delays for travelers in U.S. airspace, and reduce costs for travelers. $3 million for the National Surface Transportation and Innovative Finance Bureau, which was created by the FAST Act to promote efficiency by creating a "one-stop shop," consolidating the administration of several DOT programs (TIFIA, RRIF, PAB, and FASTLANE grants). AGRICULTURE The bill maintains increased funding for Huanglongbing (Citrus Greening) Emergency Response within the Specialty Crop Pests line item and provides an additional $5.5 million to support the Huanglongbing Multi-Agency Coordination (HLB MAC) group. The agreement encourages Animal Plant Health Inspection Service to allocate sufficient resources to continue vital management, control, and associated activities to address citrus greening and to support priorities and strategies identified by the HLB MAC group. The bill directs USDA to not fully implement the final rule allowing the importation of lemons from Argentina until the Operational Work Plan ensures that Argentina can meet the same phytosanitary risk standards required by the other current countries importing citrus into the United States. LABOR, HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES $34 billion for the National Institutes of Health (NIH), $2 billion above the fiscal year 2016 enacted level. Includes specific increases for research related to Alzheimer's disease, the brain, antibiotic resistance, and the Precision Medicine Initiative. Funds Substance Abuse and Mental Health Administration at $3.6 billion (SAMHSA), $130.5 million above the previous Administration's budget request. Provides $12 million for discretionary grants to states to prevent opioid overdose-related deaths. $2.7 billion for WIOA Job Training State Grants, which is the same level as the 2016 enacted level and $20 million less than the House bill. ###
04.13.2017	Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) is pleased to announce his 25th Annual Academy Night event for high school students in the 42nd Congressional District who are interested in attending one of the U.S. military academies. Academy Night features presentations from the U.S Air Force Academy, the U.S. Military Academy at West Point, the U.S. Naval Academy, the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy and the U.S. Coast Guard Academy. When: Tuesday, May 2, 2017 6:00 p.m. to 8:00 p.m. Where: Ortega High School Conference Center 520 Chaney Street in Lake Elsinore Students will learn about the admission requirements and the congressional nomination process, and will have the opportunity to meet with representatives from each academy, members of Rep. Calvert's Academy Nominations Selection Committee, and his congressional staff – all of whom will be more than willing to help the students throughout the application process. For more information about Rep. Calvert's military academy nomination process please click here. The 42nd District encompasses the western edge of Riverside County including the cities of Eastvale, Norco, Corona, Lake Elsinore, Wildomar, Canyon Lake, Menifee, Murrieta and a portion of Temecula. ###
04.07.2017	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) issued the following statement on Syria: "The military strikes ordered by President Trump were an appropriate and measured response to the horrific chemical weapons attack by the Assad regime on Syrian civilians, including children. Unlike the previous administration, President Trump has now made it clear by his actions that the use of chemical weapons to brutally murder innocent people will not be allowed to continue without consequences. The entire civilized world has a clear and compelling interest to uphold this principle. Congress must work closely with President Trump, Defense Secretary James Mattis, and our other national security officials to further develop and implement a strategy to confront the many challenges in Syria, as well as the actions by Russia, Iran, and other nations that have aided the Assad regime in its unacceptable behavior. I am hopeful that President Trump's strong leadership and decisive actions will send a clear signal to dangerous regime's across the globe that the days of meaningless ‘red lines' and phony international agreements are over." ###
03.29.2017	Join Representative Ken Calvert (CA-42) for a Telephone Town Hall Meeting on Tuesday, April 4, 2017 at 6:00 p.m. PST. Rep. Calvert will provide an update on what's happening in Congress and take questions from his constituents live on the call. To sign-up and participate in the call click HERE and enter your phone number. You'll then receive a call next Tuesday, April 4th around 6:00 p.m. PST to join the call.
03.27.2017	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) issued the following statement regarding the Department of Justice's announcement on sanctuary cities: "I applaud the actions taken today by the Department of Justice because they rightfully indicate that protecting American families should be our highest priority. As I've said before, it's completely irresponsible for any government to willfully shield criminal illegal immigrants from federal immigration officials. Like many Americans, I disagree with cities that place protecting criminal illegal immigrants ahead of the safety of our families." Recently, Rep. Calvert led an effort with his California Republican colleagues in the House to send a letter to President Trump regarding pending legislation before the California legislature that would essentially adopt sanctuary policies for the entire state. In the letter, Rep. Calvert and his colleagues express their opposition to the legislation, but if it is signed into law they urge the President to find alternative ways to distribute federal funding to counties and cities that have not adopted sanctuary city policies. ###
03.24.2017	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) issued the following statement regarding the American Health Care Act: "Obamacare is collapsing under the many broken promises that have doomed it from its inception. Americans were not able to keep the health plans they liked, lost access to doctors they preferred, experienced premium and deductible increases, and saw health care providers leave the marketplace in droves – all while the federal deficit continues to soar to record levels. The passage of Obamacare was predicated on its failure; the eventual collapse of the system was intended to bring about single-payer, government-run health care. Doing nothing is not an option. Someone has to act responsibly and offer real health care solutions for Americans. Today, I remain just as committed to enacting health care solutions that protect Americans from the harmful effects of Obamacare as I was yesterday." ###
03.21.2017	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) invited high school students throughout the 42nd Congressional District to participate in the 35th Annual Congressional Art Competition. "The artistic talents of Riverside County students never cease to amaze me," said Rep. Calvert. "The Congressional Art Competition is a fantastic way to showcase the talents of young Americans from around the country at the Capitol." This year marks the thirty-fifth anniversary of the Congressional Art Competition, An Artistic Discovery. Each year, Members of Congress hold contests within their districts to choose winning pieces of art by high school students. Since this competition was created in 1982, hundreds of thousands of high school students have participated at the local level. The winning student from each district is invited to Washington, DC for the ribbon-cutting ceremony, and will have his or her artwork displayed in the U.S. Capitol for one year. Competition Guidelines: Only high school students residing in the 42nd Congressional District may enter. A student release form must be attached to the art work submitted. All artwork must be original and may not violate any U.S. copyright laws. All artwork must be two-dimensional. Artwork, when framed, can be no larger than 28" high x 28" wide x 4" deep. Acceptable categories include: Paintings, Drawings, Collage, Prints, Mixed Media, Computer generated art, and Photography. The deadline for submission is Thursday, May 4, 2017. Artwork must adhere to the policy of the House Office Building Commission. In accordance with this policy, exhibits depicting subjects of contemporary political controversy or a sensationalistic or gruesome nature are not allowed. For more information, please contact Jackie Lansing at (951) 277-0042. ###
03.08.2017	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) voted along with a bipartisan majority (371-48) of his House colleagues to pass the Fiscal Year 2017 Defense Appropriations bill. Rep. Calvert serves as the Vice Chairman of the Defense Appropriations Subcommittee. "The Defense Appropriations bill passed by the House today is an important first step to rebuild and restore our military strength," said Rep. Calvert. "The bill provides vital funding for our Armed Services, including a 2.1% pay raise and additional funding for increased end strength. I look forward to working with the new Administration and providing the resources our military needs to maintain our position in the world as well as continue to invest in our most important asset – the men and women our United States Armed Forces." Bill Highlights (Provided by the House Appropriations Committee): Military Personnel and Pay – The agreement includes $132.1 billion – $128.7 billion for base requirements and $3.4 billion for OCO/GWOT requirements – to provide for 1,305,900 active-duty troops and 813,200 Guard and Reserve troops. The agreement denies the troop reductions proposed in the previous Administration's fiscal year 2017 budget request. The agreement also fully funds the authorized 2.1 percent pay raise for the military, instead of 1.6 percent as requested by the previous Administration. Defense Health and Military Family Programs – The agreement contains $34.1 billion for base and GWOT requirements – $1.5 billion above the fiscal year 2016 enacted level and $314 million above the previous Administration's request – for the Defense Health Program to provide care for our troops, military families, and retirees. The agreement provides $312 million for cancer research, $125 million for traumatic brain injury and psychological health research, and $296 million for sexual assault prevention and response. All of these funding levels represent increases above the budget request for these programs. Force Structure – The agreement rejects the Obama Administration's proposed troop reductions. Instead, the agreement provides increases above fiscal year 2016, including funds for an additional 1,000 active-duty Army soldiers, 1,000 Army National Guard soldiers, 1,000 Army Reserve soldiers, and 1,000 active-duty Marines. Savings and Reductions to President Obama's Request – The agreement reflects commonsense decisions to save taxpayer dollars where possible in areas that will not affect the safety or success of our troops and missions. Some of these savings include: $1.155 billion from lower-than-expected fuel costs; $157 million due to favorable economic conditions; and $4.76 billion in savings from rescissions of unused prior-year funding. ###
03.07.2017	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) issued the following statement on the introduction of the American Health Care Act: "With premiums rising, deductibles increasing, and health care choices decreasing, American families know all too well that Obamacare is collapsing. That's exactly why I promised the voters in my district that I would take action and work to repeal and replace Obamacare with patient-centered health care solutions that actually reduce costs and expand choices. The simple fact is our health care system is on life support and whoever won last year's election was going to need to resuscitate it. The introduction of the American Health Care Act is an important step towards the fulfillment of that promise. The bill empowers families and doctors with health care decisions, rather than giving Washington bureaucrats the power to impose one-size-fits-all regulations. Not everyone requires the same type of health plan, so the bill gives Americans more affordable options and the ability to find the right plan for them. It's important to note that the House plan will continue to protect American families by ensuring people with pre-existing conditions are not denied heath care policies and allowing the coverage of dependents until they are 26 years old. The American Health Care Act will also help patients and our economy by repealing Obamacare taxes on prescription drugs, over-the-counter medications, health-insurance premiums and medical devices. Repealing and replacing Obamacare is not an easy task, but the American people don't want to hear excuses – they want health care policies that actually work. I look forward to working with my colleagues throughout the legislative process to send a bill to President Trump's desk that saves our health care system." For more information on the American Health Care Act and to read the bill please visit www.ReadTheBill.gop ###
02.28.2017	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) issued the following statement ahead of the Joint Address to Congress by President Trump: "As we've already seen by his actions, President Trump intends to fulfill the promises made last year on the campaign trail. Some people may still be in shock that he won the election, but no one should be surprised by the actions President Trump is taking. Tonight, I expect President Trump to lay out a bold agenda to get America back on the right track. I look forward to working with him and my colleagues in Congress to enact that agenda in the days, weeks and months ahead. I am eager to fulfill the promise of repealing and replacing Obamacare with health care solutions that truly reduce health care costs, give families more choices, and accomplish these goals in a fiscally sustainable manner. President Trump and Republicans in Congress have already started and will continue to fulfill our promise to cut through the regulatory red-tape that is holding back job creators and putting too much power in the hands of Washington bureaucrats. Likewise, we must simplify the tax code, reduce the corporate tax rate, ease the tax burden on American families and get onerous taxation out of the way of American ingenuity. I also support President Trump's efforts to secure our borders, bolster interior enforcement and to deport criminal aliens. I will continue my efforts to cut off the job magnet by making the use of E-Verify mandatory. Working together, we will also rebuild our military by giving our troops the resources they need to complete the difficult tasks we ask them to perform. Last week, I spent time with my constituents and the elected leaders of every city that I represent discussing the challenges and opportunities they face. In every meeting we talked about the tremendous infrastructure needs of our region. I look forward to working with President Trump and our local leaders to make sure the Inland Empire infrastructure projects are front and center for the significant investment he is proposing. President Trump and I were elected to fix our broken health care system, improve our economy, change the direction of our deteriorating military, and rebuild our crumbling infrastructure. And, that's exactly what we intend to do. The task before us is substantial, but as the saying goes – things worth having don't come easy." ###
02.24.2017	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) completed his annual meetings with every city and county throughout the 42nd Congressional District. Since first being elected to the House of Representatives, Rep. Calvert has spent a week early in the calendar year meeting with the elected leaders and staff from every city and county in his congressional district to discuss the federal issues that are a priority for them. "The annual meetings I hold with these elected leaders and staff members are a productive way of communicating about the federal issues that affect our communities here in my congressional district," said Rep. Calvert. "There are a lot of exciting opportunities and challenges throughout the 42nd Congressional District and I look forward to my continued work with our communities in the days, weeks, and months to come." Below is a brief recap of Rep. Calvert's meetings that took place this week: Canyon Lake Rep. Calvert met with Canyon Lake Mayor Dawn Haggerty and Mayor Pro Tem Vicki Warren to discuss the potential purchase of excess federal land adjacent to the city and finding ways to improve the long-term water quality of the lake. Corona Rep. Calvert met with Corona Mayor Dick Haley and Vice Mayor Karen Spiegel regarding federal funding for infrastructure, finding federal grants for new senior/community centers, and economic development opportunities. Eastvale Rep. Calvert met with Eastvale Council Member Todd Rigby to discuss the construction of an expanded Hamner bridge, the improvement of the Limonite/I-15 interchange, and a single zip code for the city. Lake Elsinore Rep. Calvert met with Lake Elsinore Mayor Bob Magee and Mayor Pro Tem Natasha Johnson to discuss the infrastructure needs in the city, regulatory reform, improving the environmental conditions of the lake, as well as the exciting economic development opportunities that exist in Lake Elsinore. Menifee Rep. Calvert met with Menifee Mayor Neil Winter, Council Member Greg August, Council Member Lesa Sobek, and Council Member John Denver regarding infrastructure, mail theft, and the vehicle license fees (VLF) the state is withholding from the city. In addition, Rep. Calvert and the Council heard from a number of Menifee residents about a variety of federal issues. Murrieta Rep. Calvert met with Murrieta Mayor Rick Gibbs and Council Member Randon Lane to discuss the Keller Road/I-215 interchange project, the Murrieta Creek flood control project, and mail theft. Norco Rep. Calvert met with Norco Mayor Greg Newton and Mayor Pro Tem Ted Hoffman to talk about the construction of an expanded Hamner bridge, infrastructure, and the Norco Navy base. Temecula Rep. Calvert met with Temecula Mayor Maryann Edwards and Mayor Pro Tem Matt Rahn to discuss improving transportation along I-15, the Murrieta Creek flood control project, and finding innovative ways to construct infrastructure projects faster. Wildomar Rep. Calvert met with Wildomar Mayor Timothy Walker and Mayor Pro Tem Ben Benoit regarding infrastructure, helping businesses comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act, and unifying Wildomar within a single zip code. County of Riverside Rep. Calvert met with Riverside County officials to discuss health care reform, local/federal immigration enforcement coordination, and infrastructure. ###
02.06.2017	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) reintroduced legislation, H.R. 925, that will ensure military reservists will receive Post 9/11 GI Bill benefits as intended by correcting an unintended issue that has negatively affected reservists when reporting for active duty. "Our veterans and reservists deserve to receive the benefits they have earned without unnecessary complications," said Rep. Calvert. "Our reservists make themselves available on short notice to contribute to our national security. Now it's our turn to come to their aid by making this common sense fix to their Post 9/11 GI Bill benefits." Under current regulations, an individual who is released from active duty status may begin receiving the Post-9/11 GI Bill Monthly Housing Allowance (MHA) on the first day of the month following the date the individual is discharged. In addition, an individual who is released from active duty status may begin receiving their tuition and fees benefit on the first day of the enrollment period following the date the individual is discharged and begin receiving their books and supplies stipend on the first day of the month following the date the individual is discharged. However, there are cases in which a Guard or reservist's required monthly active duty would disqualify those individuals for the MHA benefit. Many reservists are required to routinely perform their jobs in a Title 10 status due to their specific job requirements and functions. These commonly include aircrew, intelligence personnel, and UAV (Unmanned Aerial Vehicle) and Remote Piloted Aircraft operators. While not in a drill status, or if in a drill status under Title 38, an individual is entitled to their MHA and book allowance. When in a drill status under Title 10, the individual is entitled to the housing allowance, but only for the first portion of the month up to when they entered active duty under Title 10. Therefore, if an individual goes on active duty on the first day of the month for three days, the individual does not receive any housing, or book allowance payments for the rest of that entire month. Just one day of Title 10 service can result in forfeiture of MHA and book allowance for all or most of the month. In order to maintain a Combat Mission Readiness state and proficiency at their job, some have to commit to a minimum of four training days a month in a Title 10 status. Many Guard and Reservists using their GI Bill benefits will be reluctant to volunteer for three to four day missions to ferry troops, equipment, and supplies into an Area of Responsibility knowing they will lose all or a portion of that month's MHA. Many reservists are full-time students and rely on their MHA to pay rent, but as a result of the current rules they are denied their full MHA causing many members to incur thousands of dollars of debt. This is compounded by the fact that members of the reserve are used more frequently due to the increased tempo of operations around the world. The legislation introduced by Rep. Calvert essentially prorates the MHA for the portion of the month the service member is not on active duty. The bill amends Title 38, United States Code, to clarify the eligibility for monthly stipends paid under the Post-9/11 Educational Assistance Program for certain members of the reserve components of the Armed Forces. By easing restrictions on volunteers, it will increase the number of volunteers and the frequency of volunteerism while limiting the potential for personnel financial issues to arise. Most importantly, this bill seeks to enhance reserve components' military readiness during high tempo operations. ###
02.01.2017	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) introduced the Federal Accountability in Chemical Testing (FACT) Act, H.R. 816. The FACT Act would improve reporting by EPA, FDA, NIH, USDA and other government agencies about their efforts to replace inefficient, multi-million-dollar animal tests with faster, less costly and more effective alternative methods for assessing the safety of chemicals, drugs, foods, cosmetics and other substances. "For two decades, I have played a key role in the efforts to replace wasteful government animal tests with modern alternative tests that save significant time, taxpayers' money and animals' lives," said Rep. Calvert. "The FACT Act will ensure that Congress has the information necessary to determine if federal agencies are meeting their mandates to replace expensive and unnecessary animal testing whenever possible, because evidence suggests they are not." The common-sense, bipartisan FACT Act amends the Interagency Coordinating Committee on the Validation of Alternative Methods (ICCVAM) Authorization Act of 2000, which was created thru legislation authored by Rep. Calvert. The FACT Act specifies that biennial progress reports already required under the Act include details on how many animals were used by each agency and for what tests, as well as those it required in regulatory submissions. Some individual animal tests can cost taxpayers $4 million, use thousands of animals and take more than five years to complete. Federal laws – including last year's widely-supported amendments to the Toxic Substances Control Act – require agencies to minimize animal tests in favor of high-tech alternatives like cell-based tests and sophisticated computer models. However, federal agencies do not currently report how many animals they use in testing or what they're used for, making it impossible for Congress to assess their compliance and progress to replace wasteful animal tests. A recent review by the non-profit White Coat Waste Project – which is endorsing the FACT Act – found that government agencies are regularly conducting hundreds of animal tests on cosmetics ingredients, foods, natural supplements, tobacco products, industrial chemicals, and drugs using mice, rats, rabbits, dogs, monkeys, and other animals. "We applaud Congressman Calvert for introducing the FACT Act and for his outstanding work to ensure that taxpayers are not funding ineffective and cruel animal experiments," said Justin Goodman, Vice President at the White Coat Waste Project. ###
01.31.2017	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) issued the following statement in response to President Trump's nomination of Judge Neil Gorsuch to the Supreme Court: "I believe Neil Gorsuch is a strong choice to serve on our Supreme Court. Judge Gorsuch's record indicates he will be a strong defender of the Constitution and American liberties. Judge Gorsuch is well qualified and was approved unanimously via voice vote for his current seat on the U. S. Court of Appeals for the Tenth Circuit. I applaud Senate Republicans for making sure that Justice Scalia's seat on the Supreme Court was not filled during a contentious election by a lame-duck president, and ensuring the new justice was chosen by the president elected by American voters in our recent election. I'm hopeful that the Senate will act quickly to consider and confirm the nomination of Neil Gorsuch." ###
01.30.2017	First and foremost, this is not a Muslim ban. There is no prohibition on the immigration of individuals based on religion. There is no prohibition of individuals who are Muslim from immigrating to the United States. Individuals from Muslim prominent countries such as Pakistan, Indonesia, Turkey, Egypt, etc are not subject to this Executive Order (EO). The Executive Order places a temporary 90 day halt to the admission of immigrant and non-immigrant visas for nationals from seven countries that are terrorist conflict areas: Iraq, Iran, Libya, Somalia, Sudan, Syria and Yemen. The list of seven countries was established between Congress and the Obama Administration through the Visa Waiver Improvement Act. Within the EO there is a provision that puts a halt on all refugees for 120 days and an indefinite halt on Syrian refugees until the process for vetting refugees is improved. The order is similar to President Obama's halt to Syrian refugees from 2011 to 2014. In these countries it is very difficult to ascertain the identity and background of an individual, either because their home government is not cooperative (Iran, Syria) and/or because the country lacks the technical capability to verify identification (Iraq, Libya, Syria, Somalia, Sudan, Yemen). The halt is similar to the Obama Administration's stoppage of processing for Iraqi nationals after a terrorist plot by two Iraqi citizens was uncovered in Kentucky. Every country in the world has a right to control their borders. For too long, the United States has allowed immigration into the U.S. without proper vetting procedures in place. As we saw with the attacks in San Bernardino, one of the attackers obtained a U.S. visa despite online posts that indicated she was a threat. This is just one example of many that highlight the need for a better vetting process. It is important to note that the Secretary of Homeland Security has the authority to admit individuals on a case-by-case basis. As a Member of Congress, I have been proactively working on a way to improve the vetting process for Iraqi and Syrian refugees. However, the process could be implemented for any country identified as a possible national security threat. My bill, the SAFER Act (H.R. 441) would require: All Syrian and Iraqi refugees regardless of background or religious affiliation must pass a certified polygraph examination. A polygraph will be essential in determining whether a refugee is truly coming to the United States to escape oppression or if they are coming here with possibly violent intentions. It is also necessary since for many refugees we only have their word to rely on as to who they are, where they are from and why they are coming here. There are no corresponding government databases to verify their claims nor is there the ability to conduct a sufficient background check due to the conflicts in the region and displacement of entire communities. All Syrian and Iraqi refugees regardless of background or religious affiliation must agree to provide biometric data and have that data compared to known databases in order to validate they have no known history of terrorist activities. All Syrian and Iraqi refugees regardless of background or religious affiliation must agree to provide DNA samples and have those samples compared to known databases in order to validate they have no known history of terrorist activities. All Syrian and Iraqi refugees will be subject to a background check that includes an investigation of all online activity, including posts to social media.
01.24.2017	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) introduced legislation, H.R. 638, to name the Murrieta postal facility located at 24930 Washington Avenue in honor of the Riverside County veterans of the Iraq and Afghanistan wars. This bill would designate the post office as the "Riverside County Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans Memorial Post Office." "Veterans from Riverside County made significant contributions and sacrifices while taking part in the Iraq and Afghanistan wars," said Rep. Calvert. "Naming this facility in honor of our veterans is a small token of appreciation from our community for their service. I'm hopeful the House will act on this bill in the very near future." ###
01.24.2017	Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) has joined Congressman Ted Poe (TX-2) to introduce legislation, H.R. 620, designed to help small businesses comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA). "The goal of the Americans with Disabilities Act is to provide access for the disabled – it's not to give unscrupulous trial lawyers the opportunity to abuse small businesses," said Rep. Calvert. "California has become ground zero for abusive ADA lawsuits and I have heard from many of our job creators who have fallen victim to abusive ADA lawsuits that are not aimed at improving access for the disabled. Protecting small businesses from abusive lawsuits and ensuring disabled Americans have adequate access are not mutually exclusive goals." The bill would alleviate the financial burden small businesses are facing, while still fulfilling the purpose of the ADA. Any person aggrieved by a violation of the ADA would provide the owner or operator with a written notice of the violation, specific enough to allow such owner or operator to identify the barrier to their access. Within 60 days the owner or operator would be required to provide the aggrieved person with a description outlining improvements that would be made to address the barrier. The owner or operator would then have 120 days to remove the infraction. The failure to meet any of these conditions would allow the suit to go forward. Rep. Calvert continued, "I appreciate Mr. Poe's leadership on this issue and I know his expertise and service on the House Committee on the Judiciary will help ensure that H.R. 620 makes it across the finish line. I look forward to working with him to ensure that serial litigants are no longer rewarded for taking advantage of an important and meaningful law." As a former small business owner, Rep. Calvert experienced firsthand the devastating effects of frivolous ADA lawsuits. As such, Rep. Calvert has been a long-serving leader on ADA reform issues in Congress and looks forward to continuing the fight on these important issues. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52), Congressman Ami Bera (CA-7), Congresswoman Jackie Speier (CA-14) and Congressman Mike Conaway (TX-11) also cosponsored the legislation. The following organizations have endorsed the bill: American Hotel and Lodging Association, American Resort Development Association, Asian American Hotel Owners Association, Building Owners and Managers Association (BOMA) International, CCIM Institute, Institute of Real Estate Management, International Council of Shopping Centers, International Franchise Association, NAIOP, the Commercial Real Estate Development Association, National Apartment Association, National Association of REALTORS®, National Association of Theatre Owners, National Council of Chain Restaurants, National Federation of Independent Business, National Multifamily Housing Council, National Restaurant Association, NATSO, Representing America's Travel Plazas and Truck Stops, Retail Industry Leaders Association, U.S. Chamber of Commerce. ###
01.23.2017	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) introduced the Ensuring the Safety Our Mail Act, H.R. 603, which will double the maximum jail sentence for anyone convicted of mail theft. "The high rate of mail theft in our region, particularly the theft of cluster box units, is a serious concern that must be addressed," said Rep. Calvert. "Clearly, the criminals breaking into these mailboxes are not afraid of the consequences. I believe we need to send a strong message that if you get caught stealing mail, you are going to do serious jail time. Families should have confidence that sensitive documents in their mailbox are safe." Currently, the maximum jail sentence for anyone convicted of mail theft is five years under Section 1708 of Title 18 of the U.S. Code. The Ensuring the Safety Our Mail Act increases the maximum jail sentence to ten years. ###
01.20.2017	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) issued the following statement on the inauguration of President Donald J. Trump: "I want to congratulate President Trump on being sworn into office and welcome the entire Trump family to the White House. The coming weeks, months and years ahead will be filled with tremendous opportunities and challenges for President Trump. I pray he finds the guidance, strength and conviction necessary to do what's best for our country. By electing President Trump, American voters chose to take our country in a different direction. Now, it's time to roll up our sleeves and fulfill the promises that were made on the campaign trail. I am eager to make a meaningful contribution in the next chapter of our American democracy along with President Trump and help form a more perfect union." ###
01.13.2017	Today, House Appropriations Chairman Rodney Frelinghuysen (NJ-11) named Rep. Ken Calvert (CA-42) as the Vice Chairman of the Defense Appropriations Subcommittee. Rep. Kay Granger (TX-12) serves as the Chairwoman of the Defense Appropriations Subcommittee. "I am honored to serve as the Vice Chairman of the Defense Appropriations Subcommittee and I want to thank Chairman Frelinghuysen and Chairwoman Granger," said Rep. Calvert. "I look forward to working with the Chairwoman and supporting her as she takes the helm of the Subcommittee. Conducting hearings, reviewing the President's budget request and crafting the bill that funds our men and women in uniform is of the highest importance. As we face numerous threats around the world it is vital that we provide our Armed Forces with the resources they need to accomplish their missions and minimize risk as well as plan for future threats." Rep. Calvert is also the Chairman of the Interior Appropriations Subcommittee, a senior member of the Energy and Water Appropriations Subcommittee and the Appropriations Liaison to the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence. ###
01.13.2017	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) voted along with a majority (227 to 198) of the House in support of a resolution that paves the way for the repeal of Obamacare. "Today the House took an important first step towards providing hard working American families with the relief they have been desperately seeking from the negative impacts of Obamacare," said Rep. Calvert. "Republicans in Congress and President-Elect Trump are on a rescue mission to repeal Obamacare and replace it with healthcare that puts patients first and gives families more options. I look forward to working with my colleagues throughout this process to develop policies that will translate into the healthcare solutions my constituents need and deserve." The resolution passed by the House, S. Con. Res. 3, sets forth the congressional budget for the United States Government for fiscal year 2017. It instructs the House Committee on Ways and Means, the House Committee on Energy and Commerce, the Senate Committee on Finance, and the Senate Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions to achieve at least $1 billion each in deficit reduction over the 2017-2026 period. That reconciliation process will be used as the vehicle to repeal and replace Obamacare. ###
01.13.2017	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) reintroduced legislation aimed at preventing criminal illegal immigrants from being released from custody. The Help Ensure Legal Detainers (HELD) Act, H.R. 514, would require localities to adhere to Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) detainers. "Keeping American families safe is my top priority in Congress, which is why I believe deporting criminal illegal immigrants is so important," said Rep. Calvert. "There are a lot of complicated issues involved in fixing our broken immigration system, but deporting illegal immigrants who have committed serious crimes should not be controversial. Congress should enact the HELD Act because we need local law enforcement to work hand-in-hand with our immigration agencies to better protect our communities." The HELD Act would deny all federal funding – including transportation funding – if a locality has a law, policy or procedure in place that prevents local law enforcement from maintaining the custody of an alien pursuant to an ICE detainer. Specifically the bill: · Would require local municipalities to promptly respond to an ICE Detainer notice issued by the Secretary of Homeland Security (DHS) that requests information about alien in custody in order for the Secretary to arrange for custody of the alien. · Would require local municipalities to maintain custody of an alien for up to 48 hours pursuant to an immigration Detainer so that the alien can be transferred to the custody of DHS. The HELD Act includes an exception in the bill in cases where counties may have a policy in place that prevents local law enforcement from working with ICE while cities within that county may have no such policy. In these cases, the flow of federal funding that would normally go through the county would go directly to the city. ###
01.13.2017	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) voted along with a majority (268 to 151) to approve legislation, S. 84, that provides a legal exemption for General James Mattis to serve as Secretary of Defense. The exception is necessary due to existing law that otherwise prohibits a member of the military from serving as Secretary of Defense within seven years of their military service. "General Mattis is overwhelmingly qualified to serve as our next Secretary of Defense and has demonstrated outstanding leadership qualities on and off the battlefield," said Rep. Calvert. "There was no question in my mind that Congress should provide General Mattis with an exemption to serve as Secretary of Defense. While I strongly believe in the tenet of civilian control of the military, I believe that General Mattis is the right person at the right time. He has the experience, knowledge and appreciation for our troops necessary to tackle the many challenges facing our Defense Department and our military around the world." ###
01.12.2017	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) reintroduced the Reducing Environmental Barriers to Unified Infrastructure and Land Development (REBUILD) Act, H.R. 481. The legislation would cut red tape and reduce costs for infrastructure projects. "The REBUILD Act reduces the cost and time necessary to build infrastructure projects at a time when communities are struggling to find the resources necessary to construct them," said Rep. Calvert. "After eight years of the Obama Administration making it more difficult and costly to build infrastructure projects it's long past time that we relieve the burden the federal government places on critical investments in infrastructure." The REBUILD Act allows any state to enter into a Memorandum of Understanding with a designated federal agency who has environmental review responsibilities under NEPA and assume the review responsibilities of that agency. Under the REBUILD Act, states would still be required to uphold the same NEPA standards or greater. By assuming these responsibilities states could integrate NEPA compliance into their own state approval process thereby streamlining construction timelines and eliminating the need for redundant reviews at the federal level. The streamlined process is modeled after a pilot program created in SAFETEA-LU (Section 327 -Title 23 USC) that allowed a limited number of states to take on the task of ensuring National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) compliance for highway projects under the Federal Highway Administration (FHWA). In those states that chose to assume this responsibility, the length of time to complete a project review was reduced by an average of 17 months while also ensuring the goals of the NEPA process were not compromised. ###
01.11.2017	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) voted along with a majority (238 to 183) of the House in support of the Regulatory Accountability Act, H.R. 5. The bill would eliminate overly burdensome red tape and regulation in order to lift unnecessary burdens on hardworking Americans and to promote jobs, innovation, and economic growth. "One of the overwhelming messages voters sent during the last election was that we must stop the onslaught of job-killing regulations coming out of Washington," said Rep. Calvert. "The passage of the Regulatory Accountability Act is a good step towards easing the choke-hold Obama administration bureaucrats have placed on American job-creators. I look forward to working with the incoming Trump administration to find additional ways to help small businesses grow and hire more workers." ###
01.11.2017	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) reintroduced the Secure Accountability for Emigres and Refugees (SAFER) Act, H.R. 441. The SAFER Act would add requirements to the Syrian and Iraqi refugee security vetting process. "I continue to believe we should halt the Syrian and Iraqi refugee programs until we take further steps to increase the security vetting process," said Rep. Calvert. "Specifically, I believe we should include a polygraph examination, collect and analyze biometric data and DNA samples, and ensure social media activity is scrutinized. America continues to have the most welcoming legal immigrations system in the world, but it is dangerous and irresponsible to not include these critical steps to our vetting process." The SAFER Act would define the requirements to fully vet Syrian and Iraqi refugees before they can be admitted into the United States: All Syrian and Iraqi refugees regardless of background or religious affiliation must pass a certified polygraph examination. A polygraph will be essential in determining whether a refugee is truly coming to the United States to escape oppression or if they are coming here with possibly violent intentions. It is also necessary since for many refugees we only have their word to rely on as to who they are, where they are from and why they are coming here. There are no corresponding government databases to verify their claims nor is there the ability to conduct a sufficient background check due to the conflicts in the region and displacement of entire communities. All Syrian and Iraqi refugees regardless of background or religious affiliation must agree to provide biometric data and have that data compared to known databases in order to validate they have no known history of terrorist activities. All Syrian and Iraqi refugees regardless of background or religious affiliation must agree to provide DNA samples and have those samples compared to known databases in order to validate they have no known history of terrorist activities. All Syrian and Iraqi refugees will be subject to a background check that includes an investigation of all online activity, including posts to social media. ###
01.10.2017	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) voted along with a bipartisan majority of the House in support of the INSPIRE Act, H.R. 321. Rep. Calvert is an original cosponsor of the Inspiring the Next Space Pioneers, Innovators, Researchers, and Explorers (INSPIRE) Women Act. "The future of America's technological, scientific, and economic success will be determined by our ability to educate and stimulate the minds of our students," said Rep. Calvert. "Women have made incredible contributions in our space science and exploration fields and I think we should do everything we can to motivate more young women to pursue these exciting subjects." The INSPIRE Act authorizes the NASA Administrator to encourage women and girls to study science, technology, engineering, and mathematics and to pursue careers that will further advance America's space science and exploration efforts ###
01.10.2017	Last night, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) displayed a blue light in his Washington, D.C. office window in honor of Law Enforcement Appreciation Day. "Our police officers risk their lives every day to protect our communities and keep us safe," said Rep. Calvert. "On Law Enforcement Appreciation Day we honor the men and women in blue who bravely serve and remember those who made the ultimate sacrifice in the line of duty. Today, and every day, we should ask ourselves what steps we can take to ensure every police officer returns home safely to their family at the end of every shift." ###
01.05.2017	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) reintroduced legislation aimed at creating a more efficient civilian workforce at the Department of Defense (DOD). The Rebalance for an Effective Defense Uniform and Civilian Employees (REDUCE) Act (H.R. 295) would require the DOD to make civilian workforce reductions in a systematic manner without compromising our ability to maintain a strong national defense over the long term. "The out of control growth in the Defense Department bureaucracy must be stopped," said Rep. Calvert. "The leadership at the Pentagon may want to continue burying their collective heads in the sand, but Congress should act now and require the necessary cuts to the civilian workforce at the Defense Department. A recent report estimated the government could save around $125 billion by eliminating the unnecessary bureaucratic waste at the Pentagon. Taxpayers as well as our servicemembers deserve to have these funds spent in a much wiser fashion." The Growth in the Civilian Workforce within the DOD: A report produced by the Defense Business Board found that modest cuts to the back end bureaucracy at the Defense Department could save $125 billion over five years. Significant savings could be achieved through attrition and early retirements. According to an investigative report by the Washington Post, senior leadership at the Defense Department tried to keep the Defense Business Board's report from public view. The requirements of the REDUCE Act will accomplish the following: · Reduce our Defense civilian workforce by 15% by FY 2020. This percentage was recommended by the Defense Business Board, a trusted, authoritative, and independent source of expertise. · The Department of Defense civilian workforce would remain at or below this established cap of a 15% reduction for Fiscal Years 2021 through 2025. · The Department of Defense civilian Senior Executive Service career appointee workforce will be reduced to 1,000 by 2020 and remain at or below 1,000 employees for Fiscal Years 2021 through 2025. · Provide the Secretary of Defense the authority to use voluntary separation incentive payments and voluntary early retirement payments in order to achieve the required reductions in personnel. · Provide the Secretary of Defense the authority to assign greater weight to job performance versus tenure in a Reduction in Force then the Secretary currently has. · Require a two-fold reporting requirement for this Act: (1) a report from the Secretary of Defense covering the progress and impact of the requirements of this Act in the annual budget request for Fiscal Years 2017 through 2025. The Secretary of Defense may also report to Congress on the impact of the provisions at any time throughout the year (such as when submitting the report on achievement of performance goals as required by Sec. 116 of title 31 of the United States Code on "Agency performance rating."), (2) a GAO study, no later than 3 years after enactment of this Act, that shall examine the progress and impact of the requirements of this Act. In the development of the REDUCE Act, Rep. Calvert and his office consulted with respected defense officials and experts, including: Former Deputy Secretary of Defense Gordon R. England, Former Under Secretary of Defense Dr. Dov Zakheim, Former Secretary of the Navy John Lehman, and Major General (Ret.) Arnold Punaro (Member of the Defense Business Board). The following House members have signed on as original cosponsors of the REDUCE Act: · Rep. Rick Crawford (AR-1) · Rep. Kay Granger (TX-12) · Rep. Duncan Hunter (CA-52) · Rep. Steve Knight (CA-25) · Rep. Doug LaMalfa (CA-1) · Rep. Devin Nunes (CA-22) · Rep. Dana Rohrabacher (CA-48) · Rep. Todd Rokita (IN-4)
01.03.2017	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) issued the following statement regarding the proposed amendment to the Rules of the House to reform the Office of Congressional Ethics: "This is not the time and place to reform the Office of Congressional Ethics (OCE), which is why I voted against the House Rules amendment during the House GOP Conference last night. It's critical that the House focus on the problems we were elected to fix: our broken healthcare system, the onslaught of job-killing regulations, illegal immigration, and keeping our country safe." ###
12.20.2016	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) announced the students from the 42nd Congressional District who have been nominated to attend one of the U.S. Service Academies. As a Member of Congress, Rep. Calvert has the privilege of nominating a select group of highly qualified young men and women from the 42nd Congressional District of California for an appointment to one or more U.S. Service Academies—Air Force, Naval, Military and Merchant Marine. The Service Academies will evaluate the nominees based on their academic, athletic and physical qualifications and extend an appointment to the best qualified students that Rep. Calvert has nominated. "These young men and women who I have nominated to the service academies have character, integrity, motivation and pride, and I am proud to nominate them," stated Rep. Calvert. "They will serve our country well." On November 19, 2016, Congressman Calvert's Academy Nominations Selection Committee evaluated candidates from the 42nd Congressional District, who were seeking a nomination to one or more of our nation's military service academies. Twenty-eight candidates were selected to receive Congressman Calvert's nomination. They are as follows: U.S. AIR FORCE ACADEMY: Zakariya Ahmed, Santiago High School James Burke Jr., Santiago High School Nicholas Carbonell, Murrieta Mesa High School Sierra Crawford, Murrieta Valley High School (Class of 2016), currently attending the United States Air Force Academy Preparatory School Breven Engelson, Chaparral High School (Class of 2016), currently attending the United States Air Force Academy Preparatory School Kyle Latzke, Vista Murrieta High School Aaron Miranda, Vista Murrieta High School Kassey Pugeda, Temecula Preparatory School Cathleen Runde, Temecula Valley High School (Class of 2016), currently attending Northwestern Prep School Jacob Taylor, Chaparral High School (Class of 2016), currently attending Northwestern Prep School U.S. NAVAL ACADEMY: Cole Crisp, Corona High School (Class of 2016), currently attending United States Air Force Academy Preparatory School Kyle Gibbs, Norco High School Sante Grossi, Martin Luther King High School Seth Harris, Paloma Valley High School Robert Heideman, Great Oak High School John Howard, St. Michael's Preparatory School Kimberly Lynch, Murrieta Valley High School Danielle Smith, Norco High School, Julia Stedman, Santiago High School (Class of 2016), currently attending Lane Community College Sarah Workman, Great Oak High School U.S. MILITARY ACADEMY AT WEST POINT: Brian Bae, Murrieta Mesa High School James Bilbrey, Murrieta Valley High School Xavier Bryant, Eleanor Roosevelt High School Isaac Cunalata, Murrieta Mesa High School Niles Harrell, Notre Dame High School Scott Im, Santiago High School (Class of 2016), currently attending University of California, Berkeley Cathleen Runde, Temecula Valley High School (Class of 2016), currently attending Northwestern Prep School Courtney Springman, Chino High School (Class of 2016), currently attending United States Military Preparatory School Julia Stedman, Santiago High School (Class of 2016), currently attending Lane Community College Riana Zuchlewski, Hillcrest High School ###
12.15.2016	On Friday, December 16th, the President signed H.R. 6416 into law, which contained legislation introduced by Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) to streamline veteran education benefits at community colleges. "Our veterans should be able to receive their education benefits without any unnecessary delays," said Rep. Calvert. "Community colleges provide incredible educational opportunities for our veterans, so I am pleased the President signed this bill into law to make it easier for veterans to use their education benefits at these institutions." "We are pleased that the members of Congress made access to education for student veterans a priority," said Virginia Blumenthal, Riverside Community College District (RCCD) Board President. "Current and former members of the RCCD board have supported this bill and we are pleased that Congressman Calvert and members of congress passed it. Our colleges served more than 1,740 student veterans in 2015-16, all of whom will benefit from an improved process." H.R. 6416 contained the legislative text of H.R. 182, introduced by Rep. Calvert on January 7, 2015, which streamlines the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) processes for community colleges that have multiple campuses. Currently, the VA requires community colleges to certify that their veteran students are enrolled for a specific number of classes before the VA will disperse student benefits. These rules must be updated to account for multi-college Community College Districts, such as RCCD. Without such an update, veterans that take classes at a multi-college District see their benefits delayed while colleges and the VA complete and shuffle unnecessary paperwork. H.R. 182 would direct the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to permit the centralized reporting of veteran enrollment by certain groups, districts, and consortiums of educational institutions. ###
12.08.2016	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) voted along with a bipartisan majority (360 to 61) of the House in support of the Water Infrastructure Improvements Act for the Nation (WIIN) Act, a comprehensive water resources bill. "Even before California began to suffer from drought conditions, I have worked with my colleagues to enact solutions that improve our state's aging water infrastructure and update the policies that have led to its inefficient operation," said Rep. Calvert. "Today, we have passed a bipartisan bill that is an important first step towards capturing, storing and using more water when it rains, rather than allowing that water to flow out to the ocean. The future of our state depends on a reliable water supply and I will continue to advocate for policies that ensure California has the water it needs." The California drought provisions in the bill allow more water to be put to beneficial use. Specifically, the bill allows for Delta pumps to operate at higher levels while protecting fish through daily monitoring. The legislation also requires federal agencies to maximize water supplies consistent with applicable laws and biological opinions. Finally, the bill authorizes funding for critical California water storage projects, as well as desalination, water recycling, reuse and conservation projects. The WIIN Act also contained the legislative text of Rep. Calvert's bill, the Pechanga Band of Luiseño Indians Water Rights Settlement Act, H.R. 5984. The bill quantifies the Band's reserved water rights in the Santa Margarita River Watershed. The legislation also authorizes necessary infrastructure to guarantee a permanent supply of water to the Band through cooperative agreements with the local water purveyors, including Rancho California Water District, Eastern Municipal Water District and Metropolitan Water District. Importantly, the legislation will provide a coordinated effort by the parties to manage the water within the basin that will bring all residents of the Pechanga Reservation a safe and dependable water supply for the future. "The Pechanga Band of Indians, as well as all of the parties to this settlement, deserve to have some certainty on the future of their water supply. I'm grateful we have been able to enact the settlement and ensure all of the stakeholders in the Santa Margarita River Watershed can better shape their future." The WIIN Act also included a provision supported by Rep. Calvert to allow projects that would reduce drought to compete for Water Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act (WIFIA) loans and loan guarantees. Specifically, the language expands the list of eligible WIFIA projects to include those that prevent, reduce, or mitigate the effects of drought, including projects that enhance the resilience of drought-stricken watersheds. "Facing a drought of historic proportions, it is important we use every tool at our disposal to find new local water supplies, including through conservation. This language will let the best drought-reduction projects pursue loans and loan guarantees so we can move towards a more reliable, innovative water system throughout California and the west." ###
12.06.2016	Today, the House passed H.R. 6416, which contained legislation introduced by Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) to streamline veteran education benefits at community colleges. "Our veterans should be able to receive their education benefits without any unnecessary delays," said Rep. Calvert. "Community colleges provide incredible educational opportunities for our veterans, so I am pleased Congress is taking action to make it easier for veterans to use their education benefits at these institutions." H.R. 6416 contained the legislative text of H.R. 182, introduced by Rep. Calvert on January 7, 2015, which streamlines the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) processes for community colleges that have multiple campuses. Currently, the VA requires community colleges to certify that their veteran students are enrolled for a specific number of classes before the VA will disperse student benefits. These rules must be updated to account for multi-college Community College Districts, such as Riverside Community College District (RCCD). Without such an update, veterans that take classes at a multi-college District see their benefits delayed while colleges and the VA complete and shuffle unnecessary paperwork. H.R. 182 would direct the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to permit the centralized reporting of veteran enrollment by certain groups, districts, and consortiums of educational institutions. ###
12.06.2016	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42), a member of the House Defense Appropriations Subcommittee, criticized the Defense Department for willfully ignoring the findings of a report issued by the Defense Business Board on the unsustainable growth in the civilian bureaucracy at the Pentagon. An investigation by The Washington Post found that Defense Department officials took a series of actions to keep the report and its findings out of public view. "I introduced the REDUCE Act because there's an undeniable reality that the civilian workforce at the Pentagon has become too large and too costly," said Rep. Calvert. "The dollars being wasted on the Defense Department's oversized bureaucracy hurts taxpayers and it hurts our troops because those funds would be better spent on new equipment, training and readiness. The status quo at the Pentagon must stop. As The Post's investigation found, Pentagon officials prefer to bury their heads in the sand on this critical issue, which is why Congress must pass the REDUCE Act and mandate that civilian workforce reductions take place." The Rebalance for an Effective Defense Uniform and Civilian Employees (REDUCE) Act (H.R. 340) would require the DOD to make civilian workforce reductions in a systematic manner without compromising our ability to maintain a strong national defense over the long term. Rep. Calvert introduced the bill on January 14, 2015. The requirements of the REDUCE Act will accomplish the following: Reduce our Defense civilian workforce by 15% by FY 2022. This percentage was recommended by the Defense Business Board, a trusted, authoritative, and independent source of expertise. The Department of Defense civilian workforce would remain at or below this established cap of a 15% reduction for Fiscal Years 2022 through 2026. The Department of Defense civilian Senior Executive Service career appointee workforce will be reduced to 1,000 by 2022 and remain at or below 1,000 employees for Fiscal Years 2022 through 2026. Provide the Secretary of Defense the authority to use voluntary separation incentive payments and voluntary early retirement payments in order to achieve the required reductions in personnel. Provide the Secretary of Defense the authority to assign greater weight to job performance versus tenure in a Reduction in Force. Require a two-fold reporting requirement for this Act: (1) a report from the Secretary of Defense covering the progress and impact of the requirements of this Act in the annual budget request for Fiscal Years 2018 through 2026. The Secretary of Defense may also report to Congress on the impact of the provisions at any time throughout the year (such as when submitting the report on achievement of performance goals as required by Sec. 116 of title 31 of the United States Code on "Agency performance rating."), (2) a GAO study, no later than 3 years after enactment of this Act, that shall examine the progress and impact of the requirements of this Act. Rep. Calvert will be reintroducing the REDUCE Act in the 115th Congress and continuing his call to reduce the civilian workforce at the Department of Defense. ###
12.05.2016	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) released the following statement in response to the inclusion of several California drought provisions in the FY17 Water Resources Development Act (WRDA) which will be voted on later this week by both the House and Senate: "For many years now, California families and businesses have been desperate for solutions to our state's drought conditions and long-term water challenges. Now, as a result of bipartisan negotiations, we stand ready to move on important water legislation. The provisions included in this legislation are not a silver bullet to all of our state's water woes, but they represent a meaningful step towards a water infrastructure that Californians can rely on. Like any negotiation, neither side got everything they wanted, but in the end Californians will benefit because a deal was reached and solutions will be put into action." ###
12.01.2016	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) voted along with a bipartisan majority of the House (375 to 34) to pass legislation that provides relief for California Guardsmen who were ordered to repay enlistment bonuses. The legislative fix was included in S. 2943, the conference report of the Fiscal Year 2017 National Defense Authorization Act. "Our servicemembers deserve the peace of mind that this legislation will provide them," said Rep. Calvert. "The misguided effort to collect these bonus payments was wrong from the start, so I'm pleased Congress has been able to come together in a bipartisan way and find a solution." Language in The National Defense Authorization Act makes the following reforms: The Secretary of Defense (SecDef) shall conduct a review all bonus pay, special pay, student loan repayments, and similar special payments made to National Guard members of the State of California from January 1, 2004 – December 31, 2015. Process shall be expedited and the goal is for all cases to be finished by July 30, 2017. If any pays have been recouped, DOD will determine whether the recoupment was unwarranted. The burden to prove a service member knowingly accepted a bonus despite not being qualified is on DOD and SecDef guidance is to error on the side of the service member. Board may waive repayment or repay the recouped amount. If a consumer reporting agency was notified of a member's debt, the agency will be notified that no such debt was valid. If financial hardship was experienced as a result of the government to recoup the debt, the member will be assisted in addressing that financial hardship in accordance with mechanisms developed by the SecDef. Rep. Calvert also advocated for the inclusion of a $32 million authorization to restore the TRICARE autism reimbursement rates to levels not less than the rates that were in effect on March 31, 2016 for the Comprehensive Autism Care Demonstration program. "California was disproportionately impacted by the change in TRICARE autism reimbursement rates so I am pleased that the Conference Report included this vital language and funding authorization. Military families that face the challenge of raising a child with autism deserve our full support. The Comprehensive Autism Care Demonstration program provides critical resources for families caring for a child with autism." Additional highlights of The National Defense Authorization Act include: $619 billion for national defense which included $3.2 billion for readiness stabilization funding to stop the military drawdown which is fueling the readiness crisis. A 2.1% pay raise for our troops, the largest increase in six years and 5% above the President's request. Improves access to quality health care for warfighters, retirees, and their families, while enhancing medical readiness. Maintains the current status of the Basic Allowance for Housing (BAH). Reforms the Commissary system to preserve the benefit, while also making improvements to ensure continued savings for shoppers, a good value for taxpayers, and ongoing support for morale, welfare, and recreational activities. Maintains the status quo on prohibition on the closure of the Guantanamo Bay detention facility and the transfer of detainees to the U.S. Continues acquisition, military organization, and National Security Council (NSC) reforms. ###
11.15.2016	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) announced that he has cosponsored the Veterans Earned Their Bonus Act (VET Bonus Act), H.R. 6316. The legislation will legislatively correct the CA National Guard bonus claw back issue that has affected thousands of veterans. "Like all Americans, I was outraged when I learned about the hardships our veterans were being forced to endure due to no fault of their own," said Rep. Calvert. "While I was relieved by the Sec. of Defense's decision to halt the collection of these bonuses, Congress should ultimately pass legislation to resolve the matter once and for all. The VET Bonus Act will provide our veterans with the peace of mind and financial relief that they deserve." Here is a summary of the VET Bonus Act: · Presumption is with Veterans that their bonuses were received in good faith and that the Veteran met the criteria to receive their bonus. · Receipt of bonus money from California National Guard between 2004 – 2010 shall not be subject to repayment to DoD unless the Vet committed fraud or did not satisfy service requirements in obtaining the bonus. · If bonus money has been repaid by a Veteran in part or in full it shall be returned to the Veteran, plus interest in accordance with existing law. · For Vets who are reimbursed by the Army, the Secretary must notify credit agencies that any debt previously reported was never valid. · In addition, if a separate financial hardship has been incurred by a Vet who has been required to repay a bonus in part or in full, the Secretary of the Army shall provide financial assistance. ###
11.09.2016	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) issued the following statement congratulating President-elect Donald J. Trump on winning the 2016 presidential election: "I want to congratulate Donald Trump on winning an historic election last night. Throughout this campaign Donald Trump echoed the deep frustrations of many Americans about the lack of economic opportunities and the direction of our country. That is exactly why I endorsed and supported his campaign since he won our competitive primary process. As President-elect Trump said last night, now the real work must begin to enact the policies that will put our nation on a different path. Republicans must work together to repeal Obamacare and replace it with a more competitive, patient-focused health care policy. We also have a tremendous task ahead of us unwinding the unprecedented amount of job-killing regulations that the Obama administration has jammed down the throats of our job creators. Finally, we must secure our border, require mandatory employment verification to ensure American jobs go to American workers, and reassert our sovereignty. America is the greatest democracy in the history of the world because we entrust the true power of our government with our citizens. They have now exercised that power to shake up our government and sent a clear message to our media and cultural elites. Those of us who have been chosen to represent our fellow citizens in Washington owe them our full and complete effort to put America on a path of peace and prosperity." ###
11.01.2016	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) issued the following statement in response to the official transfer of Ontario International Airport from Los Angeles World Airports to the Ontario International Airport Authority: "Today is a great day for Inland Empire air travelers. Restoring local control of Ontario Airport was a team effort that I was incredibly proud to be a part of by sponsoring the law facilitating the transfer. The transfer of Ontario Airport is just the start of the process to give Inland Empire air travelers a premiere airport with competitive flight fares and modern amenities. ###
10.28.2016	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) issued the following statement in response to the FBI reopening its investigation into former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton's private email: "Today's announcement by the FBI is just another reminder that Secretary Clinton consistently finds herself under scrutiny for poor decisions and reckless behavior. Obviously, what's most concerning is when those actions compromise our national security. The American people deserve a complete, unbiased investigation into Secretary Clinton's conduct." ###
10.26.2016	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) applauded the decision by Secretary of Defense Ash Carter to suspend efforts to collect reimbursement from affected California National Guard members. "I'm pleased to hear the Department of Defense has heeded the call from so many Americans to halt the unfair collection of bonuses paid to our soldiers many years ago," said Rep. Calvert. "Now, it's important that Congress fully investigate how this happened and what steps we must take to protect our soldiers – including reimbursing those who have inappropriately been forced to repay money. I am still deeply troubled that so many of our brave men and women in uniform have been put through a tremendous hardship due to no fault of their own. We must all work to prevent that from happening again in the future." "While I appreciate the Secretary's concern for the taxpayer, I believe the majority of American taxpayers do not want the Department going after our U.S. service members for repayment of bonuses. Halting the collection of bonuses just to begin it again in earnest January 1, 2017 is not the relief that is necessary and Congress stands ready to provide a legislative fix." Earlier this week, Rep. Calvert joined a number of his House colleagues in sending a letter to the Secretary of Defense requesting that the Department of Defense stop all collection efforts on the bonuses in question. ###
10.24.2016	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) issued the following statement in response to the Obama administration's confirmation that ObamaCare premiums will increase by an average of 25 percent next year, and about 1 in 5 consumers will only have plans from a single insurer to pick from: "President Obama, Nancy Pelosi, and Harry Reid promised the American people that their health care law would be ‘affordable,' that people could keep their health care plan if they liked it, and that they would have access to their preferred doctor. After just a few short years, Democrats have broken virtually every ObamaCare promise they made to hard working American families desperate for quality health care at a reasonable cost. There's no fixing ObamaCare – it must be repealed and replaced with a patient-focused system that creates more competition." ###
10.24.2016	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) issued following statement in response to National Guardsmen being forced to repay bonuses offered for service as reported by the Los Angeles Times: "It is deeply concerning that the leadership of the National Guard is causing tremendous financial hardship on our National Guardsmen due to its own mismanagement. The National Guardsmen affected proudly served our country and sacrificed tremendously to help protect our nation. When our country asked them to continue to put their lives on the line, they stepped up. Now it is our responsibility to protect and care for them and honor the promises made – including financial promises. I am incredibly frustrated that the National Guard did not come to Congress to seek a better solution when it first became aware of this problem and instead went after Guardsmen to collect, in some instances, decade-old bonuses. Earlier this year, the House took steps to limit the military's ability to collect monies that may be owed through absolutely no fault of the service member. I am certainly supportive of expanding that provision to cover these affected veterans. Rest assured, I will be working with my colleagues to further investigate what occurred and to find answers that protect the welfare of our veterans." In May of this year, the House passed the National Defense Authorization Act which contained a provision (Sec. 642) establishing a statute of limitations on the military recovering future overpayments. The bill also scrutinizes the Defense Finance and Accounting Service's management of existing cases of service member debt. The bill is still pending action in the Senate. UPDATE: Rep. Calvert joined a number of his House colleagues in sending a letter to the Secretary of Defense requesting that the Dept. of Defense stop all collection efforts on the bonuses in question. ###
09.28.2016	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) voted along with a bipartisan majority of the House to pass H.R. 5303, the Water Resources Development Act (WRDA). The bill authorizes funding to address the needs of America's harbors, locks, dams, flood protection, and other water resources infrastructure. "Our country's water infrastructure needs significant investment and the passage of WRDA is an important step towards meeting those needs," said Rep. Calvert. "I'm particularly pleased that WRDA included language clarifying the eligibility of water supply projects under the Corps of Engineers' Environmental Infrastructure program. I will continue to advocate for federal funding for Riverside County's flood control and other water resources infrastructure projects." H.R. 5303 contained language clarifying that Environmental Infrastructure projects, including water supply projects, are deemed eligible for consideration under Section 1014 and Section 7001 of the Water Resources Reform and Development Act of 2014. Earlier this year, Rep. Calvert joined a number of his colleagues in signing a letter requesting the inclusion of this provision to the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee." ###
09.28.2016	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) praised the Department of Justice's announcement that an additional $500,000 will be awarded to the law enforcement agencies that responded to the December 2, 2015 terrorist attack in San Bernardino. Since the attack, Rep. Calvert, Congressman Pete Aguilar (CA-31), and the rest of the Inland Empire delegation have worked closely with the law enforcement agencies to obtain federal assistance to cover the significant costs associated with their response. "The San Bernardino terror attack is a grave reminder that terrorists ultimate goal is to kill Americans at home," said Rep. Calvert. "I'm grateful that the DOJ has recognized the importance of supporting our local law enforcement agencies by awarding this deserved funding to offset the enormous costs incurred by local law enforcement as they bravely responded to the devastating attack in our region last December. This grant recognizes the federal obligation to help make local communities whole for responding to a federal responsibility. I will continue to work to ensure that local agencies are properly reimbursed as they protect our region." "I'm glad to see federal funds come back to our community to help local law enforcement recoup the costs suffered from the heroic response to the terror attack on December 2nd," said Rep. Aguilar. "Chief Burguan and Sheriff McMahon have been remarkable advocates for our community in the aftermath of the attack and have been a source of strength for our region. The federal government has an important responsibility to help localities like San Bernardino County that have endured extraordinary emergency situations like this, so I'm pleased to see that help is on the way as our region continues to recover." The recipients will use the supplemental funds to defray the law enforcement costs associated with the December 2, 2015, terrorist attack in San Bernardino County, California, that killed 14 people and injured 22 more at the Inland Regional Center. Funds will be used to reimburse state and local agencies in direct support of the San Bernardino area for overtime and regular salary costs. ###
09.22.2016	Today, the House Natural Resources Committee approved the Pechanga Band of Luiseño Indians Water Rights Settlement Act, H.R. 5984, which was introduced by Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42). "I'm grateful that the Natural Resources Committee has taken action and advanced the Pechanga Water Rights Settlement Act," said Rep. Calvert. "Support continues to build for enacting a fair, equitable, and final settlement of water rights claims between Pechanga, Rancho California Water District, Eastern Municipal Water District and the United States. I look forward to passing the bill on the House floor." The Pechanga Band of Luiseño Mission Indians Water Rights Settlement Act quantifies the Band's reserved water rights in the Santa Margarita River Watershed. The legislation also authorizes necessary infrastructure to guarantee a permanent supply of water to the Band through cooperative agreements with the local water purveyors, including Rancho California Water District, Eastern Municipal Water District and Metropolitan Water District. Importantly, the legislation will provide a coordinated effort by the parties to manage the water within the basin that will bring all residents of the Pechanga Reservation a safe and dependable water supply for the future. The authority for Congress to legislatively settle Pechanga's water rights resides in Article I, Section 8, Clause 3 of the Constitution, which grants Congress with the power "to regulate Commerce with foreign Nations, and among the several States, and with the Indian Tribes." ###
09.15.2016	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) voted along with a majority (244 to 174) of the House in support of legislation, H.R. 5351, that would block the transfer of detainees from Guantanamo Bay. Rep. Calvert is a cosponsor of H.R. 5351. "There is no reason to compromise the safety of American families, our troops, and our allies by unnecessarily transferring Gitmo detainees," said Rep. Calvert. "President Obama has created a false narrative that Gitmo somehow motivates the Islamic jihadists who have attacked Americans. The fact remains that Islamic jihadists were motivated to kill Americans long before a single detainee was held in Gitmo. I've witnessed first-hand how detainees are treated at Gitmo and there is simply no comparison with the treatment Americans and other captives receive from Islamic jihadists. The individuals being held at Gitmo are enemy combatants and their release would absolutely be a risk to our troops around the world and Americans here at home." H.R. 5351 would halt the transfer of any Guantanamo Bay detainees until enactment of the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for Fiscal Year 2017, or until the end of this year. The House-passed NDAA included a provision requiring written agreements between the U.S. and the government of any foreign country that agrees to accept detainees. It also would require the next administration to provide Congress with a comprehensive detention plan outlining how the release of any Gitmo detainee fits into the broader strategy for handling individuals detained during wartime.
09.09.2016	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) announced the planned departure of his long-serving Chief of Staff, Dave Ramey. After working for nearly 32 years in the House of Representatives – 24 of them with Rep. Calvert – Ramey will be departing on October 31, 2016. Ramey previously worked for former Rep. Jerry Lewis (R-CA) from 1985 through 1992. Ramey will be joining the firm Kadesh and Associates as a Principal on November 1, 2016. "I sincerely thank Dave Ramey for his many years of loyal and effective service and wish him all the best in his new position," said Rep. Calvert. "I consider Dave a personal friend and a thoughtful, trusted advisor. He will be greatly missed by me and all our staff as well as so many of our constituents." Ramey will be succeeded by Dave Kennett, who previously served in Rep. Calvert's office from 1994-1998 and again from 2001-2003 as Legislative Director. "Just to keep it easy on people, we are bringing someone back to take over as Chief of Staff that has the same first name as the guy who is leaving," said Rep. Calvert. "I have known and trusted Dave Kennett since 1994 and look forward to him leading our staff as we continue to work on behalf of the people of Western Riverside County." ###
09.09.2016	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) introduced the Pechanga Band of Luiseño Indians Water Rights Settlement Act, H.R. 5984. "The Pechanga Water Rights Settlement Act achieves a fair, equitable, and final settlement of water rights claims between Pechanga, Rancho California Water District, Eastern Municipal Water District and the United States for the benefit of the Tribe and the citizens of California," said Rep. Calvert. "The settlement comes after decades of litigation and collaborative deliberation by the parties involved. I am proud to be participating in the process to bring a final solution to a long standing issue. I look forward to moving the bill through the House in the near future." The Pechanga Band of Luiseño Mission Indians Water Rights Settlement Act quantifies the Band's reserved water rights in the Santa Margarita River Watershed. The legislation also authorizes necessary infrastructure to guarantee a permanent supply of water to the Band through cooperative agreements with the local water purveyors, including Rancho California Water District, Eastern Municipal Water District and Metropolitan Water District. Importantly, the legislation will provide a coordinated effort by the parties to manage the water within the basin that will bring all residents of the Pechanga Reservation a safe and dependable water supply for the future. The authority for Congress to legislatively settle Pechanga's water rights resides in Article I, Section 8, Clause 3 of the Constitution, which grants Congress with the power "to regulate Commerce with foreign Nations, and among the several States, and with the Indian Tribes." ###
08.11.2016	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) applauded the U.S. Attorney's office and the United States Postal Inspection Service (USPIS) for arresting eleven Inland Empire residents who are charged in indictments that allege federal crimes related to mail theft. "Mail theft is a growing problem in Riverside County and I'm relieved that these criminals are being taken off the street," said Rep. Calvert. "These crimes often cost victims significant money and cause a major inconvenience. We must continue to aggressively pursue mail theft criminals and increase the penalties for these crimes. I want to thank everyone involved in these arrests, including Assistant United States Attorney Bilal A. Essayli, the United States Postal Inspection Service, the Riverside County Sheriff's Department and the Hemet Police Department." Earlier this year, Rep. Calvert introduced the Ensuring the Safety Our Mail Act, H.R.4515, which will double the maximum jail sentence for anyone convicted of mail theft. Currently, the maximum jail sentence for anyone convicted of mail theft is five years under Section 1708 of Title 18 of the U.S. Code. The Ensuring the Safety Our Mail Act increases the maximum jail sentence to ten years. ###
08.11.2016	A Congressional joint task force (JTF) investigating allegations of intelligence manipulation at U.S. Central Command (CENTCOM) released an initial report today detailing persistent problems in 2014 and 2015 with CENTCOM analysis of U.S. efforts to train the Iraqi Security Forces and combat the so-called Islamic State in Iraq and Syria. The JTF found that intelligence products approved by senior CENTCOM leaders typically provided a more positive depiction of U.S. anti-terrorism efforts than was warranted by facts on the ground and were consistently more positive than analysis produced by other elements of the Intelligence Community. It further determined that numerous process changes implemented at CENCTOM as well as leadership deficiencies resulted in widespread dissatisfaction among CENTCOM analysts who felt their superiors were distorting their products. Created in response to a whistleblower allegation, the JTF was established by the Chairmen of the House Armed Services Committee, House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, and the Subcommittee on Defense of the House Appropriations Committee. It is led by Reps. Ken Calvert, Mike Pompeo, and Brad Wenstrup. Rep. Calvert said, "The leadership failures at CENTCOM reach to the very top of the organization. I hope that the new CENTCOM commander and the new Director of Intelligence can turn things around quickly. As for the task force, it is critical that we follow up on the deficiencies highlighted in this initial report. What happened at CENTCOM is unacceptable – our warfighters suffer when bad analysis is presented to senior policymakers. We must continue our efforts until we fix it." Rep. Pompeo said, "After months of investigation, this much is very clear: from the middle of 2014 to the middle of 2015, the United States Central Command's most senior intelligence leaders manipulated the command's intelligence products to downplay the threat from ISIS in Iraq. The result: consumers of those intelligence products were provided a consistently ‘rosy' view of U.S. operational success against ISIS. That may well have resulted in putting American troops at risk as policymakers relied on this intelligence when formulating policy and allocating resources for the fight. I urge the Department of Defense Inspector General to hold accountable the intelligence leaders that failed our service members fighting our wars on the ground." Rep. Wenstrup said, "I am proud to serve on the Joint Task Force, which is working diligently to conduct a thorough investigation into the CENTCOM intelligence directorate. Amongst other findings, our investigation has determined that unfavorable intelligence reports underwent significant scrutiny and were likely to be omitted unless they could be confirmed with virtually 100 percent certainty. As a Lieutenant Colonel in the Army Reserve, I understand that intelligence is not always certain. Possibilities and probabilities can be just as critical for decision makers. Additionally, despite nearly nine months of review, we still do not fully understand the reasons and motivations behind this practice and how often the excluded analyses were proven ultimately to be correct. We cannot win the war against ISIS with incomplete intelligence. The report out today highlights the importance of having an independent process." The JTF investigation remains ongoing and is occurring alongside a separate investigation by the Department of Defense Inspector General. To read the JTF's interim report, click here ###
07.13.2016	Today, President Obama signed into law the FAA Reauthorization Act, which included legislation (H.R. 4369) introduced by Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) that will facilitate the transfer of Ontario International Airport from the city of Los Angeles to the Ontario International Airport Authority (OIAA). "I am absolutely thrilled that we have been able to move the Ontario Airport legislation across the finish line," said Rep. Calvert. "It is especially meaningful to have this bill signed into law because I know how important it is to Inland Empire residents to restore local control of Ontario Airport. Putting the aviation future of our region into our own hands has been a long road, but I have been proud to play a role in this critically important effort." The agreement to transfer Ontario Airport is structured in such a way that $120 million in Passenger Facilities Charges (PFC) is required to be transferred from ONT to Los Angeles Los Angeles World Airports (LAWA) over ten years. Specifically, $50 million in ONT PFCs must be reimbursed to LAWA in five years and an additional $70 million in ONT PFCs must be paid back to LAWA/LAX in ten years. This transaction represents a reimbursement of LAX PFCs that were transferred to ONT in the 1990s to help pay for the construction of a new terminal. Under current law PFCs are only permitted to be applied to the airport or airport systems at which they are collected. Since LAX and ONT will no longer be connected this legislation is necessary. The legislation does not incur any cost to taxpayers. ###
07.13.2016	Today, the House of Representatives passed (231 to 196) the Fiscal Year 2017 Interior and Environment Appropriations Bill introduced by Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42). Rep. Calvert is the Chairman of the House Interior and Environment Appropriations Subcommittee. "The Interior bill approved by the House today protects taxpayers, job creators and makes important investments in critical programs for our country," said Rep. Calvert. "The bill contains a number of provisions and significant resources for California, including language addressing the ongoing drought, funding for an earthquake early warning system and the highly successful Diesel Emissions Reduction Program (DERA). The bill also protects our economy and American jobs by stopping a host of job-killing regulations that have become the hallmark of the Obama administration's executive overreach. I'm proud to be at the forefront of the House's efforts to stop President Obama's harmful regulatory overreach that has created our stagnant economy." Bill Highlights: (Provided by the House Appropriations Committee) Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) – The bill funds the EPA at $7.98 billion, a reduction of $164 million below the fiscal year 2016 enacted level and $291 million below the President's budget request. Within this total, the EPA's regulatory programs are reduced by $43 million (6 percent) below the current level and $187 million (21 percent) below the President's request. The legislation also rejects the President's proposed increase in staffing, holding the EPA to the current capacity of 15,000 positions, the lowest since 1989. To stop the EPA's anti-growth agenda that includes various harmful, costly, and potentially job-killing regulations, the bill contains a number of legislative provisions. Some of these include: A prohibition on the EPA from implementing new greenhouse gas regulations for new and existing power plants, and the elimination of funding for greenhouse gas "New Source Performance Standards"; A prohibition on the EPA from making changes to the definition of "navigable waters" under the Clean Water Act; A prohibition on the EPA from making changes to the definition of "fill material"; A prohibition on the EPA from imposing duplicative financial assurance requirements; A reporting requirement on the backlog of mining permits awaiting approval; A prohibition on new methane requirements; and A prohibition on the regulation of the lead content of ammunition and fishing tackle. U.S. Geological Survey (USGS) – The bill includes $1.1 billion for the USGS, $18 million above the fiscal year 2016 enacted level. Funding is targeted to programs dealing with natural hazards, streamgages, the groundwater monitoring network, and mapping activities. Also, within the total, the bill includes $10 million for an earthquake early warning system to help save lives during natural disasters, and $6 million for the accelerated launch of "Landsat 9" – a satellite program that provides land use measurements that are important to local communities for agriculture, forestry, energy and water resource decisions. Wildland Firefighting and Prevention – In total, the bill funds wildland firefighting and prevention programs at $3.9 billion – fully funding the 10-year average for wildland fire suppression costs for both the Department of the Interior and the Forest Service. When accounting for a previous, one-time payment within last year's funding bill, the legislation provides $243 million above the fiscal year 2016 level. The legislation also includes $575 million for hazardous fuels management, which is $30 million above the fiscal year 2016 level. Federal Payments to Local Communities – The bill provides $480 million for the "Payments In Lieu of Taxes" (PILT) program. PILT provides funds for local governments in 49 states to help offset losses in property taxes due to nontaxable federal lands within their counties. Without congressional action, many rural communities would face huge budget shortfalls impacting public safety, education, and other local government responsibilities. Lead in Drinking Water – To help address the ongoing problem of lead in drinking water across the U.S., which can cause dangerous health risks, the bill provides additional legal authority allowing states to provide debt relief in areas with elevated levels of lead in drinking water. The bill also provides targeted increases for water infrastructure programs such as: $2.1 billion for the Clean Water and Drinking Water State Revolving Funds (SRFs), including an increase of $207 million over the current level for the Drinking Water SRF; $50 million for the new Water Infrastructure Finance and Innovation (WIFIA) program; $109.7 million for state grants, a $7.7 million increase above the current level, to improve operations and oversight of drinking water systems; and $6.5 million, the full requested amount, for integrated planning activities within EPA's Office of Water to assist communities as they plan to replace pipes. National Park Service (NPS) – The legislation contains $2.9 billion for the NPS, an increase of $71 million above the fiscal year 2016 level. Within this funding, the bill provides $65 million in targeted increases for park operations and maintenance to help reduce the maintenance backlog and addresses other priorities related to the Park Service's centennial anniversary. U.S. Forest Service – The bill includes $5.3 billion for the Forest Service. More than half of this funding – $2.9 billion – is targeted to wildland fire prevention and suppression. The bill also includes a provision prohibiting the Forest Service or BLM from issuing new closures of public lands to hunting and recreational shooting, except in the case of public safety. ###
07.11.2016	Today, the House of Representatives passed via voice vote the FAA Reauthorization Act, which included legislation (H.R. 4369) introduced by Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) that will facilitate the transfer of Ontario International Airport from the city of Los Angeles to the Ontario International Airport Authority (OIAA). "With the passage of this bill today, we are one step closer to restoring local control of Ontario Airport," said Rep. Calvert. "I'm looking forward to the Senate approving the bill and having it signed into law by the end of the week. The Inland Empire is ready, willing and more than able to shape its own aviation future." The agreement to transfer Ontario Airport is structured in such a way that $120 million in Passenger Facilities Charges (PFC) is required to be transferred from ONT to Los Angeles Los Angeles World Airports (LAWA) over ten years. Specifically, $50 million in ONT PFCs must be reimbursed to LAWA in five years and an additional $70 million in ONT PFCs must be paid back to LAWA/LAX in ten years. This transaction represents a reimbursement of LAX PFCs that were transferred to ONT in the 1990s to help pay for the construction of a new terminal. Under current law PFCs are only permitted to be applied to the airport or airport systems at which they are collected. Since LAX and ONT will no longer be connected this legislation is necessary. The legislation does not incur any cost to taxpayers. The following members have cosponsored H.R. 4369: Norma Torres (CA-35), Paul Cook (CA-8), Grace Napolitano (CA-32), Raul Ruiz (CA-36), Pete Aguilar (CA-31) and Mark Takano (CA-41). Companion legislation to H.R. 4369 was introduced in the Senate by California Senators Dianne Feinstein and Barbara Boxer. ###
07.08.2016	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) issued the following statement in response to the tragedy in Dallas:"We grieve today with the Dallas law enforcement community, their families, and all of Dallas. Every day, police officers around the country perform an incredibly difficult job that involves putting themselves in danger in order to protect and serve their communities. Five families are now left without a loved one, and the city of Dallas has five fewer heroes. Acts of violence simply have no place in our society and we must all work together to end its root causes."
07.07.2016	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) announced his legislation (H.R. 4369) that will facilitate the transfer of Ontario International Airport from the city of Los Angeles to the Ontario International Airport Authority (OIAA) is included in the FAA Reauthorization bill that is expected to be approved by the House and Senate, and signed into law by President Obama, before the FAA authorization expires on July 15, 2016. "I have been working tirelessly to get this bill signed into law, so I am delighted to have it included in the FAA Reauthorization bill that will be headed to the White House in the very near future," said Rep. Calvert. "The Inland Empire has waited far too long to have local control of Ontario Airport – but with the passage of this bill that wait will soon be over." The agreement to transfer Ontario Airport is structured in such a way that $120 million in Passenger Facilities Charges (PFC) is required to be transferred from ONT to Los Angeles World Airports (LAWA) over ten years. Specifically, $50 million in ONT PFCs must be reimbursed to LAWA in five years and an additional $70 million in ONT PFCs must be paid back to LAWA/LAX in ten years. This transaction represents a reimbursement of LAX PFCs that were transferred to ONT in the 1990s to help pay for the construction of a new terminal. Under current law PFCs are only permitted to be applied to the airport or airport systems at which they are collected. Since LAX and ONT will no longer be connected this legislation is necessary. The legislation does not incur any cost to taxpayers. The following members have cosponsored H.R. 4369: Norma Torres (CA-35), Paul Cook (CA-8), Grace Napolitano (CA-32), Raul Ruiz (CA-36), Pete Aguilar (CA-31) and Mark Takano (CA-41). Companion legislation to H.R. 4369 was introduced in the Senate by California Senators Dianne Feinstein and Barbara Boxer. ###
06.24.2016	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) announced and congratulated the 2016 Service Academy Appointments from the 42nd Congressional District of California. As a Member of Congress, Rep. Calvert has the privilege of nominating a select group of highly qualified young men and women for admission to the United States Service Academies – Army, Navy, Air Force and Merchant Marine. "One of the best parts about being a Member of Congress is having the privilege to nominate highly qualified students from our region to attend our nation's service academies," said Rep. Calvert. "Our entire community should be very proud of these outstanding students. I wish them the very best as they head out in the coming days to begin their studies at our service academies." The following is a list of the candidates nominated by Congressman Calvert who have also received and accepted an Offer of Appointment to our nation's service academies, and will be part of the Class of 2020 entering in June 2016: United States Air Force Academy Kyle Hames, Murrieta Valley High School Eric Nunez, Vista Murrieta High SchoolUnited States Military Academy at West Point Jared Cochrane, Calvary Murrieta Christian Academy Kevin Hong, Temecula Preparatory School Celeste Tyner, Santiago High School, Corona Austin Wheeler, Norco High School, Norco United States Naval Academy Anthony Aldrian, Murrieta Valley High School Karma Richards, Murrieta Mesa High School United States Merchant Marine Academy Garret Gal, Vista Murrieta High School Each Appointee to the Armed Service Academies will receive an education valued in excess of $400,000. Rep. Calvert's appointments to the Armed Service Academies are awarded on a strictly competitive basis through a Congressional Nominations Selection Committee. The Committee evaluates each candidate and makes recommendations.
06.23.2016	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) issued the following statement in response to the Supreme Court ruling in the United States v. Texas immigration case: "Time and time again I, along with other Republicans, have spoken out against President Obama's executive actions because they violate our constitutional separation of powers. Today, the Supreme Court's tie effectively upheld the lower court's ruling that agreed with our opinion. Congress writes the laws, not the President. There's no doubt that our immigration system is broken. The first step we must take to fix the system is to strengthen our border security and make the use of E-Verify mandatory." ###
06.21.2016	Today, the House of Representatives approved, by voice vote, Congressman Ken Calvert's (CA-42) legislation, H.R. 4369, that will facilitate the transfer of Ontario International Airport from the city of Los Angeles to the Ontario International Airport Authority (OIAA). "Today is a great day for the Inland Empire and the future of air travel for our region," said Rep. Calvert. "Restoring local control of Ontario Airport and improving air travel options for Inland Empire residents and businesses is one of my highest priorities. I look forward to the bill being passed by the Senate in the very near future." The agreement to transfer Ontario Airport is structured in such a way that $120 million in Passenger Facilities Charges (PFC) is required to be transferred from ONT to Los Angeles Los Angeles World Airports (LAWA) over ten years. Specifically, $50 million in ONT PFCs must be reimbursed to LAWA in five years and an additional $70 million in ONT PFCs must be paid back to LAWA/LAX in ten years. This transaction represents a reimbursement of LAX PFCs that were transferred to ONT in the 1990s to help pay for the construction of a new terminal. Under current law PFCs are only permitted to be applied to the airport or airport systems at which they are collected. Since LAX and ONT will no longer be connected this legislation is necessary. The legislation does not authorize or appropriate any new federal spending. The following members have cosponsored the legislation: Norma Torres (CA-35), Paul Cook (CA-8), Grace Napolitano (CA-32), Raul Ruiz (CA-36), Pete Aguilar (CA-31) and Mark Takano (CA-41). Companion legislation was introduced in the Senate by California Senators Dianne Feinstein and Barbara Boxer. ###
06.15.2016	Today, the House Appropriations Committee approved the Fiscal Year 2017 Interior and Environment Appropriations Bill introduced by Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42). Rep. Calvert is the Chairman of the House Interior and Environment Appropriations Subcommittee. "Our bill takes a number of important steps to protect the American economy, our natural resources, and the safety of communities threatened by wildfires and earthquakes," said Rep. Calvert. "I'm especially pleased that the committee voted to include much needed provisions to address California's water challenges. My California Republican colleagues and I are committed to advancing these water solutions in any possible legislative vehicle." Bill Highlights: (Provided by the House Appropriations Committee) Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) – The bill funds the EPA at $7.98 billion, a reduction of $164 million below the fiscal year 2016 enacted level and $291 million below the President's budget request. Within this total, the EPA's regulatory programs are reduced by $43 million (6 percent) below the current level and $187 million (21 percent) below the President's request. The legislation also rejects the President's proposed increase in staffing, holding the EPA to the current capacity of 15,000 positions, the lowest since 1989. To stop the EPA's anti-growth agenda that includes various harmful, costly, and potentially job-killing regulations, the bill contains a number of legislative provisions. Some of these include: · A prohibition on the EPA from implementing new greenhouse gas regulations for new and existing power plants, and the elimination of funding for greenhouse gas "New Source Performance Standards"; · A prohibition on the EPA from making changes to the definition of "navigable waters" under the Clean Water Act; · A prohibition on the EPA from making changes to the definition of "fill material"; · A prohibition on the EPA from imposing duplicative financial assurance requirements; · A reporting requirement on the backlog of mining permits awaiting approval; · A prohibition on new methane requirements; and · A prohibition on the regulation of the lead content of ammunition and fishing tackle. U.S. Geological Survey (USGS) – The bill includes $1.1 billion for the USGS, $18 million above the fiscal year 2016 enacted level. Funding is targeted to programs dealing with natural hazards, streamgages, the groundwater monitoring network, and mapping activities. Also, within the total, the bill includes $10 million for an earthquake early warning system to help save lives during natural disasters, and $6 million for the accelerated launch of "Landsat 9" – a satellite program that provides land use measurements that are important to local communities for agriculture, forestry, energy and water resource decisions. Wildland Firefighting and Prevention – In total, the bill funds wildland firefighting and prevention programs at $3.9 billion – fully funding the 10-year average for wildland fire suppression costs for both the Department of the Interior and the Forest Service. When accounting for a previous, one-time payment within last year's funding bill, the legislation provides $243 million above the fiscal year 2016 level. The legislation also includes $575 million for hazardous fuels management, which is $30 million above the fiscal year 2016 level. Federal Payments to Local Communities – The bill provides $480 million for the "Payments In Lieu of Taxes" (PILT) program. PILT provides funds for local governments in 49 states to help offset losses in property taxes due to nontaxable federal lands within their counties. Without congressional action, many rural communities would face huge budget shortfalls impacting public safety, education, and other local government responsibilities. Lead in Drinking Water – To help address the ongoing problem of lead in drinking water across the U.S., which can cause dangerous health risks, the bill provides additional legal authority allowing states to provide debt relief in areas with elevated levels of lead in drinking water. The bill also provides targeted increases for water infrastructure programs such as: $2.1 billion for the Clean Water and Drinking Water State Revolving Funds (SRFs), including an increase of $207 million over the current level for the Drinking Water SRF; $50 million for the new Water Infrastructure Finance and Innovation (WIFIA) program; $109.7 million for state grants, a $7.7 million increase above the current level, to improve operations and oversight of drinking water systems; and $6.5 million, the full requested amount, for integrated planning activities within EPA's Office of Water to assist communities as they plan to replace pipes. National Park Service (NPS) – The legislation contains $2.9 billion for the NPS, an increase of $71 million above the fiscal year 2016 level. Within this funding, the bill provides $65 million in targeted increases for park operations and maintenance to help reduce the maintenance backlog and addresses other priorities related to the Park Service's centennial anniversary. U.S. Forest Service – The bill includes $5.3 billion for the Forest Service. More than half of this funding – $2.9 billion – is targeted to wildland fire prevention and suppression. The bill also includes a provision prohibiting the Forest Service or BLM from issuing new closures of public lands to hunting and recreational shooting, except in the case of public safety. For the subcommittee draft text of the legislation, please visit: http://appropriations.house.gov/UploadedFiles/BILLS-114HR-SC-AP-FY2017-Interior-SubcommitteeDraft.pdf ###
06.13.2016	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) issued the following statement in response to the terror attack in Orlando, Florida: "Our hearts are broken once again in the wake of the horrific terror attack in Orlando by an Islamic jihadist. As we saw last December right here in the Inland Empire, the barbaric and cowardly actions of radicalized Islamists can have devastating consequences. In order to defeat and eliminate violent Islamic extremism, in all of its forms, we must take stronger and more effective actions both domestically and abroad. Let us honor the Orlando victims by strengthening our resolve to defend the liberties that make America the extraordinary nation it is, and committing to win this battle against violent Islamic extremists." ###
05.24.2016	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) released the Fiscal Year 2017 Interior and Environment Appropriations bill. Rep. Calvert is the Chairman of the Interior and Environment Appropriations Subcommittee. "Job creation and wage growth continue to be stifled because American job creators wake up every day worrying about what new regulation the Obama administration will issue next," said Rep. Calvert. "The EPA's overreach continues to cause economic harm, and this bill denies funding for more job-killing regulators while providing necessary resources to effective programs that actually improve the environment and protect our natural resources. In addition, I am pleased that the bill will once again provide increases for our incredible National Parks as they celebrate their Centennial this year, and continues progress on a functional Earthquake Early Warning System." Bill Highlights: (Provided by the House Appropriations Committee) Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) – The bill funds the EPA at $7.98 billion, a reduction of $164 million below the fiscal year 2016 enacted level and $291 million below the President's budget request. Within this total, the EPA's regulatory programs are reduced by $43 million (6 percent) below the current level and $187 million (21 percent) below the President's request. The legislation also rejects the President's proposed increase in staffing, holding the EPA to the current capacity of 15,000 positions, the lowest since 1989. To stop the EPA's anti-growth agenda that includes various harmful, costly, and potentially job-killing regulations, the bill contains a number of legislative provisions. Some of these include: A prohibition on the EPA from implementing new greenhouse gas regulations for new and existing power plants, and the elimination of funding for greenhouse gas "New Source Performance Standards"; A prohibition on the EPA from making changes to the definition of "navigable waters" under the Clean Water Act; A prohibition on the EPA from making changes to the definition of "fill material"; A prohibition on the EPA from imposing duplicative financial assurance requirements; A reporting requirement on the backlog of mining permits awaiting approval; A prohibition on new methane requirements; and A prohibition on the regulation of the lead content of ammunition and fishing tackle. U.S. Geological Survey (USGS) – The bill includes $1.1 billion for the USGS, $18 million above the fiscal year 2016 enacted level. Funding is targeted to programs dealing with natural hazards, streamgages, the groundwater monitoring network, and mapping activities. Also, within the total, the bill includes $10 million for an earthquake early warning system to help save lives during natural disasters, and $6 million for the accelerated launch of "Landsat 9" – a satellite program that provides land use measurements that are important to local communities for agriculture, forestry, energy and water resource decisions. Wildland Firefighting and Prevention – In total, the bill funds wildland firefighting and prevention programs at $3.9 billion – fully funding the 10-year average for wildland fire suppression costs for both the Department of the Interior and the Forest Service. When accounting for a previous, one-time payment within last year's funding bill, the legislation provides $243 million above the fiscal year 2016 level. The legislation also includes $575 million for hazardous fuels management, which is $30 million above the fiscal year 2016 level. Federal Payments to Local Communities – The bill provides $480 million for the "Payments In Lieu of Taxes" (PILT) program. PILT provides funds for local governments in 49 states to help offset losses in property taxes due to nontaxable federal lands within their counties. Without congressional action, many rural communities would face huge budget shortfalls impacting public safety, education, and other local government responsibilities. Lead in Drinking Water – To help address the ongoing problem of lead in drinking water across the U.S., which can cause dangerous health risks, the bill provides additional legal authority allowing states to provide debt relief in areas with elevated levels of lead in drinking water. The bill also provides targeted increases for water infrastructure programs such as: $2.1 billion for the Clean Water and Drinking Water State Revolving Funds (SRFs), including an increase of $207 million over the current level for the Drinking Water SRF; $50 million for the new Water Infrastructure Finance and Innovation (WIFIA) program; $109.7 million for state grants, a $7.7 million increase above the current level, to improve operations and oversight of drinking water systems; and $6.5 million, the full requested amount, for integrated planning activities within EPA's Office of Water to assist communities as they plan to replace pipes. National Park Service (NPS) – The legislation contains $2.9 billion for the NPS, an increase of $71 million above the fiscal year 2016 level. Within this funding, the bill provides $65 million in targeted increases for park operations and maintenance to help reduce the maintenance backlog and addresses other priorities related to the Park Service's centennial anniversary. U.S. Forest Service – The bill includes $5.3 billion for the Forest Service. More than half of this funding – $2.9 billion – is targeted to wildland fire prevention and suppression. The bill also includes a provision prohibiting the Forest Service or BLM from issuing new closures of public lands to hunting and recreational shooting, except in the case of public safety. For the subcommittee draft text of the legislation, please visit: http://appropriations.house.gov/UploadedFiles/BILLS-114HR-SC-AP-FY2017-Interior-SubcommitteeDraft.pdf ###
05.23.2016	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) issued the following statement in response to Department of Veterans Affairs Secretary Bob McDonald's comments this morning in which he indicated veteran wait times are not what really matters: "Secretary McDonald's comments this morning highlight just how out of touch the VA leadership continues to be with the serious problems within their agency. The wait times sure as hell did matter to the veterans who died while waiting for services. The wait times sure as hell do matter to the veterans who call my office because they are struggling to get in to see a VA doctor. Our veterans deserve prompt health care of the highest quality – why is that so hard for our VA Secretary to understand? His comparison to a trip to Disneyland is utterly out of touch." ###
05.19.2016	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) testified before the Subcommittee on Constitution and Civil Justice of the House Judiciary Committee in support of the ACCESS Act, H.R. 241, which he introduced on January 9, 2015. The ACCESS Act is designed to help small businesses comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA). "The ADA is an incredibly important law for disabled Americans and Congress needs to act to ensure it continues to benefit the disabled rather than trial lawyers," said Rep. Calvert. "Far too many small businesses in California and around the country are being targeted by lawyers who are more concerned with lining their pockets than actually improving access for the disabled. My bill, the ACCESS Act, makes a common sense reform that will actually improve access for the disabled while protecting American job creators." ACCESS Act Background: The ACCESS (ADA Compliance for Customer Entry to Stores and Services) Act would alleviate the financial burden small businesses are facing, while still fulfilling the purpose of the ADA. Any person aggrieved by a violation of the ADA would provide the owner or operator with a written notice of the violation, specific enough to allow such owner or operator to identify the barrier to their access. Within 60 days the owner or operator would be required to provide the aggrieved person with a description outlining improvements that would be made to address the barrier. The owner or operator would then have 120 days to remove the infraction. The failure to meet any of these conditions would allow the suit to go forward. The purpose of the ADA is to ensure appropriate remedial action for those who have suffered harm. Although there are times when litigation by harmed individuals is necessary, there are an increasing number of lawsuits brought under the ADA that are based upon a desire to achieve financial settlements rather than to achieve the appropriate modifications. ADA lawsuits are especially prevalent in California. According to the California Chamber of Commerce, California has 40% of the nation's ADA lawsuits but only 12% of the country's disabled population. These lawsuits place exorbitant legal fees on small businesses and often times they are unaware of the specific nature of the allegations brought against them. Below is Rep. Calvert's testimony: Mr. Chairman and distinguished Members of the Subcommittee on the Constitution and Civil Justice, thank you for the opportunity to testify today on the need for legislation to promote the effective enforcement of the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) regulations on businesses. As you know, the Americans with Disabilities Act is undoubtedly one of the most important pieces of civil rights legislation. We can all agree that providing all Americans with access to public accommodations is an invaluable legislative objective. The purpose of the ADA is to ensure access for the disabled to public accommodation and provide appropriate remedial action for those who have suffered harm as a result of non-compliance. Although there are times when litigation by harmed individuals is necessary, there are an increasing number of lawsuits brought under the ADA that are based upon a desire to achieve financial settlements rather than to achieve the appropriate modifications for access. These lawsuits filed by serial litigants, often referred to as "drive-by lawsuits," place exorbitant legal fees on small businesses, and often times business owners are unaware of the specific nature of the allegations brought against them. In early 2011, frivolous ADA lawsuits against small businesses reached an all-time high throughout California, and as a result, my good friend and colleague, former Congressman Dan Lungren (R-CA), championed the issue and introduced the original ACCESS Act (H.R. 3356) in the 112th Congress. I was pleased to have been afforded the opportunity to take over the legislation for reintroduction beginning in the 113th Congress. In January 2015, I reintroduced the legislation as H.R. 241, the ACCESS Act. H.R. 241 is a cost-free and commonsense piece of legislation that would alleviate the financial burden small businesses are facing, while still fulfilling the purpose of the ADA. Any person aggrieved by a violation of the ADA would provide the owner or operator with a written notice of the violation, specific enough to allow such owner or operator to identify the barrier to their access. Within 60 days the owner or operator would be required to provide the aggrieved person with a description outlining improvements that would be made to address the barrier. The owner or operator would then have 120 days to make the improvement. The failure to meet any of these conditions would allow the lawsuit to go forward. I think we can all agree that we must ensure that individuals with disabilities are afforded the same access and opportunities as those without disabilities. Frivolous lawsuits do not accomplish this goal. Allowing small business owners and cities alike to fix ADA violations within 120 days, rather than waiting for lengthy legal battles to play out, is a more thoughtful, timely, and reasonable approach. While the ADA is a national law, California has become ground zero for ADA violation lawsuits. In fact, California is home to more federal disability lawsuits than the next four states combined. A 2014 report determined that since 2005, more than 10,000 federal ADA lawsuits had been filed in the five states with the highest disabled populations; 7,188 of which were filed in California. Violating the ADA in California carries a minimum $4,000 penalty in addition to the plaintiff's legal fees. As of 2014, according to the US Census Bureau, 31 individuals made up at least 56% of federal disability lawsuits in California. Those figures and the real life toll it takes on small business owners, are why I introduced this legislation to allow for a "fix-it" period. However, it is clear that this is not just a major problem in California. The introduction of similar legislation by the gentleman from Texas, Representative Ted Poe, shows just that. His legislation authorizes a training and education component for the affected community and Certified Access Specialists, which I would welcome and embrace as an amendment to my bill. This is also a bipartisan issue supported by states. I was pleased to see that California SB 269, the text of which I would like to submit for the record as well as a related article, passed unanimously in the State Assembly and Senate, and was signed into law by Governor Jerry Brown on May 10th, 2016. SB 269 was authored by a friend of mine, Democratic State Senator, Gen. Richard Roth. The legislation is similar to the ACCESS Act in that it allows businesses to take immediate steps to become accessible by providing them with 120 days, from receipt of a Certified Access Specialist report, to resolve any identified violations without being subject to litigation costs or statutory penalties. I worry that with California acting to curb these lawsuits, some of these serial litigants will try their trade in other states. Without question, the ACCESS Act will ensure that the ADA is used for its true purpose of guaranteed accessibility to public accommodations for all Americans while eliminating abusive, costly and unnecessary lawsuits for small business owners. Once again, I appreciate your time today and stand ready to assist the committee in any way possible to ensure this legislation moves forward. ###
05.16.2016	Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) will testify before the Subcommittee on Constitution and Civil Justice of the House Judiciary Committee this week in support of the ACCESS Act, H.R. 241, which he introduced on January 9, 2015. The ACCESS Act is designed to help small businesses comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA). Hearing Title: Examining Legislation to Promote the Effective Enforcement of the ADA's Public Accommodation Provisions Date: May 19, 2016 Time: 9:00 A.M. EST/6:00 A.M. PST Location: 2141 Rayburn House Office Building ACCESS Act Background: The ACCESS (ADA Compliance for Customer Entry to Stores and Services) Act would alleviate the financial burden small businesses are facing, while still fulfilling the purpose of the ADA. Any person aggrieved by a violation of the ADA would provide the owner or operator with a written notice of the violation, specific enough to allow such owner or operator to identify the barrier to their access. Within 60 days the owner or operator would be required to provide the aggrieved person with a description outlining improvements that would be made to address the barrier. The owner or operator would then have 120 days to remove the infraction. The failure to meet any of these conditions would allow the suit to go forward. The purpose of the ADA is to ensure appropriate remedial action for those who have suffered harm. Although there are times when litigation by harmed individuals is necessary, there are an increasing number of lawsuits brought under the ADA that are based upon a desire to achieve financial settlements rather than to achieve the appropriate modifications. ADA lawsuits are especially prevalent in California. According to the California Chamber of Commerce, California has 40% of the nation's ADA lawsuits but only 12% of the country's disabled population. These lawsuits place exorbitant legal fees on small businesses and often times they are unaware of the specific nature of the allegations brought against them. For more information, please contact Jason Gagnon at Jason.Gagnon@mail.house.gov or (951) 277-0042. ###
04.28.2016	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) voted along with a majority (234 to 183) of the House of Representatives to pass House Joint Resolution 88 which disapproves the rule submitted by the Department of Labor relating to the definition of the term "Fiduciary." "Hard working American families have the right to get affordable access to financial advice to help them make complicated life planning decisions," said Rep. Calvert. "This is yet another example of the Obama administration putting Washington bureaucrats between Americans looking for help and the professionals who provide specialized services." Background: (From the House Committee on Education and the Workforce) H.J. Res. 88 would invoke Congress's powers under the Congressional Review Act to prevent the department's rule restricting access to retirement advice from going into effect. The resolution follows earlier efforts to enact a responsible, bipartisan alternative to the department's flawed rule. The resolution will help Americans retire with the peace of mind and financial security they deserve. If this rule were to take effect, if a family attempts to buy a retirement plan, without becoming a fiduciary on the account, the planner would only legally be able to place all the options on the table. The planner would have no ability to highlight plans; shows the customer different options, or confirm thoughts by family without becoming wholly responsible for any loss the plan may incur. H. J. RES. 88: Blocks an extreme, partisan regulation that will make it harder for low- and middle-income families to save for retirement. Protects access to affordable retirement advice for all Americans. Ensures small business owners can continue to find the advice they need to help their employees plan for retirement. Builds upon a larger, bipartisan effort to strengthen protections and help all Americans retire with the financial security and peace of mind they deserve. ###
04.15.2016	Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) is pleased to announce his 24th Annual Academy Night event for high school students in the 42nd Congressional District who are interested in attending one of the U.S. military academies. Academy Night features presentations from the U.S Air Force Academy, the U.S. Military Academy at West Point, the U.S. Naval Academy, the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy and the U.S. Coast Guard Academy. When: Tuesday, May 3, 2016 6:00 p.m. to 8:00 p.m. Where: Ortega High School Conference Center 520 Chaney Street in Lake Elsinore Students will learn about the admission requirements and the congressional nomination process. Students will also have the opportunity to meet with representatives from each academy, members of Rep. Calvert's Academy Nominations Selection Committee, and his congressional staff – all of whom will be more than willing to help the students throughout the application process. For more information about Rep. Calvert's military academy nomination process please click here. The 42nd District encompasses the western edge of Riverside County including the cities of Eastvale, Norco, Corona, Lake Elsinore, Wildomar, Canyon Lake, Menifee, Murrieta and a portion of Temecula. ###
04.14.2016	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) introduced legislation, H.R. 4941, that will ensure military reservists will receive Post 9/11 GI Bill benefits as intended by correcting an unintended issue that has negatively affected reservists when reporting for active duty. "Our veterans and reservists deserve to receive the benefits they have earned without unnecessary complications," said Rep. Calvert. "My legislation would address a growing concern I am hearing from reservists who are trying to use their Post 9/11 GI Bill benefits by going to college but are struggling to afford their housing due to the poorly crafted regulations affecting their housing allowance. Congress can and should make this important fix as soon as possible to relieve the unnecessary stress far too many of our reservists are feeling." Recently, Rep. Calvert and Chairman of the House Committee on Veterans' Affairs, Congressman Jeff Miller (FL-1), sent a letter to Veterans Affairs Secretary Robert McDonald expressing their concern about the issues reservists are experiencing in receiving Post 9/11 GI Bill benefits. Under current regulations, an individual who is released from active duty status may begin receiving the Post-9/11 GI Bill Monthly Housing Allowance (MHA) on the first day of the month following the date the individual is discharged. In addition, an individual who is released from active duty status may begin receiving the tuition and fees benefit on the first day of the enrollment period following the date the individual is discharged and begin receiving the books and supplies stipend on the first day of the month following the date the individual is discharged. However, there are cases in which a Guard or reservist's required monthly active duty would disqualify those individuals for the MHA benefit. Many reservists are required to routinely perform their jobs in a Title 10 status due to their specific job requirements and functions. These commonly include aircrew, intelligence personnel, and UAV (Unmanned Aerial Vehicle) and Remote Piloted Aircraft operators. While not in a drill status, or if in a drill status under Title 38, an individual is entitled to their MHA and book allowance. When in a drill status under Title 10, the individual is entitled to the housing allowance but only for the first portion of the month up to when they entered active duty under Title 10. Therefore, if an individual goes on active duty on the first day of the month for three days, the individual does not receive any housing, or book allowance payments, for the rest of that entire month. Just one day of Title 10 service can result in forfeiture of MHA and book allowance for all or most of the month. In order to maintain a Combat Mission Readiness state and proficiency at their job some have to commit to a minimum of four training days a month in a Title 10 status. Many Guard and Reservists using their GI Bill benefits will be reluctant to volunteer for three to four day missions to ferry troops, equipment, and supplies into an Area of Responsibility knowing they will lose all or a portion of that month's MHA. Many reservists are full-time students and rely on their MHA to pay rent, but as a result of the current rules they are denied their full MHA causing many members to incur thousands of dollars of debt. This is compounded by the fact that members of the reserve are used more frequently due to the increased tempo of operations around the world. The bill essentially prorates the MHA for the portion of the month the service member is not on active duty. The legislation introduced by Rep. Calvert amends Title 38, United States Code, to clarify the eligibility for monthly stipends paid under the Post-9/11 Educational Assistance Program for certain members of the reserve components of the Armed Forces. This will ease restrictions on volunteers; increase the number of volunteers, and increase the frequency of volunteerism while limiting the potential for personnel financial issues to arise. Most importantly, this bill seeks to enhance reserve components' military readiness during high tempo operations. The Reserve component is effective because of volunteerism and the Post 9/11 GI Bill, as written, has a loophole that places unintentional restrictions on members wishing to meet their contractual agreement to maintain readiness. Original cosponsors of H.R. 4941 are: Rep. Sanford Bishop (D-GA-2) Rep. Bradley Byrne (R-AL-1) Rep. Paul Cook (R-CA-8) Rep. Kevin Cramer (R-ND At Large) Rep. Randy Forbes (R-VA-4) Rep. John Garamendi (D-CA-3) Rep. Chris Gibson (R-NY-19) Rep. Duncan Hunter (R-CA-52) Rep. Darrell Issa (R-CA-49) Rep. Lynn Jenkins (R-KS-2) Rep. Walter Jones (R-NC-3) Rep. David Joyce (R-OH-14) Rep. David McKinley (R-WV-1) Rep. Chellie Pingree (D-ME-1) Rep. Tim Ryan (D-OH-13) ###
04.13.2016	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) praised the inclusion of several provisions that will provide relief to California's ongoing drought in the Fiscal Year 2017 Energy and Water Appropriations bill. Rep. Calvert is a member of the House Appropriations Energy and Water Subcommittee, which approved the bill earlier today. "Despite above average rainfall in northern California this winter, our state continues to suffer due to misguided federal regulations that unnecessarily restrict our ability to take advantage of that water," said Rep. Calvert. "Along with my California Republican colleagues, I have worked to enact common-sense reforms that will increase the water we are able to capture in a responsible manner. Californians across the state will benefit from the inclusion of these provisions in the Energy and Water Appropriations bill. I hope our California Senators can produce equally beneficial legislation on their side of the Capitol." Background: (Courtesy of the House Majority Leader's Office) Key components from the House-passed Valadao bill (H.R. 2898) included in the FY17 Energy and Water Development appropriations bill that will help ensure the Central Valley and southern California get the water desperately needed from the Sacramento-San Joaquin River Delta by providing the Bureau of Reclamation more direction on exporting water. Delta Pumping Requirements: Reclamation shall pump at -5,000 cfs OMR unless that jeopardizes the long-term survival of the Delta smelt or Chinook salmon. If so, pumping can be reduced (i.e. more positive). This provision is important because it is designed to provide more direction to the Bureau of Reclamation and more certainty for our communities south of the Delta in terms of water supplies. First Few Storms Flexibility: Authorizes Reclamation to increase pumping to -7,500 cfs OMR to capture storm water runoff when there is high Delta outflow (i.e. water flowing into the Pacific Ocean) provided such action does not jeopardize the long-term survival of the Delta smelt or Chinook salmon. If so, pumping can be reduced (i.e. more positive). This provision is important because it helps ensure there is not a repeat of what happened this rainy season – the loss of significant amounts of El Nino-related storm water to the Pacific Ocean because pumping could not be maximized due to perceived threats to Delta smelt and Chinook salmon. State Water Project Offset & Water Rights Protections: This language ensures that California State Water Project (SWP) contractors benefit should the State of California revoke its consistency determination under California environmental laws between the SWP and Central Valley Project (CVP). It also ensures that senior water rights holders north and south of the Delta are preserved and protected. This language is critical to ensure that "California water wars" are not stoked by this bill. This language should help keep all parties (north v. south, east v. west, Federal v. state, etc.) whole.
03.24.2016	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) joined with California House Republicans in sending a letter to President Obama calling on him to direct federal agencies to increase water exports in the California Bay Delta. "California desperately needs water to recharge our groundwater basins and our reservoirs, yet our federal agencies continue to allow far too much water to flow out to the Pacific Ocean," said Rep. Calvert. "The Obama administration can and should take meaningful action, within existing laws and regulations, to allow Californians to take advantage of the significant precipitation we have received in northern California this winter." ### Full text of the letter: March 24, 2016 The Honorable Barack Obama The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, D.C. 20500 Dear Mr. President: On behalf of our constituents and the residents of California, we write to request that you direct the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (FWS) and the National Marine Fisheries Service (NMFS) to authorize increased water exports in the Sacramento-San Joaquin River Delta immediately. Through El Niño, Mother Nature has blessed our state with much-needed precipitation. Unfortunately, both FWS and NMFS have severely limited the ability of the U.S. Bureau of Reclamation to export water from the Delta to California's Central Valley and further south. Earlier this month, the amount of water flowing out of the Delta into the Pacific Ocean exceeded 114,000 cubic feet per second (cfs), while Delta water exports have remained at about -5,000 cfs at Old and Middle River. In fact, while Delta outflow has been substantially higher in 2016, Reclamation has exported roughly the same amount of water this year – during an El Nino year – that it did last year, one of the hottest and driest years on record. Recently, Federal and California state water contractors proposed to Reclamation, FWS, and NMFS that Delta exports be modestly increased to -6,000 cfs at Old and Middle River, given the amount of water flowing through the Delta to the Pacific Ocean. It is our understanding that not only did the agencies reject this proposal, but that FWS will likely order Reclamation to reduce Delta exports to -3,500 cfs at Old and Middle River today, with the potential for future reductions. This is unacceptable. You have traveled to our state. You have seen the devastating impacts the lack of water has caused to our communities, cities, farms and businesses. Your Presidential Memorandum, released just two days ago, acknowledged the effects of the drought and directed federal agencies to collaborate with local governments and non-governmental entities to help lessen the impacts from the drought and expand water resources. While we need collaboration among different levels of government, we more urgently need specific leadership from our Chief Executive. That specific leadership is simple: a clear message to the relevant federal agencies to increase – not decrease – pumping over and above -5,000 cfs to take full advantage of these recent storms—perhaps the last of the season. It will take years and tens of millions of acre-feet of water to replenish our groundwater resources and for Californians' lives to get back to normal. We cannot have Reclamation, FWS, and NMFS making our recovery all the more challenging. Accordingly, we implore you to direct these agencies to immediately increase Delta water exports, rather than reducing them. The fate of California and the lives and livelihoods of our constituents are at risk. The time to act is now. Sincerely, Rep. Kevin McCarthy (CA-23) Rep. Ken Calvert (CA-42) Rep. David Valadao (CA-21) Rep. Devin Nunes (CA-22) Rep. Tom McClintock (CA-04) Rep. Mimi Walters(CA-45) Rep. Darrell Issa (CA-49) Rep. Dana Rohrabacher (CA-48) Rep. Jeff Denham (CA-10) Rep. Steve Knight (CA-25) Rep. Ed Royce (CA-39) ###
02.10.2016	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) introduced the Ensuring the Safety of Our Mail Act, H.R. 4515, which will double the maximum jail sentence for anyone convicted of mail theft. "The disturbing growth in mail theft in my district, and particularly the theft of cluster box units, must be stopped," said Rep. Calvert. "The criminals who steal mail to conduct identity theft or for other purposes need to face greater consequences for their actions. My constituents are fed up with the disruption to their lives caused by these criminals and it's time for Congress to take action to discourage these types of crimes." Currently, the maximum jail sentence for anyone convicted of mail theft is five years under Section 1708 of Title 18 of the U.S. Code. The Ensuring the Safety of Our Mail Act increases the maximum jail sentence to ten years. ###
02.10.2016	Today, the House passed H.R. 3016, which contained legislation introduced by Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) to streamline veteran education benefits at community colleges. "I strongly believe that we should take whatever steps necessary to simplify the veterans education benefits our service members earned," said Rep. Calvert. "By passing this reform measure, Congress can remove unnecessary, bureaucratic delays for our veterans." H.R. 3016 contained the legislative text of H.R. 182, introduced by Rep. Calvert on January 7, 2015, which streamlines the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) processes for community colleges that have multiple campuses. Currently, the VA requires community colleges to certify that their veteran students are enrolled for a specific number of classes before the VA will disperse student benefits. These rules must be updated to account for multi-college Community College Districts, such as Riverside Community College District (RCCD). Without such an update, veterans that take classes at a multi-college District see their benefits delayed while colleges and the VA complete and shuffle unnecessary paperwork. H.R. 182 would direct the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to permit the centralized reporting of veteran enrollment by certain groups, districts, and consortiums of educational institutions.
01.28.2016	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) invited high school students throughout the 42nd Congressional District to participate in the 34th Annual Congressional Art Competition. "I am always amazed and inspired by the artistic skills of our students," said Rep. Calvert. "The Congressional Art Competition is a fantastic way to showcase the talents of young Americans from around the country." This year marks the thirty-fourth anniversary of the Congressional Art Competition, An Artistic Discovery. Each year, Members of Congress hold contests within their districts to choose winning pieces of art by high school students. Since this competition was created in 1982, hundreds of thousands of high school students have participated at the local level. The winning student from each district is invited to Washington, DC for the ribbon-cutting ceremony, and will have his or her artwork displayed in the U.S. Capitol for one year. Competition Guidelines: Only high school students residing in the 42nd Congressional District may enter. A student release form must be attached to the art work submitted. All artwork must be original and may not violate any U.S. copyright laws. All artwork must be two-dimensional. Artwork, when framed, can be no larger than 28" high x 28" wide x 4" deep. Acceptable categories include: Paintings, Drawings, Collage, Prints, Mixed Media, Computer generated art, and Photography. The deadline for submission is Thursday, March 27, 2016. For more information, please contact Jackie Lansing at (951) 277-0042. ###
01.21.2016	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) announced the students from the 42ndCongressional District that he has nominated to attend the U.S. Service Academies. As a Member of Congress, Rep. Calvert has the privilege of nominating a select group of highly qualified young men and women from the 42nd District for an appointment to one or more U.S. Service Academies—Air Force, Naval, Military and Merchant Marine. "These young men and women have demonstrated tremendous character and integrity, and I am proud to nominate them to the service academies," stated Rep. Calvert. "I have no doubt that these students have the leadership and motivation necessary to represent our region with honor and will serve our country well." Last month, Rep. Calvert's Academy Nominations Selection Committee evaluated candidates from the 42nd Congressional District, who were seeking a nomination to one or more of our nation's military service academies. The Service Academies will evaluate the nominees based on their academic, athletic and physical qualifications and extend an appointment to the best qualified students that Rep. Calvert has nominated. Thirty-one candidates were selected to receive Congressman Calvert's nomination. They are as follows: Naval Academy Anthony Aldrian, Murrieta Valley High School Nathan Barr, Murrieta Valley High School Sarah Bushrow, Chaparral High School Dennis Caoile, Paloma Valley High School Matthew Kim, Great Oak High School Edward Lara, Temescal Canyon High School Dante Lista, Chaparral High School Karma Richards, Murrieta Mesa High School Jacob Schultz, Vista Murrieta High School Connor Wowk, Centennial High School Air Force Academy Sierra Crawford, Murrieta Valley High School Cole Crisp, Corona High School Mikayla Greens, Murrieta Mesa (Class 2015) Currently attending the United States Air Force Academy Preparatory School Kyle Hames, Murrieta Valley High School Joshua Madriaga, Corona High School Eric Nunez, Vista Murrieta High School Brandon Ross, Murrieta Mesa High School Cathleen Runde, Temecula Valley High School Jacob Taylor, Chaparral High School Gabriel Thorne, Temescal Canyon High West Point Zachary Bennett, Santiago High School Dakota Brubaker, Murrieta Valley High School Jared Cochrane, Calvary Murrieta Christian Academy Kevin Hong, Temecula Preparatory School Scott Im, Santiago High School Courtney Springman, Chino High School Celeste Tyner, Santiago High School Austin Wheeler, Norco High School Merchant Marine Edward Lara, Temescal Canyon High School Zachary Bennett, Santiago High School Garrett Gal, Vista Murrieta High School ###
01.12.2016	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) issued the following statement following the President's State of the Union address: "Americans listened to President Obama's final State of the Union address this evening, but nothing he said tonight changes what they have experienced first-hand over the past seven years. The President's failed policies have led to a stagnant economy, more expensive healthcare for the middle-class, emboldened our enemies and created a more dangerous world. Not surprisingly, the President's remarks tonight indicate he's doubling down on those failed policies. A majority of my constituents want our country to go in a different direction than what the President is proposing. That is why I'll be working every day with my Republican colleagues to drive a bold, pro-growth agenda that moves our country away from the big government policies that clearly don't help hard-working families and job creators. That's also why I'll be working to ensure that next January we are listening to the newly elected Republican President deliver the State of the Union address." ###
01.12.2016	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) introduced legislation, H.R. 4369, to facilitate the transfer of Ontario International Airport from the city of Los Angeles to the Ontario International Airport Authority (OIAA). "Inland Empire residents are ready to take back local control of Ontario Airport and I'm happy to take whatever steps are necessary to achieve that goal," said Rep. Calvert. "This legislation has broad, bipartisan support and I'm hopeful Congress will approve it quickly. I'm looking to the day in the near future when the Inland Empire once again controls a major international airport." "Local control of Ontario Airport will be a significant economic driver for the entire Inland Empire economy, and the legislation being introduced today gets us one step closer to finalizing that process," said Rep. Norma J. Torres (CA-35). "I appreciate Rep. Calvert's support and the bipartisan response from Members throughout the LA region to help the city of Ontario regain control of the airport." "We welcome and are grateful for the federal legislation introduced today by a bipartisan coalition of Southern California congressional members – Reps. Calvert, Cook, Napolitano, Ruiz and Torres – that helps facilitate the transfer of Ontario International Airport to local control," said Alan Wapner, President, Ontario International Airport Authority, and Ontario City Councilmember. "Their action demonstrates their commitment to the goal of ensuring the region has the necessary airport capacity to meet the growing demand for air travel while making the greatest contribution to the Inland Empire economy." "Ontario International Airport is the Inland Empire's No. 1 economic engine," said Ontario Mayor Paul Leon. "The legislation introduced in the House of Representatives today by Reps. Calvert, Cook, Napolitano, Ruiz and Torres will help facilitate the transfer of the airport to local control. It is another example of how members of Congress from Southern California are working to promote jobs and economic growth in the region. We thank them for their tremendous support at this crucial time." The agreement to transfer Ontario Airport is structured in such a way that $120 million in Passenger Facilities Charges (PFC) is required to be transferred from ONT to Los Angeles Los Angeles World Airports (LAWA) over ten years. Specifically, $50 million in ONT PFCs must be reimbursed to LAWA in five years and an additional $70 million in ONT PFCs must be paid back to LAWA/LAX in ten years. This transaction represents a reimbursement of LAX PFCs that were transferred to ONT in the 1990s to help pay for the construction of a new terminal. Under current law PFCs are only permitted to be applied to the airport or airport systems that they are collected. Since LAX and ONT will no longer be connected this legislation is necessary. The following members have cosponsored the legislation:Norma Torres (CA-35), Paul Cook (CA-8), Grace Napolitano (CA-32), Raul Ruiz (CA-36), Pete Aguilar (CA-31) and Mark Takano (CA-41). Companion legislation is being introduced today in the Senate by California Senators Diane Feinstein and Barbara Boxer. ###
01.06.2016	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) issued the following statement after voting along with a majority of the House (240 to 181) to approve legislation that will repeal Obamacare and defund Planned Parenthood: "A majority of my constituents continue to oppose Obamacare and a health care system that is controlled by Washington bureaucrats instead of doctors and patients. For the first time since the law was passed, Congress will be sending an Obamacare repeal to the President's desk. I have and will continue to oppose Obamacare and its policies that reduce the quality, access and affordability of health care for far too many families. The legislation passed by the House today also defunds Planned Parenthood because American tax dollars should not fund organizations that place so little value on life and where illegal actions have been taken." ###
01.05.2016	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) issued the following statement in response to President Obama's executive actions on gun control: "President Obama's unconstitutional executive actions are now a trademark of his failed presidency. The President's actions today go a step beyond his previous regulatory overreach by restricting constitutionally protected rights in a manner that itself is a violation of the policy-making powers the Constitution reserves for Congress. Americans are understandably concerned by any source of violence that may threaten them or their loved ones. I am once again disappointed that rather than having a meaningful conversation about the root causes of violence, President Obama is once again trying to restrict a fundamental, constitutionally-protected right. Whenever the President is done trampling on the Constitution, I would encourage him to work with Congress on issues, like mental health reform, where there's broad support." ###
12.18.2015	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) voted along with a bipartisan majority (316 to 113) to approve the Fiscal Year 2016 Omnibus Appropriations Act. The bill funds the federal discretionary budget for the remainder of the fiscal year. Rep. Calvert serves as the Chairman of the Interior and Environment Appropriations Subcommittee. "The funding priorities the House approved today will curb the Obama administration's dangerous bureaucracy while investing in programs that are essential to American families," said Rep. Calvert. "I've worked hard to protect our economy from the regulatory overreach at the EPA and in this bill we hold the EPA staffing to its lowest level since 1989. The funding the Appropriations Committee has provided for our military, veterans and for critical infrastructure investments is a significant achievement." The bill also lifts the 40-year-old ban on U.S. oil exports. According to studies, lifting the ban could create approximately one million jobs in the U.S. and add $170 billion annually to our GDP. "Lifting the oil export ban is a big win for American consumers, workers, and our economy," said Rep. Calvert. "The U.S. continues to have significant resources that can help strengthen our economy and provide our allies with an alternative to their long-standing reliance on Russian or Middle Eastern energy resources." KEY PROVISIONS Defense · $613.9 million for four additional MQ-9 Reaper UAVs. March Air Reserve Base maintains a schoolhouse for training Reaper pilots and currently maintains a fleet of six Reapers. · $635 million for additional Afloat Forward Staging Base vessels, which are utilized for mine countermeasure helicopters, special operations forces and U.S. Marines. The vessels are built in San Diego, CA. · $1.5 billion for additional UH-60 Blackhawk helicopters for the Army National Guard. This is a priority for the California National Guard. · $27.2 million for SPS-48 Radars, which are used as the primary air search sensor for anti-aircraft warships. · $72.3 million for the mid-life retrofit of UC San Diego/Scripps' Auxiliary General Purpose Oceanographic Research (AGOR) vessel. The vessel is used for a variety of ocean-based research projects funded by the UC system, the U.S. military, and other partners. ###
12.18.2015	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) introduced the Secure Accountability for Emigres and Refugees (SAFER) Act, H.R. 4291. The SAFER Act would add requirements to the Syrian and Iraqi refugee security vetting process. "It has become all too clear to many Americans that our security screening processes for individuals wishing to enter our country are insufficient," said Rep. Calvert. "Peaceful people who wish to come to our country with good intentions have nothing to fear with these additional measures. I believe these are responsible steps we must take to protect Americans." The SAFER Act builds upon the SAFE Act (HR 4038) which passed the House on November 19, 2015. The SAFE Act empowered our security agencies to set strict requirements for entry as refugees and halted admissions until such standards are set. The SAFER Act would define the requirements to fully vet Syrian and Iraqi refugees before they can be admitted into the United States: All Syrian and Iraqi refugees regardless of background or religious affiliation must pass a certified polygraph examination. A polygraph will be essential in determining whether a refugee is truly coming to the United States to escape oppression or if they are coming here with possibly violent intentions. It is also necessary since for many refugees we only have their word to rely on as to who they are, where they are from and why they are coming here. There are no corresponding government databases to verify their claims nor is there the ability to conduct a sufficient background check due to the conflicts in the region and displacement of entire communities. All Syrian and Iraqi refugees regardless of background or religious affiliation must agree to provide biometric data and have that data compared to known databases in order to validate they have no known history of terrorist activities. All Syrian and Iraqi refugees regardless of background or religious affiliation must agree to provide DNA samples and have those samples compared to known databases in order to validate they have no known history of terrorist activities. All Syrian and Iraqi refugees will be subject to a background check that includes an investigation of all online activity, including posts to social media. For more information, click here and to read the bill text click here. ###
12.17.2015	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) voted along with a bipartisan majority (318 to 109) of the House to approve the "Protecting Americans from Tax Hikes" Act. The bill extends a number of expiring tax provisions. "I am happy to support this bill and protect American families and job creators from tax increases they simply can't afford," said Rep. Calvert. "I'm pleased that the House has been able to permanently codify a number of these expiring tax provisions and provided some much needed certainty in our tax code." Highlights of the "Protecting Americans from Tax Hikes" Act (Provided by the House Ways and Means Committee) Delivers Certainty to American Taxpayers By making a number of temporary tax provisions permanent, this legislation delivers predictability, clarity, and certainty for individuals, families and job creators. Americans will no longer have to worry each December if Congress will take action to extend certain tax relief policies. Prevents Tax Increases The provisions in this bill will prevent a significant immediate tax increase on millions of Americans. And in years to come, individual Americans and U.S. businesses will no longer have to worry if Congress will take action to extend important tax relief policies like: Allowing State sales tax deductions; Providing small business tax relief, including increased small business expensing; and; Offering incentives for innovation, including the research and development tax credit. Grows our Economy By delivering permanent tax relief to America's job creators, this legislation will make it easier for employers to plan ahead, hire new workers, grow their businesses, and invest in their communities. Serves as a Bridge to Comprehensive Tax Reform This bill lays the groundwork for historic reforms that will fix our broken tax code. Instead of spending months each year debating temporary tax extensions, Congress will be able to focus on the comprehensive tax reform we all agree our country needs. Americans deserve a simpler, fairer and flatter tax code that's built for growth, and this bill will help make that possible. Prevents Fraud and Abuse This legislation includes a number of provisions designed to strengthen the integrity of tax credit programs that today have high rates of improper payments, fraud, and abuse. While these provisions are significant, they are only a small down payment on Republican efforts to make these tax credit programs more accountable. In the new year, Congress will take more actions to ensure the right amount of tax credits are paid out and that people can't take advantage of the current broken tax system. Reins in the IRS This bill includes a series of reforms that have previously passed the House designed to rein in the power of the IRS and better protect taxpayers, such as: o Firing IRS employees who take politically motivated actions against taxpayers; o Requiring IRS employees to respect the taxpayer bill of rights; and o Prohibiting IRS employees from using personal e-mail accounts for official business. ###
12.11.2015	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) was named as one of the three House Republicans who will lead a Joint Task Force to investigate allegations that senior U.S. Central Command (CENTCOM) officials manipulated intelligence products. "Americans expect our military and civilian security officials to produce reports and analysis that are factual and accurately assesses security conditions around the globe," said Rep. Calvert. "I look forward to working with my colleagues to determine what took place and how we can ensure intelligence products meet the high standards all of us expect them to." The House Armed Services Committee, the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, and the House Appropriations Committee established the Joint Task Force to investigate whether these allegations reflect systemic problems across the intelligence enterprise in CENTCOM or any other pertinent intelligence organizations. Congressmen Calvert, Mike Pompeo (KS-4), and Brad Wenstrup (OH-2) will lead the investigation, which is expected to produce preliminary results early next year. The Committees have invited their Minority members to participate, and are hopeful that they will join in the effort. ###
12.11.2015	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) issued the following statement at a press conference regarding the California House delegations attempt to pass drought relief legislation: "As the Chairman of the Californian Republican Delegation and one of the negotiators for a California water bill, I come here today more in sadness than in anger. California families, farmers and businesses up and down the state continue to suffer with our ongoing drought. Over the past several years, and in earnest over the past few months on this specific legislation, I have been actively engaged with members of our delegation to seek out appropriate federal solutions to address the California drought. I am so disappointed to be here today. I was hopeful that we would get a deal done. Unfortunately, we could not get the Senators to accept a good, reasonable compromise. All 14 members of our delegation got to "yes." Our two senators could not. I am no stranger to the complex and highly charged nature of water policy, having been intimately involved with the Colorado River Quantification Settlement Agreement negotiations in 2003 as well as being the author of the CALFED law that I worked directly with Senator Feinstein to get across the finish line in 2004. I can tell you that our recent bipartisan and bicameral negotiations have been equally daunting, yet equally promising. Because of success in those past negotiations, I truly felt that my optimism was justified throughout this one. The members of our delegation, along with our staff, have put in hundreds of hours and untold energy to identify a package of policy changes that all sides can live with. I am so proud of the optimism, flexibility and discipline that I saw from the members here before you. One of our top priorities throughout these negotiations was to create flexibility in the operation of the pumps in the Delta in order to capture as much water as possible during the upcoming rainy season – which we are very optimistic about because of the El Nino forecast. After many lengthy discussions with the Senate, the Administration, conservation groups, water districts throughout the state, and other interested stakeholders, we arrived at a compromise that would have provided some much needed - and much deserved- relief to the drought-stricken communities of California. The language that we proposed, after significant back and forth with Senator Feinstein's office, does not violate the Endangered Species Act or the existing biological opinions that the Fish and Wildlife Service has approved. This belief was shared by the Administration…before they walked it back. We entered into good faith negotiations at Senator Feinstein's request, with the stated goal of attaching the language to a must-pass vehicle like the omnibus. Taking advantage of the must-pass omnibus was Senator Feinstein's idea. I agreed with her. The deal was close to done but unfortunately, Senator Feinstein took umbrage over something that occurred in a closed-door meeting. To be clear, no one outside of a few high-level negotiators knew about that until her press release walking away from the deal. That small slight was not worth throwing away all that we had achieved. Even after that, our 14 California Republican members remained hopeful, and quiet – beyond the 11th hour – trying to resolve small differences with a bipartisan coalition to help the state of California. Yesterday's LA Times editorial was the final straw. It's sad when the LA Times editorial page gets the story wrong, but it is a tragedy for so many Californians when the Senate gets the policy wrong. So, our good faith negotiations have come to no positive resolution. I am deeply troubled and saddened that the true losers in this process are the people of California, who so desperately need the water that this compromise would have provided. The rain is coming, the omnibus is moving. We will never have this opportunity again." ###
12.04.2015	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) issued the following statement in response to additional reports indicating the female San Bernardino attacker pledged her support to ISIS: "The reports and overwhelming evidence make it clear to me that the attack in San Bernardino was an act of terrorism. This is an attack by radical, violent Islamic extremists, one who had openly stated her support for ISIS. While residents from the Inland Empire have bravely fought against these extremists around the globe, we have now seen the violence from the war on terror come to our region. In order to defend and protect the liberties and freedoms that make America and the Inland Empire an extraordinary place to live, we must restate our commitment and strengthen our resolve to defeat violent Islamic extremists around the world." ###
12.03.2015	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) issued the following statement in response to the shooting in San Bernardino at the Inland Regional Center: "As a lifelong resident of the Inland Empire, I'm heartbroken by the tragic loss of life and the wounds suffered as a result of the attack in San Bernardino. I know that our region will come together and provide the families of the victims with the support and compassion that they so desperately need in this trying time. I want to thank all of our law enforcement and medical personnel who responded to the incidents. Their heroism and bravery, in the face of unimaginable evil, is what restores our faith in humanity. I stand ready to work with our local and federal authorities to ensure the availability of all necessary resources. It is imperative that we pursue all possible accomplices and leads to ensure that anyone who was associated with this attack is brought to justice. We will not and cannot let cowards with evil intentions terrorize our communities and our country." ###
11.19.2015	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) voted along with a bipartisan majority (289 to 137) of the House in approving the American Security Against Foreign Enemies (SAFE) Act, H.R. 4038, of which Rep. Calvert is a cosponsor. "The most important responsibility that my constituents place on my shoulders is keeping them safe," said Rep. Calvert. "Americans are sympathetic to innocent civilians who have been forced to flee their war-torn nations but we must take effective measures to ensure all refugees coming here have been screened. There is bipartisan concern, including from senior Obama administration officials (FBI, DHS and CIA), that the current security screening process in place is not sufficient. Halting the Syrian and Iraqi refugee programs is not a matter of compassion; it's a matter of competency and confidence in our security screening process." To ensure that comprehensive background checks are conducted on every refugee from Syria and Iraq seeking admittance into the United State, this the SAFE Act will require two actions: The FBI director must certify the background investigation of each refugee. The secretary of homeland security, the FBI director, and the director of national intelligence must unanimously concur that each refugee is not a security threat to the United States and make a certification to Congress. This bill constitutes an effective pause until we are certain that no refugee from Iraq and Syria who is a threat will be allowed in the country. During a House Homeland Security hearing last month, Homeland Security Secretary Jeh Johnson spoke about his concerns with the Syria refugee program: "We know that organizations such as ISIL might like to try to exploit this program. It is true that we're not going to know a whole lot about the Syrians that come forth in this process. That definitely is a challenge." At the same hearing, FBI Director James Comey also expressed his concerns about the Syria refugee program: "We do see a risk. We can query our databases until the cows come home but…you can only query what you have collected." Additionally, after the Thanksgiving District Work Period, Rep. Calvert will be introducing legislation that defines the "certification" requirements for refugee resettlement in the United States for Syrian and Iraqi refugees. The requirements will include: biometric data (fingerprint, photograph, retinal scan), a DNA sample and a polygraph. "A polygraph will be essential in determining whether a refugee is truly coming to the United States to escape oppression or if they are coming here with possibly violent intentions," said Rep. Calvert. "It is also necessary since for many refugees we only have their word to rely on as to who they are, where they are from and why they are coming here. There are no corresponding government databases to verify their claims nor is there the ability to conduct a sufficient background check due to the conflicts in the region and displacement of entire communities." ###
11.13.2015	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) issued the following statement in response to the attacks in Paris: "My thoughts and prayers are with the victims of the attacks in Paris, their families, and all of the French people. Tonight's attacks are an attack on all people who want to live in a society where liberty is cherished. Those behind the cowardly and horrific acts in Paris, and all who embrace this type of violent extremism, must be brought to justice and their swift demise. While our hearts are heavy, no acts of evil will ever derail the continued pursuit of liberty, equality, and fraternity by the freedom-loving people of France and their allies around the world." ###
11.06.2015	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) issued the following statement in response to President Obama's rejection of the Keystone XL pipeline: "President Obama's rejection of the Keystone pipeline is based on politics, not facts. Once again, President Obama has gone down the path of his extreme liberal agenda with no regard for American jobs, energy prices for families, and the relationship of one of our closest allies." ###
11.03.2015	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) offered an amendment to the highway bill that was approved by the House of Representatives via voice vote. The amendment would expand a pilot program that eliminates duplicative regulatory reviews of highway projects. "We are all well aware that our need for highway infrastructure continues to outpace the resources we have available," said Rep. Calvert. "Commuters are depending on Congress to come up with solutions, like my amendment, that can make more highway projects a reality by bringing their costs down and completing them more quickly." Section 1313 of the Surface Transportation Reauthorization and Reform (STRR) Act of 2015 (HR 3763) establishes a pilot program that would allow States to conduct environmental reviews and make approvals for projects under State environmental laws and regulations instead of Federal laws and regulations. It's expected that this pilot program will save highway projects time and money, while maintaining the same environmental standards. The bill permits the State to designate ten local governments to administer local projects under this new pilot program. Rep. Calvert's amendment would increase the allowable number of localities to twenty-five in order to allow more communities to take advantage of bringing down the cost and shrinking the amount of time required to complete highway projects. The amendment was supported by the California State Association of Counties, local transit authorities and CalTrans was not opposed. ###
10.29.2015	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) issued the following statement following the election of Rep. Paul Ryan (WI-1) as Speaker of the House of Representatives: "Paul Ryan is ready to lead House Republicans in our effort to enact the conservative policies that unite us and that we were sent to Washington to enact. I have witnessed Paul's leadership firsthand, including serving with him on the Budget Committee while he was Chairman, and I have no doubt that he can and will be an effective Speaker. The immediate task at hand for Paul Ryan is to spearhead the charge to limit the executive overreach of President Obama and pass policies that get our federal government out of the way of more economic growth. I know that he is up to the task." ###
10.23.2015	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) introduced legislation aimed at preventing criminal illegal immigrants from being released from custody. The HELD Act – Help Ensure Legal Detainers Act – (H.R. 3816) would require localities to adhere to Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) detainers. "We have a responsibility to protect Americans from illegal immigrants who have committed serious crimes in our country," said Rep. Calvert. "After the brutal murder of Kate Steinle in San Francisco by an illegal immigrant with a long criminal record, my constituents and families around the country have raised questions about how the federal government can prevent such an event from occurring again. There are a number of complex and challenging immigration policy matters facing our country, however, facilitating the deportation of illegal immigrants with a serious criminal record is just common sense." The HELD Act would deny all federal funding – including transportation funding – if a locality has a law, policy or procedure in place that prevents local law enforcement from maintaining the custody of an illegal immigrant pursuant to an ICE detainer. Specifically the bill: Would require local municipalities to promptly respond to an ICE Detainer notice issued by the Secretary of Homeland Security (DHS) that requests information about illegal immigrant in custody in order for the Secretary to arrange for custody of the individual. Would require local municipalities to maintain custody of an illegal immigrant for up to 48 hours pursuant to an immigration Detainer so that the individual can be transferred to the custody of DHS. The HELD Act included an exception in the bill in cases where counties may have a policy in place that prevents local law enforcement from working with ICE while cities within that county may have no such policy. In these cases, the flow of federal funding that would normally go through the county would go directly to the city. ###
09.30.2015	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) voted along with a bipartisan majority of the House (277 to 151) to fund federal government agencies through December 11, 2015. "My constituents expect Congress to pay our troops, provide for our veterans, keep our national parks open, and fund our federal agencies," said Rep. Calvert. "While I strongly prefer funding our government through a regular appropriations process, Senate Democrats have blocked spending bills from moving forward. The obstruction by Senate Democrats now requires Congress to enact a short-term spending bill to keep the government open. Our troops and our vital federal programs deserve better. Sadly we are learning it takes 60 votes in the Senate to do anything." The Fiscal Year 2016 short-term Continuing Resolution also contained an extension of the authorization for the E-Verify program. The E-Verify program's authorization is set to expire at the end of September. "Nearly twenty years ago I sponsored the law that established the E-Verify program and I have watched the program grow to become an excellent tool for employers looking to verify the legal status of the workers they hire. We must continue to authorize, fund and, hopefully, make E-Verify mandatory for all employers in the United States." Additionally, the House approved an enrollment correction directing the Clerk of the House of Representatives to make corrections in the enrollment by adding the Defund Planned Parenthood Act. The bill added by the enrollment correction provides for a one-year moratorium on all federal funding while the organization's activities are investigated. The enrollment correction will now be sent to the Senate for its consideration. The continuing resolution will move forward to the President. "I continue to believe that Planned Parenthood should not receive any federal taxpayer dollars for its disturbing practices. Surely Congress can and should provide funding for critical women's health programs without having tax dollars go towards practices that many Americans find objectionable. Sadly, Senate Democrats and President Obama have placed a higher priority on protecting Planned Parenthood, than they have in protecting the unborn. Ultimately, I agree with National Right to Life that the long-term interests of those who value life and oppose Planned Parenthood are better served by avoiding a government shutdown and instead focusing on electing a pro-life President."
09.25.2015	Rep. Ken Calvert (R-CA) issued the following response to Rep. John Boehner's (R-OH) announcement that he would be resigning his seat and as Speaker of the House. "Today I was saddened to hear that my good friend and our leader, Speaker Boehner, will be resigning. Speaker Boehner has led the House through difficult times but despite the challenges he instituted vital reforms, making the current U.S. House of Representatives the most accountable and transparent in history. John has served his district, the House of Representatives, and his nation proudly. On a personal note, I will particularly miss John's friendship; he is truly a great American patriot whose absence will be deeply felt by many. "His legacy as a lawmaker and as Speaker will continue on as we in the House fight for a smaller, less intrusive federal government; a strong national defense; and economic policies that free the American entrepreneurial spirit. I wish John nothing but the best as he embarks on the next stage of his life with his wonderful wife, Debbie, their children and their new grandchild. " ###
09.25.2015	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) voted along with a bipartisan majority (233 to 170) of the House of Representatives to approve H.R. 348, the Responsibly And Professionally Invigorating Development (RAPID) Act. The RAPID Act would streamline the permitting process for federally funded and permitted infrastructure, energy, and construction projects. "Over-regulation continues to hold back economic growth and job creation in America," said Rep. Calvert. "The RAPID Act is one of a number of steps Congress should take to cut unnecessary red tape and reduce the mounting burdens the federal government places on small businesses. I am hopeful that the House will also approve the REBUILD Act in the near future and continue to get the government out of the way of job creators." Rep. Calvert has introduced related legislation, the REBUILD Act (H.R. 211), that would allow any state to enter into a Memorandum of Understanding with a designated federal agency, who has environmental review responsibilities under NEPA, and assume the review responsibilities of that agency. Under the REBUILD Act, states would still be required to uphold the same NEPA standards or greater, by assuming these responsibilities states could integrate NEPA compliance into their own state approval process thereby streamlining construction timelines and eliminating the need for redundant reviews at the federal level. ###
09.24.2015	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) issued the following statement following His Holiness Pope Francis's remarks at today's historic joint meeting of Congress: "It is truly an honor and a privilege to represent my constituents at the Pope's historic visit to our Capitol and listen to his speech before Congress. The Pope's visit to America is an understandably exciting and spiritual experience for the tens of thousands of Catholics I represent. Pope Francis's message of faith and compassion continues to resonate with people throughout America and around the world. Personally, I appreciate the Pope's words of encouragement for the many tough decisions we must make governing our nation. Regardless of your religious or political viewpoints, I believe we can join together with Pope Francis's call to defend religious liberties and freedom from any and all attacks upon them. We can also redouble our efforts and commitment to protect the vulnerable among us. I wholeheartedly agree with Pope Francis that the American spirit has and will continue to be a source of inspiration for people around the world." Rep. Calvert's invited guest to the joint meeting of Congress was The Most Reverend Gerald R. Barnes, Bishop of the Diocese of San Bernardino. The Diocese of San Bernardino serves a Catholic population of one million, covering 27,293 square miles in San Bernardino and Riverside counties. It is the 5th largest Diocese in the United States. ###
09.22.2015	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) applauded the extension of the E-Verify program's authorization in the proposed stop-gap spending bill that was introduced in the Senate. The E-Verify program's authorization is set to expire at the end of September. "It is critical that we extend the E-Verify program because businesses around the country rely on E-Verify to ensure they only hire legal workers," said Rep. Calvert. "I'm pleased that the Senate has included the E-Verify extension in its spending bill and I am working in the House to ensure E-Verify is reauthorized. American employers should have the tools and resources necessary to maintain a legal workforce, which is why I wrote the original E-Verify authorization and continue to champion this vital program." E-Verify is the free web-based service from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security used by over 600,000 employers to confirm the employment eligibility of people they hire. In 1996, Rep. Calvert authored the law that authorized the creation of the E-Verify program, the only tool available for employers to voluntarily check the legal work status of newly hired employees. Since then, Rep. Calvert has worked steadily over the years to expand E-Verify and pushed to make it mandatory.
09.22.2015	Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42), Chairman of the House Interior and Environment Appropriations Subcommittee, today lauded the decision by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service that listing the greater sage-grouse under the Endangered Species Act is not warranted. "Today's decision is a reflection of the hard work led by the States and private landowners to make an ESA listing unnecessary," Calvert said. "The Fish and Wildlife Service is commended for reaching an informed decision based upon the best available science, despite the rush to meet an arbitrary court-imposed decision deadline. I'm proud to have been able to override the September 30, 2015, deadline, if necessary, in my capacity as Chairman of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies, in the event that the agency needed more time to make an informed decision. The decision by the Service also reaffirms my long-held belief that protecting our environment and our economy are not mutually exclusive goals." Chairman Calvert inserted a provision in the Fiscal Year 2015 appropriation (Public Law 113-235) prohibiting the agency from writing or issuing a proposed rule to list greater sage-grouse under the Endangered Species Act. He also included a similar provision in the Fiscal Year 2016 appropriation which has not yet been enacted into law. "Now that the Service has concluded that greater sage-grouse are not in danger of extinction or likely to become so within the foreseeable future, we can turn our attention to the question of how best to balance the multiple uses of our Federal lands and its resources upon which we all depend on for our nation's survival. I look forward to working with my colleagues in Congress to address that question as we move forward in the Fiscal Year 2016 appropriations process." ###
09.10.2015	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) joined a majority (162-269 ) of the House of Representatives in voting against President Obama's Iran deal. "President Obama's Iran deal is a bad deal for the safety and security of Americans, as well as our allies in the Middle East and throughout the world," said Rep. Calvert. "My constituents are understandably unconvinced that this deal will do anything more than relieve the mounting pressure that was being applied to the murderous Iranian regime and its long-standing support for terrorist activities. Those terrorist activities have claimed the lives of American soldiers, Israeli families, and other civilians around the world. "I simply have no confidence that that same Iranian leaders who promise to destroy Israel and refer to America as the "Great Satan" will abide by the terms of any agreement. I believe that, ultimately, a new representative government in Iran is the only path towards some semblance of stability in the Middle East, which is why I view the easing of economic sanctions a horribly misguided step in the wrong direction." Today, Rep. Calvert also voted for H.R. 3460, which suspends until January 21, 2017, the authority of the President to waive, suspend, reduce, provide relief from, or otherwise limit the application of sanctions pursuant to an agreement related to the nuclear program of Iran. H.R. 3460 was approved by a vote of 247-186 . Yesterday, Rep. Calvert voted for House Resolution 411, which expresses the sense of the House of Representatives that the President has not complied with section 2 of the Iran Nuclear Agreement Review Act of 2015. Section 2 requires the President to present Congress with all documents pertaining to the Iran nuclear agreement to Congress. The Resolution was approved by a vote of 245 to 186. #
08.13.2015	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) welcomed the announcement that Riverside County was receiving federal funding to support conservation planning and acquisition of vital habitat for threatened and endangered species. "As Riverside County continues to grow and develop, it is important that we set aside land and habitat for wildlife," said Rep. Calvert. "Our local leaders have put careful thought and planning into conservation efforts throughout Riverside County, and I am happy to see the federal government partnering with them to help make those plans a reality." Details of the federal funding announced today by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service: Western Riverside County Multiple Species Habitat Conservation Plan (MSCHP) - $2,000,000 This grant will support acquisition of approximately 1,025 acres of land in Riverside County. This acquisition will benefit numerous sensitive species including federally listed species like the coastal California gnatcatcher, arroyo toad, and Quino checkerspot butterfly. The acquisition will support the assembly of a 500,000-acre preserve that is part of the Western Riverside MSHCP by protecting large blocks of coastal sage scrub, chaparral and grassland habitats. Coachella Valley Multiple Species Habitat Conservation Plan - $2,000,000 This grant will result in the acquisition of up to 4,526 acres of land that will greatly enhance the existing Coachella Valley MSHCP by securing key regional wildlife linkages, sand transport areas, and preserving core habitat areas. The land acquisition will benefit many sensitive species, including federally listed species such as Coachella Valley fringe-toed lizard, desert tortoise and peninsular bighorn sheep. The proposed acquisition will complement and greatly enhance the ecological value of the many other acquisitions that have previously occurred in these areas in the last few years. ###
08.06.2015	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) issued the following statement in response to the agreement that will restore local control of Ontario International Airport: "Today is a good day for the Inland Empire. For far too long, we have seen first-hand the gradual decline of Ontario Airport, which is a critical component of our region's economic engine. With the return of local control, the future of Ontario Airport now rests in the hands of officials who are unquestionably committed to providing the Inland Empire with a first class airport. On numerous occasions I have personally urged Los Angeles Mayor Eric Garcetti to help us transfer control of Ontario Airport – and I want to thank him for making that a reality. I also want to thank the Ontario councilmembers, our region's elected officials and the public for joining together in a singular voice in support of restoring local control of Ontario Airport." ###
07.30.2015	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) issued the following statement in response to Senator Diane Feinstein's (D-CA) introduction the California Emergency Drought Relief Act: "The drought bill our California Senators introduced yesterday is a constructive step in the right direction, and while I do have concerns regarding aspects of the bill, I look forward to working with leaders in the House and Senate to advance drought legislation? in the fall." On July 16, 2015, Rep. Calvert voted along with a majority (245 – 176) of the House of Representatives to pass the Western Water and American Food Security Act, H.R. 2898. According to Senator Feinstein's office, the following provisions were included in her legislation and are similar to those in H.R. 2898: · Storage projects: Establishes deadlines for the Bureau of Reclamation to complete feasibility studies to allow CalFed storage projects to compete for Proposition 1 bond funds. · Monitoring for smelt: During periods when water turbidity is high and smelt are likely to move near pumps, scientists must daily monitor for the presence of the fish. Pumps may only run at high levels when smelt are not present. · Reviewing transfers and barriers: Environmental reviews of water transfers and the installation and removal of temporary barriers will be expedited. These reviews will ensure these actions are consistent with environmental laws. · Cross-Channel Gates: Delta Cross-Channel Gates may only be opened for additional time if doing so remains consistent with water quality-related orders issued by the State Water Resources Control Board. · Water transfers: Water transfers sent into the Delta in April and May can only be withdrawn at a 1:1 ratio if the transfers adhere to environmental law and biological opinions. The water covered by the 1:1 ratio must be additional flow on top of the regular flow of the river, and the environmental effects of the transferred water must be permissible under applicable law. ###
07.29.2015	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) was named a "Hero of Main Street" by the National Retail Federation (NRF) for his support of policies that work for employees and employers alike. "As a former small business owner, I know first-hand how import it is for legislators to support policies that allow small businesses to thrive," said Rep. Calvert. "Small businesses are the drivers of our economy and deserve to have a simpler tax code and less red-tape coming from Washington bureaucrats. I pledge to keep working on behalf of our job creators to make the federal government one less thing they have to worry about." "NRF's Heroes of Main Street have shown through their voting records that they care about retailers, big and small, and value the role these businesses play in communities around the country," NRF President and CEO Matthew Shay said. "By backing our policy priorities, they show their commitment to a prosperous Main Street and to the long-term growth of retail - our nation's largest private-sector employer." The Hero of Main Street award was created by NRF in 2013 to recognize members of Congress for support of the retail industry's public policy priorities such as patent reform, health care, tax reform and workforce policies that work for employees and employers alike. NRF is the world's largest retail trade association, representing discount and department stores, home goods and specialty stores, Main Street merchants, grocers, wholesalers, chain restaurants and Internet retailers from the United States and more than 45 countries. Retail is the nation's largest private sector employer, supporting one in four U.S. jobs – 42 million working Americans. Contributing $2.6 trillion to annual GDP, retail is a daily barometer for the nation's economy. ###
07.24.2015	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) issued the following statement ahead of the 25th anniversary of the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA): "Virtually all of us have a family member, friend or neighbor who is disabled, and we have seen firsthand how they encounter significant challenges on a daily basis. Since the passage of the Americans with Disabilities Act our nation has taken great strides to remove unnecessary obstacles that complicate the lives of the disabled. Looking forward, more can and should be done to ensure the ADA is applied in ways that continue to improve the lives and truly protects the disabled as it was intended. After 25 years, it's safe to say that everyone's heart is in the right place and the time is now right to protect well-intended businesses from unwarranted lawsuits by allowing a compliance grace period in lieu of immediate lawsuits." ###
07.23.2015	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) joined a majority (241-179) of the House in approving the Enforce the Law for Sanctuary Cities Act, H.R. 3009. Rep. Calvert is an original cosponsor of H.R. 3009, which will withhold federal law enforcement funding for states and localities that circumvent the federal government's efforts to enforce our immigration laws. "Sanctuary cities make our immigration problems worse, not better, and Congress should take action to discourage them in any way it can," said Rep. Calvert. "The Obama administration's encouragement of sanctuary cities and failure to enforce our immigration laws is irresponsible and especially dangerous when it comes to the failure to deport criminal immigrants. It is my hope that the passage of this bill is only a start of Congressional action to strengthen the enforcement of our immigration laws." Rep. Calvert spoke on the House floor in support of H.R. 3009. His full statement is below. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of this bill and in support of American families. This week we've heard powerful and heartbreaking stories from families who have lost a loved one at the hands of an illegal immigrant. Often times, these individuals were able to operate freely because of the sanctuary policies of certain U.S. cities – policies that ignore federal immigration law. It is time this Congress put the lives and welfare of American citizens and legal residents first. It is time to protect the innocent. This means not another Kate, Josh, Dennis, Danny, Grant, and countless others. It is time to penalize cities that willfully ignore federal law to the detriment of citizens and legal residents. I encourage my fellow Members to read the testimony from this week's Senate hearing. Read about the lives lost, the brutality of the crimes, the lack of remorse by the perpetrators, and the heartbreak of the families. Today we have a choice: protect fellow Americans or give sanctuary to criminal aliens. Thank you and I yield back my time. ### UPDATE: Rep. Calvert spoke in support of the Enforce the Law for Sanctuary Cities Act, H.R. 3009, however, for unknown reasons the electronic vote device on the floor of the House failed to register his YES vote (which was made by inserting his voting card and pressing the yea button). Therefore, on the final vote tally, he is officially recorded as "Not Voting" even though he did in fact vote for the bill. Immediately prior to the vote on final passage, Rep. Calvert cast a vote against the Democratic Motion to Recommit. Rep. Calvert is recorded as voting on all the prior votes in the series.
07.16.2015	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) voted along with a majority (245 – 176) of the House of Representatives to pass the Western Water and American Food Security Act, H.R. 2898. "Californians expect and deserve a reliable and affordable water supply, even during periods of drought," said Rep. Calvert. "While we can't control the drought, the water shortages our state is facing are due to inaction and failed policies. We can avert suffering through improved water management policies, and it is long overdue for the federal government to ensure that our critical water infrastructure is operated using sound science in order to prevent wasting our precious water supply in ways that do not benefit listed species. Furthermore, we must build the water storage facilities that have been authorized, some for over a decade, to ensure that we can use water from wet years during dry years. The bill passed by the House today takes important steps in that direction." Rep. Calvert is an original cosponsor of Western Water and American Food Security Act. He was the author of the last major Western water law approved by Congress in 2004. Rep. Calvert delivered floor remarks in support of the Western Water and American Food Security Act and wrote an op-ed focused on the California drought that appeared in today's Press Enterprise. Highlights of the Western Water and American Food Security Act (Provided by the House Natural Resources Committee) Based on previous legislative efforts that were initially developed on a bipartisan and bicameral basis, the Western Water and American Food Security Act addresses the underlying policy failures that are contributing to increasingly severe drought conditions in communities in California and across the Western United States. Improving Science and Transparency: Requires federal and state agencies to use the most updated available science in water management decisions and to allow the public to access such data, delivering improved habitat conditions for species without adversely affecting millions of people. Expanding Infrastructure: Enacts "one-stop-shop" permitting reforms aimed at building infrastructure to capture more water. Expanding Storage: Requires the federal government to expedite and complete consideration of feasibility studies for water storage projects that have been languishing in bureaucratic purgatory for over ten years. Regulatory Common Sense: Requires federal agencies to consider other less water-costly alternatives that would benefit the listed species, such as installing temporary barriers to prevent saltwater intrusion or removing non-native predator fish that eat protected species. Emergency Drought Response: Provides federal agencies the operational flexibility during times of crises to effectively make and implement operational decisions in real time without unnecessary regulatory hurdles. Water Rights Protection: Prevents federal agencies from requiring certain entities to relinquish their water rights to the United States in order to use public lands. ###
07.10.2015	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) signed on as an original cosponsor on two bills that enhanced the enforcement of our immigration laws. Rep. Calvert signed on as an original cosponsor of the Enforce the Law for Sanctuary Cities Act, H.R. 3009, which will withhold federal law enforcement funding for states and localities that circumvent the federal government's efforts to enforce our immigration laws. Rep. Calvert also signed on as an original cosponsor of "Kate's Law," H.R. 3011, which will ensure that any adult illegal immigrant, who is deported from the US and chooses to again enter our country illegally, will face a sentence of no less than five years in prison. "There's little disagreement that our immigration system is broken and while there are many areas within the broader immigration debate where there is disagreement, there is a bipartisan sentiment that illegal immigrants who break our laws should be deported," said Rep. Calvert. "So-called "sanctuary cities" – like San Francisco – have policies that often make our illegal immigration problems worse, not better. Last week, Kathryn Steinle, an innocent 32 year-old woman was shot and killed in a senseless act of violence while she was walking on a San Francisco pier with her family. The alleged shooter was a man who was in the country illegal and who had previously been deported five times. The man had seven felony drug convictions and in April the San Francisco Sheriff's Office released him even though U.S. authorities requested that they hold him until they could take him into custody for deportation proceedings.
07.10.2015	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) proudly announced the list of candidates from the 42ndCongressional District that he nominated who have received and accepted an Offer of Appointment to our nation's service academies, and will be part of the Class of 2019. "Riverside County continues to produce extraordinary students who are ready, willing, and able to stand tall at our nation's service academies," said Rep. Calvert. "Nominating students from our region to attend our service academies is one of the highest privileges I have as a member of Congress. I am confident that the students who I have nominated will make significant contributions to our country that we can all be very proud of." Below is the list of candidates from the 42ndCongressional District: United States Air Force Academy Desiree Allum – Graduated from Vista Murrieta High School in June 2014, and graduated from the Air Force Academy Prep School in May 2015. Dustin Nethercutt – Graduated from Murrieta Mesa High School in June 2014, and graduated from the Air Force Academy Prep School in May 2015. Travis Shollin – Graduated from Santiago High School. David Velasco – Graduated from Murrieta Mesa High School. Trevor Westendorf – Graduated from Vista Murrieta High School. United States Military Academy at West Point Giuseppe Ghironzi – Graduated from Calvary Murrieta Christian Academy Jonathan Taylor – Graduated from Vista Murrieta High School. U.S. Naval Academy Jacob Santiago – Graduated from Murrieta Mesa High School. Alexander Velez – Graduated from Chaparral High School. Rep. Calvert's nominations are made on a strictly competitive basis. Therefore, he has established an Academy Nominations Selection Committee that determines nominations based solely on the candidate's qualifications. Candidates are judged on their scholastic achievements, leadership performance, athletic participation, community service, and motivation. An education at one of the military service academies is estimated to be valued at more than $400,000. ###
07.09.2015	Last night, during debate of the Fiscal Year 2016 Interior and Environment Appropriations bill an amendment was brought to me by House Leadership at the request of some southern Members of the Republican Caucus. The Leadership amendment would have codified existing National Park Service policy set by the Obama administration. Those Obama administration policies prohibit the sale and display of the Confederate flag on National Park Service properties, except when displayed in a historical or educational context. To be clear, I wholeheartedly support the Park Service's prohibitions regarding the Confederate flag and the amendment did nothing to change these prohibitions. Three amendments concerning the Confederate flag were adopted during the open rule process under which the Interior bill was considered. I accepted all of these amendments without disagreement or debate. The Jeffries amendment and the Huffman amendment regarding National Park concessioners maintained the Obama administration exceptions for displays in a historical and educational context, however, the Huffman amendment regarding National Park cemeteries did not. The intent of the Leadership's amendment was to clear up any confusion and maintain the Obama administration's policies with respect to those historical and educational exceptions. Looking back, I regret not conferring with my colleagues on the other side of the aisle, especially my Ranking Member Betty McCollum, prior to offering the Leadership's amendment and fully explaining its intent given the strong feelings Members of the House have regarding this important and sensitive issue. Below I have included all the amendments offered including the Leadership's amendment. You can also find the National Park Service (NPS) Director's Order #61, which the Leadership amendment would have codified. The Park Service regulation set by the Obama administration allows the placement of Confederate flags on the graves of Confederate soldiers one day a year. The acquisition and placement of the flags is not supported by any federal funding and it is explicitly stated that the Confederate flag will not be flown on any cemetery flagpole. Original Jeffries Amendment (accepted by voice vote): http://repcloakroom.house.gov/uploadedfiles/intfy16jeffries.pdf Original Huffman Amendment (accepted by voice vote): http://repcloakroom.house.gov/uploadedfiles/intfy16huffman.pdf Second Huffman Amendment (accepted by voice vote): http://repcloakroom.house.gov/uploadedfiles/intfy16huffman2.pdf Leadership Amendment: http://repcloakroom.house.gov/uploadedfiles/intfy16calvert.pdf Director's Order #61: http://www.nps.gov/policy/DOrders/DO-61.pdf National Park Service Memorandum from June 24, 2015/uploadedfiles/20150624_dom_confederateflag.pdf
06.25.2015	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) joined his California Republican colleagues in introducing a bill to modernize water policies in California and throughout the entire Western United States. H.R. 2898, the Western Water and American Food Security Act of 2015, aims to make more water available to families, farmers, and communities in California and bordering Western states. The dedication of vast quantities of water to protect certain species of fish listed under the Endangered Species Act (ESA) is a significant obstacle hindering water delivery in Central and Southern California. H.R. 2898 will require federal agencies to use current and reliable data when making regulatory decisions, which in turn will provide more water for communities in need. Additionally, H.R. 2898 will provide federal regulators with direction and flexibility to capture water during periods of greater precipitation, which can be used to increase California's water supplies dramatically. Furthermore, the bill will cut red tape holding back major water storage projects that have been authorized for over a decade, which will aid the entire Western United States during dry years. "The water bill we are introducing today will help California families and businesses that are suffering in our ongoing drought," said Rep. Ken Calvert (CA-42). "No legislation will magically end our drought but by passing this bill we can take a step in the right direction and work in a collaborative way to enact meaningful solutions. Our bill takes important steps that are the direct result of bipartisan and bicameral conversations, and I look forward to the continued engagement with my House colleagues as well as action from the Senate in the near future. Despite what opponents might say, our legislation does not gut – let alone modify – the Endangered Species Act. Rather, our bill ensures our critical water infrastructure is operated using sound science in order to prevent wasting precious water in ways that do not benefit listed species but come at a high cost to Californians." Congressman David Valadao (CA-21), the author of the legislation, said, "California's drought has devastated communities throughout the Central Valley and now the consequences are extending throughout the country. Inaction will result in the collapse of our domestic food supply." He continued, "Congress cannot make it rain but we can enact policies that expand our water infrastructure, allow for more water conveyance, and utilize legitimate science to ensure a reliable water supply for farmers and families." Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy (CA-23) stated, "The tragedy of the current drought is no longer isolated to California's Central Valley, and its response must include tangible solutions that provide us the opportunity to pursue the California Dream. Today is an important step to helping restore the water our communities desperately need by more fully utilizing the most sophisticated water system in the world to quench the robust economic opportunity California families, farmers, workers, and businesses all need." "My western colleagues have worked hard to collaborate on a common sense bill that helps people," stated Rep. Rob Bishop (R-UT), Chairman of the House Committee on Natural Resources. "Communities are suffering and we are putting forward a creative solution to address those needs. I look forward to working on a bipartisan basis in the House and Senate to move this legislation forward." "Having personally visited California's Central Valley on this matter, I can attest to the dire situation facing California with the drought," said Western Caucus Chairman and Natural Resources Vice-Chairman Cynthia Lummis (WY-at large). "This situation demands congressional action to tackle the man-made barriers that are needlessly choking off water supplies crucial not just for California jobs but for the food on American tables. I am pleased to work with my Californian colleagues to ensure we also seize this opportunity to address water issues west wide through water project permit streamlining, enhanced water storage, and protecting state-endowed water rights that are increasingly under attack at the federal level." "California's devastating drought is hurting our ag economy and food supply nationwide. This bill provides both the short- and long-term solutions that the Central Valley needs, beginning with more storage. It includes two pieces of legislation I've introduced to study and eliminate the threat of predator fish and to increase storage in New Melones reservoir. We can't keep waiting on the Senate or the President to get engaged and provide Californians with the solutions they need to survive," said Congressman Jeff Denham (CA-10). "This bill was designed to address the underlying causes of the drought in a pragmatic and bipartisan manner." said Congressman Steve Knight (CA-25). "There is no simple answer to this problem. But California needs rational solutions, not more water rations. "This balanced legislation improves water access for Californians around the state by using improved science to time water deliveries, preserving water rights and moving forward on new surface storage facilities. It protects the most fundamental water rights of all, area of origin rights, ensuring that Northern Californians who live where our state's water originates have access to it," said Congressman Doug LaMalfa (CA-01). "Californians have spoken clearly in support of investment in new surface storage projects, and this measure fulfills the promise to voters by advancing projects that would generate over one million acre-feet of water, enough for eight million Californians. We'll continue to refine this proposal as it moves through the process, but I am proud to cosponsor a bill that addresses both short- and long-term needs of all Californians and supports continued economic growth." "Droughts are nature's fault; water shortages are our fault," said Congressman Tom McClintock (CA-04). "For a generation, we have failed to build the facilities needed to store water from wet years to have it in dry ones and radical environmental laws have squandered the water we did store. Our water shortage is caused by a shortage of sensible water policy. This bill begins fixing that." Congressman Devin Nunes (CA-22) explained, "Facing an annual water deficit of 2.5 million acre-feet south of the Delta, the San Joaquin Valley urgently needs whatever relief it can get. And once again, the House of Representatives is taking action to assist our long-suffering communities. As this entirely preventable water crisis continues to ravage Valley farms and devastate our economy, I urge the Senate to finally begin supporting the House's consistent efforts to roll back the disastrous government regulations that prioritize fish over families." Original cosponsors of Congressman Valadao's legislation include Reps. Ken Calvert (CA-42), Paul Cook (CA-08), Jim Costa (CA-16), Jeff Denham (CA-10), Duncan Hunter (CA-50), Darrell E. Issa (CA-49), Stephen Knight (CA-25), Dough LaMalfa (CA-01), Kevin McCarthy (CA-23), Tom McClintock (CA-04), Devin Nunes (CA-22), Dana Rohrabacher (CA-48), Edward R. Royce (CA-39), Mimi Walters (CA-45), Mark E. Amodei (NV-02), Rodney Davis (IL-13), Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25), Cresent Hardy (NV-04), David P. Joyce (OH-14), Cynthia M. Lummis (WY-AL), Dan Newhouse (WA-04), Michael K. Simpson (ID-02), Chris Stewart (UT-02), Scott Tipton (CO-03), and Ryan K. Zinke (MT-AL). The full text of H.R. 2898 can be found here.
06.25.2015	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) issued the following statement in response to the Supreme Court's ruling in King v. Burwell: "Today's decision by the Supreme Court is clearly disappointing to me and my constituents who overwhelmingly believe ObamaCare is a deeply flawed law. Thankfully, in our democracy, the power ultimately resides with the people. Elections have consequences. We now know that the fate of freedom in healthcare is up to the 2016 election. It is indeed a time to choose." ###
06.24.2015	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42), along with ten of his California delegation colleagues, sent a letter to U.S. Labor Secretary Thomas Perez urging him to release federal transit funding that the Department of Labor (DOL) continues to deny to California mass transit agencies. "It's long past time for the Obama administration to stop playing political games and ensure our transit agencies receive promised funding," said Rep. Calvert. "If Secretary Perez does not act soon, transit riders throughout California will feel the impact of reduced service and the continued deterioration of transit vehicles. I simply don't know how anyone can think it is right to penalize California transit riders, employees and taxpayers because the state enacted common sense pension reforms." "Riverside County is expanding public transit options, both rail and bus, with strong federal support," said Riverside County Transportation Commission Chairman Daryl Busch, Mayor of the City of Perris. "It is deeply troubling that at this pivotal time the federal government is holding back the basic funds we rely on every day. I thank Congressman Calvert for standing up for public transit and our residents who depend on it." "I applaud Congressman Calvert's efforts to ensure that Riverside County residents have uninterrupted access to the transit they depend on to get them to school, work and the doctor," said Riverside Transit Agency Chairman of the Board Andrew Kotyuk. "I am confident that the many seniors, veterans and disabled residents who rely on RTA appreciate the Congressman advancing the conversation on this issue in Washington D.C." U.S. Department of Transportation grant funding for mass transit agencies requires the certification of the Secretary of Labor under rules established by the 1964 Urban Mass Transportation Act. Following the passage of pension reform laws in California, which were supported by the state legislature and Governor Jerry Brown, Secretary Perez has refused to certify federal grant funds for all California transit agencies. Last December, the U.S. Eastern District Court ruled against the DOL and called their failure to certify and release the transit funds as "arbitrary" and "capricious." The DOL has appealed that ruling. The following members signed the letter to Secretary Perez: Col. Paul Cook (CA-8) Rep. Sam Farr (CA-20) Rep. Duncan Hunter (CA-50) Rep. Steve Knight (CA-25) Rep. Doug LaMalfa (CA-1) Rep. Tom McClintock (CA-4) Rep. Devin Nunes (CA-22) Rep. Dana Rohrabacher (CA-48) Rep. Ed Royce (CA-39) Rep. Mimi Walters (CA-45) ###
06.18.2015	Rep. Calvert Statement on Charleston Shooting WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) issued the following statement in response to the shooting in Charleston, South Carolina: "The shooting last night at the Emanuel AME Church in Charleston is senseless and heartbreaking. To brutally attack innocent Americans in a house of worship is an evil and horrendous act. My thoughts and prayers are with the victims, their families, and all of Charleston."
05.27.2015	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) issued the following statement in reaction to the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) finalizing its Waters of the United States (WOTUS) rule: "Today, the President has given EPA regulators even more power over the lives of American families and their personal property. Make no mistake, the misguided WOTUS regulation will result in increased redundancy, cause unnecessary delays, kill jobs and harm our economy. My constituents want to see less red tape, not more, yet today's announcement means our already ineffective federal regulators will have an even greater ability to suppress the rights of property owners." Rep. Calvert is the Chairman of the House Appropriations Interior and Environment Subcommittee, which provides funding for the EPA and other agencies. On May 12, 2015, Rep. Calvert joined a bipartisan majority of his House colleagues in supporting the Regulatory Integrity Protection Act (H.R. 1732), which requires EPA to withdraw the WOTUS rule. ###
05.01.2015	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) voted along with a bipartisan majority (240-177) of the House of Representatives in approving the Fiscal Year 2016 Energy and Water Appropriations bill. "The drought in California continues to highlight the importance of investing in critical water infrastructure projects," said Rep. Calvert. "The bill approved by the House today will help fund a number of projects, both in California and around the country, that are essential to maintaining water supplies and flood control. Despite these investments, far too many projects, especially water storage projects in California, continue to be studied to death. Thankfully, California members of the Appropriations Committee have inserted language in the bill that will require federal agencies to complete these studies by specified dates in the near future." Fiscal Year 2016 Energy and Water Appropriations Bill Highlights (Courtesy of the House Appropriations Committee) CALIFORNIA DROUGHT The Appropriations Committee approved an amendment by Congressman David Valadao (CA-21) that would direct the Bureau of Reclamation to complete the Shasta and Temperance Flats feasibility studies by the end of this year; the Los Vaqueros and Sites Reservoir feasibility studies by November 30, 2016; and the San Luis Reservoir lowpoint improvement project, which is studying how to increase San Luis Reservoir, by December 31, 2017. INVESTING IN AMERICAN INFRASTRUCTURE Protects funding for critical national and regional waterways that handle commerce valued at more than $1.7 trillion annually. Allows for full use of Inland Waterways Trust Fund annual revenues, and provides $1.18 billion from the Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund ($73 million above last fiscal year). Focuses Army Corps of Engineers funding on projects that will have a direct impact on public safety, job creation, and the economy, including: Advancing American competitiveness and export ability by including $2.4 billion for navigation projects and studies. Supporting public health and safety by funding flood and storm damage reduction activities at $1.6 billion. Upgrades our nation's electric grid by providing $140.5 million for research and development. Keeps the Yucca Mountain licensing process going, providing $150 million for the Nuclear Waste Disposal Program. Cutting the Administration's Red Tape Prohibits implementation of the "Waters of the U.S." rule, which could have devastating effects on American farmers and ranchers, small businesses, and other economic development activities. Prohibits the Administration from changing the definitions of "fill material" and "discharge of fill material" - which could shut down coal and other mining operations and damage our economy. ###
04.29.2015	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) voted along with a bipartisan majority (255-163) of the House of Representatives in approving the Fiscal Year 2016 Military Construction and Veteran Affairs Appropriations bill. "Anything short of prompt, high quality healthcare for our veterans is simply unacceptable to me," said Rep. Calvert. "The funding bill approved by the House today once again provides significant funding for the infrastructure our veterans and active duty military members need and deserve. I am also pleased that the Appropriations Committee has included a number of measures within the bill that hold the VA accountable for reforming the broken parts within our veteran healthcare systems." Fiscal Year 2016 Military Construction and Veteran Affairs Appropriations Bill Highlights (Courtesy of the House Appropriations Committee) MEETING OUR VETERAN OBLIGATIONS Ensures our veterans receive their much deserved health, job and training, and other benefits by increasing discretionary funding for veterans programs by 5.6% over last fiscal year. Provides $48.6 billion for VA Medical Services ($3.4 billion above last fiscal year) to care for 6.9 million patients. Includes funding for mental health care, suicide prevention, traumatic brain injury, ending homelessness, and rural health. Provides an additional $970 million for homelessness, Hepatitis C, and support for caregivers of veterans. RIGHTING THE SHIP AT VA Speeds up VA claims processing by providing $163 million above last year. Tracks progress toward reducing backlog by extending rigorous reporting requirements. Supports 770 new staff to tackle claims issues. Helps ensure our veterans receive proper medical care by including $233 million for the modernization of the VA electronic health record system. Ensures that VA continues to work hand-in-hand with Department of Defense by walling off funding until VA meets requirements. Tightens oversight of taxpayer dollars to address mismanagement. Requires reports on construction costs, savings, and changes in scope. SUPPORTING OUR ACTIVE-DUTY SERVICEMEMBERS Provides support systems and infrastructure to maintain the morale and readiness of our warfighters and care for their loved ones. Provides $7.7 billion for construction and renovation on military bases in the U.S. and around the globe. Ensures quality housing for 1,388,028 military families. Supports and cares for 9.8 million beneficiaries, including our wounded troops abroad, by providing $607 million for medical facilities. ###
04.24.2015	Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) is pleased to announce his 23rd Annual Academy Night event for high school students in the 42nd Congressional District who are interested in attending one of the U.S. military academies. Academy Night features presentations from the U.S Air Force Academy, the U.S. Military Academy at West Point, the U.S. Naval Academy, the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy and the U.S. Coast Guard Academy. When: Wednesday, May 6, 2015 6:00 p.m. to 8:00 p.m. Where: Ortega High School Conference Center 520 Chaney Street in Lake Elsinore Students will learn about the admission requirements and the congressional nomination process, and will have the opportunity to meet with representatives from each academy, members of Rep. Calvert's Academy Nominations Selection Committee, and his congressional staff – all of whom will be more than willing to help the students throughout the application process. For more information about Rep. Calvert's military academy nomination process please click here. The 42nd District encompasses the western edge of Riverside County including the cities of Eastvale, Norco, Corona, Lake Elsinore, Wildomar, Canyon Lake, Menifee, Murrieta and a portion of Temecula. ###
04.23.2015	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) introduced legislation, the Employee Bonus Protection Act (H.R. 1981) aimed at protecting employee bonuses from overly complex federal requirements. "Both employees and their employers lose out when complicated government regulations make it tougher to run a business," said Rep. Calvert. "The government needs to get out of the way and make it easier, not harder, for businesses who want to reward employees with additional compensation. The Employee Bonus Protection Act is a commonsense solution that will help hard working Americans and small businesses." Under the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938 (FLSA), the Department of Labor requires that any employer calculate and factor in earned bonuses (including bonuses paid and lodging provided) when determining an employee's "regular rate of pay" for purposes of overtime compensation for each pay period. This requirement poses an unnecessary burden on businesses and employers, large and small alike, who are required to recalculate each employee's rate of pay depending on different bonuses earned every month. In fact, many businesses are forced to eliminate these incentives entirely because they cannot afford to hire an accountant or designate an employee to determine these changing rates of pay, disincentivizing employees to innovate and produce results for their employers, and ultimately their customers. The Employee Bonus Protection Act would amend the FLSA to provide that an employee's regular pay rate, for purposes of calculating overtime compensation, will not be affected by additional payments to reward an employee or group of employees for meeting or exceeding productivity, quality, efficiency, or sales goals under a gain sharing, incentive bonus, commission, or performance contingent bonus plan. ###
04.15.2015	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) issued the following statement in response to the Air Force's decision not to select March Air Reserve Base as a candidate base for the new KC-46 tanker aircraft: "March Air Reserve Base plays a significant role contributing to our military's air mobility, including the air refueling mission, and was the only Air Force Reserve base located on the West Coast that was in contention for this round of base selections. That is why many people, myself included, were so surprised to learn that March was not chosen as a candidate base. The air refueling mission at March has and will continue to be an integral part of the base's significant support of our national security. I will continue to advocate for March as an ideal location for the future beddown of KC-46s." ###
03.25.2015	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) voted along with a majority (XXX-XXX) of his House colleagues to approve Price Substitute #2, the Fiscal Year 2016 Budget Resolution. Price Substitute #2 balances the budget in less than 10 years without raising taxes and cuts $5.5 trillion in spending over the next 10 years. Following the passage of the bill, Rep. Calvert issued the following statement: "Our national debt continues to pose a serious threat to our future economic growth and national security. If we fail to act, these threats will grow and the risk to our country will be far greater. President Obama's budget plan leads to more spending, more debt, and more kicking the can down the road. That's not leadership. Thankfully, House Republicans have chosen to once again pursue a responsible path that leads to a truly balanced budget. The House budget will enhance our economic future by calling for a fairer, simpler tax code and repealing the job-killing provisions in ObamaCare, including its taxes, regulations and mandates. The plan promotes freedom of choice, affordability, and patient-centered heath care solutions. In order to protect our national security, the House budget will ensure necessary funding is provided for troop training, equipment and compensation. The budget also includes provisions that will improve the efficiency in the Defense Department, including the civilian workforce. Specifically, the budget contains language that echoes the REDUCE Act, legislation that I have introduced that would require any reductions in military end strength be accompanied by appropriate reductions in the civilian workforce in order to maintain a ratio that more closely resembles the historical average. There's no question that the House budget requires a number of sacrifices, but American families make and live with similar sacrifices every day and they expect our government to do the same. President Obama may not understand that, but I do and I encourage all of my colleagues to support the House Republican budget and its path towards a brighter economic future and a more secure America." ###
03.04.2015	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) questioned Secretary of Defense Ashton Carter about the unbalanced number of civilian employees in the Defense Department relative to the number of uniformed soldiers. During the exchange, Secretary Carter agreed with Rep. Calvert's concerns about the efficiency in the department's civilian workforce. Secretary Carter was testifying before the House Defense Appropriations Subcommittee. "Well actually I'm with you," said Secretary Carter. "I think we should go after excess wherever we find it in the Department. And the civilian workforce, like the military personnel end-strength has to be something that we scrutinize and reduce. And I think we can reduce the civilian workforce." "I am encouraged by Secretary Carter's comments that he is interested in improving the efficiency of his department's civilian workforce so we can then invest those savings into military end-strength and readiness," said Rep. Calvert. "I want to pass legislation that gives Secretary Carter the ability to shape and mold his workforce in an effective way." Rep. Calvert has introduced legislation aimed at creating a more efficient civilian workforce at the Department of Defense (DOD).The Rebalance for an Effective Defense Uniform and Civilian Employees (REDUCE) Act (H.R. 340)would require the DOD to make civilian workforce reductions in a systematic manner without compromising our ability to maintain a strong national defense over the long term. Currently there are 776,841 civilian employees at the DOD as compared to 644,000 in 2004, an increase of 132,841. By comparison, from 2004 to 2014 the Active Duty military component went from 1,428,000 to 1,331,000, a reduction of 97,000. ###
03.03.2015	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) issued the following statement following Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu's address to Congress: "Iran cannot be allowed to develop nuclear weapons, and the United States should not be party to any agreement that allows them to move closer to that reality – now or in the future. Today, I was proud to stand and support Prime Minister Netanyahu. I have and I will continue to stand with Israel. "I strongly agree with Prime Minister Netanyahu's assessment that Iran continues to conduct itself in a manner that is directly in line with a distorted, violent spectrum of Islam and is the primary state sponsor of terrorism in the world."
02.27.2015	Today, Rep. Ken Calvert (CA-42), along with Rep. Lamar Smith (TX-21), Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (VA-6), Subcommittee on Immigration Chairman Rep. Trey Gowdy (SC-4), and others, introduced the Legal Workforce Act, H.R. 1147, which will make employment verification mandatory nationwide. "One of the biggest reasons so many of my constituents remain concerned about illegal immigration is the fact that individuals who are not authorized to work in our country continue to find jobs," said Rep. Calvert. "E-Verify is an incredibly useful tool that must be part of our solutions to our immigration challenges. I look forward to working with my House colleagues to expand the use of E-Verify and ensuring only authorized workers are employed in our country." E-Verify, created by Rep. Calvert in 1996 through legislation, is the only tool available to employers to check the legal status of newly hired employees. It is web-based, 99.5% accurate and free to employers. Below is a summary of some of the major components in the Legal Workforce Act: Gradual Phase-In: Phases-in mandatory E-Verify participation for new hires in six month increments beginning on the date of enactment. Within six months of enactment, businesses having more than 10,000 employees are required to use E-Verify. Within 12 months after enactment, businesses having 500 to 9,999 employees are required to use E-Verify. Within 18 months after enactment, businesses having 20 to 499 employees must use E-Verify. And within 24 months after enactment, businesses having 1 to 19 employees must use E-Verify. Penalties: Increases the civil and criminal penalties for employers who violate the laws prohibiting illegal hiring and employment. Social Security Number: "Self Lock": Allows individuals to "lock" their own Social Security Number so that it cannot be used to verify work eligibility, in order to combat identity theft. Federal Preemption: Preempts state laws mandating E-Verify use for employment eligibility purposes but allows states and localities to enforce mandatory employment verification. Safe Harbor: Grants employers safe harbor from prosecution if they use the E-Verify program in good faith, and through no fault of theirs, receive an incorrect eligibility confirmation. ###
02.26.2015	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) questioned Navy Secretary Ray Mabus, Chief of Naval Operations Admiral Jonathan W. Greenert, and Marine Corps Commandant General Joseph F. Dunford, Jr. about the need for a more efficient civilian workforce in the Department of Defense. The exchange took place during the House Defense Appropriations Subcommittee budget oversight hearing on the Navy's Fiscal Year 2015 budget proposal. In response to Rep. Calvert's questions regarding the civilian workforce, Admiral Greenert stated that "You could really help us by giving us the authorities to manage our civilian workforce like we manage our military." Later, he concluded that "We don't have the flexibility to properly manage the civilian workforce." "We need to put the policies in place that enable our military leaders to shape an appropriate and efficient civilian workforce," said Rep. Calvert. "I appreciate the feedback our Navy leadership provided at this morning's hearing and I will continue to advocate for changes that will establish a more efficient defense civilian workforce while investing the resulting savings back into the needs of our uniformed soldiers." Currently there are 776,841 civilian employees at the DOD as compared to 644,000 in 2004, an increase of 132,841. By comparison, from 2004 to 2014 the Active Duty military component went from 1,428,000 to 1,331,000, a reduction of 97,000. "As we are drawing down the end strength of our military, and in some cases, such as the Marine Corps, I think the reductions are too much, it is simply inconceivable that we cannot have corresponding cuts in civilian support staff," stated Rep. Calvert. Rep. Calvert has introduced legislation aimed at creating a more efficient civilian workforce at the Department of Defense (DOD). The Rebalance for an Effective Defense Uniform and Civilian Employees (REDUCE) Act (H.R. 340) would require the DOD to make civilian workforce reductions in a systematic manner without compromising our ability to maintain a strong national defense over the long term. To read more about the REDUCE Act click HERE. ###
02.24.2015	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) issued the following statement in response to President Obama's veto of the legislation authorizing the construction of the Keystone XL pipeline: "By opposing the construction of the Keystone pipeline the President has demonstrated how out of touch he is with middle-class American families. Let's be clear, today President Obama took a position that makes it harder to achieve North American energy independence, kills American jobs, fails to reduce our dependence on oil from the Middle East, and insults one of our closest allies and trading partners. I look forward to voting to override the President's horribly misguided veto." ###
02.12.2015	Rep. Calvert Announces Military Academy Nominations WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) announced the students from the 42nd Congressional District that he has nominated to attend the U.S. Service Academies. As a Member of Congress, Rep. Calvert has the privilege of nominating a select group of highly qualified young men and women from the 42nd District for an appointment to one or more U.S. Service Academies—Air Force, Naval, Military and Merchant Marine. "These young men and women who I have nominated to the service academies have character, integrity, motivation and pride, and I am proud to nominate them," stated Rep. Calvert. "I have no doubt that these students represent our region with honor and will serve our country well." Last month, Rep. Calvert's Academy Nominations Selection Committee evaluated candidates from the 42nd Congressional District, who were seeking a nomination to one or more of our nation's military service academies. Twenty-Two candidates were selected to receive Congressman Calvert's nomination. They are as follows: U.S. AIR FORCE ACADEMY: Desiree Allum, Vista Murrieta High School (Class of 2014), currently attending the United States Air Force Academy Preparatory School John Buckley, Great Oak High School De'Ja Calder, Norco High School Ethan Downing, Murrieta Valley High School Ronald Goennier, Beaumont High School Dustin Nethercutt, Murrieta Mesa High School (Class of 2014), currently attending the United States Air Force Academy Preparatory School Brian Perez, Arlington High School David Velasco, Murrieta Mesa High School Trevor Westendorf, Vista Murrieta High School Jonah Zimmer, Calvary Murrieta Christian School U.S. NAVAL ACADEMY: Alex Apilado, Chaparral High School Joshua Brown, Great Oak High School Gayathri Chengodam, Eleanor Roosevelt High School Ronald Goennier, Beaumonth High School Lucas Parker, Dehesa Charter School Jared Rivera, Vista Murrieta High School Jacob Santiago, Murrieta Mesa High School Nicholas Sousa, Vista Murrieta High School Alexander Velez, Chaparral High School James Wheaton, Murrieta Mesa High School U.S. MILITARY ACADEMY AT WEST POINT: Giuseppe Ghironzi, Calvary Murrieta Christian Academy Joshua Brown, Great Oak High School Jonathan Taylor, Vista Murrieta High School Austin Wheeler, Norco High School U.S. MERCHANT MARINE ACADEMY: Jordan Frisby, Diamond Ranch School The Service Academies will evaluate the nominees based on their academic, athletic and physical qualifications and extend an appointment to the best qualified students that Rep. Calvert has nominated.
02.11.2015	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) urged the Army Corps of Engineers to act with increased urgency to advance the Murrieta Creek flood control project. Rep. Calvert participated in the Energy and Water Appropriations Subcommittee budget oversight hearing with Ms. Jo-Ellen Darcy, Assistant Secretary of the Army for Civil Works, and Lieutenant General Thomas P. Bostick, Commanding General and Chief of Engineers for the Army Corps of Engineers. "The completion of the Murrieta Creek flood control project is long overdue and I expect the Corps of Engineers to do everything in their power to work with the Riverside County Flood Control District to finish it," said Rep. Calvert. "Today, I urged the top leadership at the Corps of Engineers to make the project a priority and to ensure the necessary steps are taken without any avoidable delays. The residents in Murrieta and Temecula deserve the piece-of-mind that comes with adequate flood protection." Rep. Calvert also questioned Asst. Sec. Darcy about the Los Angeles River project and the appropriateness of the Corps of Engineers potentially providing funding for preconstruction engineering and design prior to the project actually being authorized. To watch Rep. Calvert's questions to the Corps of Engineers leadership during today's hearing click HERE. ###
02.05.2015	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) spoke with a senior Interior Department official to urge the agency to find ways to approve some flexibility in order to capture water from the storm event expected to hit Northern California starting late Friday and into Saturday. "This January finished as one of the driest Januaries on historical record, only exacerbating the severe drought California is facing," said Rep. Calvert. "While this storm will not solve our state's water problems, we should pump and capture as much of the heavy rainfall runoff from this storm as possible. Our reservoirs are so depleted by this drought that there is plenty of capacity to take full advantage of the large amounts of rainfall that are predicted for northern California over the next five days. It's time to start prioritizing the critical needs of Californians and start reducing the negative impacts of failed regulatory restrictions." According to the National Weather Service a significant storm, referred to as an atmospheric river, is expected to bring heavy rainfall to northern California through the weekend. Rainfall amounts in excess of 5 inches are possible through Saturday evening, especially across northern California.
02.03.2015	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) released the following statement in response to the Fiscal Year 2016 Budget proposed by President Obama: "The President claims to be proposing a budget to boost middle class families but, in reality, it just piles more debt and higher taxes on American taxpayers. My constituents are seriously concerned about the mounting federal debt and expect Congress and the President to work together to resolve our fiscal crisis. Unfortunately, the President seems content to kick the can down the road and is once again refusing to demonstrate any political courage by making difficult but necessary fiscal decisions. I am confident that the Republican majority in Congress will take a bolder approach that balances our budget over time while finding ways to invest in programs that help America's global competitiveness and build the foundation for future economic growth. Smart investments coupled with long overdue tax reform are the path towards a prosperous future. The President's rhetoric echoes a similar sentiment, but his actual proposals would hurt our economy and further burden taxpayers with a bloated federal government. "The primary responsibility of our government is the protection of our citizens and the only way to fulfill that mission is through a strong national defense. I support increased defense spending to reset the force, provide for our U.S. service members and to procure the necessary platforms that will replace aging weapons systems. We can provide for a strong defense through civilian workforce reforms, such as my bill the REDUCE Act (H.R. 340)." Key Facts: The President's FY 2016 Budget Tax Increases · Despite $2.1 trillion in new tax increases, President Obama's budget never balances—ever. · Major proposed tax increases include higher levies on savings and investment, small businesses, and increases in the costs of hiring workers. · These tax hikes would stunt the economic growth needed to get Americans back to work, and come on top of $1.7 trillion in tax hikes already imposed by this Administration. Spending Increases · The President's budget increases annually-appropriated spending for next year by $74 billion relative to current law. Over 5 years, he would increase such spending by $322 billion. · Next year alone, the President's budget would grow total federal spending by $259 billion, or 7 percent. · Total spending will increase by 65 percent ($2.4 trillion) in 10 years under the President's plan. Interest Costs Skyrocket · President Obama's plan more than triples interest costs, which remain the fastest growing item in the budget. · Interest on the debt this year would be $229 billion, but would rise to $785 billion in 2025 under his plan. · At the end of President's plan, annual interest costs would be larger than his proposed spending for national defense, Medicaid or the combined total of all non-defense agency spending. Debt Climbs · Since 2009, we've added $7.5 trillion to the debt and spent $21.1 trillion. · The President's budget plan would add $8.5 trillion to the debt. · Cumulative deficits would amount to $5.7 trillion, and gross debt would climb to $26.3 trillion in 2025. ###
01.28.2015	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) highlighted a recently released report by the Government Accountability Office (GAO) as further evidence that the Defense Department must take action to improve the efficiency of its workforce. Rep. Calvert has introduced the REDUCE Act, H.R. 340, to require the Defense Department to bring its ratio of civilian-to-uniformed personnel in-line with historical averages. "The GAO's findings should alarm our defense leaders and all American taxpayers," said Rep. Calvert. "The Defense Department is an incredibly large organization, which is why it is so concerning to read the GAO's findings that at the top levels there are no procedures in place to thoughtfully and comprehensively assess what personnel are necessary to execute their mission. In a time of budgetary constraints, our uniformed personnel will ultimately suffer if we cannot improve the efficiencies in our civilian defense workforce. We must make the smart and prompt decisions necessary to make the appropriate adjustments – no matter how difficult that is – to protect our soldiers, our national security, and taxpayers." Late last week, the GAO issued a report titled: "DOD Needs to Reassess Personnel Requirements for the Office of Secretary of Defense, Joint Staff, and Military Service Secretariats," which found that: "DOD headquarters organizations it reviewed do not determine their personnel requirements as part of a systematic requirements-determination process, nor do they have procedures in place to ensure that they periodically reassess these requirements as outlined in DOD and other guidance." "None of the headquarters organizations we reviewed have procedures in place to ensure that they periodically reassess their personnel requirements." "Without a systematic determination of personnel requirements and periodic reassessment of them, DOD will not be well positioned to proactively identify efficiencies and limit personnel growth within these headquarters organizations." "In 2013, the Secretary of Defense set a target to reduce DOD components' headquarters budgets by 20 percent through fiscal year 2019, including costs for contracted services, while striving for a similar reduction to military and civilian personnel. However, DOD has not finalized plans to achieve these reductions. DOD was required to report to Congress by June 2014 on efforts to streamline management headquarters, but needed an extension until late summer 2014 for the report due to staff turnover. As of December 2014, DOD's plan had not been issued." Earlier this month, Rep. Calvert introduced the Rebalance for an Effective Defense Uniform and Civilian Employees (REDUCE) Act, H.R. 340, which would require the DOD to make civilian workforce reductions in a systematic manner without compromising our ability to maintain a strong national defense over the long term. The requirements of the REDUCE Act will accomplish the following: Reduce our Defense civilian workforce by 15% by FY 2022. This percentage was recommended by the Defense Business Board, a trusted, authoritative, and independent source of expertise. The Department of Defense civilian workforce would remain at or below this established cap of a 15% reduction for Fiscal Years 2022 through 2026. The Department of Defense civilian Senior Executive Service career appointee workforce will be reduced to 1,000 by 2022 and remain at or below 1,000 employees for Fiscal Years 2022 through 2026. Provide the Secretary of Defense the authority to use voluntary separation incentive payments and voluntary early retirement payments in order to achieve the required reductions in personnel. Provide the Secretary of Defense the authority to assign greater weight to job performance versus tenure in a Reduction in Force then the Secretary currently has. ###
01.20.2015	Today, Representative Ken Calvert (CA-42) issued the following statement in response to President Obama's State of the Union Address: "What we've heard from the President is a call for higher taxes and more spending – that approach to governing is exactly what the American people rejected in our recent election. The best way to help lower and middle class families is to put the policies in place that will foster an economy that is full of good, well-paying jobs. We need a simpler, flatter tax system in our country. Not only will it make our businesses more competitive globally, but it will allow all taxpayers to spend less time and money when it is time to pay taxes. Instead of fixating on new and expensive programs, the President should focus on modest policy changes that get the government out of the way of progress. The REBUILD Act, which I introduced earlier this month, is a great example of a policy change that removes duplicative government requirements and results in the construction of infrastructure projects at a lower cost and faster timeline. Those are tangible results at no cost to taxpayers." ###
01.15.2015	Yesterday, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) reintroduced legislation aimed at creating a more efficient civilian workforce at the Department of Defense (DOD). The Rebalance for an Effective Defense Uniform and Civilian Employees (REDUCE) Act (H.R. 340) would require the DOD to make civilian workforce reductions in a systematic manner without compromising our ability to maintain a strong national defense over the long term. "A critical component of our national security strategy is the proper allocation of scarce federal resources," said Rep. Calvert. "The continued growth in our civilian staff at the DOD comes at a time when we are reducing the number of active-duty military personnel – something is clearly wrong with that equation. Simply put, if we fail to correct this trend our uniformed soldiers, not to mention American taxpayers, will suffer the consequences. The policies established by the REDUCE Act are not extreme measures, but rather they responsibly adjust the numbers of the civilian staff at the DOD over a number of years." The Growth in the Civilian Workforce within the DOD: From FY01 to FY14, the civilian staff has grown by 15% while total active military has declined by 4%.(Source: Defense Manpower Requirements Reports) Since 2009, the size of the Office of the Secretary of Defense civilian workforce has grown to more than 2,000 people, or nearly 18%. (Source: Eaglen, Mackenzie. About That Boom! in the Pentagon's Civilian Workforce. Time Magazine. 20 Jun. 2013.) The Joint Staff grew from 1,286 people in 2010 to 4,244 people in 2012, a 230 percent increase. (Source: Weisgerber, Marcus. Pentagon, Regional Staffs Growing Despite Orders to Trim Personnel. Defense News. 2 Jun. 2013.) According to former Secretary of the Navy John Lehman, each defense civilian reduction of 7,000 personnel saves at least $5 billion over five years. Using his numbers and calculating a 15% reduction from the current level of 770,000 civilian employees, H.R. 340 would save $82.5 billion over the first five years. "I continue to believe that he savings generated from the REDUCE Act should stay within the Department and be redirected to fund Service priorities such as modernizing weapons systems, readiness, resetting the force and, most importantly, providing for our fighting men and women in uniform," said Rep. Calvert. "Many of our civilians at the Pentagon and around the world do a fine job but their growth is unsustainable." continued Rep. Calvert. "Our current and retired military leaders have widely acknowledged the need to establish a more efficient defense workforce in order to preserve our national security posture in the future. However, actions speak louder than words and I continue to believe Congress will ultimately have to force DOD's hand to implement these necessary changes." The requirements of the REDUCE Act will accomplish the following: Reduce our Defense civilian workforce by 15% by FY 2022. This percentage was recommended by the Defense Business Board, a trusted, authoritative, and independent source of expertise. The Department of Defense civilian workforce would remain at or below this established cap of a 15% reduction for Fiscal Years 2022 through 2026. The Department of Defense civilian Senior Executive Service career appointee workforce will be reduced to 1,000 by 2022 and remain at or below 1,000 employees for Fiscal Years 2022 through 2026. Provide the Secretary of Defense the authority to use voluntary separation incentive payments and voluntary early retirement payments in order to achieve the required reductions in personnel. Provide the Secretary of Defense the authority to assign greater weight to job performance versus tenure in a Reduction in Force then the Secretary currently has. Require a two-fold reporting requirement for this Act: (1) a report from the Secretary of Defense covering the progress and impact of the requirements of this Act in the annual budget request for Fiscal Years 2018 through 2026. The Secretary of Defense may also report to Congress on the impact of the provisions at any time throughout the year (such as when submitting the report on achievement of performance goals as required by Sec. 116 of title 31 of the United States Code on "Agency performance rating."), (2) a GAO study, no later than 3 years after enactment of this Act, that shall examine the progress and impact of the requirements of this Act. In the development of the REDUCE Act, Rep. Calvert and his office consulted with respected defense officials and experts, including: Former Deputy Secretary of Defense Gordon R. England, Former Under Secretary of Defense Dr. Dov Zakheim, Former Secretary of the Navy John Lehman, and Major General (Ret.) Arnold Punaro (Member of the Defense Business Board). ###
01.14.2015	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) voted along with a majority (236-191) of the House to approve the Fiscal Year 2015 Homeland Security Appropriations bill as well as amendments to the bill that will prevent the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) from carrying out President Obama's executive actions regarding illegal immigration. "Today, the House sent President Obama a message that his attempt to grant amnesty through unconstitutional executive actions is an affront to the democratic process that has served our nation well for more than two hundred years," said Rep. Calvert. "My constituents want and expect to see the rule of law followed, regardless of who is in office. I have and I will continue to oppose the President's executive overreach at every opportunity." Rep. Calvert voted for the following amendments to the Homeland Security Appropriations bill which were approved by the House: Amendment offered by Reps. Robert Aderholt (R-Ala.), Mick Mulvaney (R-S.C.), and Lou Bartletta (R-Pa.): The amendment prevents any funds – whether they are appropriated funds or user fees collected by the agency – to be used to carry-out the executive actions announced on November 20, 2014 to grant deferred action to an estimated four million unlawful immigrants. The amendment also defunds the Obama Administration's so-called prosecutorial discretion memos that have gutted immigration enforcement within the United States. Additionally, it also declares that no funds may be used to carry-out any substantially similar policies to those defunded. The amendment makes clear that the defunded programs have no statutory or constitutional basis and therefore have no legal effect. The amendment also defunds the ability of aliens to receive any Federal benefits based on these policies. Amendment offered by Rep. Marsha Blackburn (R-Tenn.):The amendment provides that no funds – whether they are appropriated funds or user fees collected by the agency – may be used to consider new, renewal or previously denied deferred action for childhood arrivals (DACA) applications. Amendment offered by Reps. Ron DeSantis (R-Fla.) and Martha Roby (R-Ala.):This amendment ensures that sex offenders and domestic violence perpetrators are priorities for removal by U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement. Amendment offered by Rep. Aaron Schock (R-Ill.):This amendment expresses the sense of Congress that U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services should stop putting the interests of unlawful immigrants ahead of legal immigrants. Under the President's deferred action programs, legal immigrants playing by the rules and seeking to come to the United States the right way have paid the price for President Obama's executive actions. They've faced longer wait times, even though they have paid the fees to have their applications processed. Amendment offered by Reps. Matt Salmon (R-Ariz.) and Glenn Thompson (R-Pa.):This amendment expresses the sense of Congress that U.S. workers should not be harmed by U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services' actions. Under President Obama's executive amnesty plan, in many cases businesses now have a $3,000 incentive to hire an unlawful immigrant over a legal worker. Under the Affordable Care Act, many businesses face a $3,000-per-employee penalty if they do not provide health care to their workers. Since unlawful immigrants are not eligible for Obamacare, they will now be more attractive to hire than American workers in many instances. E-VERIFY The FY15 Homeland Security Appropriations bill also included $124.4 million to fund the E-Verify program, which is used to verify the legal status of newly hired employees. Rep. Calvertauthored the legislation that established the E-Verify system, which is free, easy to use and is now used by more than 500,000 businesses on a voluntary basis. ###
01.09.2015	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) and Congressman Duncan Hunter (CA-50) reintroduced the ACCESS Act, H.R. 241, legislation designed to help small businesses comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA). "The purpose of the Americans with Disabilities is not to give abusive trial lawyers access to the hard earned money earned by small businesses," said Rep. Calvert. "The ACCESS Act will ensure that disabled individuals continue to have access throughout our communities while protecting small businesses from abusive lawsuits. The important thing is to find ways to improve access, not to fleece small business owners and jeopardize jobs." "Too many small business owners fall victim to predatory lawsuits that serve the interests of trial lawyers, and do little to help the individuals that the ADA was designed to protect," said Rep. Hunter. "And in California, the problem is especially pervasive. By giving business owners a chance to address alleged ADA violations before a lawsuit is filed, we restore the focus on ensuring individuals with disabilities have the accommodations that they deserve." The ACCESS (ADA Compliance for Customer Entry to Stores and Services) Act would alleviate the financial burden small businesses are facing, while still fulfilling the purpose of the ADA. Any person aggrieved by a violation of the ADA would provide the owner or operator with a written notice of the violation, specific enough to allow such owner or operator to identify the barrier to their access. Within 60 days the owner or operator would be required to provide the aggrieved person with a description outlining improvements that would be made to address the barrier. The owner or operator would then have 120 days to remove the infraction. The failure to meet any of these conditions would allow the suit to go forward. The purpose of the ADA is to ensure appropriate remedial action for those who have suffered harm. Although there are times when litigation by harmed individuals is necessary, there are an increasing number of lawsuits brought under the ADA that are based upon a desire to achieve financial settlements rather than to achieve the appropriate modifications. ADA lawsuits are especially prevalent in California. According to the California Chamber of Commerce, California has 40% of the nation's ADA lawsuits but only 12% of the country's disabled population. These lawsuits place exorbitant legal fees on small businesses and often times they are unaware of the specific nature of the allegations brought against them. The following House members have signed on to cosponsor the ACCESS Act: 1. Tom McClintock (R-CA-4) 2. Jeff Denham (R-CA-10) 3. Dana Rohrabacher (R-CA-48) 4. Ed Royce (R-CA-39) 5. Doug LaMalfa (R-CA-1) 6. Darrell Issa (R-CA-49) 7. David Valadao (R-CA-21) 8. Paul Cook (R-CA-8) 9. Mimi Walters (R-CA-45) 10. Devin Nunes (R-CA-22) 11. Lynn Jenkins (R-KS-2) 12. Mike Simpson (R-ID-2) 13. Lynn Westmoreland (R-GA-3)
01.09.2015	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) voted along with a bipartisan majority of the House (266 to 153) to approve H.R. 3, the Keystone XL Pipeline Act. The legislation would immediately authorize the construction, connection, operation, and maintenance of the Keystone XL pipeline. "My constituents are sick and tired of the delays in approving and building the Keystone pipeline," said Rep. Calvert. "The recent drop in gas prices highlights the economic benefits of increased energy production right here in North America. Building the Keystone pipeline will increase access to more North American energy sources and further reduce our dependence on oil from the Middle East. President Obama's opposition to the Keystone pipeline and all of its economic benefits shows just how out of touch he is with middle class working families." The passage of H.R. 3 is the tenth bill approved by the House of Representatives to authorize the construction of the Keystone XL pipeline. The State Department studied the environmental impacts of the Keystone XL pipeline and concluded that it would not have a negative impact. Furthermore, the State Department found that the Keystone XL pipeline project would support roughly 42,000 jobs. Earlier today, the Nebraska Supreme Court ruled dismissed a key lawsuit challenging the Keystone XL pipeline. ###
01.08.2015	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) reintroduced the Reducing Environmental Barriers to Unified Infrastructure and Land Development (REBUILD) Act, H.R. 211. The legislation, which was first introduced in the 112th Congress, builds upon the success of the NEPA Pilot Program, enacted as part of 2005 highway bill, commonly known as SAFETEA-LU. "One of the easiest and cheapest ways we can get Americans working again is by removing unnecessary red tape," said Rep. Calvert. "The REBUILD Act will enable the construction of critical infrastructure projects at a lower cost and on a faster timetable without compromising any environmental protections." The REBUILD Act allows any state to enter into a Memorandum of Understanding with a designated federal agency, who has environmental review responsibilities under NEPA, and assume the review responsibilities of that agency. Under the REBUILD Act, states would still be required to uphold the same NEPA standards or greater, by assuming these responsibilities states could integrate NEPA compliance into their own state approval process thereby streamlining construction timelines and eliminating the need for redundant reviews at the federal level. The streamlined process is modeled after a pilot program created in SAFETEA-LU (Section 327 -Title 23 USC) that allowed a limited number of states to take on the task of ensuring National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) compliance for highway projects under the Federal Highway Administration (FHWA). In those states that chose to assume this responsibility, the length of time to complete a project review was reduced by an average of 17 months while also ensuring the goals of the NEPA process were not compromised. Regular audits of state NEPA programs required by this legislation would ensure states are upholding NEPA standards. Should a state be found in noncompliance, a mechanism is provided to initiate corrective action and, if necessary, revoke the state's NEPA responsibilities. ###
01.08.2015	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) reintroduced legislation, H. Con. Res 5, in support of Gold Star families throughout the United States. "The families of our fallen soldiers have paid a tremendous sacrifice on behalf of our country, and the very least we can do as a nation is to provide them with the support they need and deserve," said Rep. Calvert. "Private organizations and the larger military community do an amazing job providing valuable resources for Gold Star families in the aftermath of the loss of a loved one. Congress and the Executive Branch must continually look at new ways to support these families both in the days immediately following the tragedy and the years to come." The resolution introduced by Rep. Calvert encourages military bases around the country to organize and host events to recognize and commemorate the sacrifices of members of the Armed Forces. The resolution also encourages the attendance of families within the local area that have lost loved ones in combat to attend such commemorations. Since the start of the Global War on Terrorism more than 6,800 members of the Armed Forces have been killed. The Resolution is named in honor of U.S. Army Sergeant Clinton Ruiz who was killed in action in Afghanistan on October 25, 2012. Below is the actual text of the resolution: Expressing the sense of Congress regarding outreach to families of members of the Armed Forces killed in action in Iraq and Afghanistan, and in other conflicts. Whereas the human burden of the Global War on Terrorism has been disproportionately borne by the less than one percent of Americans who serve in the military; Whereas 2,356 members of the Armed Forces have died in Operation Enduring Freedom and 4,494 members of the Armed Forces have died in Operation Iraqi Freedom, Operation New Dawn and Operation Inherent Resolve as of January 7, 2015; Whereas the strength of our military is built upon the men and women who serve in uniform and the families who support them; and Whereas supporting those families who have lost loved ones in the Global War on Terrorism demonstrates the commitment of the American people to those families now and in the future: Now, therefore, be it Resolved by the House of Representatives (the Senate concurring), SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE. This resolution may be cited as the ‘‘Sergeant Clinton K. Ruiz Memorial Resolution''. SEC. 2. SENSE OF CONGRESS REGARDING FAMILIES THAT HAVE LOST LOVED ONES IN COMBAT. (1) all families that have lost loved ones in uniform should be recognized for their sacrifices and for their dedicated and patriotic support of the United States; (2) local communities should recognize and support those families that have lost a loved one in combat; and (3) the President should encourage military bases around the country to organize and host events to recognize and commemorate the sacrifices of members of the Armed Forces of all services, and to encourage the attendance of families within the local area that have lost loved ones in combat to attend such commemorations. ###
01.07.2015	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) reintroduced legislation, H.R. 182, to streamline veteran education benefits at community colleges. "Our veterans continue to deserve a simple, straightforward education benefits process that is free of unnecessary, bureaucratic delays," said Rep. Calvert. "I'm hopeful that the House will once again show strong support for this important reform and the Senate will follow suit." "I'm proud to join my colleague Rep. Calvert in reintroducing this legislation," said Rep. Mark Takano (CA-41), the lead Democratic cosponsor of the bill. "With Riverside Community College District campuses in the 41st and 42nd congressional districts, centralizing the reporting for veterans' enrollment will be a great benefit to veterans in the Inland Empire looking to attend institutions of higher education. The current reporting method uses unnecessary and duplicative procedures that create delays, and increases processing time and costs. Our veterans have sacrificed so much and we should be doing all we can to help them return to civilian life. Creating a centralized reporting system that is efficient and cost effective will do just that and I look forward to its passage." H.R. 182 would streamline the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) processes for community colleges that have multiple campuses. Currently, the VA requires community colleges to certify that their veteran students are enrolled for a specific number of classes before the VA will disperse student benefits. These rules must be updated to account for multi-college Community College Districts, such as Riverside Community College District (RCCD). Without such an update, veterans that take classes at a multi-college District see their benefits delayed while colleges and the VA complete and shuffle unnecessary paperwork. H.R. 182 would direct the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to permit the centralized reporting of veteran enrollment by certain groups, districts, and consortiums of educational institutions. Similar legislation (H.R. 331) was approved by the House during the 113th Congress, however the Senate failed to take any action. ###
12.11.2014	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) voted along with a majority of the House in support of the Fiscal Year 2015 Omnibus Appropriations bill. The bill will fund every federal agency through the end of the Fiscal Year 2015, except the Department of Homeland Security, which is funded under a temporary "Continuing Resolution" mechanism that expires on February 27, 2015. "The bill approved by the House today prevents a government shutdown and sets the stage for Republicans to confront President Obama's unilateral executive action on illegal immigration," said Rep. Calvert. "The bill limits funding for Homeland Security and our immigration enforcement agencies until the end of February. Meanwhile, as I have done in the past, I will be urging my colleagues to enact legislation that strengthens the security of our border and makes the use of E-Verify mandatory. With the majority in the House and Senate next Congress, Republicans will directly challenge President Obama's unilateral approach to immigration reform." ###
12.09.2014	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) voted along with a majority of the House in support of H.R. 5781, theCalifornia Emergency Drought Relief Act of 2014,which would provide short-term relief from California's water crisis. "California's economy is directly linked with a reliable and affordable water supply," said Rep. Calvert. "The bill passed by the House today will take immediate steps to improve the dire drought conditions and provide Californians some short-term certainty that we will be able to utilize whatever rainfall occurs this winter, as opposed to pumping it out into the ocean." "I know that many of my constituents continue to be frustrated by the regulatory restrictions that have exacerbated the impact of our ongoing drought. Instead of offering solutions to help California families, farmers, and communities, extreme environmental special interest groups and President Obama have voiced their opposition to the bill passed by the House. My constituents need solutions to our water crisis and have grown tired of the usual ‘just say no' attitude that will only jeopardize California's economy." HR 5781 CA Emergency Drought Relief Summary Maximizing Delta Exports for Central and Southern California: Sets Old & Middle River pumping rates at -5,000 cubic feet per second, while allowing Federal regulatory agencies the discretion to reduce pumping under certain instances. This provision would help bring water that is desperately needed to Central and Southern California. Capture Storm Water Runoff Moving Through the Delta: Authorizes Federal agencies to increase Old & Middle River pumping rates during the first few storms of the water year. This provision would help bring water that is desperately needed to Central and Southern California. Promoting Federal Water Storage Projects in California: Requires the U.S. Bureau of Reclamation to report to Congress in 1 year of enactment of this Act on the status of feasibility reports for various Federal water storage projects in California that have been pending for years. Increasing storage in California would allow for the capture of more water during wet years to store for use during dry years. Holding Federal Regulatory Agencies Accountable: Requires Federal regulatory agencies to report to Congress every 90 days following enactment of this Act on its implementation. Protections for Federal, State, Northern, Central and Southern California Water Contractors: Includes provisions to protect State Water Project contractors, Area of Origin water rights holders, and preserves the existing water rights priority systems in California and Federal law. Also includes language that prevents any adverse redirected impacts to any water contractor in California resulting from implementation of this Act. Immediate Emergency Relief: Provisions in this bill expire on September 30, 2016, or when the gubernatorial drought declaration is rescinded, whichever occurs later. ###
12.03.2014	"Make no mistake, I am adamantly opposed to the President's executive actions on immigration," stated Rep. Calvert. "I believe it violates the U.S. Constitution and his oath of office. I strongly support challenging the executive order in any way possible." One of the options mentioned to counter President Obama's Executive Amnesty is defunding the Executive Order in the fiscal year 2015 Omnibus Appropriations bill. Unfortunately, defunding is not an option because USCIS is self-funded through fees. Section 286 (M) of the Immigration Nationality Act provides that the USCIS operate through fees collected for various immigration services. In order to change how those fees are used, Congress would need to change current law. Appropriations bills are, by definition, funding bills and are not meant to change current law (second paragraph, third sentence of CRS Memo). Sadly the President would veto such a change and, even though Republicans will control both the House and Senate in 2015, we will not have the votes to override a veto – 290 in the House and 67 in the Senate. However, if House Republicans decided to enact authorizing language on the appropriations bill and bring the user fee system under the direction of Congress and then limit the activities that such fees could be used for, the language would most likely result in a rejection by the Democrat-controlled Senate or a veto by the President. This is exactly what President Obama would like – a shutdown he can blame on Republicans and still have the funds for his Executive Amnesty. Meanwhile, national security, including services for our troops and veterans, would be negatively impacted. In light of the ineffectiveness of a defunding option, House Republicans will provide short-term funding for the Department of Homeland Security under a Continuing Resolution (funding at FY14 enacted levels). This will give House Republicans time to work with their Senate counterparts in the newly elected Republican Senate to craft legislation and force the President's hand on executive amnesty. "A government shutdown is not an option," said Rep. Calvert. "Even if we did shut down the government, USCIS would continue to operate and the executive amnesty would move forward. Once the new Senate is sworn in and the 114th Congress begins, Republicans will have an opportunity to come together to find a way to combat the President on executive amnesty. "Meanwhile, I encourage citizens who are as outraged as I am on this issue to advocate that state governments make E-Verify mandatory in all 50 states. Citizens should also encourage the businesses they patronize to participate in E-Verify as well as call on their local and county governments to require local businesses to use the program." Learn more about E-Verify at www.dhs.gov/everify. ###
12.03.2014	Yesterday, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) joined a bipartisan group of California lawmakers in introducing H.R. 5781, the California Emergency Drought Relief Act of 2014, which would provide short- term relief from California's water crisis. "The recent rain storms and California's inability to effectively capture and store the rain water, highlight the need for Congress to act and pass common sense legislation that will provide some relief to our long-term drought," said Rep. Calvert. "House Republicans have repeatedly demonstrated that we are ready to find solutions to benefit the entire state, not just parochial parties. What we introduced in this temporary bill is a compromise, based on the Senate's water legislation, again showing our willingness to find consensus between the two chambers. We must act this Congress to provide some level of benefit to water users. Beyond doing just that, H.R.5781 also serves as a starting point towards building a permanent, comprehensive solution to address our state's water supply issues. I hope the House and the Senate can act quickly on this legislation." H.R. 5781 was introduced by Rep. David Valadao (CA-21). In addition to Rep. Calvert, original cosponsors of the legislation include Reps. Kevin McCarthy (CA-23), Jim Costa (CA-16), Doug LaMalfa (CA-01), Tom McClintock (CA-04), and Devin Nunes (CA-22). HR 5781 CA Emergency Drought Relief Summary · Maximizing Delta Exports for Central and Southern California: Sets Old & Middle River pumping rates at -5,000 cubic feet per second, while allowing Federal regulatory agencies the discretion to reduce pumping under certain instances. This provision would help bring water that is desperately needed to Central and Southern California. · Capture Storm Water Runoff Moving Through the Delta : Authorizes Federal agencies to increase Old & Middle River pumping rates during the first few storms of the water year. This provision would help bring water that is desperately needed to Central and Southern California. · Promoting Federal Water Storage Projects in California: Requires the U.S. Bureau of Reclamation to report to Congress in 1 year of enactment of this Act on the status of feasibility reports for various Federal water storage projects in California that have been pending for years. Increasing storage in California would allow for the capture of more water during wet years to store for use during dry years. · Sacramento Valley Contractors: Includes language on water allocations for Sacramento Valley water contractors. · Holding Federal Regulatory Agencies Accountable: Requires Federal regulatory agencies to report to Congress every 90 days following enactment of this Act on its implementation. · Protections for Federal, State, Northern, Central and Southern California Water Contractors: Includes provisions to protect State Water Project contractors, Area of Origin water rights holders, and preserves the existing water rights priority systems in California and Federal law. Also includes language that prevents any adverse redirected impacts to any water contractor in California resulting from implementation of this Act. · Immediate Emergency Relief: Provisions in this bill expire on September 30, 2016, or when the gubernatorial drought declaration is rescinded, whichever occurs later. ###
11.20.2014	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) issued the following statement in response to President Obama's executive action affecting illegal immigrants: "Like many Americans, I strongly oppose President Obama's decision to proceed with an unprecedented and unconstitutional executive action adjusting the status of millions of illegal immigrants. Our nation's founders carefully placed the power to create and modify laws with Congress and left the President with the power to execute them. Today, President Obama is unquestionably setting a dangerous precedent by attempting to rewrite our immigrations laws without Congressional action. Regardless of your views on what reforms are necessary to our immigration laws, Americans should be extremely wary of granting any President the power to change laws affecting millions of people single-handedly. The next President will be able to undo President Obama's executive action with the stroke of a pen on their first day in office. I completely agree with the comments made by George Washington University Law School Professor Jonathan Turley, who describes himself as a liberal, that "what the President is suggesting is tearing at the very fabric of the Constitution." My constituents want to see increased border security and the mandatory use of E-Verify at the heart of any action to reform our immigration laws. It is very telling that the President is willing to reach beyond his Constitutional authority on nearly every issue but not act where there is bipartisan support – increasing border security and an expansion of E-Verify. Despite the President's actions, I will continue to work with my colleagues in the House to advance efforts that will strengthen our border security and make the use of E-Verify mandatory." U.S. Constitution ARTICLE I, SECTION 8, CLAUSE 4 "The Congress shall have Power To...establish an uniform Rule of Naturalization...." ARTICLE II, SECTION 3 The President "shall take Care that the Laws be faithfully executed"
11.13.2014	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) was re-elected to serve as the Chairman of the California Republican delegation in the 114th Congress. "I'm honored to once again receive the support of my California Republican colleagues and I am eager to serve again as the Chairman of our delegation," said Rep. Calvert. "Our California Republican delegation is ready to work together in support of policies that are critical for our state and country. We are committed to improving our economy by putting the brakes on President Obama's job-killing regulatory approach and taking meaningful steps to address California's water challenges." Rep. Calvert was first elected to serve as the Chairman of the California Republican delegation in the 113th Congress.
10.22.2014	The National Association of Manufacturers (NAM) has awarded Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) the NAM Award for Manufacturing Legislative Excellence. The award is based on his votes in the 113th Congress on issues that are critical to manufacturing in the United States. "Manufacturers in California and throughout the United States are making a comeback, creating jobs, making more products and making them better than ever before," said NAM Senior Vice President of Policy and Government Relations Aric Newhouse. "However, manufacturers are often disproportionately impacted by decisions made by policymakers in Washington. The NAM is proud to stand with lawmakers like Rep. Calvert who understand what is at stake and seek to implement policies that will foster innovation, growth and competitiveness." "I am committed to defending manufacturers in my congressional district and around the country from the onslaught of new, job-killing regulations from the Obama administration," said Rep. Calvert. "I take pride in receiving the NAM Award for Manufacturing Legislative Excellence and pledge to continue my support for policies that strengthen our country's manufacturing industry and create jobs." Key Votes included in the Voting Record are selected by small, medium and large manufacturing executives who serve on the NAM's Key Vote Advisory Committee. Additional information on the NAM Award for Manufacturing Legislative Excellence can be found here. ###
10.01.2014	Yesterday, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) sent Federal Aviation Administration Administrator (FAA) Michael Huerta, a native Inland Empire resident, a letter regarding the comments made by Los Angeles World Airports (LAWA) Chief Operating Officer Steve Martin, referencing the region as the "inbred Inland Empire." "When you use offensive language it's important to keep in mind the people on the other end of those remarks," said Rep. Calvert. "In this case, one of the people Mr. Martin was referring to with his ‘inbred Inland Empire' comment just happened to be the FAA Administrator, who is from the Inland Empire. Of course, the other people who are really stung by Mr. Martin's comments are the hundreds of Inland Empire residents who have lost their jobs or otherwise suffered economic harm because of LAWA's willful mismanagement of Ontario Airport." A copy of the letter Rep. Calvert sent to Administrator Huerta can be found HERE. ###
09.29.2014	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) issued the following statement in response to comments made by Los Angeles World Airports (LAWA) officials in court filings that were reported today by the Los Angeles Times. "The comments attributed to LAWA Chief Operating Officer Steve Martin in today's Los Angeles Times article are offensive and highly unprofessional. If the quotes are accurate, I believe he should be terminated immediately. The attitude and biases of high ranking LAWA officials makes it crystal clear that they do not have the best interest of the Inland Empire in mind. The court filings demonstrate that the city of Los Angeles is running the Ontario airport like a slumlord. Los Angeles is unfit to operate Ontario airport." According to an article in today's Los Angeles Times: "Steve Martin, LAWA's chief operating officer, referred to the Inland Empire as the 'inbred Inland Empire' in April 2013." "During a presentation to the Los Angeles Board of Airport Commissioners this year, Martin referred to board-authorized improvements at Ontario International "as a storied tale of charity toward the Inland Empire.'" "Mark Thorpe, a former LAWA marketing director, said that adding airline service to Ontario was a goal when he was hired. But Lindsey told him in 2008 to focus more on LAX and less on Ontario." ###
09.19.2014	Earlier this week, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) was named a "Guardian of Small Business" by the National Federation of Independent Business (NFIB), the nation's leading small business association, for his voting record on behalf of America's small-business owners in the 113th Congress. "The record shows that Rep. Calvert is a true champion of small business, supporting the votes that matter in the 113th Congress," said NFIB President and CEO Dan Danner. "This award reflects our members' appreciation for supporting the NFIB pro-growth agenda for small business." "Tens of millions of Americans are employed by small businesses, who are the backbone of our economy," said Rep. Calvert. "As a former small business owner myself, I know all too well about the challenges they face on a daily basis. I will continue to vote and advocate for policies that reduce the burdens the Obama administration continues to place our small businesses." NFIB's "How Congress Voted," which serves as a report card for members of Congress, was also unveiled this week. The report presents key small-business votes and voting percentages for each lawmaker. According to NFIB, Rep. Calvert voted favorably on key small-business issues 100 percent of the time during the 113th Congress. ###
09.17.2014	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) voted along with a bipartisan majority of the House (319-108) to approve the Fiscal Year 2015 Continuing Resolution, which will maintain federal government operations. The legislation continues funding for government programs and services at the current annual cap rate of $1.012 trillion until December 11, 2014. "While I continue to be frustrated by the Senate's inability to pass appropriations bills in regular order, the passage of the Fiscal Year 2015 Continuing Resolution ensures that the American people will not have to endure an unnecessary government shutdown," said Rep. Calvert. "The House Appropriations Committee has put in a tremendous amount of work to produce appropriations bills that fund federal agencies and programs at responsible levels while putting a stop to the Obama administration's endless onslaught of job-killing regulations. It's time for the Senate to follow suit." Continuing Resolution Summary: (Provided by the House Appropriations Committee) Length and Level of Funding–The CR extends funding for operations for all federal agencies, programs and services until December 11, 2014. The bill provides funding at the current annual rate of $1.012 trillion. General Items–Virtually all existing policy and funding provisions included in currently enacted fiscal year 2014 Appropriations legislation will carry forward in this CR. The bill does not include new controversial riders, or large changes in existing federal policy. However, the CR does include some changes to existing law that are needed to prevent catastrophic, irreversible, or detrimental changes to government programs, to address current national or global crises, or to ensure good government. These provisions are funded within the total level of funding in the legislation. Some of these provisions include: A provision to extend expiring Department of Defense activities, including counter-drug operations, support to the Office of Security Cooperation in Iraq, and rewards for assistance in combatting terrorism. A provision to continue a surge in funding for State Department programs to counter regional aggression toward Ukraine and other former Soviet Union countries. Several provisions to ensure appropriate treatment of veterans and continued oversight of the Department of Veterans Affairs, such as additional funds for disability claims processing, and funds for investigations into potential improper conduct including "waitlist" and "whistleblower" allegations. A provision allowing funding flexibility for Customs and Border Protection and Immigration and Customs Enforcement to maintain staffing levels, border security operations, detention space, and immigration enforcement activities. Provisions to address the recent Ebola crisis, including additional funding to accelerate HHS research on Ebola therapies, and additional funding for the Centers for Disease Control's response to the growing outbreak in Africa. A provision allowing additional funds to offset food price increases in the Commodity Supplemental Food Program to ensure that no current recipients are removed from the program. A provision allowing funding flexibility to maintain weather satellite programs, ensuring the continuation of data for weather warnings and forecasts, including forecasts of severe weather events. A provision allowing the continuation of current funding for the Temporary Assistance to Needy Families (TANF) program. A provision extending the operating authority for the Export-Import Bank through June 30, 2015. A provision extending the Internet Tax Freedom Act through the period of the CR ending on December 11, 2014. For the full text of the legislation, please visit:www.rules.house.gov
09.16.2014	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) and Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (CA-38) released draft legislation that would protect high-wage and highly-skilled jobs in America by leveling our tax policy playing field. "Recent events have made clear that Congress should not sit idly by while our flawed tax policies result in jobs being shipped overseas," said Rep. Calvert. "The increasing prevalence of foreign acquisitions of U.S.-based companies that will cut American jobs is alarming to say the least and we see it happening in my home state. Comprehensive tax reform would be the optimal way to handle this issue but in light of the lack of movement for reform, we must offer solutions that protect the jobs American families depend upon as debate on strengthening our nation's tax policies continues. This legislation is a common sense step that would neutralize the unintended financial motivations that are currently provided by our tax policies for formerly American companies, which have previously inverted, and now wish to purchase or merge with U.S. companies and move operations to another country." This draft legislation creates disincentives for foreign buyers seeking to acquire U.S. companies and eliminate a substantial portion of the American workforce. The bill is revenue neutral and works by creating a "trip wire" that triggers disincentives to prevent American job loss and protect the U.S. tax base. Specifically, certain foreign buyers who acquire a U.S. company and eliminate more than 30% of U.S. jobs within the first 24 months following the acquisition will face two restrictions on tax?planning techniques: 1) Interest Expense Limitation – Foreign acquirers frequently attempt to minimize their U.S. tax bills by loading up their U.S. subsidiaries with intercompany debt, which produces deductible interest expense. This proposal would tighten the current limitation on deductibility of interest on intercompany lending between a U.S. company and its foreign affiliates. Specifically, the job?loss trip wire would reduce the current 50% limitation to 20% and would remain in place for 5 years. 2) Intellectual Property (IP) Transfer – If IP is migrated from the U.S. company to an offshore related company within 24 months after the acquisition, then the income generated by that IP will be immediately taxed in the US. These provisions will prevent erosion of the U.S. tax base when substantial U.S. job losses occur. The 30% trip wire creates a disincentive for eliminating a significant number of US jobs. The draft bill is narrowly targeted to address the worst applications of this manipulated aspect of our tax code. Click HERE for the discussion draft legislative text. Click HERE for a section-by-section summary of the discussion draft. ###
09.10.2014	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) issued the following statement in advance of President Barack Obama's speech regarding ISIS: "On the eve of September 11th, we are reminded that we cannot ignore or discount the actions of our enemies in distant lands. The President, after failing to secure a Status of Forces Agreement in Iraq and consistently ignoring the growing problem of ISIS for the past several years, now turns to the American people and Congress for support of limited military operations to combat ISIS. There is no doubt that ISIS poses significant national security concerns for the U.S. and the world. We must work with our allies to attack ISIS through air strikes, and ultimately destroy their ability to plan and carry out attacks. The President's holiday from history has come to an end and now he must show both courage and leadership as our Commander-in-Chief." ###
07.30.2014	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) voted along with a majority of his House colleagues to support H.R. 5230, which includes policy changes and provides funding to address the ongoing immigration crisis at the border. The $659 million in funding is significantly below the President's $3.7 billion request, focuses on immediate border security, and is fully offset through cuts and recessions of existing funds within various federal agencies. "Today, the House took an overdue step to enact policy changes and ensure our immigration enforcement agencies have the resources they need to stem the tide of immigrants illegally crossing our border," said Rep. Calvert. "My constituents have been calling for Congress and the President to take action in response to this crisis. The House has now taken an important step and it is time for the President and Senate Democrats to follow suit. It is critical that we send a strong signal to anyone thinking of entering our country illegally that they will be caught and returned back to their country of origin." H.R. 5230 Highlights (Courtesy of the House Appropriations Committee) The legislation includes several policy provisions: A change to the "Trafficking Victims Protection and Reauthorization Act of 2008," to require that all unaccompanied minors are treated the same as Mexicans for the purpose of removals. This would require unaccompanied children who do not wish to be voluntarily returned to their home country to remain in HHS custody while they await an expedited immigration court hearing that must occur not more than seven days after they are screened by child welfare officials. (NOTE: This provision closes the same immigration loophole that Rep. Calvert's legislation, H.R.5079, sought to address.) A prohibition on the Secretary of the Interior or the Secretary of Agriculture from denying or restricting CBP activities on federal land under their respective jurisdictions within 100 miles of the US-Mexico border. A change to the Immigration and Nationality Act to strengthen the law prohibiting criminals with serious drug-related convictions from applying for asylum. A provision expressing the "Sense of Congress" that the Secretary of Defense should not house unauthorized aliens at military installations unless certain specific conditions are met. Protecting our Southwest Border and Enforcing our Laws: $405 million for the Department of Homeland Security to boost border security and law enforcement activities. This includes: $334 million for the U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) to boost enforcement of immigration and customs laws in response to the rise in unaccompanied alien children and families. This funding will support increased and upgraded detention space, transportation costs, overtime costs, expedited migrant processing, and additional deportation and enforcement personnel. $71 million for U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) operations, including increased processing, detention, and transportation activities. Authority for Southwest border states to reallocate existing state and local grant funds for costs related to combating illegal immigration and humanitarian efforts for unaccompanied alien children and families. $22 million to accelerate judicial proceedings for immigrants. This includes funding to hire additional, temporary immigration judges, and funding to complete the outfitting of every Department of Justice immigration courtroom nationwide with video teleconferencing equipment in order to utilize all existing court resources. This will help increase the capacity of our immigration courts to process cases, reduce the backlog, and shorten the time between apprehension and issuance of removal orders. $35 million for National Guard border efforts – essentially doubling the funding for the Guard presence on the border. This will bolster National Guard efforts to assist the Border Patrol with surveillance, intelligence, and humanitarian activities. Providing Humanitarian Assistance $197 million for the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) to provide temporary housing and humanitarian assistance to unaccompanied minors. This funding is sufficient to care for children in U.S. custody already. ###
07.30.2014	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) voted along with a majority of his House colleagues (225-201) for House Resolution 676, which authorizes litigation to challenge the constitutionality of Executive Orders issued by President Obama. "Our imperial president continues to turn the Constitution on its head by regularly overstepping the powers granted to the Executive Branch," said Rep. Calvert. "I took an oath to defend and uphold the Constitution, which is exactly why I support the action taken by the House today to challenge President Obama's misuse of executive orders. If the President is not happy with the laws on the books or the steps being taken by Congress, he needs to come to the table and work with the duly elected members of the legislative branch to craft new laws. That's simply how our democracy works – and something I would have hoped the President would have already learned after being in office for more than five and a half years." House Resolution 676 authorizes the Speaker of the House to initiate or intervene in one or more civil actions on behalf of the House of Representatives in federal court. The resolution authorizes the Speaker to seek the appropriate relief regarding the failure of the President to act in a manner consistent with that official's duties under the Constitution and U.S. laws with respect to implementation title 1 of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act or subtitle B of title II of the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010, including amendment(s) made by such provision or any other related provision of law, including failure to implement. The resolution also directs the Office of the General Counsel of the House of Representatives to represent the House in any civil action initiated or in which the House. ###
07.30.2014	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) voted along with a bipartisan majority of his House colleagues (420 - 5) in support of H.R. 3230, the Veterans' Access to Care through Choice, Accountability, and Transparency Act. "Our veterans deserve nothing less than timely, high quality health care and the bill approved by the House today will help achieve that goal," said Rep. Calvert. "There is simply no excuse for the delays and incidents of poor treatment of our veterans in VA medical centers. We need to provide a consistent, world class health care treatment and benefits for all veterans across the country. The bipartisan nature of the bill passed today signals the unwavering support our veterans have in Congress. This bill provides important health care options, outside the VA, while also investing to improve our current VA system." Veterans' Access to Care through Choice, Accountability, and Transparency Act Highlights: (Courtesy of the House Veterans Affairs Committee) To improve access to and quality of care for veterans, the bill would: Require VA to offer an authorization to receive non-VA care to any veteran who is enrolled in the VA health care system as of August 1, 2014, or who is a newly discharged combat veteran if such veteran is unable to secure an appointment at a VA medical facility within 30 days (or a future published goal established by VA) or resides more than 40 miles from the nearest VA medical facility, with certain exceptions. Require VA to provide a Veterans Choice Card to eligible veterans to facilitate care provided by non-VA providers. Provide $10 billion for the newly-established "Veterans Choice Fund" to cover the costs of this increased access to non-VA care. Require an independent assessment of VA medical care and establish a Congressional Commission on Care to evaluate access to care throughout the VA health care system. To provide real accountability for incompetent or corrupt senior managers, the bill would: Authorize VA to fire or demote Senior Executive Service (SES) employees and Title 38 SES equivalent employees for poor performance or misconduct. Reduce funding for bonuses available to VA employees by $40 million each year through FY 2024. To improve education benefits for veterans and dependents, the bill would: Require public colleges to provide in-state tuition to veterans and eligible dependents in order for the school to remain eligible to receive G.I. Bill education payments. Expand the Sgt. Frye Scholarship Program to provide full Post 9/11 G.I. Bill benefits to spouses of servicemembers who died in the line of duty after 9/11. ###
07.29.2014	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) voted along with a majority of his House colleagues in supporting H.R. 4315, the Endangered Species Transparency and Reasonableness Act. H.R. 4315 improves Endangered Species Act (ESA) transparency, enhances the role of states, and discourages harmful, frivolous litigation "Riverside County continues to suffer economic harm because of the unintended consequences of the ESA and regular lawsuits by environmental extremists," said Rep. Calvert. "When the ESA was first approved the goal was to protect species, not to line the pockets of radical special interest groups and their lawyers. Legislation, like H.R. 4315, that restores some common sense to the application of our ESA law is long overdue. Protecting our environment and growing our economy are not mutually exclusive goals." H.R. 4315's provisions include: (Provided by the House Western Caucus) Requires the publication of the data used to make ESA listing decisions. Currently, much of the data used to justify listing decisions is unavailable to the public or independent scientific analysis. Require federal agencies to provide states, tribes and local governments with the data used to formulate a listing decision before a listing decision is made. Requires the consideration of data submitted by states, tribes and local governments as a part of the ESA process. Requires the tracking and publication of ESA-related litigation expenses, including taxpayer-funded attorney fees. Caps attorney fees for litigation filed under the Endangered Species Act at $125 an hour. This is the same cap that applies to claims under the Equal Access to Justice Act, a law passed for small businesses, veterans and federal benefit recipients who lack the financial means sue the government.
07.25.2014	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) issued the following statement regarding the ongoing influx of immigrants illegally crossing our border and the proposed legislation being considered in Congress: "My constituents and all Americans expect our federal government to respond to the crisis at the border with clear and immediate solutions. Those solutions include sending the National Guard to the border, closing the unaccompanied children immigration loophole that was created by a 2008 law -- combined with a 2011 Executive Order, and humanely detaining those caught illegally crossing our borders until they can receive a deportation hearing in days, not weeks. "Initially, it appeared as though Democrats in Washington supported many of these solutions. However, it has become increasingly clear that Democrats have changed their minds and are now attempting to use the ongoing crisis to try to advance their own political goals. Now our President is asking Congress for $3.7 billion yet refuses to enforce the laws passed by Congress, the representative body of our government. "The bottom line is that we have immigration laws on the books; the President must enforce those laws. Putting a stop to the flow of immigrants illegally crossing our border does not require the passage of significant immigration reform legislation. Until we gain operational control of the border, there should be absolutely no discussion of broader immigration reform. "The President created this crisis and now he must correct it by deporting those apprehended crossing our borders illegally. He must enforce the law and end the practice of choosing who gets deported and choosing who gets released into our communities only to disappear. He must rigorously ensure that only legal workers are able to get jobs. He must ensure that public benefits only go to those who are legally present in our country. He must end the deferred action for childhood arrivals (DACA), a policy decision that should be left to Congress. He must not relax refugee status definitions that would further exacerbate the problem. "We in the U.S. House of Representatives will fulfill our Constitutional duties. It is time the President does the same and stop the erosion of American sovereignty." ###
07.18.2014	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42), who serves as Chairman of the Interior and Environment Appropriations Subcommittee, issued the following statement in response to the EPA's announcement that it would be dropping its proposed final regulations allowing the agency to garnish wages: "Thanks to the outcry and concern voiced by the Appropriations Committee earlier this week, the EPA has backed away from yet another overstep of its authority. The Interior Appropriations bill that I crafted along with my colleagues on the Committee sends a strong signal to the EPA that we will not tolerate its expansive regulatory reach into the pocketbooks of Americans. My constituents continue to be frustrated by the slow pace of our economic recovery, which is why I am committed to protecting them from further economic harm at the hands of the EPA." ###
07.15.2014	Today, the House Appropriations Committee approved the Fiscal Year 2015 Interior and Environment Appropriations bill authored by Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42), who serves as Chairman of the Interior and Environment Appropriations Subcommittee. The bill provides annual funding for the Interior Department, Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), and other agencies and commissions. The bill was approved by the Appropriations Committee by a vote of 29-19. "Moving the Interior Appropriations bill through the full Appropriations Committee is an important step towards providing the Interior Department, EPA, and other agencies with a fiscally responsible budget for the upcoming year,"said Rep. Calvert."It is critical that the House and Senate act on the Interior bill and put the brakes on the EPA's regulatory approach that is intent on expanding the federal government's reach and harming our economy. I am hopeful that the Interior bill will be considered on the House floor in the near future." Highlights of the Fiscal Year 2015 Interior and Environment Appropriations Bill: (Provided by the Appropriations Committee) Wildland Firefighting and Prevention–In total, the bill funds wildland firefighting and prevention programs at $4.1 billion, $149 million above the fiscal year 2014 enacted level. The bill fully funds the 10-year average for wildland fire suppression costs for both the Department of the Interior and the Forest Service, includes an additional $470 million for the Forest Service to help fill the expected shortfall in fire suppression funding this year, and provides an increase of $90 million above the current level for hazardous fuels management. In addition, the bill includes funding for two next-generation aircraft to replace decades-old planes used for large-scale fire suppression. Federal Payments to Local Communities–The bill provides $442 million for the"Payments In Lieu of Taxes"(PILT) program through a one-year extension of this mandatory program. PILT provides funds for local governments to help offset losses in property taxes due to nontaxable federal lands within their areas. The authorization for PILT is set to expire on September 30, 2014, and without congressional action, many rural communities could face huge budget shortfalls impacting public safety, education, and other local government responsibilities. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA)–The bill funds the EPA at $7.5 billion, a reduction of $717 million–or 9 percent–below the fiscal year 2014 enacted level. Administrative funding for the agency is cut by $24 million, including a 50 percent reduction to the Office of the Administrator, the Office of Congressional Affairs, and the Office of the Chief Financial Officer. In addition, staffing levels at the EPA are held to 15,000, the lowest level since 1989. These reductions will help the agency streamline operations, and focus its activities on core duties, rather than unnecessary regulatory expansion. The legislation also includes provisions to stop various harmful, costly, and potentially job-killing regulations by the EPA. For example, the bill prohibits the EPA from implementing new greenhouse gas regulations for new and existing power plants, changes to the definition of"navigable waters"under the Clean Water Act, and changes to the definition of"fill material."The bill also includes policy provisions to protect the privacy of dairy and livestock farmers'personal information, and to prevent the EPA from regulating the lead content of ammunition and fishing tackle. Indian Health Service–Funding in the bill is prioritized to meet the nation's obligations to American Indians and Alaska Natives. The bill includes $4.6 billion for the Indian Health Service, an increase of $208 million above the fiscal year 2014 enacted level. This funding will help provide increased access to and improved healthcare for Native Americans, and includes targeted funding for problematic health care issues, including those related to domestic violence, dental health, alcohol and substance abuse, cardiovascular health, diabetes, and infant mortality. Bureau of Land Management (BLM)–The bill contains $1.1 billion for the BLM, a decrease of $13 million from the fiscal year 2014 enacted level. Within this funding, the bill increases oil and gas programs by $20 million from the fiscal year 2014 enacted level to speed permitting and to increase inspections. The bill also rejects a proposal by the President to increase oil and gas fees by $48 million–which could hinder the exploration and use of domestic energy resources–and denies a proposal to increase federal land grazing fees by $6.5 million. National Park Service (NPS)–The legislation contains $2.6 billion for the NPS, an increase of $3 million above the fiscal year 2014 enacted level. This funding will ensure that every National Park will remain open and fully operational next year. U.S. Forest Service–The bill includes $5.6 billion for the Forest Service, which is $85.7 million above the fiscal year 2014 enacted level. Much of this funding is related to wildland fire prevention and suppression (as described above). The bill also includes a provision prohibiting the Forest Service or BLM from issuing new closures of public lands to hunting and recreational shooting, except in the case of public safety or extreme weather, and does not include any of the Administration's proposed increases in livestock grazing fees. U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (FWS)–The FWS is funded at $1.4 billion in the bill, a cut of $4 million below the fiscal year 2014 enacted level. Within this amount, the legislation prioritizes funding for programs such as those to fight invasive species, to prevent illegal wildlife trafficking, and to prevent the closure of fish hatcheries. The bill includes a one-year delay on any further Endangered Species Act rulemaking for the"greater sage-grouse"and"Gunnison sage-grouse,"and prohibits the FWS from administratively establishing new or expanding existing wildlife refuges. U.S. Geological Survey (USGS)–The bill includes $1 billion for the USGS, a $4 million increase above the fiscal year 2014 enacted level. Within this amount, the bill prioritizes funding for programs dealing with natural hazards, stream gages, the groundwater monitoring network, mapping activities, and the earthquake early warning system. Smithsonian Institution–The Smithsonian Institution is funded at $813 million in the bill–an increase of $8 million above the fiscal year 2014 enacted level. This includes funding to complete construction of the new National Museum of African American History and Culture. National Endowments for the Arts and Humanities–The bill includes $138 million for each of the endowments, a reduction of $16 million compared to the fiscal year 2014 enacted level. Program Eliminations–The bill does not include funding for several programs, such as: the U.S. Fish & Wildlife Service's Landscape Conservation Cooperatives, EPA's U.S.-Mexico Border grant program, and the Dwight D. Eisenhower Memorial Commission. For the text of the legislation, please visit: http://appropriations.house.gov/UploadedFiles/BILLS-113HR-SC-AP-FY2015-Interior-SubcommitteeDraft.pdf #####
07.11.2014	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42), along with 18 cosponsors, introduced legislation, H.R. 5079, that would close an immigration loophole that is contributing to the crisis along the border in the Rio Grande Valley in Texas. The legislation would amend a 2008 law that unintentionally created a loophole for unaccompanied children from Central America that are detained illegally crossing the border. "It has become increasingly clear that Congress must take action and close an unintended loophole that is a significant cause of the crisis at our border in Texas," said Rep. Calvert. "Solving our immigration crisis requires getting at the root of the problem, and if we fail to take steps like closing this loophole the significant challenges we are experiencing now will only continue and grow. The long and dangerous journey from Central America to the Texas border, especially one aided by a smuggler, is something that no one, especially an unaccompanied child, should endure. The humane and responsible step for these children and for our immigration policy is to close this loophole and the incentive it provides. Americans expect the federal government to respond and quickly address the crisis at the border, which is why both Republicans and Democrats have voiced support for taking this step." "The President's unilateral actions have sent a misleading message that resulted in tens of thousands of children making a perilous journey to our country with the belief they would be allowed to stay," said Congressman Darrell Issa (CA-49). "The best resolution to this humanitarian crisis is the safe return of these children to their families and country of origin. By promptly returning them home to their loved ones it sends a clear message that will discourage other children from making this dangerous trip." "This bill is one step of many to rectify the situation," said Rep. Calvert. "I was also pleased by the recent announcement by Customs and Border Protection that they will not be transferring any more illegal immigrant families or children to the San Diego sector, which includes the Murrieta facility in my congressional district. CBP will process them in Texas, which is exactly what should happen. This bill would then enable CBP to process unaccompanied children at the point of entry and immediately repatriate them." Under current law, unaccompanied children from Mexico or Canada can be screened within 48 hours and quickly repatriated back across the border if they are not a trafficking victim or have aclaim for asylum. However, children from other countries that are not contiguous with the U.S. must go through a more formal and time consuming legal proceeding. In fact, unaccompanied children from countries other than Mexico (so-called OTM policy) are currently waiting 578 days on average for a hearing. Rep. Calvert's bill would close the loophole by screening and repatriating all unaccompanied children, regardless of their country-of-origin, in the same process that has worked for unaccompanied children from Mexico and Canada. Click HERE to read the legislative text of H.R. 5079. The following members cosponsored H.R. 5079: 1. Duncan Hunter (CA-50) 2. Paul Cook (CA-8) 3. Dana Rohrabacher (CA-48) 4. Ed Royce (CA-39) 5. Tom McClintock (CA-4) 6. Gary Miller (CA-31) 7. Darrell Issa (CA-49) 8. Devin Nunes (CA-22) 9. John Campbell (CA-45) 10. Doug LaMalfa (CA-1) 11. Buck McKeon (CA-25) 12. Don Young (AK) 13. Steve Stivers (OH-15) 14. Joe Heck (NV-3) 15. Scott Rigell (VA-2) 16. David Joyce (OH-14) 17. Blake Farenthold (TX-27) 18. Tom Cole (OK-4) According to a recent report: The number of unaccompanied alien children (UAC) apprehended doubled between FY 2009 and FY 2013 and is on pace to nearly double again by the end of FY 2014. An unprecedented number of apprehended children are from Central America. In the past, most were Mexican. In FY 2004, about 83 percent of apprehended children were Mexican, but so far in FY 2014, just 24 percent of UAC were from Mexico. The number of migrant children in government custody more than tripled between FY 2011 and FY 2013 and is expected to double again in FY 2014. Source: Bipartisan Policy Center: Child Migration by the Numbers (http://bit.ly/1oorw38) ###
07.10.2014	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) praised the Senate for passing his legislation, H.R. 330, the Distinguished Flying Cross National Memorial Act. "I am delighted to hear that the Senate has approved the Distinguished Flying Cross National Memorial Act," said. Rep. Calvert. "For many years now I have been working with Riverside County veterans and the Distinguished Flying Cross Society to establish a memorial for recipients of the Distinguished Flying Cross, so it is exciting to be on the doorstep of making that happen. The memorial at the March Field Air Museum will serve as a place to pay tribute to the heroism and bravery of Distinguished Flying Cross recipients for all Americans." Rep. Calvert and Senator Boxer (D-CA) introduced their respective bills, the Distinguished Flying Cross National Memorial Act, on January 22, 2013. The bill was approved by the House of Representatives on October 29, 2013 by voice vote. The bill now goes to the White House for the President's signature. ###
07.09.2014	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42), who serves as Chairman of the Interior and Environment Appropriations Subcommittee, released the Fiscal Year 2015 Interior and Environment Appropriations bill. The bill provides annual funding for the Interior Department, Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), and other agencies and commissions. The bill was approved by the Interior Subcommittee by voice vote and will be considered by the full Appropriations Committee in the near future. "The Interior and Environment bill provides the agencies within its jurisdiction with the resources necessary to carry out their mission in times that are fiscally challenging," said Rep. Calvert. "This bill also protects Americans from the onslaught of job-killing regulations coming from the EPA, and makes difficult decisions that carefully balance national priorities. I am pleased that our Subcommittee continues to place an emphasis on producing energy on federal lands, providing robust funding for our wildland fire accounts, and addressing a variety of health and safety needs within Indian Country. I am especially proud that we have been able to extend and pay for the PILT program, which provides critical resources to so many communities, such as Riverside County, throughout the country." Highlights of the Fiscal Year 2015 Interior and Environment Appropriations Bill: (Provided by the Appropriations Committee) Wildland Firefighting and Prevention – In total, the bill funds wildland firefighting and prevention programs at $4.1 billion, $149 million above the fiscal year 2014 enacted level. The bill fully funds the 10-year average for wildland fire suppression costs for both the Department of the Interior and the Forest Service, includes an additional $470 million for the Forest Service to help fill the expected shortfall in fire suppression funding this year, and provides an increase of $90 million above the current level for hazardous fuels management. In addition, the bill includes funding for two next-generation aircraft to replace decades-old planes used for large-scale fire suppression. Federal Payments to Local Communities – The bill provides $442 million for the "Payments In Lieu of Taxes" (PILT) program through a one-year extension of this mandatory program. PILT provides funds for local governments to help offset losses in property taxes due to nontaxable federal lands within their areas. The authorization for PILT is set to expire on September 30, 2014, and without congressional action, many rural communities could face huge budget shortfalls impacting public safety, education, and other local government responsibilities. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) – The bill funds the EPA at $7.5 billion, a reduction of $717 million – or 9 percent – below the fiscal year 2014 enacted level. Administrative funding for the agency is cut by $24 million, including a 50 percent reduction to the Office of the Administrator, the Office of Congressional Affairs, and the Office of the Chief Financial Officer. In addition, staffing levels at the EPA are held to 15,000, the lowest level since 1989. These reductions will help the agency streamline operations, and focus its activities on core duties, rather than unnecessary regulatory expansion. The legislation also includes provisions to stop various harmful, costly, and potentially job-killing regulations by the EPA. For example, the bill prohibits the EPA from implementing new greenhouse gas regulations for new and existing power plants, changes to the definition of "navigable waters" under the Clean Water Act, and changes to the definition of "fill material." The bill also includes policy provisions to protect the privacy of dairy and livestock farmers' personal information, and to prevent the EPA from regulating the lead content of ammunition and fishing tackle. Indian Health Service – Funding in the bill is prioritized to meet the nation's obligations to American Indians and Alaska Natives. The bill includes $4.6 billion for the Indian Health Service, an increase of $208 million above the fiscal year 2014 enacted level. This funding will help provide increased access to and improved healthcare for Native Americans, and includes targeted funding for problematic health care issues, including those related to domestic violence, dental health, alcohol and substance abuse, cardiovascular health, diabetes, and infant mortality. Bureau of Land Management (BLM) – The bill contains $1.1 billion for the BLM, a decrease of $13 million from the fiscal year 2014 enacted level. Within this funding, the bill increases oil and gas programs by $20 million from the fiscal year 2014 enacted level to speed permitting and to increase inspections. The bill also rejects a proposal by the President to increase oil and gas fees by $48 million – which could hinder the exploration and use of domestic energy resources – and denies a proposal to increase federal land grazing fees by $6.5 million. National Park Service (NPS) – The legislation contains $2.6 billion for the NPS, an increase of $3 million above the fiscal year 2014 enacted level. This funding will ensure that every National Park will remain open and fully operational next year. U.S. Forest Service – The bill includes $5.6 billion for the Forest Service, which is $85.7 million above the fiscal year 2014 enacted level. Much of this funding is related to wildland fire prevention and suppression (as described above). The bill also includes a provision prohibiting the Forest Service or BLM from issuing new closures of public lands to hunting and recreational shooting, except in the case of public safety or extreme weather, and does not include any of the Administration's proposed increases in livestock grazing fees. U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (FWS) – The FWS is funded at $1.4 billion in the bill, a cut of $4 million below the fiscal year 2014 enacted level. Within this amount, the legislation prioritizes funding for programs such as those to fight invasive species, to prevent illegal wildlife trafficking, and to prevent the closure of fish hatcheries. The bill includes a one-year delay on any further Endangered Species Act rulemaking for the "greater sage-grouse" and "Gunnison sage-grouse," and prohibits the FWS from administratively establishing new or expanding existing wildlife refuges. U.S. Geological Survey (USGS) – The bill includes $1 billion for the USGS, a $4 million increase above the fiscal year 2014 enacted level. Within this amount, the bill prioritizes funding for programs dealing with natural hazards, stream gages, the groundwater monitoring network, mapping activities, and the earthquake early warning system. Smithsonian Institution – The Smithsonian Institution is funded at $813 million in the bill – an increase of $8 million above the fiscal year 2014 enacted level. This includes funding to complete construction of the new National Museum of African American History and Culture. National Endowments for the Arts and Humanities – The bill includes $138 million for each of the endowments, a reduction of $16 million compared to the fiscal year 2014 enacted level. Program Eliminations – The bill does not include funding for several programs, such as: the U.S. Fish & Wildlife Service's Landscape Conservation Cooperatives, EPA's U.S.-Mexico Border grant program, and the Dwight D. Eisenhower Memorial Commission. For the subcommittee draft text of the legislation, please visit: http://appropriations.house.gov/UploadedFiles/BILLS-113HR-SC-AP-FY2015-Interior-SubcommitteeDraft.pdf ###
07.08.2014	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42), a senior member of the Appropriations Committee, issued the following statement in response to President Obama's emergency supplementalappropriationsrequest to address the increase in child and adult migration from Central America: "While I welcome the President's request for additional resources in response to the growing crisis at our border, I strongly believe that it will take more than funding to ultimately solve the problem. In addition to providing more funding for detention facilities in Texas and immigration judges, the President must end his catch-and-release policies to send a strong signal that anyone illegally crossing our border will not be able to remain in our country. As a member of the House Appropriations Committee, I am eager to work with my colleagues to address the challenges presented by the ongoing crisis. It is vital that the supplemental address the challenges faced by local communities, such as Murrieta, California, impacted by the crisis. It is clear that the short-term costs to put the brakes on the crisis at the border are far cheaper than the long-term costs of an open borders policy. The crisis should not have come to this point, President Obama had the resources and much of the authority to deal with the influx as it began but rather than implementing a decisive plan and putting a stop to the dangerous crossings, the President now must come to Congress asking for more authority and more money. His failure of leadership is endangering children, taxing our border patrol agents, and now costing the American taxpayer money."
07.02.2014	Rep. Calvert Urges Obama Administration to Take Action to Protect Health and Public Safety WASHINGTON, D.C.– Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) issued the following statement in response to the health and public safety concerns raised by Riverside County officials regarding the transportation and processing of illegal immigrants at the Murrieta Border Patrol Station: "I am and continue to be opposed to the Obama administration's decision to transport illegal immigrants detained in Texas to the Murrieta Border Patrol Station, however if they insist on taking this action Riverside County residents expect them to put in place sufficient health and public safety procedures. Riverside County has offered to place its mobile health clinic at the Murrieta Station to assist with health screenings, treatment and immunizations. However, the Obama administration has failed to authorize this common sense action. If President Obama is going to spread the problems he has created at our border to communities around the country, the least he can do is allow those communities to protect everyone's health and safety." ###
06.30.2014	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) released the following statement following a tour of the Murrieta Border Patrol Station and a briefing by Customs and Border Patrol (CBP) on the transportation of illegal immigrants detained in the Rio Grand Valley of Texas to Riverside County: "I continue to be frustrated by the fact that the Obama administration's failure to enforce our immigration laws has reached the point where detained individuals are now being transported to Riverside County," said Rep. Calvert. "What was clear from my tour at the Murrieta station is that our CBP officers are professionals who are doing their absolute best given difficult circumstances. Ultimately, the root cause of our crisis is President Obama's failure to enforce our immigration laws. Immigrants illegally entering the U.S. in the Rio Grand Valley are literally walking up to CBP officers looking to be detained, knowing that the current U.S. policy is to simply release them. I am convinced that unless we fundamentally change our approach, the crisis will only grow larger. When Congress reconvenes next week, I will be working with my colleagues to provide extra resources, immigration judges, and other personnel, including the National Guard, to the Rio Grand Valley so that we can immediately process, adjudicate, and deport the immigrants we detain. We must send a strong signal to would-be illegal immigrants that anyone entering our nation illegally will be returned to their country of origin." ###
06.27.2014	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) issued the following statement after receiving notification on Friday afternoon that U.S. Customs and Border Patrol (CBP) intended to move forward with plans to transport illegal immigrants detained in Texas to southern California, including the Murrieta Border Patrol Station, for processing: "Instead of solving the immigration problems along our border in Texas, President Obama has decided to spread that problem into communities in my congressional district and throughout southern California. The Obama administration has failed to communicate with the affected communities and adequately explain the details of its plan. That lack of coordination and basic management is what compounds the frustration of so many of the people in our community that I have spoken with in the past few days. I will continue to demand that the Obama administration stop this plan immediately and to fix the problem at the border instead of merely shifting it around to neighborhoods around the country. My constituents and I continue to be frustrated by the open borders policies and pro-amnesty positions of our President that have motivated so many of the immigrants we see illegally entering our country. We all know President Obama is not a believer in American exceptionalism, but it is becoming shockingly apparent that he is even unwilling to protect our basic sovereignty." This afternoon Rep. Calvert's office was notified that CBP is making arrangements to transport adults with children from the Rio Grande Valley to the Laredo and El Paso Sectors in Texas and San Diego and El Centro Sectors in California. Once the family groups arrive in the sector, CBP will assist with processing the apprehended immigrants by interviewing and processing them for removal. Additional details and specific information was not provided. ###
06.26.2014	Yesterday, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) sent a letter, along with Congressman Duncan Hunter (CA-50), to Homeland Security Secretary Jeh Johnson expressing their concerns and frustration regarding the reports that illegal immigrants detained in Texas may be transported for processing to Murrieta and Escondido, CA. "The lack of communication and transparency by Homeland Security has understandably caused great concern in our community about the possible transportation of illegal immigrants from Texas into their city," said Rep. Calvert. "I strongly believe that the Obama administration must enforce our immigration laws and it must do a much better job sharing its plans with our local law enforcement and affected communities. I continue to be concerned that the Murrieta Border Patrol Station is ill-suited to detain and process the reported large numbers of illegal immigrants Homeland Security is considering to transport there. The lack of coordination and communication by Customs and Border Patrol only deepens my belief that immigrants should not be transported to California." Click HERE to read the letter sent by Rep. Calvert and Rep. Hunter. ###
06.22.2014	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) issued the following statement in response to yesterday's announcement by Paul Beeson, chief of the Border Patrol's San Diego Sector, that detained illegal immigrants from Central America will likely be processed at the Murrieta Border Patrol Station as soon as next week: "It is simply outrageous and completely irresponsible for the Obama administration to transport illegal immigrants to facilities, like the Murrieta Border Patrol Station, that are not equipped or prepared to handle them. As we have seen over the past weeks, months and years, the President's pro-amnesty and open borders policy has motivated increasing numbers of immigrants to enter our country illegally. Now, as if the problem in border communities wasn't bad enough, the Obama administration is planning on spreading the problem to inland communities that lack the resources to deal with an influx of illegal immigrants. My constituents expect our federal government to enforce our laws, including the deportation of illegal immigrants caught crossing our borders. On Monday morning I will be contacting Customs and Border Patrol to convey my strong opposition to their actions and to express the concerns of my constituents in Murrieta and the surrounding communities. Instead of flying these illegal immigrants to southern California, we should be flying them back to their country of origin." Earlier this month a similar proposal to process illegal immigrants at the Murrieta Border Patrol Station was rejected and a border patrol agent stated "the Murrieta station is smaller than most and simply doesn't have the capacity to process more than a few people a day." Last week, Rep. Calvert signed on as a cosponsor to H.Res. 442, the Stop This Overreaching Presidency Resolution, which directs the House to institute legal action to require the President to comply with immigration laws. In 1996, Rep. Calvert created E-Verify, a web-based program that checks the Social Security numbers or alien identification numbers of new hires against Social Security Administration and Department of Homeland Security records in order to eliminate fraudulent numbers and help ensure that new hires are eligible to work in the U.S. The program is free to use and quickly confirms 99.7% of work-eligible employees. Today, over 500,000 American employers voluntarily use E-Verify. ###
06.20.2014	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) voted for the Fiscal Year 2015 Defense Appropriations bill along with a bipartisan majority (340-73) of his colleagues. Rep. Calvert is a senior member of the Defense Appropriations Subcommittee. "Providing our soldiers with the tools and resources they need to accomplish their mission is one of the most important roles of Congress and the appropriations process," said Rep. Calvert. "I am particularly pleased that we were able to give our troops the 1.8% pay raise they have earned and their families depend on. We have also made critical investments in TRICARE and other defense health programs that will provide our soldiers and their families with the care they need." "Our country continues to face significant fiscal challenges, however we simply cannot afford to balance our budget on the backs of our military. I want to applaud Defense Subcommittee Chairman Rodney Frelinghuysen for drafting a thoughtful and balanced bill that ensures our military is given the priority it deserves. Looking forward, I am eager to work with my colleagues to take a closer look at our unsustainable growth in Defense Department civilian employees and enact my legislation (H.R. 4257, the REDUCE Act) in order to protect our warfighters." Fiscal Year 2015 Defense Appropriations Bill Highlights: Military Personnel and Pay–The bill fully funds the authorized 1.8% pay raise for the military, instead of 1% as requested by the President, and provides funding to maintain 100% of troop housing costs through the Basic Allowance for Housing (BAH). Defense Health and Military Family Programs– The bill contains $31.6 billion for the Defense Health Program to provide care for our troops, military families, and retirees. This level is sufficient to meet all estimated needs and requirements in the next fiscal year. In addition, within the total $246 million is provided for cancer research, $150 million for medical facility upgrades, $125 million for traumatic brain injury and psychological health research, and an additional $39 million above the request for suicide prevention outreach programs. All of these funding levels represent increases above the President's request for these programs. The bill also restores $100 million to the Defense Commissary Agency to provide reduced-price food and household goods for service-members and their families. Research and Development– The bill contains $63.4 billion – $368 million above the fiscal year 2014 enacted level and $171 million below the President's request – for research, development, testing, and evaluation of new defense technologies. These activities will help to advance the safety and success of current and future military operations, and will help prepare our nation to meet a broad range of future security threats. Specifically, this funding will support research and development of the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter, the KC-46A tanker program, the P8-A Poseidon, the new Air Force bomber program, a next generation JSTARS aircraft, the RQ-4 Triton Unmanned Aerial Vehicle, the Navy's Future Unmanned Carrier-based Strike System, the Ohio-class submarine replacement, the Army and Marine Corps Joint Light Tactical Vehicle, the Army Ground Combat Vehicle, the Israeli Cooperative Programs, and other important development programs. Equipment Procurement– The legislation provides a total of $91.2 billion – $1.6 billion below the fiscal year 2014 enacted level and $1.6 billion above the President's request – for equipment and upgrades. This funding will help ensure our nation's military readiness by providing the necessary platforms, weapons, and other equipment our forces need to train, maintain our force, and conduct successful operations. For example, the bill includes $14.3 billion to procure six Navy ships, including $789 million for the USS George Washington carrier refueling project; $5.8 billion for 38 F-35 aircraft; $1.6 billion for 7 KC-46A tankers; $975 million for 12 EA-18G Growlers; $2.4 billion for 87 UH-60 Blackhawk and 37 MH-60S/R helicopters; and $351 million for the Israeli Cooperative Program – Iron Dome. Guantanamo Bay– The legislation prohibits funding for transfers of Guantanamo detainees to the U.S. or its territories and denies funding to modify any facility in the U.S. to house detainees. These provisions are identical to language contained in the House-passed fiscal year 2015 Defense Authorization legislation. Savings and Reductions to President's Request– The bill reflects common-sense decisions to save taxpayer dollars where possible in areas that will not affect the safety or success of our troops and missions. Some of these savings include: $547 million for favorable foreign currency fluctuations, $592 million for overestimation of civilian personnel costs, and $965 million in savings from rescissions of unused prior-year funding. ###
06.18.2014	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) proudly announced the list of candidates he nominated who have received and accepted an Offer of Appointment to our nation's service academies, and will be part of the Class of 2018 entering in June 2014. "Attending one of our nation's service academies is a tremendous honor and opportunity, so it is my pleasure to see so many of our local students head off to these phenomenal institutions," said Rep. Calvert. "The students I nominated have the character, wisdom and resolve to meet the challenges that await them at the service academies and the accompanying military service commitment. Our community should be incredibly proud of these young adults." Below is Rep. Calvert's list of candidates: United States Air Force Academy Robert Boggs – Graduated from Norco High School in May 2013, and graduated from the Air Force Academy Prep School in May 2014. Andrew Cha – Graduated from Martin Luther King High School. Madison Lohman – Graduated from Corona High School. Greggory Redman – Graduated from Elsinore High School. Dane Robbins – Graduated from J.W. Robinson High School. United States Military Academy at West Point Helena Bilbrey – Graduated from Murrieta Valley High School. Netteange Monaus – Graduated from Valley Christian High School. United States Merchant Marine Academy Chase O'Keefe – Graduated from Norco High School. Danna Plourde – Graduated from Great Oak High School in May 2013 and graduated from the Merchant Marine Prep School in May 2014. Rep. Calvert's nominations are made on a strictly competitive basis. Therefore, he has established an Academy Nominations Selection Committee that determines nominations based solely on the candidate's qualifications. Candidates are judged on their scholastic achievements, leadership performance, athletic participation, community service, and motivation. An education at one of the military service academies is estimated to be valued at approximately $400,000. ###
06.11.2014	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) hailed the House Appropriations Committee's support for the Air and Marine Operations Center (AMOC), which is located in Riverside County. The Fiscal Year 2015 Homeland Security Appropriations Bill contains language, supported by Rep. Calvert, that highlights the critical mission performed at AMOC. The bill provides $43.7 million for the operations at AMOC, $15.3 million above the President's request. The bill was approved today by the House Appropriations Committee. "I am pleased that the Appropriations Committee continues to acknowledge and support the incredibly valuable work performed at AMOC," said Rep. Calvert. "The significant investments provided for AMOC in this bill will translate into increased capabilities and provide our homeland security officials with an increasingly clear air and marine awareness. I will continue to advocate my strong support to build upon AMOC's immense contributions. The AMOC mission, and the personnel who carry it out, are a true asset for Riverside County and the country." Funding increases for AMOC activities provided in the FY 2015 Homeland Security Appropriations Bill include: $5,900,000 to boost air surveillance operations from 60 percent to 95 percent; $7,000,000 for necessary communication system upgrades that will ensure AMOC can connect with OAM air and marine assets; $1,100,000 for upgrades to and maintenance of various surveillance systems, circuits, and equipment, including the Air and Marine Operations Surveillance System (AMOSS); and $1,300,000 for PED Cell and AMOSS enhancements. The following report language related to AMOC was also included in the bill: "The Committee considers AMOC to be an asset, critical to fulfilling the national imperative for an air and marine domain awareness node that is capable of sharing and synchronizing information across DHS components, the government writ large, and appropriate foreign partners. For reasons rooted in DHS's history, AMOC has been minimalized to such a point that its budget is not even reflected in CBP's voluminous and rhetoric-filled budget justifications. To increase the visibility of AMOC's mission and budget requirements, the Committee establishes a separate AMOC PPA." "Using advanced technologies and surveillance capabilities, AMOC unifies data from state of the art law enforcement radars into a common operating picture of the air, land, and maritime domains that can be shared with federal, state, and local law enforcement organizations. As such, AMOC is truly a national asset and, if properly resourced and empowered, can provide actionable intelligence and information to a range of partners across the U.S. government and overseas." "For years, AMOC's charter has languished in unnecessary DHS bureaucracy. Despite its critical mission to establish comprehensive domain awareness, AMOC has been chronically under-funded and its mission remains unchartered. Currently, a proposed charter institutionalizing AMOC's missions and establishing its roles and responsibilities is in the Secretary's office waiting for a final decision. If the charter is not signed within 60 days of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary is directed to provide a report to the Committee that describes viable options with the same level of capability of the AMOC, the associated costs of the options, and the length of time it will take to study and implement them. The report shall be provided to the Committee not later than 60 days after the date of enactment of this Act." The Air and Marine Operations Center (AMOC) is the nation's only federal law enforcement center tasked to coordinate interdiction operations in the Western Hemisphere. Located at March Air Reserve Base in Riverside, Calif., the AMOC was established in 1988 as a state-of-the-art law enforcement Domain Awareness center to counter the airborne drug smuggling threat. OAM has expanded the AMOC's role in air and marine interdiction, and today the AMOC provides detection, monitoring, sorting, tracking and coordination of law enforcement response to suspect airborne and maritime activity at, beyond and internal to our nation's borders. ###
05.29.2014	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) issued the following statement in response to the release of the Veterans Affairs (VA) Inspector General Interim Report on the Veterans Health Administration (VHA). "The VA Inspector General Report shines the light on a disturbing pattern of shameful behavior by those entrusted to care for our Veterans. While most federal employees at the VA provide our Veterans with quality service, it makes me sick to think that some employees put concerns about their own salaries and bonuses above the need to provide our Veterans with the health care and service they were seeking. Federal employees who lie and rig the system in order to enhance their compensation are stealing money from American taxpayers. While many of my colleagues have called on Secretary Shinseki to step down, I believe we need to root out any and all VA personnel that led to, participated in or will obstruct the correction of these heinous actions. Our veterans have fought and worked too damn hard to be subjected to these kinds of bureaucratic games." The VA Inspector General Interim Report can be found here. The findings of the Interim Report included: "Identified an additional 1,700 veterans who were waiting for a primary care appointment but were not on the electronic waiting list (EWL)" "The length of time these 1,700 veterans wait for appointments prior to being scheduled or added to the EWL will never be captured in any VA wait time data because Phoenix Health Care System (HCS) staff had not yet scheduled their appointment or added them to the EWL." "The Phoenix HCS leadership understated the time new patients waited for their primary care appointment listed in their FY 2013 performance appraisal accomplishments, which is one of the factors considered for awards and salary increases." "At this time, it appears that a significant number of schedulers are manipulating the waiting times of established patients by using the wrong desired date of care. Instead of schedulers using a date based on when the provider wants to see the veteran or when the veteran wants an appointment, the scheduler deviates from VHA's scheduling policy by going into the system to determine when the next available appointment is and using that as a purported desired date. This results in a false 0-day wait time." ###
05.22.2014	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) voted along with a bipartisan majority of the House (325 to 98) to approve H.R. 4435, the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for Fiscal Year 2015. The NDAA is the key mechanism to provide necessary authorities and funding for America's military. "Even in an era of constrained taxpayer resources, it is essential that we find ways to ensure our military has the funding necessary to carry out its mission," said Rep. Calvert. "The NDAA bill before us today provides a responsible fiscal balance and prioritizes the critical tools our troops need to maintain and perform as the finest fighting force in the world. The bill also provides our warfighters, and their families, with the support and care that we have promised them. This will be the last NDAA brought to the House floor by my good friend and the Chairman of the Armed Services Committee, Rep. Buck McKeon (CA-25). I want to thank Chairman McKeon for all of the hard work and dedication he has demonstrated on behalf of our troops and their families throughout his service here in the House." Local Impacts Distinguished Flying Cross National Memorial: The NDAA includes Rep. Calvert's legislation, the Distinguished Flying Cross National Memorial Act (H.R. 330). The designation of the memorial at March Field Air Museum as a national memorial will ensure that these brave American heroes, their families, and all admirers of the Distinguished Flying Cross, will have a place to remember, honor, and pay tribute. NDAA Highlights (Provided by the House Armed Services Committee) Authorized Funding Levels: Consistent with the House budget, the NDAA authorizes $521.3 billion in spending for national defense and an additional $79.4 billion for Overseas Contingency Operations. This is consistent with the levels for national defense House-passed FY15 budget and the Republican Study Committee substitute, and it re?ects the Ryan-Murray agreement last year. Members are aware however, that it is $45 billion less than in the President's projected FY14 budget request and $30.7 billion less than the enacted FY14 NDAA. BRAC: For several years, the Administration has asserted the need for one or more rounds of base closure to shed excess capacity and conserve resources. Once again, the House rejects the proposed BRAC round. The Armed Services Committee maintains its long held concern that BRAC rounds do not yield true savings but rather impose large up-front costs only then to shift property between federal agencies. President's Proposed Benefit Cuts: In the FY15 budget request, the President proposed his most sweeping compensation cuts to date, including TRICARE, Housing Allowances, and Commissary benefits. When combined with a reduction in the annual troop pay increase, these cuts result in thousands of dollars of additional out-of-pocket expenses for military families. Chairman McKeon categorically rejects these cuts. He continues to believe military compensation reform should be addressed comprehensively and should be informed by the recommendations of the commission. Troop Pay: The NDAA supports current law, which mandates an automatic 1.8% annual increase. Civilian Workforce: The NDAA tasks GAO to assess DoD's headquarter reduction efforts, building off its previous work conducted for the committee on examining growth in DOD headquarters. ###
05.21.2014	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) voted along with a bipartisan majority of the House (412-4) to pass the Conference Report to H.R. 3080, the Water Resources Reform and Development Act (WRRDA). The bill establishes critical policies in support of our country's waterways and flood control management. "Constructing critical water infrastructure projects around the country is good for our economy and necessary for strengthening the backbones of our communities," said Rep. Calvert. "The WRRDA bill being sent to the President reflects the importance of these projects and the need to implement key reforms to build projects faster and at a lower cost. The 42ndDistrict is home to a number of important Corps of Engineers project, including Murrieta Creek and the Santa Ana River Mainstem project. I am hopeful that the passage of this WRRDA bill will help the Corps and the local sponsors complete projects in a timely fashion. I am also pleased the bill includes a new WIFIA program, which I advocated for based on the success of TIFIA and our ongoing need for innovative financing options." Highlights of the Water Resources Reform and Development Act of 2014: (Provided by the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee) The Water Resources Reform and Development Act of 2014 is one of the most policy and reform focused measures of its kind in the last two decades. WRRDA streamlines the project delivery process, promotes fiscal responsibility, and strengthens our water transportation networks to promote competitiveness, prosperity, and economic growth. WRRDA contains no earmarks and makes major reforms to increase transparency, accountability, and Congressional oversight in reviewing and prioritizing future water resources development activities. Reforms Bureaucracy, Accelerates Project Delivery, and Streamlines Environmental Reviews Sets hard deadlines on the time and cost of studies Consolidates or eliminates duplicative or unnecessary studies and requires concurrent reviews Streamlines environmental reviews and improves coordination Fiscally Responsible Deauthorizes $18 billion of old, inactive projects that were authorized prior to WRDA 2007 More than fully offsets authorizations with deauthorizations Sunsets new authorizations to prevent future project backlogs Reduces the inventory of properties that are not needed for the missions of the Corps Establishes a new, transparent process for future bills to review and prioritize water resources development activities with strong Congressional oversight Increases Flexibility for Non-Federal Interests and Leverages Private Sector Investments to Multiply the Effect of Federal Funding Maximizes the ability of non-federal interests to contribute their own funds to move studies and projects forward Expands the ability of non-federal interests to contribute funds to expedite the evaluation and processing of permits Establishes a Water Infrastructure Public Private Partnership Program and new options to expand the local role in project implementation Creates innovative methods to invest in and finance water resources infrastructure and municipal drinking water and wastewater needs Enhances Safety and Protects Communities Strengthens dam and levee safety Improves Army Corps of Engineers responses to extreme weather events Encourages resilient construction techniques and the use of durable, sustainable, and innovative materials Improves Competitiveness, Creates Jobs, and Strengthens Water Resources Infrastructure Authorizes needed investment in America's ports, strengthens ports that move the majority of the Nation's commerce, and ensures equity for those ports that contribute the most to the Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund Supports underserved, emerging ports Reforms and preserves the Inland Waterways Trust Fund Authorizes priority water resources infrastructure improvements recommended to Congress by the Chief of the Army Corps of Engineers to improve navigation and commerce and address flood risk management, hurricane and storm damage risk reduction, and environmental restoration needs ###
05.01.2014	Today, Rep. Ken Calvert (CA-42) lauded the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Readiness for including his legislation, the Distinguished Flying Cross National Memorial Act (H.R. 330), in the Readiness Subcommittee mark of the FY2015 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA). "Riverside County plays an important role in honoring our military heroes and the establishment of the Distinguished Flying Cross National Memorial will continue that legacy," said Rep. Calvert. "Distinguished Flying Cross recipients have received this prestigious medal for their heroism or extraordinary achievement while participating in aerial flight while serving in any capacity with the U.S. Armed Forces. The designation of the memorial at March Field Air Museum as a national memorial will ensure that these brave American heroes, their families, and all admirers of the Distinguished Flying Cross, will have a place to remember, honor, and pay tribute." Rep. Calvert introduced the Distinguished Flying Cross National Memorial Act on January 22, 2013. The language in the NDAA can be found on page 25 of the mark athttp://docs.house.gov/meetings/AS/AS03/20140501/102131/BILLS-113HR4435ih.pdf ###
05.01.2014	Late yesterday, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) voted for the Fiscal Year 2015 Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations bill, which was passed by the House of Representatives by a vote of 416 to 1. "I am committed to providing our veterans and service-members with the benefits, services, and resources they deserve," said Rep. Calvert. "The constant delays and inefficient service our veterans receive from the VA is a national embarrassment. The bill passed by the House today makes it clear that funding is not the issue. The VA must take advantage of resources Congress continues to provide them and implement the modernizing technology and systems needed to eliminate the benefits backlog. At the end of the day, we must hold the VA's feet to the fire until meaningful reforms are made." "The House has also provided critical funding necessary to maintain and improve the quality of life for active-duty service-members. Our military housing and medical facilities are relied upon by our military families on a daily basis and we must ensure that our installations meet their basic needs." Highlights of the FY15 Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations Bill: Boosting Veterans Programs Fulfills our moral and legal obligations to our veterans, ensuring they have quality medical care, important job and training programs, and other benefits they have earned for their service. Increases discretionary funding for veterans programs by $1.5 billion above last year, providing $64.7 billion total for our nation's veterans. Supports VA medical services at $45 billion, allowing for 6.7 million patients to be treated in FY15. Includes funding for mental health care, suicide prevention, traumatic brain injury treatment, homeless veteran programs, and rural health initiatives. Provides a total $158.2 billion in discretionary and mandatory funding for VA, $10.3 billion above FY14. Making Our Government Work Better for Vets Continues efforts to end the disability claims processing backlog by providing $173 million for the paperless claims processing system. Increases funding for digital scanning of health records, centralized mail, and overtime by $20 million to by the backlog by 2015. Maintains strict reporting requirements that help track the performance of each regional office. Demands the timely and accurate exchange of medical data between VA, DOD and the private sector to ensure veterans get the best medical care possible. Contains $344 million for the modernization for the VA electronic health record system. Holds VA and DOD accountable by restricting funding until the departments demonstrate progress on system's functionality and interoperability. Increases oversight of taxpayer dollars at the VA by requiring reports on construction expenditures and savings, and forbidding changes in scope of construction projects. ###
04.28.2014	Rep. Ken Calvert is pleased to announce his 22nd Annual Academy Night event for high school students in the 42nd Congressional District who are interested in attending one of the U.S. military academies. Academy Night features presentations from the U.S Air Force Academy, the U.S. Military Academy at West Point, the U.S. Naval Academy, the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy and the U.S. Coast Guard Academy. When: Tuesday, May 6, 2014 6:00 p.m. to 8:00 p.m. Where: Ortega High School 520 Chaney Street in Lake Elsinore Students will learn about the admission requirements and the congressional nomination process, and will have the opportunity to meet with representatives from each academy, members of Rep. Calvert's Academy Nominations Selection Committee, and his congressional staff – all of whom will be more than willing to help the students throughout the application process. For more information about Rep. Calvert's military academy nomination process please click here. The 42nd District encompasses the western edge of Riverside County including the cities of Eastvale, Norco, Corona, Lake Elsinore, Wildomar, Canyon Lake, Menifee, Murrieta and a portion of Temecula.
04.03.2014	Today, Interior and Environment Appropriations Subcommittee Chairman Ken Calvert (CA-42) pressed U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service Director Dan Ashe about the possible inclusion of the greater sage-grouse on the Federal endangered species list. Director Ashe stated that no decision on listing the greater sage-grouse would occur prior to September, 2015. "The listing of the sage-grouse on the endangered species list would have a devastating effect on Western states," said Chairman Calvert. "My hope is that the Fish and Wildlife Service will consider conservation efforts taking place in Western states and the significant impact listing the sage-grouse would have on domestic energy production in making its determination. Recent environmental pre-emptive actions by this Administration have risen speculation about what is coming next. Thankfully, with sage-grouse, we have additional time to complete and start implementing conservation plans, and to weigh the economic implications of an ESA listing, before the Fish and Wildlife Service makes a decision." The greater sage-grouse is found in 11 western states—California, Colorado, Idaho, Montana, Nevada, North Dakota, Oregon, South Dakota, Utah, Washington, and Wyoming.
04.02.2014	Rep. Calvert Statement on the Fort Hood Shooting WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) issued the following statement in response to the shooting at Fort Hood: "Today's tragedy at Fort Hood is simply heartbreaking. No military base should have to experience a horrific act like this once, let alone twice in such a short period of time. My thoughts and prayers go out to the victims and their family and friends. I also want to convey my support for our men and women in uniform at Fort Hood and around the globe, as well as the larger military community during this difficult time." ###
04.02.2014	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) hailed the House Budget Committee's passage of the fiscal year 2015 House Republican budget by and issued the following statement: "House Republicans have introduced a responsible budget that actually balances and provides a solid foundation for future economic growth. Our budget makes the difficult, yet important reforms to our entitlement programs which, left unchecked, threaten our economy and national security. The bold choices in the House Republican budget stand in stark contrast to the President's uninspired budget and the Senate Democrat's nonexistent budget. I want to thank Budget Committee Chairman Paul Ryan for his leadership in ensuring that our government is accountable, and lives within its means so that America continues to work for middle class families for years to come." Rep. Calvert worked closely with Chairman Ryan to identify discretionary spending reforms that cut wasteful spending, while maintaining the integrity and value of government programs. Specifically, Congressman Calvert helped to draft language that addresses the overgrowth in the Defense civilian workforce which continues to create a significant budgetary burden. Pages 23-24 of the budget resolution state that, "any reductions in military end strength should be accompanied by reductions in the civilian and contactor workforce, which has ballooned in recent years and is now approximately the same size as the active-duty military, a ratio that is out of balance. Reductions by the Secretary of Defense should focus on performance while retaining vital functions that directly support the uniformed force." Additionally, Congressman Calvert worked to include language to support the expansion of the Moving to Work program to public housing authorities across the nation. The budget "resolution supports taking actions that would make housing-assistance programs more sustainable and work to direct federal dollars to serve those most in need…One reform could include the gradual expansion of the Moving to Work program to high-performing public housing authorities." (pg. 62) The Moving to Work designation will enable reform-minded public housing authorities, such as Riverside County's, to serve additional households by allowing agencies to implement innovative program policy changes which prioritize employment and encourage self-sufficiency. The Path to Prosperity: A Responsible, Balanced Budget (From the House Budget Committee) Cuts $5.1 Trillion in Spending · Cuts discretionary spending below the "post?sequester" caps. · Cuts $2.8 trillion from Obamacare and Medicaid spending. Balances the Budget · Balances the budget in 2024 by growing the economy and shrinking big government. · Puts the country on a path to paying off the debt entirely. Repeals Obamacare · Frees one?sixth of the U.S. economy from government mandates and controls. · Reverses Medicaid's eligibility expansions and ends the Obamacare exchange subsidies. Reforms Major Entitlements · Provides state flexibility in Medicaid starting in 2016. · Provides state flexibility in Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program starting in 2019. · Strengthens the work requirements in Food Stamps (SNAP). · Makes structural reforms to Medicare starting in 2024. Reforms the Tax Code · Lowers the top individual and corporate tax rates to 25 percent. · Eliminates special?interest tax loopholes. · Moves to an internationally competitive tax system. · Eliminates the Alternative Minimum Tax. Cuts Cronyism, Corporate Welfare, and Waste · Ends Dodd–Frank's bailout of big banks. · Ends green?energy slush fund and other corporate subsidies in the energy industry. · Eliminates $7 billion of corporate welfare within the Department of Commerce. · Closes the Food Stamps "heat and eat" loophole. · Ends concurrent receipt of Disability Insurance and Unemployment Insurance. ###
03.26.2014	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) and respected military experts responded to the concerns raised by the American Federation of Government Employees (AFGE) regarding his legislation, the REDUCE Act. Earlier this month, Rep. Calvert introduced the REDUCE Act (H.R. 4257), which would require the Department of Defense (DOD) to make civilian workforce reductions over the next five years in a systematic manner without compromising our ability to maintain a strong national defense over the long term. Rep. Calvert is a member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Defense. "If we fail to make the tough but necessary decisions required to get our military budget under control, there's no doubt our national security will be negatively impacted," said Rep. Calvert. "I'd rather that we bring down costs responsibly through civilian attrition and performance-based decisions instead of on the backs of our warfighters." "What the Union conveniently misses is that the DOD is grossly overstaffed and large efficiencies can be gained with reduced staffing," said Secretary Gordon England. "Their assumption is that government employees will be replaced with contractors, a false assumption." Gordon England served as the 29th Deputy Secretary of Defense from January 2006 to February 2009. He previously served as the 72nd and 73rd Secretary of the Navy and as the first Deputy Secretary of the Department of Homeland Security. "The REDUCE Act is a sensible attempt to ensure that those providing "back office" support to our fighting forces are reduced by percentages at least commensurate with the sharp reductions in the levels of those forces, if not more so," said Dr. Dov. Zakheim. "Those who oppose these reductions are not sufficiently sensitive to the requirements mandated by our national security." Dr. Zakheim has served in the Department of Defense in many roles including as the Under Secretary of Defense (Comptroller) from 2001 until April 2004. For a more detailed explanation of the REDUCE Act click HERE. Myth vs. Reality Myth "Rather than letting DoD decide who should be doing the work, Rep. Calvert's legislation would hamstring the department into using more costly contractors and military personnel." - American Federation of Government Employees National President J. David Cox Sr. Reality After a 17% increase during wartime, the civilian workforce is simply too big. The REDUCE Act should not be viewed as a justification to shift the cost to contractors. Rather, it is one important component in a holistic approach to getting our Defense Department to operate more efficiently. The Department of Defense's total force mix has to be analyzed as a whole in terms of where reductions need to take place, and the REDUCE Act is an important part of this long overdue reform that will translate into meaningful savings - an estimated $82.5 billion over the first five years. Myth The legislation ignores the fact that significant cuts already have been imposed on the civilian workforce. - American Federation of Government Employees Reality Under the DOD's proposal, the civilian workforce would be cut by only 5% while the cuts to active duty personnel would be much deeper. In fact, the DOD proposal would cut the Army by roughly 13% - cuts that would shrink our Army from 520,000 active duty soldiers to 440,000, its smallest size since before World War II. These defense cuts continue to trend in the wrong direction! From 2001 to 2012, the civilian defense employees grew by 17%, while the active duty military grew by 3.4%. Based on these statistics, the Department's current reduction plans will do nothing to address this significant imbalance that was created over the last 10 years. The REDUCE Act will get us to a more balanced workforce in progressive manner, and translate into real savings – an estimated $82.5 billion over the first five years! Funds that should stay within DOD to fund higher end strength and resetting the force. Myth "If Rep. Calvert really was interested in saving taxpayers money, he would author legislation encouraging DOD to insource more of its work and reduce its overreliance on costly contracts." - American Federation of Government Employees National President J. David Cox Sr. Reality AFGE assumes that a civilian task or job created in wartime must be done forever. They also ignore that a contracted task can be terminated as needs change or based on performance – things that are almost impossible to do with a civilian position. Reducing the defense civilian workforce will yield tangible savings. According to former Secretary of the Navy John Lehman, each defense civilian reduction of 7,000 personnel saves at least $5 billion over five years. Using his numbers and calculating a 15% reduction from the current level of 770,000 civilian employees, the REDUCE Act would save $82.5 billion over the first five years. The savings generated from the REDUCE Act should stay within the Department and be redirected to fund Service priorities such as modernizing weapons systems, readiness, resetting the force and, most importantly, providing for our fighting men and women in uniform. It is important to note that a contractor can be fired but it is incredibly difficult to fire a civilian federal employee after they have passed their probation period. The cost of the civilian employee over the lifetime of their career includes more than just salary, it is also health benefits for life and a federal pension. Myth "This bill would undermine DOD's ability to perform its mission." - American Federation of Government Employees National President J. David Cox Sr. Reality The REDUCE Act will allow the Secretary of Defense to make the necessary reductions in a thoughtful manner over a reasonable period of time. Moreover, the bill includes explicit language that provides the Secretary of Defense the authority to assign greater weight to the performance factor, rather than other factors such as tenure, in a Reduction in Force. This emphasis on performance will ensure that the best and brightest are kept on when reducing the workforce. Reducing the most non-essential positions will not result in work being contracted out; rather, it will result in the work being done more efficiently, and some tasks certainly no longer need to be done. ###
03.25.2014	Today, Interior and Environment Subcommittee Chairman Ken Calvert (CA-42) held a budget hearing with Interior Secretary Sally Jewell concerning the Fiscal Year 2015 budget request for the Interior Department. The hearing was Rep. Calvert's first since being named Chairman of the Interior and Environment Subcommittee last year. "The budget presented today by Secretary Jewell is a starting point for the Subcommittee's consideration of our FY15 bill," said Chairman Calvert. "My colleagues and I are looking forward to hearing from the other agencies funded in our bill as we move towards crafting a bill that is fiscally responsible, sensibly manages our federal lands, and unleashes the economic benefits of domestic energy resources." To read Chairman Calvert's opening statement click HERE. The Interior and Environment Subcommittee has jurisdiction over the Department of the Interior (except for the Bureau of Reclamation and Central Utah Project), the Environmental Protection Agency, the Forest Service (USDA), the Indian Health Service, the National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities, the Smithsonian Institution, and other agencies. ###
03.14.2014	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) introduced legislation aimed at creating a more efficient civilian workforce at the Department of Defense (DOD). The Rebalance for an Effective Defense Uniform and Civilian Employees (REDUCE) Act (H.R. 4257) would require the DOD to make civilian workforce reductions in a systematic manner without compromising our ability to maintain a strong national defense over the long term. "The growth of the civilian workforce within the DOD continues to create a significant budgetary burden but, more importantly, if left unchecked it will negatively impact our men and women in uniform," said Rep. Calvert. "Secretary Hagel's recently announced military reduction plan trims the wrong side of the DOD. It would negatively impact our troops, compromise our national security, while failing to make the tough but necessary decisions needed to trim the civilian workforce at the DOD." The Growth in the Civilian Workforce within the DOD: The Growth in the Civilian Workforce within the DOD: From 2001 to 2012, the active duty military grew by just 3.4 percent. Yet over the same timeframe, the number of civilian defense employees grew by 17 percent, an increase five times greater than the armed forces. (Source: Open Letter to Congress. Defense Reform Consensus. 3 Jun. 2013.) Since 2009, the size of the Office of the Secretary of Defense civilian workforce has grown to more than 2,000 people, or nearly 18%. (Source: Eaglen, Mackenzie. About That Boom! in the Pentagon's Civilian Workforce. Time Magazine. 20 Jun. 2013.) The Joint Staff grew from 1,286 people in 2010 to 4,244 people in 2012, a 230 percent increase. (Source: Weisgerber, Marcus. Pentagon, Regional Staffs Growing Despite Orders to Trim Personnel. Defense News. 2 Jun. 2013.) According to former Secretary of the Navy John Lehman, each defense civilian reduction of 7,000 personnel saves at least $5 billion over five years. Using his numbers and calculating a 15% reduction from the current level of 770,000 civilian employees, H.R. 4257 would save $82.5 billion over the first five years. "The savings generated from H.R. 4257 should stay within the Department and be redirected to fund Service priorities such as modernizing weapons systems, readiness, resetting the force and, most importantly, providing for our fighting men and women in uniform," said Rep. Calvert. "Many of our civilians at the Pentagon and around the world do a fine job but their growth is unsustainable." continued Rep. Calvert. "Our current and retired military leaders have widely acknowledged the need to establish a more efficient defense workforce in order to preserve our national security posture in the future. However, actions speak louder than words and I believe Congress will ultimately have to force DOD's hand to implement these necessary changes." The requirements of the REDUCE Act will accomplish the following: Reduce our Defense civilian workforce by 15% by FY 2020. This percentage was recommended by the Defense Business Board, a trusted, authoritative, and independent source of expertise. The Department of Defense civilian workforce would remain at or below this established cap of a 15% reduction for Fiscal Years 2021 through 2025. The Department of Defense civilian Senior Executive Service career appointee workforce will be reduced to 1,000 by 2020 and remain at or below 1,000 employees for Fiscal Years 2021 through 2025. Provide the Secretary of Defense the authority to use voluntary separation incentive payments and voluntary early retirement payments in order to achieve the required reductions in personnel. Provide the Secretary of Defense the authority to assign greater weight to job performance versus tenure in a Reduction in Force then the Secretary currently has. Require a two-fold reporting requirement for this Act: (1) a report from the Secretary of Defense covering the progress and impact of the requirements of this Act in the annual budget request for Fiscal Years 2017 through 2025. The Secretary of Defense may also report to Congress on the impact of the provisions at any time throughout the year (such as when submitting the report on achievement of performance goals as required by Sec. 116 of title 31 of the United States Code on "Agency performance rating."), (2) a GAO study, no later than 3 years after enactment of this Act, that shall examine the progress and impact of the requirements of this Act. The following Representatives are original cosponsors of the REDUCE Act:Rep. Tom Cotton (AR-4) Rep. Kay Granger (TX-12) Rep. Darrell Issa (CA-49) Rep. Devin Nunes (CA-22) Rep. Todd Rokita (IN-4)
03.13.2014	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) invited high school students throughout the 42nd Congressional District to participate in the 32nd Annual Congressional Art Competition. "I am always amazed and inspired by the artistic skills of our students," said Rep. Calvert. "The Congressional Art Competition is a fantastic way to showcase the talents of young Americans from around the country." This year marks the thirty-second anniversary of the Congressional Art Competition, An Artistic Discovery. Each year, Members of Congress hold contests within their districts to choose winning pieces of art by high school students. Since this competition was created in 1982, hundreds of thousands of high school students have participated at the local level. The winning student from each district is invited to Washington, DC for the ribbon-cutting ceremony, and will have his or her artwork displayed in the U.S. Capitol for one year. Competition Guidelines: · Only high school students residing in the 42nd Congressional District may enter. · A student release form must be attached to the art work submitted. · All artwork must be original and may not violate any U.S. copyright laws. · All artwork must be two-dimensional. · Artwork, when framed, can be no larger than 28" high x 28" wide x 4" deep. · Acceptable categories include: Paintings, Drawings, Collage, Prints, Mixed Media, Computer generated art, and Photography. · The deadline for submission is Friday, May 2, 2014. For more information, please contact Jackie Lansing at (951) 277-0042.
03.04.2014	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert issued the following statement in response to the release of President Obama's Fiscal Year 2015 Budget: "The American people don't elect Presidents to sit on the sidelines. Yet once again, President Obama has sent a budget to Congress that lacks leadership and fails to seriously address the mounting and obvious sources of our national debt. In fact, the President's budget increases spending by $791 billion over the budget window, adding $8.3 trillion to the national debt over the next 10 years. In the absence of meaningful reform, our mandatory spending programs continue to consume more and more of our federal budget. More than six out of every ten dollars our government spends now goes towards mandatory programs. As a result of this growth there is increased pressure to reduce spending on our discretionary programs, like our military, or to try to raise taxes on American families. The cuts to our military outlined by Defense Secretary Hagel and contained in the budget recklessly shift the burden of our debt crisis on to our men and women in uniform. There is no doubt that the Defense Department budget, like any agency, has areas where cost savings can be found. For example, I have and I will continue to push the Pentagon leadership to examine the size and structure of the civilian workforce as well as streamlining the procurement process. However, in a world in which potential threats exist on many fronts, it is simply irresponsible to drastically scale back our investments that maintain our military power, especially since the DOD has already significantly reduced its budget As a member of the House Budget Committee, I look forward to working with Chairman Ryan and the rest of my colleagues to address our fiscal challenges. I plan on advocating for an approach that protects American taxpayers by balancing the budget, maintains our national security, and ensures the survival of our mandatory safety-net programs by bending their long-term cost curves."
02.26.2014	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) announced that six MQ-9 Reaper aircrafts are headed to the 163rd Air Reconnaissance Wing at March Air Reserve Base. The aircraft are set to replace the existing MQ-1 Predators. "I am pleased to hear that the 163rd Air Reconnaissance Wing at March is set to receive MQ-9s to replace its MQ-1s," said Rep. Calvert. "As I have said before, it only makes sense to locate MQ-9s at facilities that have infrastructure and resources already in place to train military UAV pilots. I know that the assets and experiences of the existing schoolhouse at March will allow it to successfully perform its critical mission with these new aircraft. For years to come, the MQ-9s will play an invaluable role in support of our national security as well as responding to natural disasters." "I want to personally thank Representative Calvert for his strong leadership in support of lifesaving air assets, both here in California for first responders and for our servicemembers in battle overseas," said Major General David Baldwin, Adjutant General of California. "The recapitalization of old RPA assets will help ensure the future of the 163rd Air Reconnaissance Wing's mission at March Air Reserve Base." Currently, the 163rd Air Reconnaissance Wing operates a Predator Formal Training Unit (FTU) at March Air Reserve Base. The unit's schoolhouse Predators are stored, maintained, launched and recovered at Southern California Logistics Airport (SCLA). Six MQ-9 Reapers will replace the Predators at SCLA. Rep. Calvert's efforts in support of the MQ-9 Reaper program and to locate the aircraft with the 163rd Air Reconnaissance Wing at March Air Reserve Base includes the following: Supported an effort to include a provision in the National Defense Authorization Act to urge the Air Force to prioritize the replacement of MQ-1 Predators with MQ-9 Reapers at locations, like March, with existing FTU schoolhouses. Requested increased funding for the procurement of additional MQ-9 Reapers in FY14. The FY14 Omnibus Appropriations Act provides $349,217,000 for the procurement of 20 MQ-9 aircraft, an increase of eight aircraft above the President's request. Requested language that was included in the FY14 Omnibus Appropriations Act that requires the Air Force to submit a report on its Reaper UAV placement strategy. Below is the specific Appropriations bill report language regarding the report requested by Rep. Calvert: "The Committee directs the Secretary of the Air Force to submit a report to the congressional defense committees with the fiscal year 2015 budget request providing a detailed, location- by-location schedule for the basing of MQ–9 Reapers including, where appropriate, the replacement and planned disposition of MQ–1 Predator aircraft to be replaced by the MQ–9. The report shall also include the criteria by which the Air Force determines the order of priority for MQ–9 beddown locations and the impact that MQ–1/MQ–9 transition will have on existing MQ–1 flying training units."
02.05.2014	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) voted for the Sacramento-San Joaquin Valley Emergency Water Delivery Act, H.R. 3964, in an effort to provide relief to the ongoing water shortage affecting California. The legislation was approved by a vote of 229 to 191. "California faces a significant threat to its already fragile economy if we fail to take action to confront our water shortage," said Rep. Calvert. "Congress can't pass a bill to make it rain, but we can pass a bill to put an end to the water shortages that have been caused by misguided regulatory decisions. California families and farmers are tired of seeing millions and millions of gallons of water being flushed out to the Pacific Ocean while our state suffers the economic ramifications." Click HERE to watch a video of Rep. Calvert's remarks on the House floor in support of H.R. 3964. Summary of the Sacramento-San Joaquin Valley Emergency Water Delivery Act The Act includes a number of provisions that will ensure water reliability by updating the Central Valley Project Improvement Act (CVPIA) to ensure that it fulfills original promises while focusing on native species. The Act reaffirms the original CVPIA commitment that a maximum of 800,000 acre-feet of water will be dedicated to fish, wildlife, and habitat restoration purposes. It is generally accepted that, on average, the provisions in CVPIA dedicate 1.2 million acre-feet annually to environmental purposes. The Act ensures that 800,000 acre-feet is a cap and that the water can be reused for contractual obligations. The Act further provides a safety net for Delta Division contractors in low water years by requiring a 25% reduction in the 800,000 acre-feet if Delta Division water allocations are below 75% by March 15th. The Act restores consistency in water contracts by directing the Secretary to provide successive 40 year renewal of existing long-term contracts which promotes the certainty required for long-term investment. The right of successive renewal is a critical component in long-term financing and planning for agricultural and urban water contractors. ###
02.04.2014	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) issued the following statement in response to the release of the Budget and Economic Outlook report by the Congressional Budget Office: "Today's CBO report is yet another indication that ObamaCare will negatively impact the health of the American economy and our fiscal condition. The CBO's projections of fewer jobs and dramatic increases in our national debt stand in stark contrast to the promises made by President Obama and Democrats who sold ObamaCare to families across the country. Sadly, these are more false promises in a long line of false promises from President Obama. It is time for Democrats in Washington to acknowledge the dangerous path we are on and to address the challenges we face by working with Republicans on sustainable solutions that protect families and our economy." CBO's Key Findings · By 2021, ObamaCare will cause a "reduction in full-time-equivalent employment of about 2.3 million." · ObamaCare "will reduce the total number of hours worked, on net, by about 1.5 percent to 2.0 percent during the period from 2017 to 2024." The largest decline will occur among "lower-wage workers." · ObamaCare "will cause a reduction of roughly 1 percent in aggregate labor compensation over the 2017–2024 period." · The deficit will again top $1 trillion by 2022. · Interest on the national debt will quadruple over the next decade. To read the full report: http://cbo.gov/publication/45010
01.28.2014	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert issued the following statement in response to President Obama's State of the Union Address: "During the remaining three years of President Obama's term in office the majority of the American people want him to govern from the middle – not from the radical liberal left. The President needs to accept and respect the fact that voters elected a Republican majority in the House of Representatives. Instead of threatening more unilateral executive actions and regulations, I would urge the President to sit down with members from both parties and find common ground. In the House, we have approved a number of bills on a bipartisan basis that address our continued jobs shortage and the disastrous implementation of ObamaCare. Encouraging the Senate to take up these bills would be a productive starting point for President Obama's 2014 agenda."
01.15.2014	Today, Interior and Environment Subcommittee Chairman Ken Calvert (CA-42) praised the passage of the Fiscal Year 2014 Omnibus Appropriations Act. The bill establishes the discretionary funding levels and priorities for all of our federal agencies and programs. The bill was approved by a bipartisan vote of 359 to 67. "I am pleased that we have been able to come to a bipartisan, bicameral agreement that funds our government in a fiscally responsible way and reflects the priorities of Congress," said Rep. Calvert. "Taxpayers are better served when our spending decisions are made in the halls of Congress instead of the obscure offices of Washington bureaucrats." "In particular, I am proud of the work done by the members of the Interior Subcommittee. With our economy continuing to struggle it is critical that Congress prevent the Obama Administration from imposing new restrictions on domestic energy production and stifling economic growth with excessive regulations. In an attempt to restrict the ever expanding regulatory reach of the EPA, we have reduced funding and included provisions to protect American jobs from unnecessary government red tape." "Southern Californians know all too well about the danger of wildfires and it is extremely important that Congress provides adequate funding to mitigate this danger, especially in light of the ongoing drought conditions. The bill rejects the Obama Administration's irresponsible cuts in the hazardous fuels reduction program and fully funds these activities." In total, the bill provides $3.9 billion for wildfire fighting and prevention programs within the Department of the Interior and the Forest Service. This level will fully address wildland fire operations for the Department of the Interior and the Forest Service at the 10-year average level, and fully reimburse the agencies for all fire-borrowing in fiscal year 2013. In addition, the bill provides $452 million for hazardous fuels reduction activities, which is $150 million above the President's budget request. "I am also pleased with our ability to fulfill our commitment to maintain and ensure the public's access to our public lands. Americans pay far too much in taxes to experience reduced operations at our National Parks." The bill provides $2.6 billion for the National Park Service, an increase of $28.5 million over the fiscal year 2013 enacted level. This will allow every national park to remain open and operational throughout fiscal year 2014 without the threat of closure or employee furloughs, and provide for the hiring of seasonal employees. LOCAL PRIORITIES Santa Ana River Mainstem Project – The bill fully funds the Corps of Engineers' budget request of $42 million for the continued construction of the Santa Ana River Mainstem flood control project. The project provides critical flood protection throughout Riverside, San Bernardino and Orange Counties. The funds will be applied as follows: $22,000,000 – Award BNSF Railroad Bridge Protection construction contract for Reach 9 Phase 2A $12,000,000 – Award Reach 9 Phase 4 construction contract $7,600,000 – Engineering & Design and mitigation efforts for the ongoing Reach 9 contracts $400,000 – Continue Seven Oaks Dam mitigation efforts The bill also contains nearly $800 million in additional funds for the Corps of Engineers to investigate and construct additional flood control projects. A number of Southern California projects will be eligible for this funding. Diesel Emissions Reduction Act (DERA) Grants - The bill provides $20 million for the retrofit of diesel engines to improve air quality. March Air Reserve Base – The bill provided funding for the following projects at March Air Reserve Base: Joint Regional Deployment Processing Center - Phase 1 ($19,900,000) The provided funding will allow for the construction of Phase I of the Joint Regional Deployment Processing Center at March Air Reserve Base, which serves to process military personnel from I Marine Expeditionary Force, 452nd Air Mobility Wing, Army Reserves, and Federal and State entities for deployment in support of global missions. The existing facilities are outdated, reducing throughput capabilities, causing lengthy processing times, and fail to meet current Anti-Terrorism/Force Protection (AT/FP) standards. NOSC Moreno Valley Reserve Training Center ($9,086,000) The provided funding will allow for the construction of a new facility to house the Navy Operational Support Center (NOSC) Moreno Valley Training Center. Construction of the new structure will allow the Navy to forego an expensive renovation of the current, aging structure. Furthermore, as a result of the 1993 Base Realignment and Closure Commission realignment of March Air Force Base and language in the 2004 National Defense Authorization Act, the NOSC Moreno Valley must relocate to a new site. The current structure does not meet AT/FP standards and the new structure will meet all applicable requirements and meet the needs of the approximately 550 personnel assigned to NOSC Moreno Valley. MQ-9 Strategic Basing - The bill contained language, requested by Rep. Calvert, that requires the Air Force to submit a report on its Reaper UAV placement strategy. Currently, the 163d Reconnaissance Wing operates a Predator Formal Training Unit at March Air Reserve Base. The unit's schoolhouse Predators are stored, maintained, launched and recovered at Southern California Logistics Airport (SCLA). Below is the specific Appropriations bill report language regarding the report requested by Rep. Calvert: "The Committee directs the Secretary of the Air Force to submit a report to the congressional defense committees with the fiscal year 2015 budget request providing a detailed, location- by-location schedule for the basing of MQ–9 Reapers including, where appropriate, the replacement and planned disposition of MQ–1 Predator aircraft to be replaced by the MQ–9. The report shall also include the criteria by which the Air Force determines the order of priority for MQ–9 beddown locations and the impact that MQ–1/MQ–9 transition will have on existing MQ–1 flying training units." WATER CALFED – The bill includes a provision extending authorization of the Calfed Bay-Delta Authorization Act, which Rep. Calvert originally authored, by one year and provides $37 million for the program, which supports the development of critical water infrastructure in California. WaterSmart Grant Program - $19 million for the Bureau of Reclamation's grant program, which provides cost-shared funding for projects that save water, improve efficiency, and facilitate transfers to new uses. A number of Inland Empire water agencies have received funding through the WaterSmart Grant program in the past. EARTHQUAKE HAZARDS Language is included in the bill report expressing support for the U.S. Geological Survey's efforts to continue developing an earthquake early warning prototype system on the West Coast. In total, the bill provides $53 million for the USGS earthquake hazards program. NATIONAL SECURITY MQ-9 Procurement – The bill maintained the House passed $68 million increase for an additional 8 MQ-9s. The MQ-9s play an increasingly important role supporting military operations. Military Pension "Fix" – The legislation amends the Ryan-Murray Agreement to exempt medically retired personnel and survivor benefit plan recipients from having their cost-of-living benefits temporarily reduced. This will ensure disabled veterans and surviving families receive the full benefits they are due. The bill will fund important Department of Defense programs and projects, a pay raise for our troops, and the advancement of our military operations to protect the nation from current and future threats. E-VERIFY The bill fully funds E-Verify, a program originally authorized by Rep. Calvert's legislation that helps companies check if their employees may legally work in the United States, at $114 million. Other key provisions contained in the bill: No funding for High Speed Rail; Provisions to stop the transfer or release of Guantanamo detainees into the U.S.; A provision prohibiting funds for the Army Corps of Engineers to change the definition of "fill material," which could have harmful effects on many U.S. industries; A provision to ensure Yucca Mountain maintains its viability for future use; Provisions to protect Second Amendment rights; A ban on the Administration's onerous "light bulb" standard; and Bans and limitations on federal agency conferences, travel, and awards. ###
12.12.2013	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert joined a bipartisan majority of his colleagues in the House of Representatives in approving the Fiscal Year (FY) 2014 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA). The bill was approved by a vote of 350 to 69. The NDAA authorizes $552.1 billion for national defense and an additional $80.7 billion for Overseas Contingency Operations. This is consistent with levels authorized in the FY 13 NDAA for the base budget and $7.8 billion less for war spending. "Establishing our military priorities and policies is one of the most important roles Congress performs," said Rep. Calvert. "I am pleased that we were able to come to a bipartisan, bicameral agreement that provides our men and women in uniform with the resources they need to do their jobs. I am especially supportive of language in the bill concerning the Forest Service/U.S. Coast Guard aircraft transfer proposal that I have been working on with Senator McCain." Transfer of Excess Military Aircraft to the Forest Service The NDAA also contained a provision supported by Rep. Calvert that authorizes the transfer of excess military aircraft to the Forest Service for wildfire fighting purposes. Under the provision, the Forest Service would receive seven C-130H as large air tankers from the Coast Guard (after being modified by Air Force) while Forest Service would relinquish its first right of refusal on seven C-27J aircraft, which allows the Coast Guard to receive the entire compliment of 14 C-27J from the Defense Department. The Forest Service would also receive 15 retired C-23 Sherpas as smokejumper/transport aircraft. Earlier this year, Rep. Calvert and Senator McCain spearheaded a letter sent to Secretary of Defense Chuck Hagel and Secretary of Agriculture Tom Vilsack regarding the status of the aircraft transfer. Johnson Valley Off-Highway Vehicle Area Language in the NDAA would preserve approximately 100,000 acres of Johnson Valley as the Johnson Valley Off-Highway Vehicle Area. The deal will allow the Marines to expand the Twentynine Palms Marine Base into a portion of Johnson Valley and would end the threat of military expansion to the remaining off-road area. The new Johnson Valley Off-Highway Vehicle Area is nearly as large as the Imperial Sand Dunes at Glamis and is explicitly designated for off-highway vehicle use under the new law. Included in this area is the entire "Hammers" area, both the front and back side. The Marines would be allowed to use a portion of the nearly 100,000 acre Johnson Valley Off-Highway Vehicle Recreation Area for a maximum of 60 days per year. It would be open to the off-road community for recreational use during the remaining 305 days. Other Highlights Increased troop pay– The bill allows for a 1.8% increase in troop pay, consistent with current law. Prevention of new fees and fee increases under TRICARE– The bill once again rejects proposals to increase fees or create new fees under TRICARE and maintains current reforms. The bill also allows certain beneficiaries to remain enrolled in TRICARE Prime after the DoD reduces the program's availability to retired beneficiaries. Benghazi– In light of the attacks on U.S. facilities in Benghazi in September of 2012, the NDAA requires a report from the Secretary of Defense and the Joint Staff related to Benghazi. The report will cover the posture and readiness of U.S. Armed Forces to respond to a request by the Department of State to support embassy security in the event of a similar attack. Reduced bureaucracy– The bill requires GAO studies aimed at reducing bureaucracy by putting a check on the expansion of headquarters staff within U.S. Central Command, all functional combatant commands, the Office of the Secretary of Defense, the Joint Staff, and the Service Secretaries. BRAC– Understanding that a round of base closures at this time would not only be costly, but reflect temporary budget pressures at the expense of long term strategic assets, the NDAA prohibits DOD from initiating another round of BRAC. ###
12.12.2013	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) voted for the Bipartisan Budget Agreement that reduces the deficit by $23 billion while establishing discretionary spending levels for Fiscal Year 2014 and 2015. The agreement was approved in the House of Representatives by a vote of 332 to 94. "The Budget Agreement passed by the House today is a step in the right direction in addressing our unsustainable fiscal path," said Rep. Calvert. "The agreement reduces the deficit by $23 billion more than if Congress had done nothing and simply let the government operate on autopilot. I am a strong believer that the American people deserve a budget and appropriations process that is debated, legislated and negotiated in the halls of Congress – not in the dark corners of the Obama administration bureaucracy." "Today, we have established the framework for the Appropriations Committee to complete its work on the Fiscal Year 2014 spending bills and advance the priorities we believe in. I am hopeful that the bipartisan, bicameral nature of the agreement will pave the way for long overdue negotiations that will tackle the rapidly rising costs of our mandatory spending programs and our outdated tax code." The Bipartisan Budget Act of 2013 would set overall discretionary spending for the current fiscal year at $1.012 trillion—about halfway between the Senate budget level of $1.058 trillion and the House budget level of $967 billion. The agreement would provide $63 billion in sequester relief over two years, split evenly between defense and non-defense programs. In Fiscal Year 2014, defense discretionary spending would be set at $520.5 billion, and non-defense discretionary spending would be set at $491.8 billion. The sequester relief is fully offset by savings elsewhere in the budget. The agreement includes dozens of specific deficit-reduction provisions, with mandatory savings and non-tax revenue totaling $85 billion. The agreement would reduce the deficit by $23 billion. Below are the most notable examples: (Provided by the House Budget Committee) Eliminate waste Stop paying Medicaid bills that dead-beat dads and insurance companies should cover. That's a $1.4 billion spending cut. Stop sending unemployment checks to criminals. That's just common sense. Stop sending government checks to dead people. There's no reason to tolerate fraud. Stop favoritism End the special treatment for non-profit student-loan servicers. We're paying too much, and these groups should compete for our business—fair and square. That would save $3 billion. End corporate welfare. - Some energy companies use the federal government like a bank. They deposit extra cash and earn well above market interest rates. By addressing this problem, we can save $750 million. - Repeal a government research program for private energy companies. That's a $40 million cut. Real reforms The federal government makes trillions of dollars of empty promises to retirees. And these empty promises not only drive the debt; they also threaten the retirement security of current and future seniors. This agreement starts to address the problem. We make sensible reforms for civilian and military retirement programs. - On the civilian side, we ask future retirees to contribute a little bit more — still well below what's common for state and local government employees — so taxpayers don't have to pick up the entire tab. - And for younger military retirees, we trim their cost-of-living adjustment just a bit. It's a modest reform for working-age military retirees. Taxpayers shouldn't have to bail out private companies' pension benefits. That's why we ask private companies to cover more of the cost of guaranteeing their pension benefits. That would protect taxpayers and save $7.9 billion. Mandatory spending is where the problem is. This agreement extends the mandatory sequester for two more years, which cuts $28 billion and rightly focuses on the source of the problem. ###
11.15.2013	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) introduced a House Resolution, H. Con. Res. 65, in support of Gold Star families throughout the United States. "The families of our fallen soldiers have paid a tremendous sacrifice on behalf of our country, and the very least we can do as a nation is to provide them with the support they need and deserve," said Rep. Calvert. "Private organizations and the larger military community do an amazing job providing valuable resources for Gold Star families in the aftermath of the loss of a loved one. Congress and the Executive Branch must continually look at new ways to support these families both in the days immediately following the tragedy and the years to come." The resolution introduced by Rep. Calvert encourages military bases around the country to organize and host events to recognize and commemorate the sacrifices of members of the Armed Forces. The resolution also encourages the attendance of families within the local area that have lost loved ones in combat to attend such commemorations. Since the start of the Global War on Terrorism more than 6,700 members of the Armed Forces have been killed. Below is the actual text of the resolution: Expressing the sense of Congress regarding outreach to families of members of the Armed Forces killed in action in Iraq and Afghanistan, and in other conflicts. Whereas the human burden of the Global War on Terrorism has been disproportionately borne by the less than one percent of Americans who serve in the military; Whereas 2,276 members of the Armed Forces have been killed in Afghanistan and 4,474 members of the Armed Forces killed in Iraq as of November 11th, 2013; Whereas the strength of our military is built upon the men and women who serve in uniform and the families who support them; and Whereas supporting those families who have lost loved ones in the Global War on Terrorism demonstrates the commitment of the American people to those families now and in the future: Now, therefore, be it Resolved by the House of Representatives (the Senate concurring), That it is the sense of Congress that— (1) all families that have lost loved ones in uniform should be recognized for their sacrifices and for their dedicated and patriotic support of the United States; (2) local communities should recognize and support those families that have lost a loved one in combat; and (3) the President should encourage military bases around the country to organize and host events to recognize and commemorate the sacrifices of members of the Armed Forces of all services, and to encourage the attendance of families within the local area that have lost loved ones in combat to attend such commemorations.
11.13.2013	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) was named as the Chairman of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies. "I'm honored to serve as Chairman of the Interior Subcommittee and I am excited to roll up my sleeves and get to work in this new role," said Rep. Calvert. "The continued growth of mandatory spending programs, combined with the effects of sequestration, makes it absolutely critical that we take a close look at every dollar we spend on discretionary programs. I look forward to working with my colleagues on the Interior Subcommittee to assess and provide the necessary resources to protect our air and water quality, ensure Americans can enjoy our country's natural treasures, and maintain our commitment to Native Americans. I plan on tapping into the experience gained during the many years I served on the Committees responsible for authorizing many of the agencies and programs funded by the Interior Subcommittee." "Leading the subcommittee in charge of funding everything from our National Parks to the Environmental Protection Agency is an extremely difficult job," said Appropriations Committee Chairman Hal Rogers (KY-05). "Ken is not only up to the task, but will bring a wealth of knowledge and experience that will be an excellent asset to the Committee and to the country as we tackle many fiscal challenges in the future. Ken has proven to be an exceptional leader in eliminating waste and inefficiency in government, has fought for programs and policies that benefit not only the people of his district but all Americans, and has the focus and determination needed to ensure that this important budgetary work gets done." "I want to thank Chairman Hal Rogers for this opportunity and for his strong leadership of the Appropriations Committee," Calvert said. "I will be reaching out to Ranking Member Jim Moran (VA-8), as well as our Senate counterparts, Chairman Jack Reed (RI) and Ranking Member Lisa Murkowski (AK), in the coming days to discuss our Subcommittee priorities." "I am particularly interested in finding ways to strengthen domestic energy production by utilizing appropriate federal lands. Our economy benefits greatly from reducing our dependence on foreign energy supplies and by putting Americans to work here at home to take advantage of our natural resources. I am deeply concerned by ongoing efforts within the Department of Interior and the EPA to impose unnecessary regulatory red tape that will thwart our energy production and other sectors of our economy." "As a member from a Western state, I remain concerned about the seemingly constant lack of adequate resources to reduce the risk of wildfires and will work to correct this imbalance. With portions of a Native American tribal reservation in my district, I am aware of the important issues Indian Country continues to face and am ready to work hand-in-hand with tribes across the nation to address their needs." The Interior Subcommittee provides regular annual appropriations for the Department of the Interior (except the Bureau of Reclamation and the Central Utah Project), the Environmental Protection Agency, and for other related agencies, including the Forest Service, the Indian Health Service, the Smithsonian Institution, and the National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities. Rep. Calvert was named as Vice Chairman of the Interior Subcommittee in January of 2013. Previously, while serving on the House Natural Resources Committee, Rep. Calvert served as the Chairman of the Energy and Mineral Resources Subcommittee as well as the Chairman of the Water and Power Subcommittee. While serving on the House Science Committee, Rep. Calvert served as the Chairman of the Energy and the Environment Subcommittee.
10.29.2013	Today, the House of Representatives passed legislation introduced by Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) officially designating the Distinguished Flying Cross National Memorial at the March Field Air Museum in Riverside. Following the passage of the bill, Rep. Calvert issued the following statement: "Establishing the Distinguished Flying Cross National Memorial in Riverside continues our country's proud tradition of honoring our soldiers. Distinguished Flying Cross recipients have received this prestigious medal for their heroism or extraordinary achievement while participating in aerial flight while serving in any capacity with the U.S. Armed Forces. The designation of the memorial at March Field Air Museum as a national memorial will ensure that these brave American heroes, their families, and all admirers of the Distinguished Flying Cross, will have a place to remember, honor, and pay tribute. I am hopeful that the Senate will pass the Distinguished Flying Cross National Memorial Act in the very near future." Background on the Distinguished Flying Cross Medal: The Distinguished Flying Cross was established by the Air Corps Act enacted by Congress in 1926. The Distinguished Flying Cross is the only medal conferred by all five military services, in all wars and campaigns from World War I to the present. The most reliable statistics regarding the number of members of the Armed Forces who have been awarded the Distinguished Flying Cross indicate that 126,318 members of the Armed Forces received the medal during World War II, approximately 21,000 members received the medal during the Korean conflict, and 21,647 members received the medal during the Vietnam War. Since the end of the Vietnam War, more than 203 Armed Forces members have received the medal in times of conflict.
10.28.2013	Today, the House of Representatives approved legislation to simplify Veterans' education benefits that was originally introduced by Rep. Ken Calvert (CA-42). Rep. Calvert's legislation, H.R. 331, was included as part of a larger bill, H.R. 2481, addressing veterans' education benefits policies. H.R. 2481 was approved by the House by a unanimous voice vote. "Our veterans deserve a simple, straightforward education benefits process that is free of unnecessary, bureaucratic delays," said Rep. Calvert. "I appreciate the strong, bipartisan support shown by my House colleagues today and I look forward to our continued work to simplify VA benefits for veterans and our colleges. I am hopeful the Senate will act soon on this important legislation and our veterans can start to benefit from a more efficient process." H.R. 331 would streamline the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) processes for community colleges that have multiple campuses. Currently, the VA requires community colleges to certify that their veteran students are enrolled for a specific number of classes before the VA will disperse student benefits. These rules must be updated to account for multi-college Community College Districts, such as Riverside Community College District (RCCD). Without such an update, veterans that take classes at a multi-college District see their benefits delayed while colleges and the VA complete and shuffle unnecessary paperwork. H.R. 331 would direct the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to permit the centralized reporting of veteran enrollment by certain groups, districts, and consortiums of educational institutions.
10.23.2013	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) voted along with a bipartisan majority of the House (417-3) to pass the Water Resources Reform and Development Act (WRRDA) of 2013. The bill establishes critical policies in support of our country's waterways and flood control management. "Putting Americans to work on essential infrastructure projects is a win-win proposition that I'm happy to support," said Rep. Calvert. "The WRRDA bill approved by the House today enacts a number of reforms and policies that will help deliver Corps of Engineers projects faster and at a reduced cost to taxpayers. My Congressional district is home to a number of important Corps of Engineers projects, including Murrieta Creek and the Santa Ana River Mainstem project. I am hopeful that the passage of this WRRDA bill will help the Corps and the local sponsors complete projects in a timely fashion. I am also encouraged by the bipartisan approach that was taken in crafting and bringing the WRRDA bill to the floor." The Water Resources Reform and Development Act of 2013: Maximizes ability of non-federal interests to contribute funds to move authorized studies and projects forward, Expands ability of non-federal interests to contribute funds to expedite evaluating and processing of permits, Establishes a Water Infrastructure Public Private Partnership Program, and; Streamlines environmental reviews by requiring concurrent environmental reviews, setting deadlines in a consultative process, and ensuring collaboration among all agencies involved.
10.16.2013	Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) issued the following statement after the House vote on the bipartisan Senate agreement to reopen the federal government and avoid a national default: "Tonight I voted to avoid default and to maintain global confidence in the U.S. economy. It was not an easy vote, but rejecting the Senate proposal would have meant asking the Obama Administration to handle a default situation. The President's punitive actions during the government shutdown, such as barricading war memorials, left me with absolutely no confidence that he could manage a default responsibly and would in fact use the opportunity to further hurt our economy and the American people. As part of the Senate legislation, Republicans were able to maintain the sequester spending levels in the Budget Control Act which has resulted in a reduction in total federal discretionary spending for two years in a row for the first time since the Korean War. The deal also requires that the members of the budget conference approve a report by December 15th. That discussion and report must address the rising costs of our mandatory spending programs, which are the real drivers of our debt. Unless we deal with and strengthen programs like Medicare and Social Security, we jeopardize both the viability of the programs themselves and the American economy. Despite media attempts to portray House Republicans as fractured, and there are times when we do disagree on tactics, we remain united as ever on the end goal: reducing government spending, addressing entitlement and tax reform, rolling back the size and scope of the federal government, and passing pro-growth policies that will help our economy and all Americans. The temporary deal also means that the American people will continue to have the opportunity to voice their outrage over ObamaCare. I call on all citizens to continue to share their experiences with ObamaCare which, as Sen. Max Bachus (D-MT) predicted, is a huge "train wreck." President Obama, through granting various waivers and extensions to certain parts of our society, has at least tacitly acknowledged that his signature legislation is deeply flawed. Since its roll out, ObamaCare has not just demonstrated that it has technical glitches but is substantively defective: Americans shopping for plans see that they are going to experience higher rates, higher deductibles, and higher co-pays while receiving substandard care. The fight to delay and ultimately repeal and replace ObamaCare is not over; elections have consequences and next November will be an opportunity for Americans to voice their rejection of ObamaCare. Tonight's vote reflects the difficulty of having only one of three seats at the negotiating table. House Republicans took a strong stance in an attempt to have a serious discussion about our country's serious fiscal challenges and the many concerns surrounding the implementation of ObamaCare. To the detriment of our nation, President Obama and Senate Democrats lacked the political courage to have this discussion. Over the next three months, we will push that discussion and press our issues, as the American people expect us to do."
10.04.2013	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) called on the Defense Department to end the unnecessary furloughs at the American Forces Network (AFN) that have forced many of its channels off the air and ended its broadcasts of live sporting events for our troops deployed overseas. "Our troops should never be subjected to political games. The only games they want to see are the baseball playoffs, football games, and other sporting events that boost their morale," said Rep. Calvert. "Congress has passed, and the President has signed into law, a bill that provides the funding authorization necessary to reduce Defense Department civilian furloughs – that includes the media broadcasts for the American Forces Network. Regardless of our other differences, the morale and welfare of our troops, especially those deployed overseas, is something to which we should all be committed. I sincerely hope that the Defense Department gets these channels back on the air as soon as possible." Earlier today, Rep. Calvert had a telephone conversation with a senior defense official to express his belief that the American Forces Network broadcasts fall under the definition of "support" as outlined in the Pay Our Military Act. It was communicated to Rep. Calvert that there may be a decision made this weekend to restore all channels at the AFN. The Pay Our Military Act was passed by Congress and signed into law by President Obama on September 30th. The law provides funding authorization to provide pay to: (1) members of the Armed Forces, including reserve components, who perform active service; and (2) civilian personnel and contractors of the Department of Defense who are providing support to members of the Armed Forces. The American Forces Network Broadcast Center (AFN BC) is under the umbrella of Headquarters Defense Media Activity's (DMA) Broadcast Services Directorate (BS) located at Fort George Meade Maryland. The AFN BC is located in Riverside California and provides programming for military radio and television outlets overseas. These outlets serve American service men and women, Department of Defense (DoD) civilians, and their families stationed in over 175 countries around the world where English language broadcast service is unavailable or inadequate. This global radio and television network service is called AFN, the American Forces Network. ###
10.01.2013	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) issued the following statement on the federal government shutdown: "Like most Americans, I am frustrated that our federal government has been shut down. I have now voted for four different proposals to keep the government open. Unfortunately, Senate Democrats have failed to move from their position, are unwilling to negotiate, and have slammed the door shut on talks to keep the government open. Along with my fellow House Republicans, I will continue working towards solutions that will reopen the federal government. A prolonged government shut down will undoubtedly have significant impacts on Americans, federal workers, and our economy. Much in the same vein, I remain concerned with the negative impacts ObamaCare will have on Americans, jobs and our economy. President Obama has already delayed multiple provisions of the law on his own accord, including a delay in the employer mandate for businesses. There is simply no excuse for the President and Senate Democrats to refuse to sit down and discuss how to protect Americans from the harmful provisions in ObamaCare."
09.29.2013	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) voted to provide funding necessary to ensure the federal government remains open. Rep. Calvert also voted for an amendment that would delay the implementation of ObamaCare for one year and an amendment that would eliminate ObamaCare's medical device tax. Also, Rep. Calvert voted for a separate bill that would provide funding to pay our military troops in the event the Senate failed to approve the House spending bill and forced a government shutdown. Following the votes, Rep. Calvert issued the following statement: "Like most of the Riverside County voters who elected me to represent them in Congress I want to keep the federal government open and I want to put the brakes on the implementation of ObamaCare. Despite the fact that ObamaCare enrollment is just days away we continue to see evidence and daily reports that the roll out of the law is behind schedule and will negatively impact the lives of Americans in a number of ways. ObamaCare's harmful effects combined with a sweeping expansion of government powers have triggered anxiety and uncertainty in our economy. President Obama himself acknowledged this fact when he delayed the employer mandate by one year. I believe all Americans, not just businesses, are equally entitled to a one year delay and to be protected from the known and unknown ramifications of ObamaCare." ###
09.20.2013	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) issued the following statement following his vote in favor of a spending bill that will continue to fund the federal government through December 15, 2013 while defunding ObamaCare: "When I originally voted against ObamaCare legislation in the Spring of 2010, I explained that the bill ‘will kill jobs, further increase government intervention into our lives, and pile trillions of dollars of new government spending and debt on the back of future generations.' When I ran for re-election in 2010 and again in 2012, I told voters that I strongly opposed ObamaCare and would work to protect them from the negative impacts of the law. My vote today to defund ObamaCare reflects my pledge to voters and my continued belief that the law is harming our economy, reducing the quality of health care Americans receive, and adding to our unsustainable levels of debt. I don't want to shut down the government. I want to shut down ObamaCare." H.J.Res 59 lasts until December 15, 2013 – for a total of 76 days. It provides funding at an annualized rate of $986.3 billion – approximately the same rate as the current, post-sequestration funding level, with minor score-keeping adjustments.
09.17.2013	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) was presented with the USGS Coalition Leadership Award by the United States Geological Survey (USGS) Coalition. The award was given to Rep. Calvert in honor of his long-term support for the scientific programs and personnel of the USGS. "I am honored to receive the USGS Coalition Leadership Award," said Rep. Calvert. "The USGS continues to play an important role in providing the science and data used by natural disaster response organizations and other resource agencies. Specifically, the dangers associated with earthquakes are something Californians deal with on a regular basis. The valuable work done by the USGS provides our emergency planners with tremendous resources necessary to make informed decisions." "We are pleased to recognize Representative Calvert for his efforts to champion the scientific programs of the United States Geological Survey. His leadership in Congress has helped increase awareness of the USGS," stated Dr. Robert Gropp, chair of the USGS Coalition and director of public policy at the American Institute of Biological Sciences. "Representative Calvert clearly understands that we all benefit every day from USGS science. The agency's research and information contribute to economic growth, improve public health and safety, and enhance our ability to smartly manage our natural resources." Members of the media interested in receiving additional information about the USGS Coalition should contact Joan Buhrman at jbuhrman@agu.org or 202-777-7509. ### The USGS Coalition is an alliance of over 70 organizations united by a commitment to the continued vitality of the United States Geological Survey and its ability to provide critical data and services to the nation. The Coalition supports increased federal investment in USGS programs that underpin responsible natural resource stewardship, improve resilience to natural and human-induced hazards, and contribute to the long-term health, security, and prosperity of the nation. More information at: www.usgscoalition.org.
09.10.2013	Following President Barack Obama's address to the nation on Syria, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) issued the following statement: "After much thought and serious consideration, I have decided that if the President ultimately does seek Congressional authority I would vote against the use of military force in Syria. There is no doubt that the actions by Syrian dictator Bashar al-Assad are deplorable and that the loss of life in Syria is both senseless and tragic. The violence in Syria comes during a period in which the Middle East has become embroiled in a series of conflicts and uprisings that have destabilized much of the region. As we know all too well, the violence in the Middle East has also resulted in the loss of American blood and treasure. It is in the context of these realities that I considered President Obama's request for the authorization to use military force in Syria. Make no mistake, the military actions being proposed by the President are an act of war. Before our country initiates acts of war, I firmly believe we must have clear and precise objectives, as well as be prepared for all possible reactions by the nation we are attacking. After hearing from the President and receiving both classified and unclassified briefings on the proposed mission, I am unconvinced that a US attack on Syria has clear and precise objectives. The Administration has now publicly acknowledged that there have been eleven chemical weapons attacks in Syria. If President Obama allowed his "red line" to be crossed on multiple occasions without a response, Americans cannot help but wonder why he is choosing to act now. The lack of decisive action and slippage in the President's Syrian strategy has now allowed Bashar al-Assad and his allies to anticipate a limited US response and, therefore, made it increasingly unlikely that a limited strike would significantly degrade his abilities to use chemical weapons. I am also concerned that in his attempt to rally Americans in support of military action, President Obama is downplaying potential responses by Syria and its allies that could result in the escalation of U.S. involvement. As we have seen in Iraq, Afghanistan, Egypt and Libya, nations rife with conflict are not quickly pacified once their authoritarian regimes are weakened or toppled. By discounting potential undesirable reactions by Syria, its allies, and even the extremist, Al Qaeda linked rebels, the President is not being forthright with the American people and our service members. My opposition to authorizing military force in Syria is also indicative of my general concern and lack of confidence in the President's Middle East strategy which remains befuddled and unfocused. Much like we saw in Egypt and Libya, there is a lack of clarity on what ultimate outcome President Obama hopes to see in Syria. Without a doubt, the internal conflicts in many of these nations are complex and involve a myriad of factions, each with their own motives and goals. However, given the lack of a clear and consistent approach to the civil uprisings in the Middle East, I cannot vote to authorize the President's engagement of our U.S. military forces in Syria even in the face of Bashar al-Assad's morally reprehensible tactics."
08.02.2013	Yesterday, the House Veterans' Affairs Committee approved legislation, H.R. 331, introduced by Rep. Ken Calvert (CA-42) to simplify veterans' education benefits. The bill was incorporated, along with other veterans' bills, into another piece of legislation, H.R. 2481, and approved by the Committee. "Removing unnecessary, bureaucratic delays that complicate education benefits is the least we can do for our veterans," said Rep. Calvert. "I am pleased that the Veterans' Affairs Committee has advanced my legislation and I am hopeful it will soon be considered on the House floor. I want to thank Chairman Jeff Miller for his continued leadership on behalf of our country's veterans." H.R. 331 would streamline the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) processes for community colleges that have multiple campuses. Currently, the VA requires community colleges to certify that their veteran students are enrolled for a specific number of classes before the VA will disperse student benefits. These rules must be updated to account for multi-college Community College Districts, such as Riverside Community College District (RCCD). Without such an update, veterans that take classes at a multi-college District see their benefits delayed while colleges and the VA complete and shuffle unnecessary paperwork. H.R. 331 would direct the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to permit the centralized reporting of veteran enrollment by certain groups, districts, and consortiums of educational institutions.
07.24.2013	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) joined a bipartisan majority of the House of Representatives in approving the Fiscal Year 2014 Defense Appropriations bill by a vote of 315 to 109. The bill provides the funding necessary to support our military operations and national security agencies. Rep. Calvert is a member of the Defense Appropriations Subcommittee. "One of the highest priorities for Congress, even during difficult budget times, must be to provide our soldiers with the resources they need to protect our nation," said Rep. Calvert. "The Defense Subcommittee has crafted a good bill that gives our soldiers a pay increase and invests in the latest technology that will ensure our military is second to none in the world." The Defense spending bill contained language, requested by Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42), that requires the Air Force to submit a report on its Reaper UAV placement strategy. "Once again, I urge the Air Force to prioritize the replacement of MQ-1 Predators with MQ-9 Reapers at installations, like March Air Reserve Base, that already have training schoolhouses," said Rep. Calvert, a member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Defense. "I am hopeful that the Air Force's MQ-9 placement strategy recognizes the benefits of the infrastructure and historical knowledge that's already in place at the existing training facilities." Below is the specific Appropriations bill report language regarding the report requested by Rep. Calvert: "The Committee directs the Secretary of the Air Force to submit a report to the congressional defense committees with the fiscal year 2015 budget request providing a detailed, location- by-location schedule for the basing of MQ–9 Reapers including, where appropriate, the replacement and planned disposition of MQ–1 Predator aircraft to be replaced by the MQ–9. The report shall also include the criteria by which the Air Force determines the order of priority for MQ–9 beddown locations and the impact that MQ–1/MQ–9 transition will have on existing MQ–1 flying training units." Currently, the 163d Reconnaissance Wing operates a Predator Formal Training Unit at March Air Reserve Base. The unit's schoolhouse Predators are stored, maintained, launched and recovered at Southern California Logistics Airport (SCLA). Bill Highlights: Ongoing Military Operations – The bill contains $85.8 billion for ongoing military operations in Afghanistan. This is a reduction of $1.5 billion compared to the previous year's level, due to the strategic drawdown of forces overseas. This funding will provide the needed resources for our troops in the field, including funding for personnel requirements, operational needs, the purchase of new aircraft to replace combat losses, combat vehicle safety modifications, and maintenance of facilities and equipment. Military Personnel and Pay – The legislation includes $129.6 billion to provide for 1,361,400 active-duty troops and 833,700 reserves. This funding level is $2.1 billion above the fiscal year 2013 enacted level. The bill fully funds the authorized 1.8 percent pay raise for the military, instead of 1 percent as requested by the President. Defense Health and Military Family Programs – The bill contains $33.6 billion – $858 million above the fiscal year 2013 enacted level and $519 million above the request – for the Defense Health Program to provide care for our troops, military families, and retirees. Increases above the request include $246 million for cancer research, $225 million for medical facility upgrades, $125 million for traumatic brain injury and psychological health research, and $20 million for suicide prevention outreach programs. ###
06.28.2013	Today, Rep. Calvert released the following statement in response to the House passage of H.R. 1613, The Outer Continental Shelf Transboundary Hydrocarbon Agreements Authorization Act, and H.R. 2231, The Offshore Energy and Jobs Act: "Rarely does legislation come before Congress with so many benefits. The energy bills passed by the House this week will create jobs, increase American energy production, generate significant state and federal revenue, and enhance our national security by reducing our dependence on foreign oil. Unlike President Obama's energy strategy of having the government choose winners and losers, I believe we need an All-of-the-Above approach that truly aims to make North America energy independent. If we follow President Obama's plan of imposing more taxes and more regulations on our domestic energy producers it will significantly increase energy and other costs for American families and ship jobs overseas. Thankfully, House Republicans will work to create jobs while increasing our energy production." Background on the energy legislation passed by the House: H.R.2231 - The Offshore Energy and Jobs Act The Offshore Energy and Jobs Act would expand U.S. offshore energy production in order to create over a million new American jobs, lower energy prices, grow our economy and strengthen national security. The bill removes federal government barriers that block production of our own U.S. energy resources. President Obama has effectively re-imposed an offshore drilling moratorium and imposed a leasing plan that keeps 85 percent of our offshore areas off-limits to American energy production. A report by the non-partisan Congressional Research Service confirmed that the 15 lease sales in President Obama's five-year plan represent the lowest number of lease sales ever offered in a plan since the process began in 1980. In contrast to President Obama's no-new-drilling, no-new-jobs plan, H.R. 2231 proposes a drill-smart, job-creation plan that would require the Administration to move forward with new offshore energy production in areas containing the most oil and natural gas resources, including the Atlantic Coast and Pacific Coast. It also requires the Secretary of Interior to conduct oil and natural gas lease sales that have been delayed or cancelled by the Obama Administration and implements a fair, equitable revenue sharing program. According to the Congressional budget office the bill would generate $1.5 billion in new revenue over ten years and could create up to 1.2 million jobs long-term. H.R. 1613 – The Outer Continental Shelf Transboundary Hydrocarbon Agreements Authorization Act H.R. 1613 would enact the terms of an agreement signed by the Obama Administration and Mexico to govern how to explore, develop, and share revenue from oil and natural gas resources along the maritime border in the Gulf of Mexico. According to the Bureau of Ocean Energy Management and the U.S. State Department, these areas are estimated to contain 172 million barrels of oil and 304 billion cubic feet of natural gas. These areas are ready to be explored and developed; activity will begin there as soon as the agreement is enacted, putting Americans to work and generating tens of millions of dollars in new revenue. ###
06.27.2013	Yesterday, the House Judiciary Committee approved the Legal Workforce Act (H.R. 1772) in a vote of 22-9. The bill requires all employers to check the work eligibility of all future hires though the E-Verify system. Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) worked with Rep. Lamar Smith (R-TX) and Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-VA) to draft the Legal Workforce Act and has previously testified before the Judiciary Committee in favor of mandatory use of E-Verify. "Americans have made it clear that any effort to reform our broken immigration system must include mandatory employment verification," said Rep Calvert. "When I led the effort in 1996 to establish E-Verify, I did so because we had to develop a tool that allowed employers to determine whether or not workers they hired were legally authorized to work in our country. We all know that American jobs are the primary draw for most immigrants and we must implement laws that ensure only those immigrants who have come to our country through the proper legal process are allowed to work. I am hopeful the Legal Workforce Act will be approved on the House floor in the near future." E-Verify, created in 1996 by legislation introduced by Rep. Calvert and operated by U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, is a web-based program that checks the Social Security numbers or alien identification numbers of new hires against Social Security Administration and Department of Homeland Security records in order to eliminate fraudulent numbers and help ensure that new hires are eligible to work in the U.S. The program is free to use and quickly confirms 99.7% of work-eligible employees. Today, over 450,000 American employers voluntarily use E-Verify.
06.26.2013	Today, Rep. Ken Calvert (CA-42) testified before the House Veterans' Affairs Subcommittee on Economic Opportunity regarding his bill, H.R. 331, to simplify Veterans' education benefits. "We owe it to our veterans to remove any unnecessary, bureaucratic delays that affect their education benefits," said Rep. Calvert. "I am pleased that the Veterans' Affairs Subcommittee on Economic Opportunity invited me to explain my bill and talk about how Congress can help simplify VA benefits for veterans and our colleges. I am hopeful the Committee will act soon on my bill and report it to the House floor for its consideration." H.R. 331 would streamline the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) processes for community colleges that have multiple campuses. Currently, the VA requires community colleges to certify that their veteran students are enrolled for a specific number of classes before the VA will disperse student benefits. These rules must be updated to account for multi-college Community College Districts, such as Riverside Community College District (RCCD). Without such an update, veterans that take classes at a multi-college District see their benefits delayed while colleges and the VA complete and shuffle unnecessary paperwork. H.R. 331 would direct the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to permit the centralized reporting of veteran enrollment by certain groups, districts, and consortiums of educational institutions. Rep. Calvert's full written testimony: Chairman Flores, Ranking Member Takano and distinguished members of the subcommittee – thank you for inviting me here to testify today on HR 331, a bill that would streamline VA processes to the benefit of our veterans. The issue is fairly specific to community college districts that have multiple colleges as part of the district. Currently, the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) requires Community Colleges to certify that their veteran students are enrolled for a specific number of classes before the VA will disperse student benefits. Ranking Member Takano's congressional district and my district include a community college district with three colleges. The community college district operates under uniform curriculum for all three colleges. Under current regulations, each of the three colleges must write letters to the other colleges within the District to verify their classes meet regulations. This unnecessary paperwork delays benefits to veterans and increases processing time and costs to college district as well as the VA. This process is unnecessary because: All the colleges' curriculum is approved at the District level and is aligned across colleges; The District registration system includes an option for a student to register at any one of the colleges in the same term;The District's computer system contains all student and course information on one record that can be accessed and viewed at any of the colleges; A student's official transcript includes courses taken at all of the three colleges. HR 331 would correct the problem by permitting each college in the District to certify veterans for all classes attended within the District rather than just for classes attended at that particular college. HR 331 would update the rules which would mean veterans would receive their benefits sooner and the VA would have less paperwork to process. HR 331 provides an important and necessary legislative fix to a problem that is impacting veterans in my and Congressman Takano's congressional districts and could be impacting thousands of veterans across the country. I would like to personally thank Chairman Flores' staff for their work and advice in drafting this bill and I welcome any questions the subcommittee may have at this time. Thank you. ###
06.26.2013	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) introduced the Pechanga Band of Luiseño Indians Water Rights Settlement Act, H.R.2508. Rep. Calvert was joined by a bipartisan list of lawmakers who co-sponsored the legislation including Rep. Duncan Hunter (R-CA), Rep. Darrell Issa (R-CA), Rep. Jeff Denham (R-CA), Rep. Doug LaMalfa (R-CA), Rep. Paul Cook (R-CA), Rep. David Valadao (R-CA), Rep. Tom Cole (R-OK), Rep. Raul Grijalva (D-AZ), Rep. Tony Cardenas (D-CA), Rep. Raul Ruiz (D-CA), Rep. Kildee (D-MI). California Senators Barbara Boxer and Dianne Feinstein have introduced companion legislation in the Senate. "This piece of legislation strikes an important balance for the purpose of achieving a fair, equitable, and final settlement of claims to water rights in the State of California between Pechanga, Rancho California Water District, Eastern Municipal Water District and the United States for the benefit of the Tribe and the citizens of California," said Rep. Calvert. "This Settlement is a result of decades of litigation and the parties have dedicated countless hours of deliberation into the terms of this Settlement. I am proud to be participating in the process to bring this Settlement to fruition. I look forward to assisting the parties in moving this Settlement over the next hurdle – Congressional passage." Pechanga Tribal Chairman Mark Macarro said, "Generations of Pechanga leaders have endeavored to secure our access to this important resource and there is nothing more important to the future of our tribe. This Settlement will finally secure a permanent source of water for our tribal members for generations to come, while ending the costly and protracted litigation process. We are thankful for Rep. Calvert's leadership on this bill and we look forward to working with Congress and the Administration to bring this next and final chapter to a close." The Pechanga Band of Luiseño Mission Indians Water Rights Settlement Act quantifies the Band's reserved water rights in the Santa Margarita River Watershed. The legislation also authorizes necessary infrastructure to guarantee a permanent supply of water to the Band through cooperative agreements with the local water purveyors, including Rancho California Water District, Eastern Municipal Water District and Metropolitan Water District. Importantly, the legislation will provide a coordinated effort by the parties to manage the water within the basin that will bring all residents of the Pechanga Reservation a safe and dependable water supply for the future. The authority for Congress to legislatively settle Pechanga's water rights resides in Article I, Section 8, Clause 3 of the Constitution, which grants Congress with the power "to regulate Commerce with foreign Nations, and among the several States, and with the Indian Tribes." Press Contacts: For Congressman Calvert: Jason Gagnon: (951) 277-0042 or Jason.Gagnon@mail.house.gov For the Pechanga Band of Luiseño Indians: Jacob Mejia: (951) 675-0586 or jmejia@pechanga-pdc.com ###
06.18.2013	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) proudly announced the list of candidates he nominated who have received and accepted an Offer of Appointment to our nation's service academies, and will be part of the Class of 2017 entering in June 2013. "I'm incredibly proud to nominate this group of outstanding young men and women to attend our service academies," said Rep. Calvert. "While the academies, along with the accompanying military service commitment, are incredibly challenging, I'm very confident the students I've nominated are up to the task. Our region should be proud to have so many talented individuals representing us at these institutions." Below is Rep. Calvert's list of candidates: United States Air Force Academy · Jason Engel, 2013 Graduate of Santa Margarita Catholic High School · Shane Jones, 2012 Graduate of Norco High School · Kyle Perez, 2013 Graduate John W. North High School · Robert Stiefel, 2013 Graduate of San Clemente High School · Conner Thomsen, 2013 Graduate of JSerra Catholic High School · Timothy Wang, 2012 Graduate of Martin Luther King High School · Kyle Woolbright, 2012 Graduate of Tesoro High School United States Military Academy at West Point · William Lopez, 2012 Graduate of Norco High Shcool United States Naval Academy · Taylor Peterson, 2013 Graduate of Tesoro High School · Kyle Robb, 2013 Graduate of JSerra Catholic High School · Eden Saravia, 2013 Graduate of Citrus Hill High School United States Merchant Marine Academy · Jolyn Green, 2013 Graduate of Woodcrest Christian High School · Johanna Ortiz, 2013 Graduate of Eleanor Roosevelt High School Air Force Academy Preparatory School · Colin McDermott, 2013 Graduate of San Clemente High School Rep. Calvert's nominations are made on a strictly competitive basis. Therefore, he has established an Academy Nominations Selection Committee that determines nominations based solely on the candidate's qualifications. Candidates are judged on their scholastic achievements, leadership performance, athletic participation, community service, and motivation. An education at one of the military service academies is estimated to be valued at approximately $400,000. ###
06.14.2013	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert joined a bipartisan majority of his colleagues in the House of Representatives in approving the Fiscal Year (FY) 2014 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA). The bill was approved by a vote of 315 to 108. The NDAA authorizes $552.1 billion for national defense and an additional $85.5 billion for Overseas Contingency Operations (OCO) as compared to $552.2 billion for national defense and $88.5 billion for OCO in FY2013. "Providing for our national defense is the most critical responsibility of our federal government and I'm pleased that the House was able to pass a bill that will help secure our country," said Rep. Calvert. "The Inland Empire continues to play a vital role in our national defense and that role is reflected in a number of provisions included in the Defense Authorization bill." Here are some key provisions contained in the National Defense Authorization Act: INLAND EMPIRE HIGHLIGHTS Distinguished Flying Cross National Memorial Rep. Calvert's legislation, the Distinguished Flying Cross National Memorial Act (H.R. 330) is included in the NDAA. The designation of the memorial at March Field Air Museum as a National Memorial will ensure that brave American heroes, their families, and all admirers of the Distinguished Flying Cross, will have a place to remember, honor, and pay tribute. Reaper UAV Placement Provisions in the bill urge the Air Force to prioritize the replacement of MQ-1 Predators with MQ-9 Reapers at locations with existing Formal Training Unit (FTU) schoolhouses. In addition, the language directs the Secretary of the Air Force to submit to the congressional defense committees a recapitalization plan for the replacement of MQ-1 aircraft with MQ-9 aircraft. The plan shall include the criteria for beddown, including both the weight and scoring of such criteria that will be given to MQ-1 wings and squadrons with co-located formal training unit schoolhouse missions. Currently, the 163d Reconnaissance Wing operates a Predator FTU at March Air Reserve Base. The unit's schoolhouse Predators are stored, maintained, launched and recovered at Southern California Logistics Airport (SCLA). NATIONAL HIGHLIGHTS Increased troop pay– The bill allows for a 1.8% increase in troop pay, consistent with current law. Prevention of new fees and fee increases under TRICARE– H.R. 1960 rejects proposals to increase fees or create new fees under TRICARE and maintains current reforms. The bill also allows certain beneficiaries to remain enrolled in TRICARE Prime after the DoD reduces the program's availability to retired beneficiaries. Benghazi– In light of the attacks on U.S. facilities in Benghazi in September of 2012, H.R. 1960 requires the submission of two new reports to Congress. The first will analyze the operational requirements for crisis response elements like the Fleet Anti-Terrorism Security Teams (FAST) and Commanders' In-Extremis Force (CIF); and the second will require DoD to review the posture and readiness of the U.S. to respond to similar attacks in the future in Africa and the Middle East. Reduced bureaucracy– The bill requires GAO studies aimed at reducing bureaucracy by putting a check on the expansion of headquarters staff within U.S. Central Command, all functional combatant commands, the Office of the Secretary of Defense, the Joint Staff, and the Service Secretaries. "I commend Chairman McKeon and the Armed Services Committee for a thoughtful, responsible bill that prioritizes our national security," said Rep. Calvert, a member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Defense. "I look forward to continuing regular order and bringing the FY2014 Defense Appropriations bill to the floor which aligns with the NDAA in providing for our nation's security and for the men and women who put their lives on the line to provide that security." The House Appropriations Committee approved the FY2014 Defense Appropriations bill on June 14, 2013. ###
06.12.2013	Today, the House Appropriations Committee unanimously approved the FY14 Defense Appropriations bill which contained language, requested by Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42), that requires the Air Force to submit a report on its Reaper UAV placement strategy. "I continue to urge the Air Force to prioritize the replacement of MQ-1 Predators with MQ-9 Reapers at installations, like March Air Reserve Base, that already have training schoolhouses," said Rep. Calvert, a member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Defense. "I am hopeful that the Air Force's MQ-9 placement strategy recognizes the benefits of the infrastructure and historical knowledge that's already in place at the existing training facilities." Below is the specific Appropriations bill report language regarding the report requested by Rep. Calvert: "The Committee directs the Secretary of the Air Force to submit a report to the congressional defense committees with the fiscal year 2015 budget request providing a detailed, location- by-location schedule for the basing of MQ–9 Reapers including, where appropriate, the replacement and planned disposition of MQ–1 Predator aircraft to be replaced by the MQ–9. The report shall also include the criteria by which the Air Force determines the order of priority for MQ–9 beddown locations and the impact that MQ–1/MQ–9 transition will have on existing MQ–1 flying training units." Currently, the 163d Reconnaissance Wing operates a Predator Formal Training Unit at March Air Reserve Base. The unit's schoolhouse Predators are stored, maintained, launched and recovered at Southern California Logistics Airport (SCLA). ###
06.10.2013	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) reintroduced the Infrastructure Facilitation and Habitat Conservation Act, H.R. 2280. California Senator Diane Feinstein has introduced companion legislation in the Senate. The legislation was first introduced in the 112th Congress. "In order to construct the infrastructure Riverside County needs to grow its economy and create jobs, we must find innovative ways to comply with existing environmental obligations," said Rep. Calvert. "Our local leaders have moved forward to establish a habitat conservation plan that provides the necessary mitigation and compliance with our state and federal environmental laws. The establishment of a revolving loan program will provide Riverside County and other regions with the resources they need to accelerate the execution of their habitat conservation plan. By taking these steps sooner rather than later, we can avoid delays in making the needed improvements in our infrastructure to sustain Riverside County's economic growth." The Infrastructure Facilitation and Habitat Conservation Act establishes a program to provide loans and loan guarantees to enable eligible public entities to acquire assets associated with habitat conservation plans (HCPs) approved by the Secretary of the Interior. HCPs are planning documents required as part of an application for an incidental take permit under the Endangered Species Act. They describe the anticipated effects of the proposed taking, and how those impacts will be minimized or mitigated. The legislation does nothing to alter eminent domain laws and/or private property rights. ###
06.05.2013	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) applauded the passage of an amendment offered by Congressman Paul Cook (CA-8) to the Fiscal Year 2014 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) that urges the Air Force to prioritize the replacement of MQ-1 Predators with MQ-9 Reapers at locations with existing Formal Training Unit (FTU) schoolhouses. The NDAA is expected to be approved by the House Armed Services Committee later this evening. "I strongly believe that we should be replacing Predators with Reapers at facilities that have infrastructure and resources already in place to train military UAV pilots," said Rep. Calvert. "As we transition to the next generation UAV technology it only makes sense to build upon the assets and experiences of existing schoolhouses, like the one at March Air Reserve Base." In addition to urging the Air Force to prioritize the placement of MQ-9 Reapers at locations with existing FTU schoolhouses, the language in the Cook amendment directs the Secretary of the Air Force to submit to the congressional defense committees a recapitalization plan for the replacement of MQ-1 aircraft with MQ-9 aircraft. The plan shall include the criteria for beddown, including both the weight and scoring of such criteria that will be given to MQ-1 wings and squadrons with co-located formal training unit schoolhouse missions. Currently, the 163d Reconnaissance Wing operates a Predator FTU at March Air Reserve Base. The unit's schoolhouse Predators are stored, maintained, launched and recovered at Southern California Logistics Airport (SCLA). ###
05.23.2013	Bill Would Cut Red Tape, Reduce Costs for Infrastructure Projects Yesterday Rep. Ken Calvert (CA-42) reintroduced the Reducing Environmental Barriers to Unified Infrastructure and Land Development (REBUILD) Act. The legislation, which was first introduced in the 112th Congress, builds upon the success of the NEPA Pilot Program, enacted as part of 2005 highway bill, commonly known as SAFETEA-LU. "Building needed infrastructure creates jobs and leaves our communities with lasting improvements that are the foundation of economic growth," said Rep. Calvert. "If there are steps we can take to build infrastructure projects quicker and cheaper without sacrificing safety and environmental protections we should take them immediately. The REBUILD Act would dramatically reduce the amount of time and the cost of building infrastructure in California and around the country. There's no reason a project should have go through expensive, duplicative environmental review procedures that fail to enhance the project." The REBUILD Act (H.R. 2097) allows any state to enter into a Memorandum of Understanding with a designated federal agency, who has environmental review responsibilities under NEPA, and assume the review responsibilities of that agency. Under the REBUILD Act, states would still be required to uphold the same NEPA standards or greater, by assuming these responsibilities states could integrate NEPA compliance into their own state approval process thereby streamlining construction timelines and eliminating the need for redundant reviews at the federal level. The streamlined process is modeled after a pilot program created in SAFETEA-LU (Section 327 -Title 23 USC) that allowed a limited number of states to take on the task of ensuring National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) compliance for highway projects under the Federal Highway Administration (FHWA). In those states that chose to assume this responsibility, the length of time to complete a project review was reduced by an average of 17 months while also ensuring the goals of the NEPA process were not compromised. Regular audits of state NEPA programs required by this legislation would ensure states are upholding NEPA standards. Should a state be found in noncompliance, a mechanism is provided to initiate corrective action and, if necessary, revoke the state's NEPA responsibilities. ###
05.23.2013	Today Rep. Ken Calvert (R-CA) lauded the House Armed Services Committee for including his legislation, the Distinguished Flying Cross National Memorial Act (H.R. 330), in the Readiness Subcommittee mark of the FY2014 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA). "For many years I have been working to appropriately honor the recipients of the Distinguished Flying Cross," said Rep. Calvert. "Distinguished Flying Cross recipients have received this prestigious medal for their heroism or extraordinary achievement while participating in aerial flight while serving in any capacity with the U.S. Armed Forces. The designation of the memorial at March Field Air Museum as a national memorial will ensure that these brave American heroes, their families, and all admirers of the Distinguished Flying Cross, will have a place to remember, honor, and pay tribute." Rep. Calvert introduced the Distinguished Flying Cross National Memorial Act on January 22, 2013. The language in the NDAA can be found on page 24 of the mark, which is located HERE. ###
05.22.2013	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) received an award for his leadership on animal protection legislation in 2012 from the Humane Society of the United States, together with its affiliate the Humane Society Legislative Fund. Rep. Calvert received a Legislative Leader award for his leadership on more humane, cost-effective, efficient, and reliable alternatives to animal testing. "Representative Calvert has exhibited outstanding leadership on animal welfare legislation," said Wayne Pacelle, president and CEO of The HSUS. "We are very grateful for his support in creating a more humane world." "Animals have a special place in the lives of Americans and people throughout the world," said Rep. Calvert. "I'm proud of my record in Congress on animal welfare issues and I look forward to my continued work with the Humane Society." Every year, the Humane Society Legislative Fund compiles a federal Humane Scorecard to provide a snapshot of animal protection issues considered by the U.S. Congress and give animal advocates a tool to assess the performance of their Senators and Representatives. The scorecard tracks key votes as well as co-sponsorship of important pro-animal bills and signing an annual letter seeking funds needed to enforce key animal welfare laws. "Animal protection issues continue to bring Members of Congress together across party lines, and have the strong support of mainstream Americans," said HSLF President Michael Markarian. "We thank Representative Calvert for his outstanding work to ensure that our federal laws reflect the core humane values and attitudes of American society." The Humane Society of the United States is the nation's largest animal protection organization, rated the most effective by its peers. Since 1954, The HSUS has been fighting for the protection of all animals through advocacy, education and hands-on programs. humanesociety.org. The Humane Society Legislative Fund is a social welfare organization incorporated under section 501(c)(4) of the Internal Revenue Code and formed in 2004 as a separate lobbying affiliate of The Humane Society of the United States. The HSLF works to pass animal protection laws at the state and federal level, to educate the public about animal protection issues, and to support humane candidates for office. hslf.org.
05.22.2013	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) joined a bipartisan majority of the House Appropriations Committee in approving the Fiscal Year 2014 Department of Homeland Security appropriations bill. "As Congress continues to consider immigration reform policies, Americans have made it clear that securing our borders and mandatory employment verification are critical steps we must take," said Rep. Calvert. "The FY14 Homeland Security appropriations bill approved by the Committee today provides the resources necessary to achieve these border protection and employment verification security goals." "The bill also provides important resources for first responders at all levels of government. As we've seen recently in Boston and Oklahoma, our first responders are the true heroes in our communities and it's our responsibility ensure they have the capabilities necessary to respond to any disaster." E-Verify The bill fully funds E-Verify, a program originally created by Rep. Calvert in 1996 that allows companies check if their employees may legally work in the United States, at $114.2 million. Rep. Calvert is one of several leaders that have sponsored the Legal Workforce Act (H.R. 1772) which would make E-Verify mandatory for all employers in the U.S. Air and Marine Operations Center (March Air Reserve Base, Riverside, CA) The Committee Report accompanying the FY14 bill once again contains language in support of the planned expansion of facilities at the Air and Marine Operations Center (AMOC) and modernizing AMOC systems. The Committee directs Customs and Border Protection to provide a briefing on its assessment of AMOC needs as well as the schedule and cost associated with any modernization plans not later than December 1, 2013. AMOC is the nation's only federal law enforcement center tasked to coordinate interdiction operations in the Western Hemisphere. Established in 1988, today AMOC provides detection, monitoring, sorting, tracking and coordination of law enforcement response to suspect airborne and maritime activity at, beyond and internal to our nation's borders. The center has been used to conduct Unmanned Aircraft Systems (UAS) and airspace security operations, response to natural disasters, covert and overt electronic target tracking and general aviation aircraft threat determination. Firefighter Assistance Grants The FY14 bill provides level funding ($675 million) for the two programs under the Firefighter Assistance Grants: · $337.5 million for the Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency Response (SAFER) Grant Program · $337.5 million for the Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) Program The SAFER program provides much-needed funding for career and volunteer fire departments across America to hire new firefighters and recruit and retain volunteer firefighters. The AFG program provides vital funds for training and equipment to fire departments throughout the country. An amendment approved by the Committee during the markup expands the SAFER funding eligibility to include allowing the retention of existing firefighter personnel. ###
05.21.2013	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) joined a bipartisan majority of the House Appropriations Committee in approving the Fiscal Year 2014 Military Construction and Veterans Affairs appropriations bill. The spending bill provides funding for necessary improvements at March Air Reserve Base and for Riverside County veterans. "March Air Reserve Base continues to play an increasing role in support of our military operations around globe and the funding included for these projects reflects the importance of investing in the critical facilities needed to maintain that role," said Rep. Calvert. "By replacing outdated facilities we can improve military efficiency and capabilities while providing our service members with the modern workplace they deserve." "I'm also pleased the bill funds overdue electronic health records and other system-wide improvements at the VA. The benefits backlog at the VA is simply unacceptable so the Committee is investing in technology and taking steps that will hold the VA accountable. Our veterans deserve nothing less than a functioning and responsive VA system." The bill provided funding for the following projects at March Air Reserve Base: Joint Regional Deployment Processing Center - Phase 1 $19,900,000 The provided funding will allow for the construction of Phase I of the Joint Regional Deployment Processing Center at March Air Reserve Base, which serves to process military personnel from I Marine Expeditionary Force, 452nd Air Mobility Wing, Army Reserves, and Federal and State entities for deployment in support of global missions. The existing facilities are outdated, reducing throughput capabilities, causing length processing times, and fail to meet current Anti-Terrorism/Force Protection (AT/FP) standards. NOSC Moreno Valley Reserve Training Center $11,086,000 The provided funding will allow for the construction of a new facility to house the Navy Operational Support Center (NOSC) Moreno Valley Training Center. Construction of the new structure will allow the Navy to forego an expensive renovation of the current, aging structure. Furthermore, as a result of the 1993 Base Realignment and Closure Commission realignment of March Air Force Base and language in the 2004 National Defense Authorization Act, the NOSC Moreno Valley must relocate to a new site. The current structure does not meet AT/FP standards and the new structure will meet all applicable requirements and meet the needs of the approximately 550 personnel assigned to NOSC Moreno Valley. Veterans Affairs Funding (VA) The legislation includes a total of $147.6 billion in both discretionary and mandatory funding for the Department of Veterans Affairs. This funding will help provide our nation's veterans with the services and care they have earned from their dedicated service to the country. Discretionary funding for Veterans programs in the bill is $63.1 billion – $2.1 billion above the enacted fiscal year 2013 level. Approximately $54.5 billion of this discretionary total was provided last year via advance funding in the fiscal year 2013 Appropriations bill. · VA Medical Services –The bill funds VA medical services at $43.6 billion – providing for approximately 6.5 million patients to be treated in fiscal year 2014. Some of these funds include: $7.2 billion in mental health care services; $103 million in suicide prevention activities; $246 million for traumatic brain injury treatment; $6.2 billion in homeless veterans treatment, services, housing, and job training; and $250 million in rural health initiatives. · DOD-VA Electronic Health Record – The bill contains $344 million in funding to jumpstart a single, integrated Department of Defense and Veterans Affairs electronic health record system. The legislation requires that a unified system be certified by the Secretaries of DOD and the VA, and confirmed by the Government Accountability Office (GAO), before the majority of funding for the program is released. · Disability Claims Processing Backlog – To help the VA meet its goal of ending the disability compensation claims backlog by 2015, the bill provides $155 million for the paperless claims process system and $136 million for digital scanning of health records. In addition, rigorous reporting requirements would be put into place to track the performance of each regional office on claims processing. · Oversight –The legislation includes provisions to increase oversight of taxpayer dollars at the VA, including requiring the agency to report on construction expenditures and savings, forbidding new changes in the scope of construction projects, and restricting the agency from taking certain spending actions without notifying Congress. ###
05.17.2013	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) issued the following statement in response to the Superior Court ruling on the Perris Valley Line mass transit project: "The decision to strike down the Perris Valley Line's environmental impact report and seriously jeopardize the project is an outrage. The people of Riverside County are left wondering how an activist judge can thwart a widely supported, thoroughly studied project by siding with an extreme minority of special interests. It's shocking to me that judges continue to validate and allow narrow special interests to obstruct the will of the community and abuse our laws. Make no mistake, by siding with the so-called "Friends of the Hills" the judge has not only jeopardized the project, but the jobs, the traffic relief, and the environmental improvements that are the demonstrated benefits of the project. I will take whatever steps I can to help make the Perris Valley Line a reality and I hope my fellow state and federal colleagues on both sides of the aisle will join me in righting this wrong. For many years now I have spoken out about the overreaching regulatory policies of our state and federal governments. Unfortunately with this ruling my fears have once again become a reality." Background: The Perris Valley Line project is a 24 mile extension of the Metrolink 91 Line, currently providing service from Riverside to Fullerton and downtown Los Angeles. The extension would begin at a junction with the Burlington Northern Santa Fe line, north of the city of Riverside and turn southeast along the San Jacinto Branch Line. The terminus of the Line is in the City of Perris at Route 74 and Ethanac Road in Perris. The estimated total project funding for the Perris Valley Line project is $248.3 million, with more than 50% of the funding coming from federal sources. The entire Perris Valley Line project utilizes existing railroad right-of-way that cargo trains have utilized for more than 100 years. The environmental impact report that was determined to be deficient by the court ruling was more than 3,000 pages in length. According to the Riverside County Transportation Commission, the Perris Valley is projected to serve 4,350 riders daily when it opens, eliminating thousands of vehicle trips per day on I?215 and SR-60. ###
05.07.2013	Rep. Ken Calvert (CA-42), Senator John McCain (AZ) and a dozen Members of the House and Senate have asked the Obama Administration for an update on the transfer of excess military aircraft to the Forest Service for wildfire fighting purposes. Specifically, Rep. Calvert and Senator McCain spearheaded a letter sent to Secretary of Defense Chuck Hagel and Secretary of Agriculture Tom Vilsack regarding the status of the aircraft transfer. "Last week's wildfires were yet another stark reminder of the danger we face here in the West," said Rep. Calvert. "I'm hopeful the Obama Administration can act without any unnecessary delay in getting these excess military aircraft into the hands of our firefighting community." The authority to transfer several C-27J Spartan aircraft to the Forest Service was provided to the Defense Department via legislation , known as the Wildfire Suppression Aircraft Transfer Act of 2012 (H.R. 6248/S. 3441), sponsored by Rep. Calvert and Senator McCain during the 112th Congress. The legislative language was ultimately included in the Fiscal Year 2013 National Defense Authorization Act and signed into law. The signed letter can be viewed HERE and the text is provided below. April 29, 2013 The Honorable Chuck Hagel Secretary U.S. Department of Defense 1300 Defense Pentagon Washington, DC 20301-1300 The Honorable Tom Vilsack Secretary U.S. Department of Agriculture 212A Whitten Building 1400 Independence Ave., SW Washington, DC 20250 Dear Secretary Hagel and Secretary Vilsack: We are writing to request a status update from both the Department of Defense and the Department of Agriculture on the transfer of excess military aircraft to the Forest Service for wildfire suppression activities. As you know, Section 1091 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013 (NDAA) authorizes the Forest Service to obtain up to 7 aircraft deemed excess to the needs of the Department of Defense. This provision enacted under the NDAA is based on legislation introduced in both the House of Representatives and the Senate during the 112th Congress (S. 3441/H.R. 6248, the "Wildfire Suppression Aircraft Transfer Act of 2012"). The transfer authority was drafted with the understanding that the U.S. Air Force previously planned to divest the C-27J and that the Forest Service concurrently identified the C-27J as "a modern platform capable of multiple wildland fire missions," including smokejumper and cargo delivery, fire crew transport, and aerial application of fire retardant. Much of the western and southeastern United States has and will continue to experience record-level wildfire events which are stressing the ageing Forest Service airtanker fleet. Many of the core aircraft operated by the Forest Service are Korean-War era DC-3s and P-2Vs, some more than 60-years old. Recapitalizing a portion of the Forest Service fleet with modern, 21st century aircraft is a practical, cost-effective opportunity that will improve the federal government's wildfire suppression capabilities and enhance fire crew safety. Given our work on this issue, we would appreciate knowing what steps both Departments are taking to carry out the transfer authority provided under the Section 1091 of the NDAA. Thank you for your attention to our request. Sincerely, Senator John McCain Congressman Ken Calvert Senator Dianne Feinstein Congressman Paul Gosar Senator Mike Johanns Congressman Darrell Issa Senator Bill Nelson Congressman Dana Rohrabacher Senator Barbara Boxer Congresswoman Betty McCollum Congressman Adam Schiff Congressman John Campbell Congressman Ed Royce Congressman Walter Jones
04.26.2013	Today, Rep. Ken Calvert (CA-42), along with Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (VA-6), Subcommittee on Immigration Chairman Rep. Trey Gowdy (SC-4), Rep. Lamar Smith (TX-21),and others, introduced the Legal Workforce Act, H.R. 1772, which will make employment verification mandatory nationwide. "I strongly believe that the first step in addressing our broken immigration system must be the implementation of mandatory employee verification," said Rep. Calvert. "Unless we can have some degree of certainty that employers are only hiring legal workers, we will continue to attract undocumented immigrants to our country. The Legal Workforce Act transforms the E-Verify program, that I am proud to have initiated in 1996, into the long-overdue, mandatory tool that will ensure American jobs only go to U.S. citizens and legal immigrants." "I would like to sincerely thank Chairman Goodlatte and his staff for the hard work they have put into the legislation. I look forward to working with my colleagues to pass the Legal Workforce Act and solve the job magnet piece of the illegal immigration problem." E-Verify, created by Rep. Calvert in 1996 through legislation, is the only tool available to employers to check the legal status of newly hired employees. It is web-based, 99.5% accurate and free to employers. Below is a summary of some of the major components in the Legal Workforce Act: Gradual Phase-In: Phases-in mandatory E-Verify participation for new hires in six month increments beginning on the date of enactment. Within six months of enactment, businesses having more than 10,000 employees are required to use E-Verify. Within 12 months after enactment, businesses having 500 to 9,999 employees are required to use E-Verify. Within 18 months after enactment, businesses having 20 to 499 employees must use E-Verify. And within 24 months after enactment, businesses having 1 to 19 employees must use E-Verify. Penalties: Increases the civil and criminal penalties for employers who violate the laws prohibiting illegal hiring and employment. Social Security Number: "Self Lock": Allows individuals to "lock" their own Social Security Number so that it cannot be used to verify work eligibility, in order to combat identity theft. Federal Preemption: Preempts state laws mandating E-Verify use for employment eligibility purposes but allows states and localities to enforce mandatory employment verification. Safe Harbor: Grants employers safe harbor from prosecution if they use the E-Verify program in good faith, and through no fault of theirs, receive an incorrect eligibility confirmation.
04.10.2013	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-42) released the following statement regarding President Obama's Fiscal Year 2014 Budget: "Just three weeks ago the House of Representatives passed a balanced budget that puts our country on a path that gives job creators and taxpayers the certainty they need. The long overdue budget proposed today by President Obama never balances and is a step backwards in confronting the fiscal challenges our country faces. President Obama's budget once again insists on raising taxes as a way of increasing spending and creating new federal government programs. Furthermore, President Obama's budget falls short of addressing structural flaws in our mandatory auto-pilot safety net programs and making necessary, sensible reforms to strengthen retirement programs to ensure they are protected for future generations. Still, we are now at a recently unprecedented point where both chambers of Congress and the White House are on record with their budget plans for America. Now is the time to get to work to meet the complex fiscal challenges before us so that we can get our nation back on a path to prosperity." President Obama's Budget by the numbers: Their Budget Never Balances—Ever § The House budget balances in ten years, but, like Senate Democrats, the White House says their budget never balances—ever. $8.2 Trillion in New Debt § Accounting for the cost of eliminating the sequester and removing the budget gimmicks, net deficit reduction is only $119 billion. § Additional deficit increase in FY2013: $61 billion § Total U.S. debt in 2023: $25.4 trillion § Debt increase per household: $60,980 § Interest payments on the debt in 2023: $763 billion § Deficit in 2023: $439 billion $1.1 Trillion in New Taxes § President Obama's budget increases taxes by $1.1 trillion—on top of $1 trillion in taxes from Obamacare and more than $600 billion from the President's recent tax hike. $964 Billion in New Spending Above Projected Growth § Spending increase next year alone: $154 billion § Additional spending in FY2013: $61 billion § Total spending over ten years: $46.5 trillion § Rate of annual increase in mandatory spending: 5.2%
04.03.2013	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert received the Award for Manufacturing Legislative Excellence from the National Association of Manufacturers (NAM). "American manufacturers, both big and small, are a critical contributor to our economic engine," said Rep. Ken Calvert (CA-42). "I am honored to receive the Award for Manufacturing Legislative Excellence and I look forward to maintaining a strong relationship with the manufacturing community." "Now more than ever, our country's manufacturers face a wide range of challenges. Energy costs and an ever-expanding net of regulatory burdens threaten the ability of American manufacturers to remain competitive in a global marketplace. I have and will continue to work closely with NAM, 3M and other California businesses to ensure manufacturers remain a critical and core component of our U.S. economic engine." "We thank Congressman Calvert for ensuring that the manufacturing voice is heard in Washington," said 3M Vice President of Public Affairs Jeffrey Rageth. "It is leaders like Congressman Calvert who know that manufacturers are drivers of economic growth, job creation and prosperity." "Manufacturers today compete in a global marketplace," said NAM President and CEO Jay Timmons. "It is critical that Washington creates policies to keep us competitive and maintain our mantle of economic leadership. Congressman Calvert understands this and has consistently supported the pro-manufacturing agenda through his votes in Congress." Members of Congress who maintained a voting record of 70 percent or higher during the 112th Congress (2011-2012) based on key votes selected by an NAM member-led advisory committee receive the Award. Rep. Calvert had a 100% voting record on the Official NAM 112th Congress House Voting Record. The National Association of Manufacturers is the largest manufacturing association in the United States, representing manufacturers in every industrial sector and in all 50 states.
03.27.2013	Today, Rep. Calvert issued the following statement on the passage of H.Con.Res. 25, the Fiscal Year 2014 Budget Resolution by the House of Representatives: "Today, the House took a key step towards getting our country back on solid fiscal footing by approving a budget that balances in ten years. A balanced budget is not a radical idea - it's a responsible one. "We owe it to taxpayers to put the brakes on our non-sustainable spending levels and to improve our fiscal condition in a way that will allow our economy to grow. The budget approved by the House lays out thoughtful program reforms to ensure essential government services are solvent for generations to come. "Vice President Biden famously said: 'Show me your Budget and I'll tell you what you value.' Well, by not submitting a budget to Congress, we are forced to conclude that the White House values delay and obfuscation. I'm hopeful that President Obama and the Senate will finally join the House in tackling our serious national debt challenge by rejecting the tax and spend policies that have caused the problems we face." To review the budget, click here.
03.19.2013	Today, Rep. Ken Calvert (CA-42) delievered the following remarks during the consideration of the House Budget Resolution: "Thank you Mr. Chairman: This is what principled, visionary, responsible leadership looks like. I commend Chairman Ryan and the entire team for this budget and for insisting on regular order. I also congratulate this body for finally forcing the Senate to do the right thing and introduce a budget. We owe it to our fellow Americans to be honest about the complex fiscal challenges and options before us. That's why today's debate is one of the most important we will have this year. Nearly every day I hear from my hardworking constituents from southwestern Riverside County who have struggled tremendously over the last five years. Despite the challenges they face, they continue to make ends meet by making tough fiscal decisions – whether it is for themselves, their families, or their businesses. Most Americans don't understand why their elected officials can't do the same. Instead they see us jumping from one crisis to the next, putting their lives and their well-being on a constant roller coaster. Frankly I don't understand it either; you can't hide from the statistics and you don't have to be on the Budget Committee to understand our fiscal situation. A balanced budget is not a radical idea - it's a responsible one that the citizens of Riverside County and those around the country practice themselves. Economists across the spectrum agree that our current path is leading us to a debt crisis should we fail to act. Make no mistake, we are on the warning track, and we should reverse course before we slam into the wall. All Americans should have real concerns about what this means for the future prosperity of their own families and our nation. Under the Obama Administration, U.S. public debt as a percentage of GDP is over 70 percent and growing. As we've seen with European nations, there appears to be a tipping point in the debt-to-GDP ratio, and at our current rate we are nearing dangerous territory. The reserve currency status of the dollar and our rank among world economies will only carry us for so long. So what effect does this level of debt have on an economy and its citizens when things go south? All you have to do is look at countries like Cyprus, Spain and Greece. In the case of Greece you see a depressed environment where the unemployment rate is more than 26 percent; severe austerity cuts and overhauls have gutted worker benefits and the safety net system, harming seniors and the country's poorest populace; taxes on families and businesses have increased at a sharp rate; and divisive and violent social unrest has become commonplace. Most recently we've seen a proposal to bail out Cyprus banks that would raid the savings accounts of its population. These are the realities of a debt-ridden nation. These are the realities of liberal policies that tax too much, spend too much, borrow too much and produce far too few jobs. We cannot afford the path we are on. Thankfully we have time to change America's course and the House Republican Budget provides a ten year plan. It puts the brakes on our non-sustainable spending levels, lays out thoughtful program reforms to ensure essential government services are solvent for generations to come, prioritizes a comprehensive restructuring of our tax code to simplify the system, and improves our fiscal condition in a way that will allow our economy to grow providing opportunity to those that work hard no matter what station in life they start at. Fortunately, after being prodded along, the Senate is joining the House in this conversation after a nearly four year absence. I don't favor their approach to the task before us – a plan that never balances with more failed stimulus spending and additional tax hikes. And I suspect the President's budget will be similar, once we finally receive it. However, we welcome their proposals because we will have clear options laid before the American people and we can have a comprehensive and honest discussion about our future choices. Vice President Biden famously said: "Show me your Budget and I'll tell you what you value." Well, with no budget submitted, we are forced to conclude that the White House values delay and obfuscation. Even given this nonfeasance, as an optimist I know this process will allow us to find common ground. Addressing issues of this magnitude is never easy or pretty, but it is a process worth undertaking. House Republicans continue to stand ready to work with the President and his Democratic colleagues in Congress to meet the complex fiscal challenges before us so that we can get our nation back on a path to prosperity. Thankfully the House Republican Budget does exactly that. And with that I urge a YES vote on H.Con.Res. 25." For more information on the House GOP Budget, please click here.
03.15.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Yesterday, Congressman Ken Calvert (R-CA) introduced the MORE Act, the Maximize Offshore Resource Exploration, H.R. 1165. He first introduced the bill in the 110th Congress. "For years the President has talked about energy independence yet his only efforts have been to stifle our domestic energy production," said Rep. Calvert. "The price of oil has remained at a high level for years; in California the average gallon of gasoline costs $4.17. We must have ways to develop and produce our own fossil fuels while we move towards an economy that is not oil-based. My legislation allows for federally-permitted development of resources beyond 25 miles off the coastline and provides a strong incentive for states to allow federal-lease exploration within 25 miles." Under the MORE Act, states will receive 75% of the royalties for oil and natural gas production beyond 25 miles of the coastline and the U.S. Treasury would receive the remaining 25%. If states elect to allow exploration and production within 25 miles of their coastline, then their share of the royalties would increase to 90%. At 25 miles from the coast, no evidence of energy exploration is visible from the coast. The MORE Act will provide: MORE offshore domestic energy production; MORE royalty revenue for producing states and the U.S. Treasury; MORE energy security for America; and MORE relief at the gas pump. The MORE Act will increase oil and natural gas supplies by removing existing restrictions on offshore energy exploration and production in the Outer Continental Shelf (OCS). The bill establishes a state's choice on exploration and production for areas within 25 miles of the coastline. "My bill respects the sovereignty of the state while providing a financial incentive to states for the development of resources off their coastline," said Rep. Calvert. "For states such as California, this could translate into billions of dollars for schools, law enforcement, transportation infrastructure, and environmental and renewable energy programs. The MORE Act benefits Americans at the gas pumps and rewards states who elect to be part of the solution to the U.S. energy problem." Original co-sponsors of the bill include: Rep. Robert Latta (OH-5), Rep. Gary Miller (CA-31), Rep. Devin Dunes (CA-22), Rep. Buck McKeon (CA-25), and Rep. John Carter (TX-31).
03.15.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today, Rep. Calvert issued the following statement on the release of the Fiscal Year 2014 Budget Resolution: "As a member of the House Budget Committee, I'm committed to putting the brakes on our non-sustainable spending levels and improving our fiscal condition in a way that will allow our economy to grow. Our budget proposal is a real plan to balance the budget within 10 years by reducing deficits by $4.6 trillion. A balanced budget that achieves savings by reducing the rate of spending increases is not a radical idea - it's a responsible one that is exercised by American families every day. The House Republican budget protects and strengthens Medicare and Social Security for current and future generations by making necessary reforms that will ensure these popular programs are maintained for all Americans. Those who pretend that 'not touching' these programs somehow protects them are either fooling themselves or fooling the American people. I'm hopeful that President Obama and Senate Democrats will acknowledge the seriousness of our fiscal situation by working through this budgetary process with House Republicans in a meaningful way." To review the budget, click here.
03.07.2013	Rep. Ken Calvert is pleased to announce his 21st Annual Academy Night event for high school students in the 42nd Congressional District who are interested in attending one of the U.S. military academies. Academy Night features presentations from the U.S Air Force Academy, the U.S. Military Academy at West Point, the U.S. Naval Academy, the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy and the U.S. Coast Guard Academy. This year's Academy Night will occur on Monday, March 11, 2013, from 6:00 p.m. to 8:00 p.m at Temescal Canyon High School, located at 28755 El Toro Road in Lake Elsinore. Students will learn about the admission requirements and the congressional nomination process, and will have the opportunity to meet with representatives from each academy, members of Rep. Calvert's Academy Nominations Selection Committee, and his congressional staff – all of whom will be more than willing to help the students throughout the application process. For more information about Rep. Calvert's military academy nomination process please click here. The 42nd District encompasses the western edge of Riverside County including the cities of Eastvale, Norco, Corona, Lake Elsinore, Wildomar, Canyon Lake, Menifee, Murrieta and a portion of Temecula.
03.06.2013	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (R-Corona) voted along with a bipartisan majority of his House colleagues to pass H.R. 933, the Department of Defense, Military Construction and Veterans Affairs, and Full-Year Continuing Appropriations Act of 2013. The bill provides funding to operate federal government agencies until the end of the fiscal year on September 30, 2013. "Once again House Republicans are leading the charge to get our fiscal house in order in a responsible way," said Rep. Calvert. "The bill passed by the House today keeps funding levels flat for non-defense, non-Veteran agencies and programs. It is also critical that we provide our military, especially those in harm's way, and our Veterans with the flexibility they need." Funding for federal government agencies and programs is set to expire on March 27, 2013. The legislation passed by the House today includes full-year Defense, and Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations bills, which passed the House last year and have been negotiated with the Senate. The bill continues the remainder of federal discretionary spending at current rates, making limited exceptions where necessary to address critical needs. Nearly all of this funding is subject to sequestration, bringing the total topline discretionary spending within the bill to approximately $984 billion. For more information on the bill, please visit the House Appropriations Committee website by clicking here.
03.06.2013	Today, Representative Ken Calvert (R-Corona) introduced the ACCESS Act, H.R. 994, legislation designed to help small businesses comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA). "The Americans with Disabilities Act was created to protect the rights and access of disabled Americans, it was not created to penalize our small businesses," said Rep. Calvert. "In recent years we have seen a disturbing trend of frivolous lawsuits being filed against small businesses with the goal of obtaining financial settlements. Our goal should be improving access for disabled Americans to go about their day, not improving access for trial lawyers to the pockets of our small business owners." The ACCESS (ADA Compliance for Customer Entry to Stores and Services) Act would alleviate the financial burden small businesses are facing, while still fulfilling the purpose of the ADA. Any person aggrieved by a violation of the ADA would provide the owner or operator with a written notice of the violation, specific enough to allow such owner or operator to identify the barrier to their access. Within 60 days the owner or operator would be required to provide the aggrieved person with a description outlining improvements that would be made to address the barrier. The owner or operator would then have 120 days to remove the infraction. The failure to meet any of these conditions would allow the suit to go forward. The purpose of the ADA is to ensure appropriate remedial action for those who have suffered harm. Although there are times when litigation by harmed individuals is necessary, there are an increasing number of lawsuits brought under the ADA that are based upon a desire to achieve financial settlements rather than to achieve the appropriate modifications. ADA lawsuits are especially prevalent in California. According to the California Chamber of Commerce, California has 40% of the nation's ADA lawsuits but only 12% of the country's disabled population. These lawsuits place exorbitant legal fees on small businesses and often times they are unaware of the specific nature of the allegations brought against them. The following members are Original Cosponsors of the ACCESS Act: Paul Cook (CA-8) Jeff Denham (CA-10) Duncan Hunter (CA-50) Darrell Issa (CA-49) Lynn Jenkins (KS-2) Doug LaMalfa (CA-1) Tom McClintock (CA-4) Devin Nunes (CA-22) Dana Rohrabacher (CA-48) Ed Royce (CA-39) Mike Simpson (ID-2) David Valadao (CA-21) Lynn Westmoreland (GA-3)
02.28.2013	I supported House passage of two bills that replaced sequestration with reforms that resulted in smarter cuts in other areas of the budget. Unfortunately the Senate did not take up those bills, the President has not shown leadership on this issue and now sequestration will go into effect on Friday, March 1. While I believe that the level of spending cuts mandated in sequestration are an important step in putting our government back on a path of fiscal solvency, the across-the-board method is the wrong approach, especially as it pertains to our national security. The savings should be realized through reforms in programs that are the real drivers of our national debt and through tax reform, but the President must come to the table willing to negotiate on those items – so far he hasn't. It is important to note that reforms to entitlement programs would not impact current retirees or near-retirees but preserve those programs for future generations and put them on stable financial footing. Tax reform is a necessary component and the Chairman of Ways and Means has stated that his Committee will introduce a tax overhaul bill before the end of the year. The current tax code is too complex and confusing for the majority of Americans and I support a flatter, simpler and more efficient system without additional taxes hikes on American families. The American people should know that our government will continue to function and most Americans will not be negatively impacted by the onset of sequestration in the near-term. Unfortunately, in effort to raise even more taxes, the President has resorted to scare-tactics to frighten the American people; the fact is that federal government spending has increased 25% under President Obama and our Departments and Agencies can absorb the reductions mandated under the Budget Control Act if done intelligently as we have done in the House.
11.15.2012	Today the California Republican Congressional Delegation elected Rep. Ken Calvert (R-CA) as the new Chairman of the Delegation for the 113th Congress. Rep. Calvert replaces retiring Congressman David Dreier and has served as Vice Chairman of the Delegation for many years. "I am honored and proud to serve as the new Chairman. I would like to thank my colleagues as well as outgoing Chairman Dreier who has been an incredible leader and friend. I look forward to working with my fellow Republican Californians to advance the interests of our state." ###
11.15.2012	Today, the California and Arizona delegations elected Rep. Ken Calvert (R-CA) to serve on the House Steering Committee as the representative for Region 10 which includes California and Arizona. Rep. Calvert has served previously as the California Republican Delegation's voice on the House Steering Committee, which determines House Republican committee assignments, in the 108th, 109th, 110th, 111th, and 112th Congresses. "I am honored to once again serve on the Steering Committee," stated Rep. Calvert. "I will work to ensure that the western region of California and Arizona are well represented on vital committees and that the voices of our states are heard in Congress." ###
10.03.2012	Today Congressman Ken Calvert (R-CA) issued the following statement in response to the announcement that the University of California, Riverside received preliminary accreditation for the new medical school: "Yesterday marked the culmination of many years of work by local, state and federal officials, in partnership with community and business leaders, to bring a medical school to UCR. I would like to thank UCR Chancellor Timothy White for his determination as well as Dr. G. Richard Olds, the dean of our new medical school. "The new medical school will train much-needed health professionals to serve our area as well as encourage UCR, and other local college graduates, to pursue their medical degree here in the Inland Empire. I know all of us are proud of UCR and our community on this momentous occasion." UCR will be able to recruit students for the charter class of 50 medical students, enrolling in August 2013. ###
08.03.2012	Today Rep. Ken Calvert (R-CA) introduced the Wildfire Suppression Aircraft Act of 2012, would transfer 14 C-27J Spartan Aircraft from the Department of Defense (DoD) to the U.S. Forest Service if DoD declares the aircraft to be excess to Defense operations. The bill, H.R. 6248, is a companion bill to S. 3441 introduced by Senator John McCain (R-AZ), Senator Dianne Feinstein (D-CA), and Senator Bill Nelson (D-FL). "The U.S. Forest Service needs increased firefighting capacity," said Rep. Calvert. "Its fleet has gone from 44 air tankers six years ago to just nine today. If the DoD decides that there is no need for the C-27Js, it makes absolutely no sense to send these aircraft to the Bone Yard when the Forest Service has stated that they would like to take 14 of them. As a Californian and westerner, I understand how badly the Forest Service needs air tankers and the important role they play in both directly fighting fires and building a fire line with fire retardant to indirectly protect homes, businesses and communities." The U.S. Air Force recently announced that it no longer needs its current fleet of 12 C-27J aircraft, or the additional 9 that are to be delivered over the coming months. If these aircraft are, in fact, declared to be unnecessary for Defense operations, they become available for other agencies' use or will be sent to long-term storage in the "Bone Yard." Currently, the House-passed version of the National Defense Authorization Act (H.R. 4310) requires the Air Force to keep these aircraft until 180 days after the Congressional Budget Office and DoD submit operational and utilization study results. If those results confirm that the Air Force and the Air National Guard no longer need the C-27Js, H.R. 6248 would transfer 14 of them to the U.S. Forest Service. Original cosponsors of the bill include: Rep. Brian P. Bilbray (R-50/CA), Rep. Mary Bono-Mack (R-45/CA), Rep. John Campbell (R-48/CA), Rep. Judy Chu (D-32/CA), Rep. Paul Gosar (R-1/AZ), Rep. Rubén Hinojosa (D-15/TX), Rep. Darrell Issa (R-49/CA), Rep. Jerry Lewis (R-41/CA), Rep. Betty McCollum (D-4/MN), Rep. Michael McCaul (R-10/TX), Rep. Gary G. Miller (R-42/CA), Rep. Dana Rohrabacher (R-46/CA), Rep. Ed Royce (R-40/CA), Rep. Adam B. Schiff (D-29/CA). ###
08.03.2012	Click here to take a detailed survey on taxes, jobs and the economy.
04.27.2012	Congressman Ken Calvert (R-CA) was pleased that the Department of Transportation (DOT) selected the 91 Freeway Corridor Project for a multi-million dollar loan from the Transportation Infrastructure Financing and Innovation Act (TIFIA) program. The TIFIA financing will satisfy the needed financing for a $1.3 billion freeway widening on the 91 Freeway between the I-15 and the Orange County Line. Rep. Calvert strongly advocated for the 91 Freeway Corridor Project via meetings, phone calls, multiple letters of support for the project, an op-ed, etc. Rep. Calvert worked with state and local officials, the Orange County and Inland Empire congressional delegations, particularly the Dean of the delegation Rep. Jerry Lewis (R-CA), and with U.S. Senators Barbara Boxer and Dianne Feinstein to support this project. The 91 Freeway Corridor Project will create as many as 16,000 jobs during its expected five-year time of construction. Last December, the project received a $20 million grant in the third round of Transportation Investment Generating Economic Recovery grants (TIGER III). This grant will be used secure a much larger loan guarantee for the project. "I am pleased by the Department of Transportation's decision and look forward to working with the Riverside County Transportation Commission to complete the 91 Freeway Corridor Project," said Rep. Calvert. "The 91 freeway is a bottleneck that hinders goods movement to the rest of the country and it is a local commuter nightmare. Widening the 91 freeway is a priority for the region and a project of national significance." Congressman Jerry Lewis, who worked closely with Congressman Calvert on securing the funding, added "The SR 91 freeway is a vital link in our regional transportation grid, and improving this important highway will benefit commuters from the High Desert to the beach. I commend Secretary LaHood and the Department of Transportation for recognizing the returns we will see from this federal funding." "We are grateful to the Department of Transportation for this funding decision and excited about the task that is ahead of us in building this project that has so much support," said RCTC Executive Director Anne Mayer. "The advocacy of Congressional Representatives Ken Calvert, Jerry Lewis and Mary Bono Mack as well as the support of the business community in Corona and Riverside has been overwhelming." The 91 freeway serves as the main connector between the Inland Empire, Orange County and Los Angeles and is also a major trade corridor used to transport goods into the interior of the U.S. from the Ports of L.A. and Long Beach. A study conducted by the Riverside County Transportation Commission showed that completion of the project will yield roughly an extra three days worth of time per year for commuters – time they would have otherwise spent in their cars stuck in traffic. The Transportation Infrastructure Financing Innovation Act (TIFIA) was created by Congress to provide "federal credit assistance to nationally or regionally significant surface transportation projects, including highway, transit and rail. The program is designed to fill market gaps and leverage substantial private co-investment by providing projects with supplemental or subordinate debt" (U.S Department of Transportation, www.dot.gov). "With unemployment over 12% in the Inland Empire, new jobs are vital to our area. In addition to the much-needed congestion relief that will be provided by improving the 91 freeway, we also welcome the jobs that will be created by this project," said Rep. Calvert. ###
03.29.2012	Rep. Ken Calvert (R-CA) applauded House Leadership for an aggressive agenda prior to the April district work period that focused on job creation, the FY2013 budget and transportation infrastructure. "House Republicans have been working hard over the last few weeks to pass legislation vital to the American people such as a jobs bill, a budget and providing for our transportation infrastructure," said Rep. Calvert. "Under Republican Leadership, the House has returned to regular order and focused singularly on doing the people's business." Last night, the House of Representatives approved the Senate amendment to the Jumpstart Our Business Startups (JOBS) Act. The legislation: • Eliminates Security and Exchange Commission restrictions that prevent entrepreneurs from raising capital from a large pool of investors; • Makes it easier for small businesses by increasing the threshold under which companies are exempt from SEC registration; • Raises the shareholder registration requirement threshold from 500 shareholders to 1,000 shareholders. (Source: www.gop.gov) Today House Republicans passed the FY2013 Budget, crafted by Chairman Paul Ryan (R-WI) and the Budget Committee, on which Rep. Calvert serves. The GOP Budget: • Cuts government spending to protect hardworking taxpayers; • Tackles the drivers of our debt, so our troops don't pay the price for Washington's failure to take action; • Restores economic freedom and ensures a level playing field for all by putting an end to special-interest favoritism and corporate welfare; • Reverses the President's policies that drive up gas prices, and instead promotes an all-of the-above strategy for unlocking American energy production to help lower costs, create jobs, and reduce dependence on foreign oil. • Strengthens health and retirement security by taking power away from government bureaucrats and empowering patients instead with control over their own care; • Reforms our broken tax code to spur job creation and economic opportunity by lowering rates, closing loopholes, and putting hardworking taxpayers ahead of special interests (Source: www.budget.house.gov) The House also passed a 90-day extension of surface transportation programs in order to keep Americans working through the busy summer construction season. "The 90-day extension was not the ideal choice, most of us would have preferred a long-term reauthorization," said Rep. Calvert. "However, a short-term extension, especially during the busy season, is vital to our roads and to the thousands of Americans that will be put to work. I commend the Leadership for making the hard choices, putting Americans first, and passing a short-term extension." ###
03.22.2012	Last week several Members of Congress, spearheaded by Rep. Ken Calvert (R-CA), sent a letter to the Government Accountability Office (GAO) requesting that a full inventory be conducted of all U.S. government holdings of all Republic of China (ROC) sovereign bonds issued between Jan 1, 1900 and December 31, 1949, whether considered to be in default or not. "The People's Republic of China has refused to honor the debt incurred by prior regimes, thereby defaulting on hundreds of millions of dollars of debt incurred during the first half of the twentieth century," said Rep. Calvert. "Its refusal to honor its bond obligations as a successor government may violate its obligations as a member of the World Trade Organization. I am concerned that the U.S. government may still hold a portion of these bonds, and have asked the GAO to conduct an inventory of all Chinese bonds held, or previously held, by the U.S. government, and the value of these bonds." The Chinese government issued hundreds of millions of dollars in bonds from 1900 to 1949. The most prevalent American-held bond was the 1913 Chinese Government Five Percent Reorganization Gold Loan Bearer Bond, which matured in 1960. Printed on the bonds is the following statement: "These obligations are intended to be binding upon the Government of China and any successor government." However, when the PRC came to power in 1949, it refused to honor or recognize debts incurred by the previous governments, thereby defaulting on the bonds held by investors and foreign governments. These investors are entitled to remuneration. Signers of the letter include: Rep. Senator James Inhofe (R-OK), Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA), Rep. Frank Wolf (R-VA), Rep. Ann Buerkle (R-NY), Rep. Steve Pearce (R-NM), Rep. Lynn Westmoreland (R-GA), Rep. Marsha Blackburn (R-TN), Rep. Jeff Miller (R-FL), and Rep. Paul Gosar (R-AZ). A copy of the letter can be found here.
01.18.2012	Rep. Calvert Statement on SOPA/PIPA "I have received many calls on SOPA and PIPA - bills that seek to address online piracy and counterfeiting. While I believe that foreign infringing activity is a substantial problem, I also believe that any solution must vigilantly preserve an open and vibrant global Internet. That is why I am currently not a cosponsor of SOPA (PIPA is the Senate version of SOPA). Your calls and posts have resonated on Capitol Hill – a consensus must be reached among all interested parties on this issue and I appreciate your input. Currently there is no vote scheduled in the House on SOPA, the Senate is debating and voting on PIPA next week." ###
12.15.2011	Congressman Ken Calvert (R-CA) was pleased that the Department of Transportation (DOT) selected the 91 Freeway Corridor Project for a $20 million grant in the third round of Transportation Investment Generating Economic Recovery grants (TIGER III). The $20 million will be utilized to leverage a loan from DOT's Transportation Infrastructure Financing and Innovation Act (TIFIA) program. The financing from TIFIA will satisfy a portion of the needed financing for a $1.3 billion freeway widening on the 91 Freeway between the I-15 and the Orange County Line. Rep. Calvert strongly advocated for the 91 Freeway Corridor Project via meetings, phone calls, multiple letters of support for the project, an op-ed, etc. Rep. Calvert worked with state and local officials, the Orange County and Inland Empire congressional delegations, particularly the Dean of the delegation Rep. Jerry Lewis (R-CA), and with U.S. Senators Barbara Boxer and Dianne Feinstein to support this project. The 91 Freeway Corridor Project will create as many as 16,000 jobs during the five-year time-span of construction. "I am pleased by the Department of Transportation's decision and look forward to working with the Riverside County Transportation Commission and DOT in the future to satisfy the remaining balance of the needed funding," said Rep. Calvert. "The 91 freeway is a bottleneck that hinders goods movement to the rest of the country and it is a local commuter nightmare. Widening the 91 freeway is a priority and a project of national significance." The 91 freeway serves as the main connector between the Inland Empire, Orange County and Los Angeles and is also a major trade corridor to transport goods into the interior of the U.S from the Ports of L.A. and Long Beach. A study conducted by the Riverside County Transportation Commission showed that completion of the project would yield roughly an extra three days worth of time per year commuters will not have to spend in their car stuck in traffic. The Transportation Infrastructure Financing Innovation Act (TIFIA) was created by Congress to provide "federal credit assistance to nationally or regionally significant surface transportation projects, including highway, transit and rail. The program is designed to fill market gaps and leverage substantial private co-investment by providing projects with supplemental or subordinate debt" (U.S Department of Transportation, www.dot.gov). "With unemployment over 13% in the Inland Empire new jobs are vital to our area. In addition to the much-needed relief from improving the 91 freeway, we also welcome the job creation potential of the project," said Rep. Calvert. ###
11.15.2011	Medicare Open Enrollment The Medicare Open Enrollment is happening now! New prescription drug and health plan choices are offered every year. You could save money, get better coverage, or both. The open enrollment period is October 15 through December 7, 2011. Go to www.Medicare.gov to compare plans and find one that fits your needs. You can also call 1-800-MEDICARE for help or mail to: Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services 7500 Security Boulevard Baltimore MD 21244-1850 Social Security COLA Recently the Social Security Administration (SSA) announced that seniors will receive a 3.6% Cost of Living Adjustment for 2012. Starting January 2012, 55 million Social Security beneficiaries will see an increase in their benefits. To learn more about the Social Security COLA, visit www.ssa.gov/cola. You can also visit your local SSA Office: Social Security Administration7880 Mission Grove Pkwy Riverside, CA 92508 1-800-772-1213 Social Security Administration26051 Acero Road Mission Viejo, CA 92691 1-800-772-1213
11.14.2011	Last week Rep. Ken Calvert (R-CA), a member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Defense, joined Reps. Rodney Frelinghuysen (R-NJ), Charles Bass (R-NH), Adam Schiff (D-CA), Jo Bonner (R-AL), and Peter Welch (D-VT) on a congressional delegation trip to Afghanistan. "It was an honor to visit with our troops in theater and witness first-hand the progress they are making in Afghanistan," said Rep. Calvert. "It is always valuable and insightful to get the perspective from those on the ground doing the hard day-to-day work. Morale among the troops was high and I let them know that all of us back home are extremely proud, and thankful, for their service." The delegation visited Kabul and Kandahar and met with U.S. Ambassador Ryan Crocker, General John R. Allen, Commander, International Security Assistance Forces (ISAF)/ U.S. Forces and Major General John Toolen, Commander of the 2nd Marine Division as well as other military and civilian leaders of the international force. ###
11.10.2011	FROM THE DESK OF REP. CALVERT: So far this year, the U.S. House of Representatives has passed 13 bills to provide better support America's veterans and ensure improved healthcare and programs through the Department of Veterans Affairs. I have voted YES on all these bills. I am dedicated:To protecting veterans from budget cuts: Funding for our military and veterans are among our highest priorities. That will remain the case in the tight budget years ahead. Mandatory spending for veterans' programs were protected from any cuts in the Budget Control Act passed earlier this year. To getting our veterans out of unemployment lines and into the workforce: Currently, 1 million veterans are out of work. Sixty-six percent of those are over the age of 34 and are facing an increasingly competitive job market. That is why I voted for the Veterans Opportunity to Work Act (the VOW Act, H.R. 2433) to provide our veterans with the skills and training needed to compete in the 21st Century and to ensure that our servicemembers have a job when they come home. Through the VOW Act, we will create the most qualified veteran workforce since World War II. In addition, we passed the VOW Act without increasing the federal deficit. To standing with America's veterans to ensure they receive the benefits they have so rightly earned: I voted to keep our student veterans in the college of their choice through the Restoring GI Bill Fairness Act, which was signed into law this summer. Without this change, student veterans across the country would have been subject to severe reductions in tuition payments. I voted to start reforming the disability compensation claims process through the Veterans' Benefits Act. Our veterans face an average claims processing time of 230 days. This is unacceptable. We must turn the corner and ensure that claims are processed accurately the first time they are submitted and in a timely manner. I voted to protect veterans, their families, and VA employees from sexual assault in VA facilities through the Veterans Sexual Assault Prevention and Health Care Enhancement Act. When our veterans are at their most vulnerable, we must do everything possible to ensure their safety. And, I voted to improve the aging VA infrastructure around the country to provide better care for our veterans through the Veterans Health Care Facilities Capital Improvement Act of 2011.
10.26.2011	On September 22, 2011, Reps. Ken Calvert (R-CA) and Jerry Lewis (R-CA) sent a letter to Chairman of the House Natural Resources Committee, Rep. Doc Hastings (R-WA), and Chairman of the Subcommittee on Water and Power, Rep. Tom McClintock (R-CA), requesting a field hearing on the recent revision to the Santa Ana Sucker's critical habitat designation. In response to Reps. Calvert and Lewis' request (link) the House Resources Subcommittee on Water and Power will hold a field hearing in Highland, California entitled "Questionable Fish Science and Environmental Lawsuits: Jobs and Water Supplies at Risk in The Inland Empire" on October 18, 2011, "The hearing will highlight one of many job killing regulations that also threaten the water supply of three million Americans," said Rep. Calvert. "As Congress searches for ways to put America back to work, we hope this hearing sends a message to the Administration that cutting through the red tape and creating opportunities for job growth should be a top priority. Protecting our natural resources and supporting job growth in America are not mutually exclusive." The hearing will examine the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service's recent designation of nearly 10,000 acres of critical habitat for the Santa Ana sucker fish to the detriment of jobs, local economies and precious water supplies. Local analyses have calculated the economic effect of the designation at a more than $4 billion loss to the region. Rep. Calvert, who is the former Chairman of the House Resources Subcommittee on Water and Power, will be participating in the hearing. The current Chairman of the Water and Power Subcommittee Rep. Tom McClintock (R-CA) and Rep. Jerry Lewis (R-CA), along with other Members of Congress, local water districts and representatives from the local business community will also be participating. WHAT: Subcommittee on Water and Power Oversight Hearing: "Questionable Fish Science and Environmental Lawsuits: Jobs and Water Supplies at Risk in the Inland Empire" Witnesses: TBA WHERE: Highland City Hall 27215 Base Line Highland, CA 92346 WHEN: Tuesday, October 18th, 2011 10:00 A.M. ###
10.26.2011	Today Rep. Calvert's (R-CA) bill, H.R. 320, which would designate the memorial at March Field Air Museum, in Riverside, California, as the Distinguished Flying Cross National Memorial, passed the House. "Distinguished Flying Cross recipients have received this prestigious medal for their heroism or extraordinary achievement while participating in aerial flight while serving in any capacity with the U.S. Armed Forces," stated Rep. Calvert on the floor in support of the bill. "March Air Reserve Base is adjacent to the location of the memorial at the March Field Air Museum. Visitors are able to witness active operational air units providing support to our troops in Iraq and Afghanistan, which is an appropriate setting that honors the many aviators who have distinguished themselves by deeds performed in aerial flight." Rep. Calvert introduced H.R. 320 on January 19, 2011. His full floor statement is included below. Statement of Rep. Ken Calvert Mister Speaker I rise in support of H.R. 320, a bill to designate a national Distinguished Flying Cross Memorial in Riverside, California. I am honored to represent the Inland Empire Chapter of the Distinguished Flying Cross Society which is the primary sponsor of the memorial. The memorial honors all current and former members of the Armed Forces who have been awarded the Distinguished Flying Cross. In the 111th Congress, I introduced H.R. 2788 which passed the house unanimously, and today, I stand again, in support of H.R. 320 which would designate a memorial, at March Field Air Museum as the Distinguished Flying Cross National Memorial. The legislation is supported by the Distinguished Flying Cross Society, Military Officers Association of America, the Air Force Association, Air Force Sergeants Association, The Association of Naval Aviation, The Vietnam Helicopter Pilots Association, and the China Burma Indian Veterans Association. I'd like to point out language in the bill specifically states that the designation shall not be construed to require or permit federal funds to be expended for any purpose related to the national memorial. Funds have been and will continue to be raised through private means for these purposes. Distinguished Flying Cross recipients have received the prestigious medal for their heroism or extraordinary achievement while participating in aerial flight while serving in any capacity with the U.S. Armed Forces. There are many well known people that have played a vital role in the history of military aviation and have received the award. This renowned group includes: Captain Charles L. Lindbergh, former President George H. W. Bush, Brigadier General Jimmy Doolittle, General Curtis Lemay, Senator McCain, Jimmy Stewart and Admiral Jim Stockdale to name just a few. The March Air Reserve Base, which hosts the C-17As of the 452nd Air Mobility Wing is adjacent to the location of the memorial at the March Field Air Museum. Visitors are able to witness active operational air units providing support to our troops in Iraq and Afghanistan, which is an appropriate setting that honors the many aviators who have distinguished themselves by deeds performed in aerial flight. I'd like to thank those who have worked tirelessly to ensure this memorial is built and is properly designated in honor of the distinguished aviators that have served this great nation. In particular I'd like to recognize, Jim Champlin, his late wife Trish, Distinguished Flying Cross Society's President, Chuck Sweeney, and the Society's historian, Dr. Barry Lanman, who have been instrumental in this effort. Again, I hope you will join me in supporting the designation of the National Distinguished Flying Cross Memorial at the March Field Air Museum and H.R. 320. Thank you and I yield back the balance of my time. ###
10.14.2011	WASHINGTON, D.C. October 14, 2011 – Earlier this week California Governor Jerry Brown signed into law AB 1236, making it illegal for the state and California municipalities to voluntarily use the E-verify system. "Right now, across America, various states and local governments are enacting mandatory E-Verify. Meanwhile, California is going the other way by enacting a ban on voluntary E-Verify, and in fact the Governor is signing laws to preempt the use of E-verify. This is an outrage," said Rep. Calvert. Under the new California law, neither the state of California nor any of municipalities, can require an employer to use E-Verify as a condition of receiving a government contract, applying for or maintaining a business license. However, California employers are able to use E-verify on a voluntary basis or as required by federal contracts. "The illegal population looking for work will now head to states that are ignoring the problem and away from states like Arizona and Alabama which have taken a proactive role to fill the vacuum the federal government has left with regard to immigration policy. "People will understandably go where they can find work. However, in a state with 12.1% unemployment, we cannot afford the burden on our schools and social services the influx brings. "The United States needs a uniform system that ensures ALL workers in America are legal and paying into the system that they are using. That is why I support and am a sponsor of H.R. 2885, the Legal Workforce Act." E-Verify, created by Rep. Calvert in 1996 through legislation, is the only tool available to employers to check the legal status of newly hired employees. It is web-based, 99.5% accurate and free to employers. ###
09.23.2011	Rep. Ken Calvert (R-CA), the original author of legislation that created the E-Verify program, praised the Judiciary Committee passage of H.R. 2885, the Legal Workforce Act. Rep. Calvert was an original cosponsor of the bill along with Chairman Lamar Smith (R-TX) and others. "Yesterday marked the first step towards ensuring that American jobs are going to American workers and legal residents," said Rep. Ken Calvert. "I commend the Committee for passing the bill but I am disappointed that a vital provision was stripped out. Chairman Smith, and all of us involved in crafting the legislation, were sensitive how the legislative impacts the agriculture industry and that is why a prior employment exemption was originally included. The result of omitting that language will only make it harder on the agriculture community. I look forward to discussing possible floor amendments to the bill in order to increase chances of Senate passage. However, the most important aspects of the bill remain intact; namely to mandate all employers in the U.S. use E-Verify and ensure they are following the law when hiring their workforce." E-Verify allows employers to electronically verify that newly-hired employees are legally authorized to work in the United States. Specifically, the Social Security numbers (or Employment Authorization Numbers for legal residents) of new hires are checked against Social Security Administration and Department of Homeland Security records in order to eliminate fraudulent numbers and help ensure that new hires are genuinely eligible to work. The program quickly confirms 99.5% of work-eligible employees. Below is a summary of some of the major components in H.R. 2885. Replaces I-9 System: Replaces the current paper-based I-9 system with a completely electronic work eligibility check. Gradual Phase-In: Phases-in mandatory E-Verify participation for new hires in six month increments beginning on the date of enactment. Within six months of enactment, businesses having more than 10,000 employees are required to use E-Verify. Within 12 months after enactment, businesses having 500 to 9,999 employees are required to use E-Verify. Within 18 months after enactment, businesses having 20 to 499 employees must use E-Verify. And within 24 months after enactment, businesses having 1 to 19 employees must use E-Verify. Agriculture: Requires that employees performing "agricultural labor or services" are only subject to an E-Verify check within 36 months of the date of enactment. Federal Preemption: Preempts state laws mandating E-Verify use for employment eligibility purposes but retains the ability of states and localities to condition business licenses on the requirement that the employer use E-Verify in good faith under the federal law. Safe Harbor: Grants employers safe harbor from prosecution if they use the E-Verify program in good faith, and through no fault of theirs, receive an incorrect eligibility confirmation. ###
08.02.2011	Today Rep. Ken Calvert (R-CA) voted in favor of the Budget Control Act of 2011 to avoid default and put America on a path of fiscal discipline. "The debate on the debt limit increase should not have come to this, an 11th hour solution that requires a quick vote on complex legislation," said Rep. Calvert. "The House passed two bills in plenty of time but unfortunately the Senate could not even bring up their own bill, let alone the House bill and President Obama failed to ever produce a plan on paper. "Having said that, I commend Speaker Boehner and all our leaders in the House for securing a deal that immediately cuts spending and does not increase taxes on the American people. Since Republicans took over the House in January, we have been able to change the dialogue in Washington from ‘How much money can we spend?' to ‘We must stop spending money we don't have and address the drivers of our debt.' However, our work does not end here. As the Joint Committee moves forward in identifying cuts, I hope they first answer a vital question: what is the first responsibility of government? In short, it is the defense of our nation and the safety of our citizens. Steep cuts to defense spending would be disastrous for our country. I realize that everything must be on the table: including tax reform that does not raise taxes and entitlement reform that ensures that Medicare and Social Security are solvent for future generations. Like any budget, it is a question of priorities and I will be watching the progress of the Committee closely to ensure that the core principles of smaller government, strong national defense and low taxes are part of the end product." The Budget Control Act of 2011 would create and enforce discretionary spending caps to cut and restrain spending over the next ten years, provide a mechanism for increasing the debt limit from between $2.1 trillion and $2.4 trillion in two steps (subject to congressional disapproval and more than dollar-for-dollar spending cuts), establish a Joint Committee to produce deficit reduction legislation, and provide for automatic sequestration of mandatory and discretionary spending to achieve cuts equal to a debt limit increase if the deficit committee's legislation is not enacted or falls short of the amount of the debt limit increase. According to CBO, the bill would reduce deficits by at least $2.117 trillion over ten years with the possibility of greater reductions based on the enactment of legislation produced by the Joint Committee. Debt limit increases authorized by the bill could not exceed the amount of deficit reduction achieved either through the enactment of deficit reduction legislation proposed by the Joint Committee or through automatic sequestration (Source: House GOP Conference). ###
07.06.2011	Today Congressman Ken Calvert (R-CA) expressed his disappointment that the 91 Freeway Corridor Project was denied a loan through the Transportation Infrastructure Financing Innovation Act (TIFIA), administered by the Department of Transportation (DOT). Rep. Calvert strongly advocated for the 91 Freeway Corridor Project (via meetings, phone calls, a bipartisan letter in support of a TIFIA loan for the project, an op-ed, etc). Rep. Calvert worked with state and local officials, the Inland Empire and Orange County delegations, and with U.S. Senators Barbara Boxer and Dianne Feinstein. The 91 Freeway Corridor Project would have created as many as 14,000 jobs during the five-year time-span of construction. "I am disappointed by the Department of Transportation's decision, but I am heartened by comments made by DOT leadership that the 91 Freeway Corridor Project is a good project," said Rep. Calvert. "I will be working with my colleagues to bring Secretary of Transportation Ray LaHood to southern California to show him the severity of the problem; the 91 freeway is a bottleneck that hinders goods movement and it is a commuter nightmare." The 91 freeway serves as the main connector between the Inland Empire, Orange County and Los Angeles and is also a major trade corridor to transport goods into the interior of the U.S from the Ports of L.A. and Long Beach. A study conducted by the Riverside County Transportation Commission showed that completion of the project would yield roughly an extra three days worth of time per year commuters will not have to spend in their car stuck in traffic. The Transportation Infrastructure Financing Innovation Act (TIFIA) was created by Congress to provide "federal credit assistance to nationally or regionally significant surface transportation projects, including highway, transit and rail. The program is designed to fill market gaps and leverage substantial private co-investment by providing projects with supplemental or subordinate debt" (U.S Department of Transportation, www.dot.gov). "We will stand ready to reapply for the TIFIA loan in order to move forward on the project. Unemployment is almost 15% in the Inland Empire; with the job creation potential of the 91 Freeway Corridor Project it is imperative that it is approved as quickly as possible," said Rep. Calvert. "I will be working with Transportation, Housing and Urban Development and Related Agencies Appropriations Subcommittee Chairman Tom Latham and Transportation and Infrastructure Committee Chairman John Mica to ensure that TIFIA is adequately funded. TIFIA, which leverages federal dollars with private funding to build and improve infrastructure and create jobs, is a careful, limited and effective way for the federal government to help with high-impact infrastructure projects." Click here to read Rep. Calvert's Opinion Editorial in support of the 91 Freeway Corridor Project published in the Riverside Press Enterprise.
06.15.2011	Today Reps. Calvert (R-Calif.), Smith (R-Texas), Brian Bilbray (R-Calif.), John Carter (R-Texas), Jason Chaffetz (R-Utah), Trent Franks (R-Ariz.), Jack Kingston (R-Ga.), Gary Miller (R-Calif.), Sue Myrick (R-N.C.), Ed Royce (R-Calif.), Jim Sensenbrenner (R-Wisc.), and Gallegly (R-Calif.) introduced the Legal Workforce Act (H.R. 2164) which will make employment verification mandatory nationwide. "After several months of deliberation and thoughtful discussion, I am pleased to join with my colleagues to introduce the Legal Workforce Act which would make the use of E-Verify mandatory," said Rep. Calvert. "The Legal Workforce Act is a rational approach to mandatory employment verification and includes additional protections for American workers' Social Security information. It provides for a two-year phase in while giving the agricultural industry three years to comply. Once mandatory employment verification is the law, an agricultural guest worker program should follow to ensure the agriculture community is able to obtain the labor they need. "It is hard to believe 16 years after I first introduced the initial version of E-Verify, the Basic Pilot Program, it is now on the cusp of becoming the law of the land. I would like to sincerely thank Chairman Smith and his staff for the hard work they have put into the legislation. I look forward to working with my colleagues to pass the Legal Workforce Act and solve the job magnet piece of the illegal immigration problem." E-Verify, created by Rep. Calvert in 1996 through legislation, is the only tool available to employers to check the legal status of newly hired employees. It is web-based, 99.5% accurate and free to employers. Below is a summary of some of the major components in H.R. 2164. Repeals I-9 System: Repeals the current paper-based I-9 system and replaces it with a completely electronic work eligibility check. Gradual Phase-In: Phases-in mandatory E-Verify participation for new hires in six month increments beginning on the date of enactment. Within six months of enactment, businesses having more than 10,000 employees are required to use E-Verify. Within 12 months after enactment, businesses having 500 to 9,999 employees are required to use E-Verify. Within 18 months after enactment, businesses having 20 to 499 employees must use E-Verify. And within 24 months after enactment, businesses having 1 to 19 employees must use E-Verify. Agriculture: Requires that employees performing "agricultural labor or services" are only subject to an E-Verify check within 36 months of the date of enactment. Under the bill, an individual engaged in seasonal agricultural employment is not considered a new hire if the individual starts work with an employer for whom they have previously worked. Federal Preemption: Preempts state laws mandating E-Verify use for employment eligibility purposes but retains the ability of states and localities to condition business licenses on the requirement that the employer use E-Verify in good faith under the federal law. Safe Harbor: Grants employers safe harbor from prosecution if they use the E-Verify program in good faith, and through no fault of theirs, receive an incorrect eligibility confirmation. A copy of the bill can be found at http://judiciary.house.gov/news/pdfs/Legal%20Workforce%20Act.pdf ###
06.03.2011	The U.S. Department of Labor released employment information today which showed that job growth slowed dramatically in May. National unemployment rose to 9.1%. "The jobs report released today is frustrating, to say the least," said Rep. Calvert. "It is clear that the policies coming from the White House simply are not working. From the failed ‘stimulus' in 2009 to the rampant spending over the last two and half years, the President has yet to understand that government spending does not create private sector jobs. "Small businesses, the backbone of our economy, continue to struggle which means they are not able to hire, invest in new equipment and grow. Right now, the best action Congress and the Administration can take is to stop borrowing, spending, and taking capital out of the marketplace. We must also reduce the number of burdensome regulations that create an anti-business environment. Finally, we must reduce the size and scope of the federal government which has expanded dramatically since 2008. I have no doubt that we will find our way out of the current economic recession and be stronger than ever, but we must take the necessary steps now in order to end the cycle of economic stagnation." ###
05.02.2011	Rep. Calvert released the following statement on the American raid that killed Osama bin Laden: "Justice has finally been delivered for the 2,977 lives lost on September 11, 2001 and for the over 4,000 combat deaths in the global war on terror. Today is also a testament to the determination and professionalism of our military and the intelligence community: for nearly ten years they have pursued bin Laden and other high value targets in al Qaeda and never once did they waiver in either their faith in the mission or that it would be accomplished. Our deepest gratitude goes out to all those who were involved in this operation and especially the American forces that carried out the raid and killed Osama bin Laden. "The celebrations around the nation reflect the deep sense of pride in our military, our country, our way of life and the absolute rejection of the violence and hatred of bin Laden and all terrorist organizations. Today we remember that what binds us together as Americans will always be stronger than our differences and that we will go to any length to protect our inalienable rights to life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness." ###
03.07.2011	Today Congressman Ken Calvert (R-CA) introduced the MORE Act, the Maximize Offshore Resource Exploration, H.R. 903. He first introduced the bill in the 110th Congress. "Now, more than ever, we need energy independence," said Rep. Calvert. "The price of oil has spiked in recent weeks because of events far from our shores. We must have ways to develop and produce our own fossil fuels while we move towards an economy that is not oil-based. My legislation allows for federally-permitted development of resources beyond 25 miles off the coastline and provides a strong incentive for states to allow federal-lease exploration within 25 miles." Under the MORE Act, states will receive 75% of the royalties for oil and natural gas production beyond 25 miles of the coastline and the U.S. Treasury would receive the remaining 25%. If states elect to allow exploration and production within 25 miles of their coastline, then their share of the royalties would increase to 90%. At 25 miles from the coast, no evidence of energy exploration is visible from the coast. The MORE Act will provide: • MORE offshore domestic energy production; • MORE royalty revenue for producing states and the U.S. Treasury; • MORE energy security for America; and • MORE relief at the gas pump. The MORE Act will increase oil and natural gas supplies by removing existing restrictions on offshore energy exploration and production in the Outer Continental Shelf (OCS). The bill establishes a state's choice on exploration and production for areas within 25 miles of the coastline. "My bill respects the sovereignty of the state while providing a financial incentive to states for the development of resources off their coastline," said Rep. Calvert. "For states such as California, this could translate into billions of dollars for schools, law enforcement, transportation infrastructure, and environmental and renewable energy programs. The MORE Act benefits Americans at the gas pumps and rewards states who elect to be part of the solution to the U.S. energy problem." Original co-sponsors of the bill include: Rep. Gregg Harper (MS-3), Rep. Elton Gallegly (CA-24), Rep. Robert Latta (OH-5), Rep. Billy Long (MO-7), Rep. John Carter (TX-31), Rep. Jerry Lewis (CA-41), Rep. Daniel Lungren (CA-3), Rep. Gary Miller (CA-42), Rep. Bob Gibbs (OH-18), Rep. Devin Dunes (CA-21), Rep. David Dreier (CA-26), Rep. Buck McKeon (CA-25), Rep. Wally Herger (CA-02). ###
02.22.2011	Are you or someone you know struggling to make your mortgage payment? There are people who can help. Click on the attached flyer for information on a workshop this Saturday, Feb. 26, 2011. This free workshop will give you the opportunity to meet one-on-one with your lender and/or a HUD-Approved housing counselor. You can also find out if you qualify for the Federal Making Home Affordable Program, Keep Your Home California Program or other options from your lender.
01.20.2011	Yesterday Rep. Ken Calvert (R-CA) introduced a bill, H.R. 320, to designate the memorial at March Field Air Museum, in Riverside, California, as the Distinguished Flying Cross National Memorial. "Distinguished Flying Cross recipients have received this prestigious medal for their heroism or extraordinary achievement while participating in aerial flight while serving in any capacity with the U.S. Armed Forces," stated Rep. Calvert. "March Air Reserve Base is adjacent to the location of the memorial at the March Field Air Museum. The completed memorial allows visitors to witness active operational air units providing support to our troops in Iraq and Afghanistan, which is an appropriate setting that honors the many aviators who have distinguished themselves by deeds performed in aerial flight. I look forward to working with my colleagues to pass H.R. 320 so that the memorial at March Air Field Museum will have the distinction of being the national Distinguished Flying Cross Memorial." H.R. 320 has been referred to the House Committee on Natural Resources. Similar legislation in the 111th Congress passed the House by a vote of 410-0 on March 19, 2010, but stalled in the Senate. ###
01.20.2011	Today Rep. Ken Calvert (R-CA) voted for H.R. 2, Repealing the Job-Killing Health Care Law Act. The bill passed 245 to 189. "The people's voice reigns again in the People's House," said Rep. Calvert. "The more we learn about the new health care law, the more we understand how devastating it will be to our economy. Already employers across the country have suffered increases in their health premiums as a result of the health care law, yet we were told that the bill would bend the health cost curve downward. "We were told that the bill would reduce the deficit by $143 billion over ten years. However, we now know that the figures given to the CBO did not accurately reflect the law's real costs. When you add back the $115 billion needed to implement the law and subtract the bill's double-counting of revenue, and other budgetary gimmicks, the true cost is a staggering $700 billion over ten years." "The bottom line is that we cannot afford this new health care law, no matter how well intentioned," said Rep. Calvert. "We must repeal Obamacare and replace it with legislation that decreases health care costs, increases competition in the marketplace, maintains the sanctity of the doctor-patient relationship and truly helps those without insurance." ###
01.10.2011	Rep. Ken Calvert (R-CA) issued the following statement in response to the attack on Rep. Giffords (D-AZ) and the murder of six people on Saturday, January 8, 2010. "My thoughts and prayers are with the Giffords family as we all wish her a complete recovery from this senseless act of violence. My thoughts are also with the injured and with the families of the six people killed: Dorothy Morris, Judge John Roll, Phyllis Schneck, Dorwin Stoddard, Gabe Zimmerman and nine-year old Christina Taylor Green. No words can ease the pain of their families but our country shares in the grief of six lives cut short. I am also heartened by the many stories of heroism last Saturday; men and women who did not hesitate to come to the assistance of their fellow man and without regard to their own life, intervened and subdued the shooter. "It is during moments of tragedy that Americans forget our differences and unite around our common goodness: we love our country and our countrymen, and we will never let any one act or one individual deter us from living in freedom and without fear." ###
01.07.2011	Today Appropriations Committee Chairman Hal Rogers (R-KY) announced the Appropriations Subcommittee assignments. Rep. Calvert will serve on the Defense, Interior and Legislative Branch Appropriations Subcommittees. "I look forward to applying my experience as the most recent Ranking Member of the Select Intelligence Oversight Panel and as a former member of the Armed Services Committee to the Defense Subcommittee," said Rep. Calvert. "These experiences will be particularly helpful in light of the recently announced cuts to defense by Secretary Robert Gates. Our first priority must be to ensure that our troops receive the tools they need to perform their missions as well as planning for the reset of our military force. The process of finding savings must not come at the expense of our national security. I look forward to hearing from the Department of Defense and working with my colleagues to pass a thoughtful and responsible Fiscal Year 2012 Defense Appropriations bill. "Likewise, I am eager to get to work on both the Interior and Legislative Branch Subcommittees to find ways to increase efficiencies, maximize taxpayer dollars and cut unnecessary and duplicative programs." The jurisdictions of the subcommittees are as follows: Defense Department of Defense--Military; Departments of Army, Navy (including Marine Corps), Air Force, Office of Secretary of Defense, and Defense Agencies (Except Department of Defense-related accounts and programs under the Subcommittee on Military Construction and Veterans Affairs; and the Office of the Assistant Secretary of the Army (Civil Works)); Central Intelligence Agency; Intelligence Community Staff. Interior Department of the Interior (Except Bureau of Reclamation and Central Utah Project); Environmental Protection Agency; Other Agencies: Advisory Council on Historic Preservation, Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry (HHS), Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board, Commission of Fine Arts, Council on Environmental Quality and Office of Environmental Quality, Forest Service (USDA), Indian Health Service, Institute of American Indian and Alaska Native Culture and Arts Development, John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts, National Capital Planning Commission, National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities (Except Institute of Museum and Library Services), National Gallery of Art, National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences (HHS, formerly EPA/Superfund), Office of Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation, Presidio Trust, Smithsonian Institution, United States Holocaust Memorial Museum, White House Commission on the National Moment of Remembrance, Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars. Legislative Branch House of Representatives; Joint Items; Architect of the Captiol (Except Senate Items); Botanic Garden; Capitol Police; Capitol Visitors Center; Congressional Budget Office; Government Accountability Office; Government Printing Office; John C. Stennis Center; Library of Congress; Office of Compliance; Open World Leadership Center; United States Capitol Preservation Commission. ###
01.05.2011	Today Rep. Calvert (R-CA) was sworn into office as the U.S. Representative of the 44th Congressional District of California. He joins a new Republican Majority, along with 87 new Republicans, that is ready to cut government spending, reduce the size of government, keep taxes low and create an environment that is business and family-friendly. "I stand ready to work with Speaker Boehner, Majority Leader Cantor and Majority Whip McCarthy to get America back on the path of prosperity," said Rep. Calvert. "I am honored and humbled to be a part of the new Congress which is dedicated to returning the House of Representatives back to the American people. My focus is on improving the economy and creating jobs for the American people who continue to struggle under burdensome regulations, taxes, unemployment and underemployment." A few of Rep. Calvert's top priorities, among others, include: The ON TIME Act. The ON TIME Act is a self-funding bill and will provide much-needed infrastructure improvements, such as grade separations, that will put people to work. Mandatory E-Verify. Making employment verification mandatory will demonstrate to the American people that the federal government is willing to gain control over our borders. Americans and legal residents should not be denied jobs because of the illegal labor market and mandating E-Verify, created by Rep. Calvert, will ensure jobs only go to people legally in the U.S. All-of-the-Above Energy Strategy. America lacks an "all-of-the-above" national energy strategy that utilizes our own natural resources, and American labor, while moving away from an economy that is based on fossil fuels. Rep. Calvert also signed on to the Repealing the Job-Killing Health Care Law Act to be introduced by Majority Leader Cantor (R-VA). The bill would repeal Obamacare and allow Republicans to craft and pass a true health care reform bill that will actually reduce the costs of health care, improve the quality of care and maintain the doctor-patient relationship. ###
12.17.2010	Last night Rep. Ken Calvert (R-CA) voted in favor of the Middle Class Tax Relief Act of 2010 (H.R. 4853) which prevents a tax increase on working Americans, small businesses and job-creating investments. The bill passed the House by a vote of 277 to 148. "The last thing our economy needs right now is crushing tax increases, and I was pleased to see that these tax hikes will not be added to the backs of hard-working Americans," Rep. Calvert said. "Stopping all the job-killing tax hikes scheduled for January 1, 2011 is an important first step to help our economy. The strength of our economy can be measured by the ability of private businesses to grow, invest and hire. As a former small business owner, I fully understand the crucial role small businesses play in the district and throughout the country, and I will be doing everything I can to see to it that these low tax rates are extended permanently." H.R. 4853 temporarily extends many crucial tax provisions through December 31, 2012, including the Alternative Minimum Tax (AMT) relief; individual income rates; capital gains and dividends; child tax credit; marriage penalty relief; adoption and child care tax credit; and earned income tax credit. It also reduces the Death Tax to 35 percent (down from 55 percent next year) and increases the exemption amount to $5 million per spouse (up from $1 million next year). Without passage of this bill, $3.8 trillion in tax increases would have kicked in on January 1, 2011 and would have been paid for by every taxpayer and most small businesses. Middle-class families would have lost roughly $100 per week out of their paychecks, and ultimately it would have been a disaster for family budgets, employers and the economy. H.R. 4853 received broad support from the business community, large and small, including endorsements from the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, the National Federation of Independent Businesses and the Business Roundtable. ###
12.09.2010	Last night Rep. Ken Calvert (R-CA) voted against the so-called DREAM Act. The DREAM Act would provide legal status to individuals brought here illegally by their parents if they have a high school diploma and will enroll in college or enlist in the military. The bill passed the House 216 to 198. "There is no doubt that the illegal status of people brought here as children is an emotional and humanitarian issue," said Rep. Calvert. "However, I could not place the needs of those who are not legal ahead of the many students who are here legally and must compete for the limited space available in our state schools and for limited scholarship dollars. Furthermore, I think it is a dangerous precedent to offer legal status if a person serves in our military. Our military is an all-volunteer force that should not be comprised of people who, through the DREAM Act, and as a result of their service, receive legal status. "Providing legal status to the estimated two million students also provides a pathway to legal status for all their relatives back home. Our economy simply cannot handle a large influx of people looking for work when we are experiencing high unemployment and economic stagnation." The DREAM Act will give illegal students access to in-state tuition rates at public universities, federal student loans, and federal work-study programs. Aliens granted amnesty by the DREAM Act will have the legal right to petition for entry of their family members, including their adult brothers and sisters and the parents who illegally brought or sent them to the United States, once they become naturalized U.S. citizens. In less than a decade, this reality could easily double or triple the more than 2.1 million green cards that will he immediately distributed as a result of the DREAM Act (Source: Senate Judiciary Committee, Minority Office). ###
12.09.2010	Today Rep. Calvert (R-CA) voted against the $1.09 trillion Continuing Resolution (CR) that will fund the government through the end of fiscal year 2011. The bill passed the House today 212 to 206. "Once again Democrats have ignored the wishes of the American people by passing a fiscally-disastrous bill that continues the failed policies of higher spending without proper accountability or justification for the increased levels set by the so-called stimulus bill," said Rep. Calvert. "In addition to the unsustainable spending, the Democrats chose to consider the bill under ‘martial law,' or same-day consideration, which does not allow sufficient time for Members of Congress or the public to read the 423-page bill. The legislation also incorporates an extension for surface and aviation transportation programs, as well as the FDA Food Safety Modernization Act, which makes additional mandates on individuals and entities that manufacture, process, pack, transport, distribute, receive, or hold food. The bill and the process are symbolic of the out-of-touch Pelosi Congress that has continually ignored the American people and kept the Minority Party completely in the dark." The CR, H.R. 3082, was initially introduced as the FY 2010 Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations Act and approved in the House by a vote of 415-3 on July 10, 2009, with the support of Rep. Calvert. The bill was approved in the Senate on November 17, 2009; however, the bill was not signed by the President because funding for the agencies was ultimately provided through H.R. 3288, the Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2010. H.R. 3082 was then further amended and used as the vehicle for a one-year CR to provide discretionary funding for government activities through FY 2011. The final version of the 423-page CR was not made available until 8:00 a.m. the morning of December 8, the same day the bill was voted on in the House (Source: House Republican Conference). ###
12.02.2010	Today Rep. Calvert (R-CA) voted against the so-called "Middle Class Tax Relief Act" (H.R. 4853), and opposed Speaker Pelosi (D-CA) and her cohorts for stifling job growth, attacking businesses and playing class politics. H.R. 4853 passed the House by a vote of 234 to 188, despite opposition from Republicans and 20 Democrats. "With national unemployment remaining near 10 percent, and approaching 16 percent in the Inland Empire, and with the economy continuing to struggle, now is the worst possible time for a tax increase on any American," said Rep. Calvert. "Raising taxes on the very people who create jobs will only result in more unemployment and, ironically, less government revenue. "Rather than instituting a punitive tax increase Congress must create an environment where job growth can flourish. A tax hike on business owners will do just the opposite," said Rep. Calvert. "This bill hurts small businesses, and plays class politics, pitting business owners against the so-called ‘middle class.' Unfortunately, H.R. 4853 continues the failed policies of the Pelosi Congress that the American people flat out rejected exactly one month ago." An increase in the top marginal tax rate, taxes on capital gains and dividends will negatively impact businesses seeking to expand, hire and invest. An estimated 750,000 small businesses will be hit with a massive tax increase on January 1, 2011 if a tax extension is not provided for all Americans. If enacted, H.R. 4853 would significantly impact income paying seniors who rely on capital gains and dividend income as a means for support. Additionally, this bill does nothing to protect Americans from the devastating effects of the death tax, which forces an additional tax of up to 55 percent on the property of the deceased. ###
11.18.2010	Rep. Calvert (R-CA) signed onto legislation (H.R. 6403), the American Recovery and Reinvestment Rescission Act, introduced by Rep. Jerry Lewis (R-CA) which would rescind all remaining unobligated stimulus funds. "The stimulus spending bill was an epic failure; it is time to show the American people that we are serious about cutting spending," said Rep. Calvert. "The $12 billion in unobligated stimulus funds is just the beginning and I call on the Democratic Leadership to join us in passing this bill before the end of the year. In January, Republicans stand ready to bring about change when it comes to the size, scope and spending of the federal government. The days of wanton spending are over." Rep. Calvert supports returning discretionary spending to 2008 levels, extending the 2001 and 2003 tax cuts, and reducing the regulatory burdens on small businesses. "America can once again be a place of entrepreneurship and success but in order for that to happen government must end the uncertainty plaguing business, the fear created by mounting debt, and the oppressive business environment that hinders growth and investment," stated Rep. Calvert. ###
10.29.2010	Yesterday, Rep. Calvert (R-CA) attended the dedication event for the Distinguished Flying Cross Memorial at March Field Air Museum in Riverside, California. The memorial honors all current and former members of the Armed Forces who have been awarded the Distinguished Flying Cross. "Attending yesterday's dedication ceremony was truly an honor," said Rep. Calvert. "Through the perseverance and dedication of many people, the vision of this memorial has become a reality. Distinguished Flying Cross recipients have received this prestigious medal for their heroism or extraordinary achievement while participating in aerial flight while serving in any capacity with the U.S. Armed Forces." On June 12, 2009, Rep. Calvert introduced H.R. 2788, which designates the memorial as the Distinguished Flying Cross National Memorial. The bill unanimously passed the House on March 18, 2010, and is currently awaiting action from the Senate. "Now, we need the Senate to act and pass legislation that will designate this memorial as a national memorial," Rep. Calvert continued. "We owe it to the brave men and women who have so selflessly distinguished themselves by deeds heroically performed in aerial flight." Since its passage in the House, Rep. Calvert has been active in encouraging Senators from both sides of the aisle to work for swift passage of the legislation. If the bill is not considered in the Senate before the end of this Congressional session, Rep. Calvert plans to reintroduce the legislation in the 112th Congress early next year. At a gala last night, Rep. Calvert was also honored with a lifetime membership to the Distinguished Flying Cross Society because of his dedication and efforts to secure a national designation for the Memorial. The March Air Reserve Base, which hosts the C-17As of the 452nd Air Mobility Wing is adjacent to the location of the memorial at the March Field Air Museum. Visitors can witness active operational air units providing support to troops in Iraq and Afghanistan, which is an appropriate setting that honors the many aviators who have distinguished themselves by deeds performed in aerial flight. ###
10.08.2010	Today the Labor Department released employment data and the national unemployment rate remained unchanged for September at 9.6%. "Despite spending billions of the American taxpayer's money, the Pelosi Congress has done nothing to foster an environment in which businesses feel secure enough to invest, grow and, most importantly, hire new workers," said Rep. Calvert. "Our economy is at a standstill because of the uncertainty over looming tax hikes, new health care mandates and more environmental regulation that will move American jobs overseas." The national unemployment rate has remained above 9.5% for 14 consecutive months, the longest span since the Great Depression. In the month of September, 95,000 jobs were lost and 17.1% of Americans are underemployed. In California's 44th congressional district, unemployment reported for August was at 15.3% in Riverside County and 9.6% in Orange County. "Republicans stand ready to get back to work and enact policies that will free our economy from crushing uncertainty," said Rep. Calvert. "Extending the tax cuts, repealing the most onerous provisions of the health care law, and providing small businesses with a 20% tax deduction would go a long way in alleviating the concerns many people and businesses have about our economy." ###
09.30.2010	Today Rep. Calvert (R-CA) voted against the Senate Amendment to H.R. 2701, the FY2010 Intelligence Authorization Act. "Any intelligence authorization bill should make its top priority the safety of U.S. citizens," said Rep. Calvert. "I was deeply disappointed that the bill did not extend current laws, set to expire tomorrow, that prohibit the transfer of Guantanamo detainees to the United States. It is also frustrating that we are now just passing the fiscal year 2010 Intelligence Authorization Act, one day before the end of the fiscal year." The bill also allows for potential Justice Department action against intelligence professionals who did what the President—and congressional leaders including Speaker Pelosi—asked them to do and ratified. The bill also omits a Republican amendment—supported on a bipartisan basis and in the House—to prohibit giving Miranda warnings to foreign terrorist suspects in foreign countries in order to protect intelligence collection. "This bill speaks to the poor management of the House and mixed up priorities that put Americans at risk and persecute the very people tasked with keeping us safe," said Rep. Calvert. ###
09.30.2010	Last night, Rep. Calvert (R-CA) voted against the Continuing Resolution and the Motion to Adjourn Congress. "The American people are rightfully upset that Congress continues to shirk its duties on a number of issues including its responsibility to pass the annual appropriations bills," said Rep. Calvert. "Only two of the twelve funding bills came before the Appropriation's committee and subsequently passed the House. Yet this week the Democratic Leadership chose to rush through a Continuing Resolution to fund the government through December 3, without any input from Republicans. The CR spends too much -- all non-defense discretionary spending should return to 2008 levels if we are serious about controlling spending." The House also voted on the Motion to Adjourn Congress for the 111th Session. Rep. Calvert voted against the adjournment. "Leaving town now, and waiting until after the election to address looming tax hikes and the jobless economic recovery, does not give relief to the unemployed, small businesses and taxpayers," said Rep. Calvert. "The Pelosi Congress can be summed up with last night's votes: higher taxes and more spending. While the CR is enacted at levels too high to sustain long-term, no vote is taken to prevent the upcoming tax hikes that will impact every American. The American people need relief from the overwhelming uncertainty that Congress is creating through future tax hikes, the government takeover of health care, and increased regulations." Unless an extension is voted on by December 31, 2010, the following will occur: every American taxpayer will face higher rates; the marriage penalty will return; the child tax credit will be halved; the Death Tax will soar to 55 percent; and the AMT will ensnare more than 25 million taxpayers. ###
09.23.2010	Today House Republicans, including Rep. Ken Calvert (R-CA), introduced the "Pledge to America" which defines how Republicans will lead America back to prosperity and opportunity. "For too long Washington, D.C. elites have been out of touch with the American people who are struggling to get by and legitimately worried about the future," said Rep. Calvert. "They see a Congress and Administration that knows no fiscal bounds, that ignores their objections to sweeping health care legislation that is already radically changing a fundamental aspect of our society, that seeks to answer our problems with increased taxation, and that is ready to hand over the rights of U.S. citizens to terrorists. It is clear that Washington is out of step with the American people and that is why my colleagues and I, months ago, decided to stop talking and start listening. "Through countless meetings, telephone town halls, discussions on the American Speaking Out website and other ways, our Pledge to America began to take shape. We took the top concerns of the American people and turned it into an action plan. To be clear: this agenda is a starting point of what we would do today if given the opportunity. It is only a beginning point that focuses on cutting spending immediately, returning unspent stimulus funds, providing financial incentives to small business, creating tax and regulation certainty, and requiring operational control of our borders. "Our goals are clear: America's prosperity depends on the freedom and ingenuity of its people, not on the dictates of its government. Our plan is to get government out of the way of free enterprise and creativity that is being suffocated by endless government mandates, more regulation and mounting debt. Today we pledge to restore fiscal accountability, transparency and certainty. If we return the reins of power back to the American people, there is nothing our country cannot do." To read the full document, click here: http://pledge.gop.gov ###
09.16.2010	U.S. Congressman Ken Calvert (R-CA) issued the following statement today commemorating this year's Hispanic Heritage Month: "The promise of America is evident today as families and communities across the country recognize Hispanic Heritage Month. Millions of Hispanic men and women contribute to the strength and endurance of American society. They help drive the American economy, serve in our nation's defense, and possess a deep commitment to faith, family and community. They deserve our recognition and thanks. "A vital part of the Hispanic contribution includes a strong tradition of entrepreneurship. Small business owners are the engine behind a strong economy, and many small businesses – especially in southern California – are owned and operated by minorities. The Hispanic community is an integral part and contributor to our national economy. "Not only do Hispanics play an important role in the success of our economy, they also contribute to the defense of our nation. They have served proudly and with distinction in every branch of the U.S. military since the days of the American Revolution. "Throughout the history of our nation, millions of Hispanic men and women have come here from around the world in search of freedom, peace and prosperity. As we celebrate Hispanic Heritage Month, allow me to say ‘thank you' for your contributions to the national fabric which has helped make America what it is today."
09.10.2010	"This weekend, we honor and remember the victims and heroes of the September 11, 2001 attacks. Nine years ago, the United States was forever changed when 2,977 innocent lives were taken in New York, the Pentagon and Shanksville, Pennsylvania. The wound of those attacks continue to pain the hearts of every American; and 9-11 will forever stand as a witness of the great loss we all experienced that day. Today we also remember the 9-11 families who must bear the loss of their loved ones every day. "On that horrible day, the course of our national defense took a new direction. Since then we fought and prevailed in the War in Iraq, thanks to the successful surge strategy implemented by our brave men and women in the U.S. Armed Forces. We now must concentrate our efforts on winning in Afghanistan. I believe success is possible, and remain committed to defeating al Qaeda and the Taliban in Afghanistan. "I am grateful for our service men and women who have so selflessly given their time and talents in duty to our country. We also pay tribute and honor the thousands of Americans who have died in defense of our great country. On this weekend and always my thoughts are with our troops and intelligence agents around the world, and their families, who continue to keep America safe. May God continue to bless them and our great nation." ### Please click on this link to see Rep. Calvert's latest video clip thanking our troops for their service.
07.22.2010	Today, Rep. Ken Calvert (R-CA) voted against H.R. 4213, the Unemployment Compensation Extension Act, because it will increase federal spending by $33 billion and increase the deficit by $34 billion. The House approved the legislation by a vote of 272 to 152. "I am in favor of extending unemployment benefits, but I am against recklessly adding billions of dollars to our ballooning deficit," said Rep. Calvert. "We cannot continue down this road of fiscal insanity. If Speaker Pelosi insists on passing more spending bills, at a minimum they should be offset. I supported a Republican alternative which was paid for with left-over stimulus funds and also included extensions for COBRA. "I commend my Democratic colleagues who, in a letter last week, urged House Democratic Leaders to start addressing our nation's fiscal crisis, stating that ‘extending critical, economic investments is no more important than paying for them.' I wholeheartedly agree with this sentiment, and add my voice in calling on Speaker Pelosi to start listening to members of her own party, the Republican Party and the American people as they plead for her to stop Congress' out-of-control spending spree. We must stop pushing off tough choices and start setting priorities that will help get our economy back on track once again." ###
07.20.2010	Yesterday H. Res. 1219, a bipartisan resolution that expresses the sense of the House of Representatives that National Child Awareness Month should be established in the month of September passed the House by a vote of 373-0. The bill was introduced by Rep. Ken Calvert (R-CA) and Rep. Loretta Sanchez (D-CA) on March 25, 2010. "It is only fitting that the month of September is designated to bring awareness to the needs and challenges facing our children," said Rep. Calvert. "Our future depends on the education and development of the future generation and I commend the many organizations and charities dedicated to the well-being of children. I thank my California colleague Rep. Loretta Sanchez for her work and applaud the House for moving the bill quickly and look forward to working with the Senate to have a companion resolution. I also will encourage President Obama to issue a Presidential Proclamation, designating September as National Child Awareness Month, so that the many child-focused programs of the federal government might also be highlighted." "The future of our country lies with America's children," said Rep. Sanchez. "National Child Awareness Month would recognize that reality, as well as the contributions of organizations that provide kids with access to healthcare, social services, education, and other important resources. These are the kinds of smart investments that will help our children grow and develop into responsible, productive citizens. I was proud to work with my colleague from California, Rep. Ken Calvert, to introduce this resolution and hope the Senate will quickly introduce a companion resolution." H. Res. 1219 supports the designation of a National Child Awareness Month in order to promote awareness of children's charities and youth-serving organizations across the United States. The bill recognizes their efforts on behalf of children and youth as a critical contribution to the future of our Nation. ###
06.02.2010	Today Reps. Ken Calvert (CA-44), Jerry Lewis (CA-41) and Howard "Buck" McKeon (CA-25) condemned the vandalism to the Mojave Cross war memorial which was torn down Sunday night. "The Mojave War cross has long been a symbol of the many brave Americans who gave their life to our country in battle," said Rep. Calvert. "The illegal removal of the cross by vandals is an insult to anyone who has ever served in the U.S. Armed Forces; a repulsive act which violates every code of honor and decency. I will be working with my good friends Congressmen Lewis and McKeon, the Veterans of Foreign Wars, the Liberty Institute, and all other involved entities to replace the cross to its rightful spot atop Sunrise Rock in the Mojave National Preserve." "I am disgusted that someone would do such a shameful act of thoughtless vandalism to a memorial that has stood for 70 years honoring those who died for our country," Congressman Jerry Lewis said. "Whatever the motivation of the vandals, their action is an affront to veterans and those who have defended our nation. I call upon the National Park Service to work with the Veterans of Foreign Wars to recover the Mojave Cross memorial." "The discovery that the Mojave Cross has been stolen is harsh and disheartening news to many of us in Congress and most certainly to the Veterans of Foreign Wars," said Rep. Buck McKeon. "While I understand the Mojave Cross has faced some controversy, it exists as an earnest memorial for our nation's veterans who lost their lives in service to America. It is my hope the VFW and the National Park Service will come to a speedy recovery of the Mojave Cross in honor of our veterans." The Mojave Cross has been the subject of debate as the Supreme Court recently remanded the case back to federal court and allowed the cross to remain on public land, despite challenges by the American Civil Liberties Union that the cross violates the separation of church and state. ###
06.02.2010	Rep. Calvert (R-CA) voted against the FY2011 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) which included an amendment that would repeal the military's "don't ask, don't tell" policy for gays in the military. The NDAA passed the House 229 to 186. "I voted against the repeal of the ‘don't ask, don't tell' policy. Currently, Administration policy allows persons to serve in the military without disclosing their personal sexual preference. In an April letter to the chairman of the House Armed Services Committee, Secretary of Defense Robert Gates said any effort to repeal the law before the Pentagon has had an opportunity to complete a review ‘would send a very damaging message to our men and women in uniform that in essence their views, concerns, and perspectives do not matter on an issue with such a direct impact and consequence for them and their families'." "I support the service chief's unanimous opinion that any change should be done after thoughtful study and consideration of how the repeal would affect readiness, retention and exactly how it would be implemented. "Instead, the Democratic Leadership allowed just ten minutes of debate on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives to debate this far-reaching social policy change, which is wholly insufficient and completely dismisses the impact the repeal would have on our service members." "There is no doubt that military service demands sacrifice, on various levels, for a greater cause. However, the military is an institution based on the whole, not its parts, and to splinter people into categories, based on any qualifier, undermines the very foundation of our military." Rep. Calvert also voted against the following amendments: Amendment requiring the Director of National Intelligence to cooperate with GAO inquiries and perform audits initiated by Congressional Committees. Amendment would have killed the Joint Strike Fighter Alternate Engine Program Rep Calvert voted for: An amendment which stated that World Trade Organization subsidies must be taken into account when the Department of Defense considers the KC-X (Tanker) contract decision. An amendment that would transfer the Troops to Teachers program from the Department of Education to the Department of Defense. It would also make several changes to the program that would expand eligibility for service members who have served on active duty since September 11, 2001, expand the number of schools eligible to participate in the program, and create an advisory board charged with improving awareness of the program, increasing participation, and ensuring that the program meets the needs of our schools and our veterans. An Amendment that included a provision which would force an investigation by the Department of Defense's Inspector General into the conduct and practices of certain lawyers for terrorist detainees held at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba. The defense authorization bill authorizes $567 billion in budget authority for the Fiscal Year 2011 base budget of the Department of Defense and national security programs of the Department of Energy and authorizes $193 billion in funding to support operations in Iraq, Afghanistan and elsewhere in the Global War on Terrorism. ###
04.22.2010	Yesterday Rep. Calvert (R-CA) voted against the Senate Amendments to H.R. 4851, the Continuing Extension Act of 2010, also known as the "Tax Extenders Bill." The bill extends certain benefits and programs for two months. The bill passed 289 to 112. "Once again Democrats are simply putting off hard decisions by not requiring offsets for spending and only extending the provisions through the end of May," said Rep. Calvert. "We cannot continue to indefinitely extend unemployment benefits without paying for them through spending cuts in other areas. It is time that Democrats in Washington stop the budget games and work with Republicans to rein in spending." "Just as many predicted during the health care vote, we are now providing yet another temporary Doc Fix instead of providing for a permanent adjustment in the rate of reimbursement. I support a permanent and deficit-neutral Doc Fix and will be working to provide that for our nation's seniors." According to the Congressional Budget Office, H.R. 4851 would increase the deficit by $18.15 billion. Democrats designated the bill as "emergency" legislation in order to circumvent statutory PAYGO requirements. Highlights of the bill include: The bill provides for an adjustment to the Sustainable Growth Rate (SGR) conversion factor for physician payments through May. Extends unemployment benefits and provides an additional $25 per week to recipients. Workers can now receive federal and state benefits for 99 weeks. Extends eligibility for COBRA subsidies that were enacted in the stimulus bill. Extends the expanded poverty guidelines so that individuals will not lose benefits. Source: The House Republican Conference.
03.31.2010	Today Rep. Calvert (R-CA), author of the MORE Act (H.R. 797) which removes restrictions on offshore leases for oil and natural gas exploration and production for any area of the Outer Continental Shelf (OCS), issued the following statement in response to the President's plan to open a limited fraction of offshore energy resources located in the OCS. "The President's announcement is a step in the right direction but at a time when America, and California in particular, desperately needs job creation, the plan neglects areas that would have the most impact on employment and energy development. While the plan opens up areas along the east coast and northern Alaska, it does not call for any exploration off the coast of California where ample oil and natural gas resources exist for development. Additionally, exploration off of California would provide the state with much-needed royalty revenue that could go towards bridging the deficit gap and putting California back on the road to fiscal responsibility. With new and emerging technologies, offshore energy development can be pursued with little to no visible impact on the coastline and in a way that protects the surrounding environment. That is why I introduced the MORE Act in 2008 to create jobs and increase coastal states' share of royalties. The time has come to open up all of our country's natural resources which will provide a financial boon to our state coffers; wean our country off foreign dependence on oil; put people back to work and utilize our own resources in an environmentally sound way." The MORE Act, H.R. 797: The MORE Act removes restrictions on offshore leases for oil and natural gas exploration and production for any area of the Outer Continental Shelf (OCS). The bill prevents any leases within 25 miles of a state's coastline, unless the state enacts a law approving such leases. The MORE Act makes significant changes to the distribution of OCS royalties from oil and natural gas leases. For oil and natural gas leases beyond 25 miles of the coastline, the bill distributes 75% of the royalties to the producing states and the remaining 25% to the U.S. Treasury. If states elect to allow exploration and production within 25 miles of their coastline, then their share of the royalties would increase to 90%. ###
03.25.2010	Today Rep. Calvert (R-CA) voted against yet another Democrat spending bill, H.R. 4899, the "Disaster Relief and Summer Jobs Act." The bill passed on the heels of the Democrats almost one trillion dollar health care bill. "Once again, Speaker Pelosi is selling a bill under the auspices of ‘jobs' yet billions of the stimulus bill remain unspent and Americans continue to suffer under increasing financial burdens," said Rep. Calvert. "We cannot continue down this road of fiscal insanity. If Speaker Pelosi insists on passing more spending bills, at a minimum they should be offset by unspent stimulus funds and should not add to our ballooning deficit." Rep. Calvert voted against the legislation but supported a common-sense, deficit neutral amendment proposal by Appropriations Committee Ranking Member Jerry Lewis (R-CA). Lewis' amendment would have offset the cost of the bill by redirecting unspent stimulus funds. Once again Republicans were shut out of the process as the Rules Committee prevented the consideration of and votes on any amendments, prior to bringing the bill to the House floor for a vote. In addition to the emergency supplemental "jobs" bill, the House also passed H.R. 4849, the Small Business and Infrastructure Jobs Tax Act of 2010, which would increase spending and reduce revenues by $19.2 billion, primarily for the temporary extension of federally subsidized tax-credits for local infrastructure programs, temporary tax incentives for investments in small businesses, and new welfare spending. The bill:Increases taxes, including a $7.7 billion tax hike on U.S.-based subsidiaries of foreign companies that provide employment in the U.S. Increases welfare spending over the next ten years by $2.5 billion Spends $3.58 billion in small business tax incentives, Spends $13.16 billion in state and local infrastructure subsidies, and Raises taxes by approximately $19.4 billion. Source: House Republican Conference "While I support certain provisions of the bill, including the suspension of capital gains taxes on investments in small businesses and the provision to allow for the maximum deduction for small business startup expenses, I could not support the other items in the bill which provide for more irresponsible spending and tax hikes," said Rep. Calvert. Rep. Calvert is a cosponsor of H.R. 1552, the Small Business Formation and Job Creation Act of 2009. The legislation increases the maximum deduction for small business startup expenses from $5,000 to $20,000. It currently has 100 bipartisan cosponsors. ###
03.21.2010	WASHINGTON, D.C. March 21, 2010 – Despite passionate opposition from House Republicans and millions of Americans, Speaker Pelosi and House Democrats are speeding towards passage of the Senate health care reform bill and an accompanying reconciliation bill. Rep. Calvert will oppose both bills. "By disregarding the American people's strong opposition to the health care bill House Democrats have recklessly turned the ‘People's House' into ‘Pelosi's House,'" said Rep. Calvert. "All of us want to see our health care system reformed, but I cannot support the policies included in the bill before us. Instead of taking action on the reform elements most of us agree on, Democrats are choosing to pass a bill that expands government spending, kills jobs, drives up our national debt, and raises taxes." If approved, the Senate health care bill will go to the President for signature and the reconciliation bill will go to the Senate for further consideration. In short, the Democrat's health care bill will: Expand entitlement spending by roughly $1 trillion; Hit the American people with over half-a-trillion dollars in job-killing tax hikes; Cut Medicare benefits by half-a-trillion dollars; and Include elaborate budgetary gimmicks that hide the true cost of the bill. "For nearly a year, Democrats haggled over a government takeover of our health care system by making backroom deals to buy votes while more and more Americans lost their jobs," said Rep. Calvert. "Congress should be focused on job creation and reducing the financial burdens on American families and businesses. Instead Democrats, led by Speaker Pelosi, have insisted on passing a health care bill that will kill jobs, further increase government intervention into our lives, and pile trillions of dollars of new government spending and debt on the back of future generations." ###
03.11.2010	RESULTS FROM RECENT TELEPHONE POLL ON HEALTH CARE REFORM Many residents in the congressional district received a call from Rep. Calvert asking their opinion of the Pelosi health care bill. Below are the results of the survey. Question 1: Do you think Congress should start over and craft a bill with items that we all agree on? 64.2% answered that Congress should start over with a new health care bill 20.2% answered that Congress should start over, and 15.6% were unsure if Congress should start over. Question 2: Do you support the current health care proposal, supported by House and Senate Leadership, which would, in my opinion, lead to a government takeover of healthcare? 22.1% of participants support the Pelosi-Reid health care reform bill 67.3% do not support the Pelosi-Reid bill, and 0.6% were unsure if they support the Pelosi-Reid Bill.
03.11.2010	Today the House Republican Conference voted for a moratorium on earmarks. Rep. Calvert issued the following statement: "Today House Republicans voted to unilaterally ban all earmarks. Today's decision to remove ourselves from the earmark process, a decision that Democrats and the Senate should follow, is a statement to the American people that House Republicans are ready to lead the fight for lower spending, more transparency and responsibility in Washington. Now the Congress as a whole needs to address the larger issue of overall spending which has increased dramatically under Speaker Pelosi, and which I have voted against." "Since 2007, I have abstained from requesting funding for private entities. I have also been a leader in making sure the process is transparent. All projects requested by my office have been posted on my website and required state and/or local officials provide statements of support. While transparency has always been a part of my work in Congress, sometimes going the extra step, such as today's decision by all House Republicans, is necessary to demonstrate to the American people that the GOP is committed to the highest levels of fiscal responsibility, integrity and public accountability." ###
03.09.2010	Yesterday, the California Legislative Analyst Office, a nonpartisan fiscal and policy advisor to the California Legislature, issued a report examining how the implementation of California's law (AB 32) regulating greenhouse gas emissions would impact jobs. In summary, the report found: The implementation of greenhouse gas regulations will have an overall negative impact on jobs in California in the near term Certain individual businesses and households would be disproportionately negatively affected. Prices of electricity, gas and other energy sources would rise in the near-term. Read the full report here. "Recently, EPA Administrator Lisa Jackson testified before the Appropriations Subcommittee on Interior and the Environment and asserted that California has experienced job growth in the form of ‘green jobs' because of state mandates on greenhouse gas emissions," said Rep. Calvert. "I find it troubling that the head of the EPA does not fully understand the real and negative impacts of haphazardly regulating greenhouse gas emissions, especially as the EPA is now moving to enact similar regulations nationwide. "Rather than pursuing job killing regulations and expanding government bureaucracies, the Obama Administration must refocus its efforts on eliminating financial burdens on small businesses and get Americans back to work," concluded Rep. Calvert. The report on California's job losses comes almost a year after a report issued by Dr. Gabriel Calzada, an economics professor at Juan Carlos University in Madrid, which found that Spain's green initiative has hurt workers. The report found that every "green job" created with government money in Spain over the last eight years came at the cost of 2.2 regular jobs, and only one in ten of the newly created green jobs became a permanent job. Read the full report here. ###
03.09.2010	Today Rep. Calvert (R-CA) voted against raising the debt limit by $1.9 trillion, bringing the debt ceiling to $14.3 trillion. "This is the sixth time Democrats have raised the debt ceiling since taking control of Congress in 2007," said Rep. Calvert. "We must stop pushing off tough choices and start setting priorities, which will inevitably mean cuts to programs. We also need to stop avoiding the issue of entitlement spending which is growing at an unsustainable rate. Today's vote to increase the debt limit is a mistake and simply puts a band-aid on a larger problem that the Democratic Leadership refuses to face." The House made two votes regarding the increase in the debt limit to $14.294 trillion. The first vote was procedural, but split the question of debt limit increase and PAYGO rules, however, its passage effectively increased the debt limit when it was passed. The second vote on a Senate amendment related to PAYGO also included the debt limit increase. The two votes crafted by Democrats was a calculated effort to avoid an up-or-down vote on raising the debt limit by $1.9 trillion. ###
02.04.2010	On Saturday, February 6, 2010, Rep. Calvert, in conjunction with the Housing Opportunities Collaborative of the Inland Empire, the Federal Housing Administration, Housing and Urban Development, the City of Corona and Crossroads Christian Church, will host a homeownership preservation workshop. Details of the event: Saturday, February, 6, 2010 Session 1: Registration begins at 8:30 AM Workshop: 9:00 AM – 11:00 AM Session 2: Registration begins at 11:00 AM Workshop: 11:30 AM – 2:00 PM Location: Crossroads Community Church, 2331 Kellogg Avenue, Corona, CA There is NO cost for the event but people must register. Click here to register. What to Bring: Loan documents and recent mortgage statement, two most current pay stubs, most recent two years' W-2s, most recent two years' tax returns, list of monthly expenses, and a profit and loss report from the last six months (if self employed). ###
01.22.2010	Today Rep. Calvert (R-CA) testified before the House Natural Resources Committee, Subcommittee on National Parks, Forests and Public Lands on behalf of his bill, H.R. 2788, which would designate the memorial, that is currently under construction at March Field Air Museum, in Riverside, California, as the Distinguished Flying Cross National Memorial. "Distinguished Flying Cross recipients have received this prestigious medal for their heroism or extraordinary achievement while participating in aerial flight while serving in any capacity with the U.S. Armed Forces," stated Rep. Calvert at the hearing. "March Air Reserve Base is adjacent to the location of the memorial at the March Field Air Museum. When completed, visitors will be able to witness active operational air units providing support to our troops in Iraq and Afghanistan, which is an appropriate setting that honors the many aviators who have distinguished themselves by deeds performed in aerial flight." Dr. Barry A. Lanman, Director of the Martha Ross Center for Oral History at the University of Maryland, also provided testimony to the Committee in support of the legislation. Dr. Lanman stated, "I am not a recipient of the Distinguished Flying Cross, however I am the Distinguished Flying Cross Society's Historian and have had the honor of conducting and preserving oral history accounts of DFC recipients. In my entire association with this inspiring group of men and women, not one recipient has ever referred to himself or herself as being a hero. However, I call them all heroes and the United States should call them heroes and honor them as such." Rep. Calvert introduced H.R. 2788 on June 12, 2009. His full testimony is included below. Testimony of Rep. Ken Calvert Mr. Chairman and distinguished Members of the Committee, thank you for the opportunity to testify today. As a former Member of the Natural Resources Committee I'm happy to be back among friends to talk about H.R. 2788, a bill to designate a national Distinguished Flying Cross Memorial. I am seeking your support for the legislation. I am honored to represent the Inland Empire Chapter of the Distinguished Flying Cross Society which is the primary sponsor of the memorial. Last June I introduced H.R. 2788 which would designate a memorial, which is currently under construction at March Field Air Museum, in Riverside, California, as the Distinguished Flying Cross National Memorial. It honors all current and former members of the armed forces who have been awarded the Distinguished Flying Cross. The bill has strong bipartisan support with 48 cosponsors. The legislation is supported by the Distinguished Flying Cross Society, Military Officers Association of America, the Air Force Association, Air Force Sergeants Association, the Vietnam Helicopter Pilots Association, and the China Burma Indian Veterans Association. I'd like to point out language in the bill that specifically states that the designation shall not be construed to require or permit federal funds to be expended for any purpose related to the national memorial. Funds have been and will continue to be raised through private means for these purposes. Distinguished Flying Cross recipients have received the prestigious medal for their heroism or extraordinary achievement while participating in aerial flight while serving in any capacity with the U.S. Armed Forces. There are many well known people that have played a vital role in the history of military aviation and have received the award This group includes: Captain Charles L. Lindbergh, former President George H. W. Bush, Brigadier General Jimmy Doolittle, General Curtis Lemay, Senator McCain, Jimmy Stewart and Admiral Jim Stockdale to name just a few. The March Air Reserve Base, which hosts the C-17As of the 452nd Air Mobility Wing is adjacent to the location of the memorial at the March Field Air Museum. When completed, visitors will be able to witness active operational air units providing support to our troops in Iraq and Afghanistan, which is an appropriate setting that honors the many aviators who have distinguished themselves by deeds performed in aerial flight. The memorial will be topped by a two foot by two foot Distinguished Flying Cross of polished bronze and models of the Spirit of Saint Louis and a Loening OA-1A amphibian aircraft. The OA-1A was chosen because the Pan-American Goodwill Flights were made in five OA-1A aircraft by ten pilots between 1926 and 1927. The pilots were the first receipts of the Distinguished Flying Certificate from President Calvin Coolidge. Again, I hope you will join me in supporting the designation of the National Distinguished Flying Cross Memorial at the March Field Air Museum and H.R. 2788. ###
01.19.2010	You can make a financial donation online at www.redcross.org or call 1-800-REDCROSS (1-800-733-2767). You can also donate blood: schedule an appointment at 1-800-REDCROSS (1-800-733-2767) or visit RedCrossBlood.org. Other helpful websites include:The White HouseU.S. Department of StateOrganization of American StatesThe United NationsU.S. Geological SurveyUnited States Agency for International Development's Office of Foreign Disaster (USAID)
12.17.2009	Today Rep. Calvert (R-CA) voted against two last minute measures to continue to Democrat spending-frenzy: the $154 billion second "stimulus" and the $290 billion debt ceiling increase. "It is absolutely astounding that at a time when Americans are struggling to keep their jobs and pay the bills, the Nancy Pelosi liberal Congress is ending the year with even more spending," said Rep. Calvert. "The federal government, under the leadership of spend-happy Democrats has produced a record-high deficit and a record-high budget all on the backs of future generations." On the last day of session, Democrats passed the following bills: H.R. 4314 - The bill would increase the statutory limit on the national debt by $290 billion, from $12.104 trillion to $12.394 trillion. Amendment to the Senate Amendment to H.R. 2847 - Approximately $150 billion spending bill with a portion coming from unspent TARP funds. "As I've stated before, any leftover TARP funds as well as funds paid back should go against our exploding deficit, not spent on more so-called job creation which for Democrats apparently means more government jobs," said Rep. Calvert. ###
12.17.2009	As a Member of Congress, Rep. Ken Calvert (R-Corona) has the privilege of nominating a select group of highly qualified young men and women from the 44th Congressional District of California for an appointment to one or more U.S. Service Academies—Air Force, Naval, Military and Merchant Marine. On November 14, 2009, Congressman Calvert's Academy Nominations Selection Committee evaluated candidates from the 44th Congressional District, who were seeking a nomination to one or more of our nation's military service academies. Thirty one candidates were selected to receive Congressman Calvert's nomination. They are as follows: U.S. AIR FORCE ACADEMY: • Kenneth Appel, Martin Luther King High School • Patrick Bowman, JSerra Catholic High School • Mercedes Dexter, Arlington High School (Class of 2009), currently attending the United States Air Force Academy Preparatory School • Trenton Grabowski, Trabuco Hills High School • Cody Hancock, Martin Luther King High School • Cameron Igawa, Tesoro High School • Duane Kim, John W. North High School • Akheel Patel, Santiago High School • Andrew Paterson, Christian Heritage School (Class of 2009), currently attending Northwestern Prep School • Christian Schmidt, Riverside Poly High School U.S. NAVAL ACADEMY: • Justin Andrusak, Martin Luther King High School • Kenneth Appel, Martin Luther King High School • Lauren Aycock, Woodcrest Christian High School • Josue Castillo, Notre Dame High School • Michael Crouch, Tesoro High School • Ryan Shidal-Dalke, Notre Dame High School • Anthony Davis, Martin Luther King High School • Derek Deeb, Orange Lutheran High School • Joshua Eisenberg, Tesoro High School • Andrew Fulcher, JSerra Catholic High School (Class of 2009) • Fletcher Gales, San Clemente High School (Class of 2009) • Cody Hancock, Martin Luther King High School • Akheel Patel, Santiago High School • Andrew Paterson, Christian Heritage School (Class of 2009), currently attending Northwestern Prep School • Mark MacLachlan, San Clemente High School • Christa Millard, JSerra Catholic High School • Justin Samaniego, Patriot High School • Christian Schmidt, Riverside Poly High School • Christian Turpen, San Clemente High School (Class of 2009), currently attending the Naval Academy Preparatory School • Dustin Wells, Norco High School U.S. MILITARY ACADEMY AT WEST POINT: • Jacob Carrasco, Colony High School • Anthony Davis, Martin Luther King High School • Derek Deeb, Orange Lutheran High School • Sean Fullam, Ramona High School • Cody Hancock, Martin Luther King High School • Susie Kim, Tesoro High School • Mark MacLachlan, San Clemente High School • Joseph Oh, Martin Luther King High School • Liliana "Bailey" Rivero, Norco High School • Ian Sellar, Tesoro High School U.S. MERCHANT MARINE ACADEMY: • Anthony Davis, Martin Luther King High School • Derek Deeb, Orange Lutheran High School • Andrew Paterson, Christian Heritage School (Class of 2009), currently attending Northwestern Preparatory School • Christian Schmidt, Riverside Poly High School The Service Academies will evaluate the nominees based on their academic, athletic and physical qualifications and extend an appointment to the best qualified students that Rep. Calvert has nominated. "These young men and women who I have nominated to the service academies have character, integrity, motivation and pride, and I am proud to nominate them," stated Rep. Calvert. "They will serve our country well." ###
12.17.2009	Congressman Ken Calvert (R-Corona) was pleased to support the conference report for the Fiscal Year 2010 Defense Appropriations bill, H.R. 3326, which passed the House today. "One of the most important duties of Congress is to provide for the men and women who are fighting for our country," said Rep. Calvert. "Our military men and women are doing an excellent job in Iraq and Afghanistan. This bill provides them with the necessary resources to continue their missions, especially as we ramp up in Afghanistan to wrestle control from al Qaeda and Taliban forces." The bill contains $128.2 billion for ongoing military operations in Iraq and Afghanistan. This will provide critical resources for our troops in the field, including funding for personnel requirements, operational needs, and maintenance of facilities and equipment. This legislation does not include funding for the Administration's proposed "surge" in Afghanistan. Items of Note: • $2.5 billion for 10 additional C-17 cargo aircraft over the President's request. • Unemployment Insurance Extension – The bill contains a two-month extension of unemployment benefits for Americans who have exhausted their current benefits. The legislation would provide funds for unemployment programs in every state, with additional funds going to states with an average three-month unemployment rate above 8.5 percent. • COBRA Extension – The bill contains a two month extension of the COBRA health insurance subsidy program for the unemployed. Earlier this year, Congress approved an enhanced COBRA benefit as part of the "stimulus" legislation. This allowed the federal government to pay 65 percent of COBRA costs for nine months for those who lost their jobs before the end of this year. The provision in this bill would extend that deadline into February. • Small Business Loan Fee Reductions and 90% Guarantee Extension – The bill contains two months worth of funding to offset higher guarantees and reduce fees for certain business loans guaranteed by the Small Business Administration. Funds for these offsets was originally included in the "stimulus" legislation, but is now almost exhausted. • Patriot Act Extension – The bill contains a temporary two month extension to various counterterrorism provisions within the Patriot Act that are set to expire at the end of the month. ###
12.16.2009	Rep. Calvert (R-CA) responded today to the Administration's intent to purchase a prison in Illinois in which "dozens of terrorism suspects being held at the U.S. naval base at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, will be moved to" (Washington Post: U.S. to announce transfer of detainees to Ill. Prison, 12/15/09). "There must be a clear plan for dealing with where dangerous terrorists are housed, in consultation with Congress," said Rep. Calvert. "The President must declare to Congress his plan going forward in the transfer of detainees to the U.S. Currently, there is no plan and instead Obama has directed the movement of prisoners to U.S. soil without a legitimate policy or rationale underlying this decision. Holding detainees among a prison population in our communities here in the United States is unacceptable. "It is preposterous that we are bringing illegal combatants to the U.S. in order to give them all the rights and privileges of a U.S. citizen, expend taxpayer dollars to prosecute them as criminals, and, quite possibly, let them walk free in our society. It is already happening in New York with Khalid Sheikh Mohammed. "The trial of Khalid Sheikh Mohammed is an incentive for terrorists to attack Americans on U.S. soil, rather than face our military on the battlefield, because they will be afforded every right and privilege of a U.S. citizen. And yet terrorists refuse to acknowledge even the most basic of human rights. Even more offensive, the trial and defense of these terrorists will be paid for with American taxpayer dollars. "The Democratic leadership mistakenly thinks that the closing of Guantanamo Bay will somehow appease our enemies – it will not. It will only reinforce their opinion that the U.S does not have what it takes to win this war." On November 18, 2009, Rep. Calvert signed a discharge petition filed by Rep. Peter Hoekstra which would force the "Keep Terrorists Out of America Act" (H.R. 2294) to the floor for a vote. The bill was authored by Minority Leader John Boehner (R-OH) and cosponsored by 169 Members, of which Rep. Calvert was also a cosponsor. The bill would: • Affirm Congress' opposition to transferring or releasing terrorists held at the Guantanamo Bay prison into the United States; • Prohibit the Obama Administration from transferring or releasing any terrorist detainees at Guantanamo Bay to any state without express approval from the state's governor and legislature, and certification to Congress that strict requirements have been met; and • Prohibit the president from transferring or releasing a terrorist detainee into the United States without fulfilling strict congressional notification and certification requirements. Rep. Calvert introduced H.R. 1069 in February which directs the President to: • Notify the congressional defense committees at least 90 days before taking any action associated with the closure and transfer of prisoners. • Submit a study regarding the feasibility of closing Guantanamo Bay which shall address legal ramifications, security, infrastructure and other support requirements associated with the closure and transfer of prisoners. ###
12.11.2009	Today Rep. Calvert (R-CA), a member of the Appropriations Committee, voted against the $447 billion Omnibus Appropriations bill. "It is clear that the Democrat Majority has abandoned regular order and fiscal sanity for a big government spending-frenzy," said Rep. Calvert. "The Democrats simply aren't satisfied with their budget-busting proposals such as health care reform and cap and trade; they couldn't help but increase federal spending by 12.2% for fiscal year 2010 while the American people continue to slash their budgets in order to pay for food, heat and clothing." Under the FY2010 Omnibus Appropriations bill, Military Construction and Veterans funding gets a 7 percent increase; Commerce, Justice and Science gets an 11.6 percent; Foreign Operations gets a 33 percent increase this year; Transportation, Housing and Urban Development gets a 23.5 percent increase. Democrats were unable to pass the appropriations bills one a time in advance of the end of the fiscal year: September 30th. The federal government has been operating under a Continuing Resolution since October 1st which keeps spending at 2009 levels. "The American people are reeling from the amount of spending that has taken place this year and it is clear that they can expect more of the same for 2010," said Rep. Calvert. "The Democratic Leadership needs to listen to the people, and work with House Republicans, to restore fiscal responsibility to the federal government." ###
11.20.2009	In response to news that Democrats are looking for ways to spend the remaining $200 billion in Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP) funds, Rep. Calvert issued the following statement: "Rather than figuring out how to squander another $200 billion of taxpayer money in the name of corporate interests, Congress must allow TARP to sunset," said Rep. Calvert. "TARP has been a disaster and the remaining funds should go against our exploding deficit. I will vote against any action by Democrats, who are already greedily eyeing the leftover funds for pet projects, which would do anything but apply those leftover funds against the deficit." According to a recent Politico article ("Dems fight over funds left from bailout," 11/20/09), the Democratic Leadership is contemplating using remaining TARP funds for various other projects. The Financial Services Committee, on a mostly party-line vote, defeated an amendment by Rep. Erik Paulsen (R-MN) which would have directed non-committed TARP funds to pay down the deficit. ###
11.20.2009	Rep. Ken Calvert (R-CA) voted in support of the Republican Motion to Recommit the Democrat Medicare Physician Payment Reform Act. The changes would have provided a four year fix to the Medicare Sustainable Growth Rate for physician payments, preventing a 21% cut physicians are facing in 2010 and replacing it with a 2% increase. In addition, the motion would have made the legislation deficit neutral, offset by enacting commonsense national medical liability reforms, creating an approval process within the FDA for biosimilar pharmaceuticals, enacting administrative simplifications within the insurance industry and utilizing existing resources within the Department of Health and Human Services. This motion was defeated on the House Floor, by a vote of 177-251. Earlier, Calvert also voted to support a Republican proposal which would have provided a two year "fix" to the Sustainable Growth Rate (SGR) mechanism for Medicare physician payments again preventing a 21% cut faced by physicians in 2010 and instead implementing an increase of up to $22.3 billion over two years. This proposal was defeated by a vote of 177-252. "Once again, Nancy Pelosi and House Democrats prefer to enact over $200 billion in deficit spending rather than make the responsible choice that provides for a deficit neutral offset for the Doc Fix," said Rep. Calvert. "Furthermore, the Democrat bill fails to address the underlying problem and repeal the SGR. Instead it rebases the current SGR formula to 2009, a temporary patch that could leave Medicare physicians facing cuts as early as 2011. In addition, the bill continues to tie physician payment rates to GDP, rather than a medical index, which unfairly punishes physicians when the economy slows. Rather than enact temporary patches that increase the deficit, Congress should work to enact a permanent solution to fairly reimburse physicians who see Medicare patients." Rep. Calvert has consistently voted to prevent reductions to physician payments under Medicare due to the flawed SGR by enacting deficit neutral legislation to prevent cuts and provide increases. The Republican Motion to Recommit would have offset the cost of the fix and provided Congress with time to enact a solution to repeal the SGR. By contrast, the Democrat bill, H.R. 3961, did not include offsets. The Congressional Budget Office (CBO) estimates the cost of the bill at $210 billion. • Additionally, senior citizens will be expected to pay $50 billion in increased Medicare Part B premiums, raising the actual cost of the bill to $260 billion. • However, the true cost must be calculated by removing the budget gimmicks taken by the Administration to produce an artificially lower estimate of the bill. After true costs are calculated, the price of the bill increases to $279 billion. • Democrats cut seniors' Medicare by one-half trillion dollars in order to subsidize their government-takeover of America's health care system (H.R. 3962). Why did they use none of this money to pay-for an SGR fix? Making matters worse, they spent $425 billion to expand Medicaid, which reimburses physicians 54% less than their average private insurance reimbursement rates. ###
11.20.2009	Today Rep. Calvert (R-CA) signed the discharge petition on H.R. 2294, the Keep Terrorists Out of America Act. "The Administration and the Pelosi Congress are moving forward on a dangerous precedent that will bring terrorists to the U.S., place them in federal prisons and, depending on the level of evidence, either prosecute them or let them go," said Rep. Calvert. "It is preposterous that we are bringing war combatants to the U.S. in order to give them all the rights and privileges of a U.S. citizen, expend taxpayer dollars to prosecute them as criminals, and, quite possibly, let them walk free in our society. It is already happening in New York. "The trial of Khalid Sheikh Mohammed is an incentive for terrorists to attack Americans on U.S. soil, rather than face our military on the battlefield, because they will be afforded every right and privilege of a U.S. citizen. And yet terrorists refuse to acknowledge even the most basic of human rights, such as not using children as human shields. Even more offensive, the trial and defense of these terrorists will be paid for with American taxpayer dollars. "The Democratic leadership mistakenly thinks that the closing of Guantanamo Bay will somehow appease our enemies – it will not. It will only reinforce their opinion that the U.S does not have what it takes to win this war." Rep. Hoekstra filed the discharge petition on H.R. 2294. The bill was authored by Minority Leader John Boehner (R-OH) and cosponsored by 169 Members, of which Rep. Calvert was a cosponsor. The bill would: • Affirm Congress' opposition to transferring or releasing terrorists held at the Guantanamo Bay prison into the United States; • Prohibit the Obama Administration from transferring or releasing any terrorist detainees at Guantanamo Bay to any state without express approval from the state's governor and legislature, and certification to Congress that strict requirements have been met; and • Prohibit the president from transferring or releasing a terrorist detainee into the United States without fulfilling strict congressional notification and certification requirements. Rep. Calvert introduced H.R. 1069 in February which directs the President to: • Notify the congressional defense committees at least 90 days before taking any action associated with the closure and transfer of prisoners. • Submit a study regarding the feasibility of closing Guantanamo Bay which shall address legal ramifications, security, infrastructure and other support requirements associated with the closure and transfer of prisoners. ###
11.10.2009	Rep. Calvert (R-CA) issued the following statement commemorating Veterans Day, November 11, 2009: "Almost a week ago our country was shocked by the tragic events at Fort Hood and our prayers and thoughts are with the grieving families of those killed and with the wounded. It is unconscionable that our soldiers were attacked and harmed on a U.S .Army base where they should be safe from the dangers they have already faced or will face on the battlefield. "The events at Ft. Hood are a stark reminder that our troops are always on duty. They face dangers while the majority of us live far removed from such risks. And today, on Veterans Day, we will reaffirm a solemn promise that we will remember and honor the men and women of the United States Armed Forces – past and present. Today we honor all those who have served and all those who have made the ultimate sacrifice for our country. "Throughout our country's history, there are countless stories of sacrifice and heroism from every war. Our living veterans can attest to that fact. Many heroic actions go unnoticed except by those who survive those perilous moments and live on. Our military is not boastful. Most would probably prefer the quiet approval and respect of their fellow brothers-in-arms than a parade in their honor. However, on Veterans Day we do not let them escape without knowing our nation's gratitude. We celebrate them, we thank them, we wave the American flag and we hold parades in their honor – and yet it pales in comparison to all that our veterans have done for us. "To all those who have served – today is your day. Our country salutes you. May God Bless you and May God Bless America." ###
11.09.2009	Today Congressman Ken Calvert (R-CA) voted against H.R. 3962, the Pelosi health care bill to create government-run health care. "Rather than focusing on how to insure those who have been denied coverage and create a compromise bill that makes health care insurance more affordable and accessible, the Pelosi Congress has opted to pass a bill that will lead to a government takeover of our health care system," said Rep. Calvert. "I voted against the bill because I could not in good conscious vote for the first steps toward the creation of a single-payer system. This bill creates over $1trillion in new government spending, funded with the ‘hope' that our children will figure out how to pay the bill tomorrow and 'change' in Medicare that takes $500 billion from a program that covers over 40 million senior citizens. "America has always relied on the ingenuity of our citizens and the competitiveness of our system to provide the best health care in the world. While I wholeheartedly agree that our system must be reformed and improved, H.R. 3962 passed by the Pelosi Congress is an abomination." Rep. Calvert voted for Minority Leader Boehner's Substitute bill which was the Republican alternative to the Pelosi health care bill. He also voted for the Motion to Recommit which would have added common-sense medical liability reforms, imposed caps on non-economic damages of $250,000, capped punitive damages and restricted attorney contingency fees. In addition, the bill addresses concerns regarding the statute of limitations on malpractice liability and collateral source damages. The savings from enactment of those liability reforms—which would lower health costs by eliminating defensive medicine practices—would be directed into a new Seniors Protection and Medicare Regional Payment Equity Fund in order to correct physician reimbursement inequities and preserve seniors' choice and access to quality medical care. Immediate Consequences of the Pelosi Health Care Plan: RAISES TAXES: The Pelosi bill breaks a promise made by President Obama, imposing a range of tax increases on families with income below $250,000. Tax increases on middle class families include: an individual mandate tax of up to 2.5 percent of income for taxpayers earning as little as $9,350; a repeal of tax incentives for Americans to purchase many popular medicines with funds from an HSA (health savings account); new limits on FSAs (flexible spending accounts) destroying tax incentives for Americans to plan ahead for their medical expenses; a wheel chair, and other medical device, tax that the independent Congressional Budget Office agrees will be passed on to consumers; and a new tax on insurance policies. MASSIVE CUTS TO MEDICARE ADVANTAGE: Under the Pelosi health care plan, $170 billion would be cut from the highly successful Medicare Advantage Program, which covers almost 50% of the Medicare beneficiaries in the 44th Congressional District, which would mean of the 36,124 beneficiaries in the District half would be effected. These cuts undermine a program that gives seniors the choice to enroll in a private option that provides the same benefits as traditional Medicare, prescription drug and other additional health benefits, usually with lower copayments. These cuts will result in reduced benefits to Medicare Advantage beneficiaries or in higher premiums and copayments for fixed income seniors for the same level of service. The Pelosi bill also gives the Secretary of Health and Human Services unchecked authority to reject, any Medicare Advantage or Part D provider's offer to provide coverage, giving another unelected bureaucrat the unlimited authority to force 10 million beneficiaries off of Medicare Advantage and onto government-run Medicare. REWARDS TRIAL LAWYERS: The Pelosi plan bribes states to repeal effective liability reforms that cap fees for trial lawyers and limit punitive damages in malpractice lawsuits. California, which enacted these common sense reforms to lower medical liability costs for their residents, will lose out on federal funds for its health care systems if it does not repeal its reforms. This provision would force California to choose whether to put money into the hands of trial lawyers and repeal reforms or sacrifice needed health care dollars. ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS RECEIVE BENEFITS: The Pelosi health care bill is extremely vague when it comes to citizenship verification processes. As the bill is currently written, a person would only need to "declare" that they are a citizen, provide a name and Social Security number and they would be eligible to receive health insurance benefits. There is no requirement for identification documentation whatsoever. It is absolutely unacceptable that this bill would not, at a minimum, require even one identification document in order to receive taxpayer funded health care benefits. The bill should include clear processes and require documentation to confirm that an individual applying for health care benefits is a citizen or legal resident of the United States (like E-Verify, a program Rep. Calvert created in 1996 for employers to verify the legal status of new employees). FEDERAL FUNDING FOR ABORTION: Congressman Calvert voted in favor of the Stupak-Pitts Amendment, which maintains the current federal government policy of preventing federal funding for abortion and for benefits packages that include abortion. This amendment ensures that federal taxpayers will not be coerced into funding elective abortions and is supported by US Conference of Catholic Bishops, Democrats for Life, National Right to Life, Americans United for Life, Family Research Council, Concerned Women for America and many other pro-life groups. "I look forward to continuing to work to ensure taxpayer funds are not used to fund abortions and to provide the broadest possible conscience protections for physicians, health professionals, hospitals, insurers, and all those in the business of caring for the health of Americans," said Rep. Calvert. ###
11.06.2009	Click here for a list of Blue Dog Democrats
11.05.2009	Today Rep. Ken Calvert (R-CA) attended a rally at the Capitol protesting the Pelosi health care bill. "It was an honor to be with the many Americans who traveled long distances to participate in today's rally on the Capitol to voice our opposition together against the Pelosi health care bill," said Rep. Calvert. "Congress should focus on what is driving up the costs of health care and how it can insure people who want and need insurance but have been denied coverage, rather than force through a public option that will crowd out private insurance and create a government-run system. Congress should focus on increasing the accessibility, affordability and portability of private health insurance and enact common sense and cost saving reforms such as national medical liability reform, not force a new system upon Americans that we, as a country, cannot afford." ###
10.30.2009	Today Rep. Calvert (R-CA) issued the following statement in response to Speaker Pelosi's health care plan: "Today Speaker Pelosi introduced legislation that will fundamentally alter how Americans manage their personal health care choices. The Pelosi Health Care Plan spent American liberties to purchase House Democratic votes in order to secure a political victory. The resulting legislation has put freedom and American ingenuity under the knife. For the sake of the country, we must kill this bill. "While Pelosi bought votes behind closed doors, Republicans stood ready with an alternative approach that would fix the problems in our system and, most importantly, not put health care choices in the hands of Washington bureaucrats. Congress should focus on what is driving up the costs of health care and how it can insure people who want and need insurance but have been denied coverage, rather than force through a public option that will crowd out private insurance and create a government-run system. Congress should focus on increasing the accessibility, affordability and portability of private health insurance and enact common sense and cost saving reforms such as national medical liability reform, not force a new system upon Americans that we, as a country, cannot afford." Three alarming outcomes of the Pelosi Health Care Plan: RAISES TAXES: The Pelosi bill breaks a promise made by President Obama, imposing a range of tax increases on families with income below $250,000. Tax increases on middle class families include: an individual mandate tax of up to 2.5 percent of income for taxpayers earning as little as $9,350; a repeal of tax incentives for Americans to purchase many popular medicines with funds from an HSA (health savings account); new limits on FSAs (flexible spending accounts) destroying tax incentives for Americans to plan ahead for their medical expenses; a wheel chair, and other medical device, tax that the independent Congressional Budget Office agrees will be passed on to consumers; and a new tax on all insurance policies. MASSIVE CUTS TO MEDICARE ADVANTAGE: Under the Pelosi health care plan, $170 billion would be cut from the highly successful Medicare Advantage Program, which covers almost 50% of the Medicare beneficiaries in the 44th Congressional District. These cuts undermine a program that gives seniors the choice to enroll in a private option that provides the same benefits as traditional Medicare, prescription drug and other additional health benefits, usually with lower copayments. These cuts will result in reduced benefits to Medicare Advantage beneficiaries or in fixed income seniors having to pay higher premiums and copayments for the same level of service. The Pelosi bill also gives the Secretary of Health and Human Services unchecked authority to reject, any Medicare Advantage or Part D provider's offer to provide coverage, giving another bureaucrat the unlimited authority to force 10 million beneficiaries off of Medicare Advantage and onto government-run Medicare. REWARDS TRIAL LAWYERS: The Pelosi plan bribes states to repeal effective liability reforms that cap fees for trial lawyers and limit punitive damages in malpractice lawsuits. California, which enacted these common sense reforms to lower medical liability costs for their residents, will lose out on federal funds for its health care systems if it does not repeal its reforms. This provision would force California to choose whether to put money into the hands of trial lawyers and repeal reforms or sacrifice needed health care dollars. Text of the health care bills can be found here: H.R. 3962 - Affordable Health Care for America Act as Introduced: http://docs.house.gov/rules/health/111_ahcaa.pdf, and H.R. 3961 - Medicare Physician Payment Reform Act of 2009: http://docs.house.gov/rules/health/111_sgr1.pdf ###
10.23.2009	Today Rep. Calvert (R-CA) issued the following response to the Associated Press story ("SoCal congressman probed over land deal," 10/17/09): "The Associated Press story is wrong. It was rehashed and extrapolated from a single-sourced, reckless story by the Riverside Press Enterprise (10/17/09, p.1). "I am not under investigation by the FBI. "A 2007 final report by the Riverside County Grand Jury found no wrongdoing on the part of the buyers, of which I am a silent partner, in the sale of a 4.3 acre parcel of land to Stadium Properties by the Jurupa Community Services District. "Neither I nor my partners were ever contacted by the FBI, then or now. Neither I nor my partners were ever contacted by the Grand Jury. My name does not even appear in the Grand Jury report. "The Grand Jury primarily and properly focused on the illegal actions of the Jurupa Community Services District which failed to provide advance notice of the availability of public land for sale to other government agencies. The Grand Jury found sole fault with the JCSD and recommended they turnover the $1.2 million in proceeds to the Jurupa Area Parks and Recreation District." The Grand Jury report is attached.
10.15.2009	Yesterday Rep. Calvert joined his colleagues and passed H. Res. 445, by voice vote. As a cosponsor of the resolution, he recognized 100 years of military aviation and expressed his ongoing support for all military aviators serving in the United States Armed Forces. "The U.S. has a proud history in aviation, beginning with the Wright Brothers who pioneered the first flight," said Rep. Calvert. "Aviation is also an important part of the 44th congressional district." March Air Reserve Base (MARB) hosts the C-17As of the 792nd Air Mobility Wing (AMW) in addition to KC-135s, and C-130s. The Air National Guard also has a detachment of F-16s. "It is truly an honor to support, the long-standing tradition of aviation in the Inland Empire and I'm pleased to lend my support to the Distinguished Flying Cross Society and their efforts to build a National Distinguished Flying Cross Memorial at the March Field Air Museum," stated Rep. Calvert. On June 6, 2009, Rep. Calvert introduced, H.R. 2788, a bill to designate a Distinguished Flying Cross Memorial at the March Field Air Museum (MFAM) as a national memorial. The monument will perpetuate the memory of the aviators who have, and who will one day receive, the Distinguished Flying Cross. The Memorial will be available to thousands of visitors each year and while viewing the static display at MFAM, visitors will be frequently treated to an operational air unit providing support to our troops in Iraq. Every year, MFAM has a front row seat to the MARB air show, which frequently features the Air Force Thunderbirds. It is a fitting place to honor the many aviators who have distinguished themselves by deeds performed in aerial flight. The monument will be topped by a model of the Loening OA-1A amphibian aircraft, which was flown on the Pan-American Goodwill Flight of 1926. The ten aviators who flew this mission were the first receipts of the Distinguished Flying Certificate from President Calvin Coolidge. ###
09.18.2009	Today Rep. Ken Calvert (R-CA) voted to cut off funding for ACORN, a controversial community organization group. "American taxpayer dollars should not go to a group that has been caught on tape instructing others on how to circumvent federal laws," said Rep. Calvert. "The House has now voted to cut funding as well as the Senate. The next step must be an investigation into ACORN and prosecute those individuals responsible if the evidence shows laws have been broken." On September 15, 2009, Rep. Calvert joined other House Republicans in sending a letter to President Obama asking him to use his authority to end all funding to and break all government ties with ACORN. In part the letter states: "It is evident that ACORN is incapable of using federal funds in a manner that is consistent with the law. Immediate action is necessary to ensure that no additional tax dollars are directed to ACORN. Simply put, ACORN should not receive another penny of American taxpayers' money." Rep. Calvert is also a cosponsor of the Taxpayer Protection and Anti-Fraud Act of 2009 which would prohibit the distribution of any Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) financial assistance to: (1) any organization that has been indicted for a violation under federal or state law relating to an election for federal or state office; or (2) any organization that employs, in a permanent or temporary capacity, any individual indicted for such a violation, has under contract or retains such an individual, or has such an individual acting on the organization's behalf or with its express or apparent authority. A recently released report, by the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee, presents evidence that ACORN has evaded taxes, obstructed justice, engaged in racketeering, and created a conspiracy to defraud the United States. The report can be found at http://republicans.oversight.house.gov ###
09.11.2009	Today Rep. Calvert (R-CA) issued the following statement in commemoration of September 11, 2001: "Eight years ago, more than 3,000 people lost their lives in the attacks of September 11, 2001. Today we honor and remember the victims and heroes of 9-11. We renew our promise that we will never forget those who perished on that horrible day and that we will continue to pursue those who wish to bring harm to America. My thoughts and prayers are with the families and friends of all those who died in the attacks in New York, the Pentagon and Shanksville, Pennsylvania. My thoughts are also with our troops around the world who continue to keep America safe and with their families who must bear their absence. May God Bless America." ###
07.23.2009	Today Rep. Ken Calvert (R-CA) testified before the House Ways and Means Subcommittee during the "Hearing on Long-Term Financing Options for the Highway Trust Fund." "Given the broad consensus that existing federal revenue channels are inadequate to match our transportation needs, I believe this Committee should pursue a wide-range of revenue streams," Rep. Calvert stated at the hearing. "Today, I would like to focus my comments on the potential benefits of a freight fee, which is by no means a silver bullet but can provide significant benefits in addressing our nation's goods movement challenges." Rep. Calvert's full testimony is attached. On February 11, 2009, Rep. Calvert introduced the ON TIME Act (H.R. 947), Our Nation's Trade Infrastructure, Mobility and Efficiency Act. The ON TIME ACT: Targets funding to specific transportation improvement projects in areas around the more than 300 points of entry across the United States, including ports, airports and border crossings. The targeted areas will be called National Trade Gateway Corridors (NTGC) and be defined by the Department of Transportation in consultation with the Department of Commerce. The corridors will include routes up to 300 miles from points of entry. Is good for businesses such as freight forwarders, importers, exporters, retailers and any business that benefits from trade because it targets transportation choke points and provides funds to relieve bottlenecks and ultimately allows for more efficient ways to move goods. Is good for communities because it would alleviate traffic congestion and air quality issues specifically created by the increase trade moving through our nation's busiest trade corridors. Creates a freight fee based on the value of goods moved and dedicates 100% of funds from a port to the local National Trade Gateway Corridors surrounding the port. Projects eligible to receive funding include, but are not limited to, freeway expansion, grade separations, dedicated truck lanes, and publicly-owned intermodal freight transfer facilities. Eligible projects must be located within a National Trade Gateway Corridor in order to receive funds under the ON TIME Act. Under the legislation, each state's transportation agency is required to consult with local governments, transportation agencies and freight stakeholders to rate, prioritize, and select which goods movement projects receive funding. Funding for corridors will come from a .075% fee (capped at $500) on the declared value of the goods. The fee will be paid by the shipper of the goods moving through the point of entry using an existing line item on current customs forms. One-hundred percent of the fees collected will be invested in specific and prioritized transportation improvement projects within the same corridor. For example, if the Port of Los Angeles brings in $200 million worth of revenue in fees, the $200 million will go into transportation projects in the NTGC proceeding from the port of Los Angeles. The funds will be distributed to projects in the corridors on an 80/20 matching basis. Eighty percent of the funds coming from the revenue generated by the ON TIME Act and the twenty percent coming from other sources, such as state and local transportation funds. The 80/20 matching basis shares the burden of these transportation projects between the shippers paying the fee and the citizens who also travel on these roads. ###
07.17.2009	Today during the Appropriations Committee consideration of the Fiscal Year 2010 Labor, Health and Human Services Appropriations bill, Rep. Calvert offered an amendment to the bill which would prevent enrollment of illegal immigrants into taxpayer-funded federal health care benefit programs. "As the $1 trillion plus health care reform bill looms before Congress, I believe the American people want – at a minimum – to ensure that any federal health benefits programs do not include taxpayer-funded coverage of illegal immigrants, stated Rep. Calvert. A recent USA Today article details the overwhelming costs of health care for illegal immigrants: the state of California, which is struggling to reconcile a $24 billion budget deficit, pays out an estimated $13 billion per year for benefits and services provided to illegal immigrants. "When Americans are struggling to find a job and pay the bills, Congress should at least give them the assurance that their tax dollars will not be used to provide health insurance to illegal immigrants," stated Rep. Calvert. "As we've seen from the stimulus bill, the current Administration is already starting to rollback the significant reforms made under the Personal Responsibility and Work Opportunity Reconciliation Act of 1996. A significant part of the landmark welfare reform was ending the system that rewarded states with more money for more welfare cases. The welfare reform bill ended that practice and provided flat funding levels with the goal of reducing welfare cases. The stimulus bill reverts to the old system of paying bonuses to states for increased welfare cases. This is just one example of the willingness to circumvent current law and my amendment makes it absolutely clear that health care benefit programs will not be permitted to enroll illegal immigrants." "We now need to keep the pressure on the U.S. Senate to include the same prohibition," concluded Rep. Calvert. The committee accepted Rep. Calvert's amendment without objection. ###
07.17.2009	Today Congressman Calvert blasted remarks by Lawrence Summers, head of the National Economic Council, that the peak effects of the stimulus bill, which was sold to the American people as an immediate boost to the economy and employment, will not be felt until the end of 2010. According to a Reuters report, Mr. Summers stated: "Given lags in spending and hiring, the peak impact of the stimulus on jobs was expected not to be achieved until the end of 2010," Summers said in a speech at the Peterson Institute for International Economics in Washington. (Source: Reuters, "Stimulus working, deficit can wait: Summers'" 7/17/2009) "I voted against the bloated stimulus bill precisely because I knew the funding would not get to the people who need it quick enough and it was not going toward the real job makers: shovel-ready infrastructure projects," said Rep. Calvert. "Now the Administration is telling us that we have to continue to suffer through increasing unemployment and higher deficits because Democrats failed to deliver a true stimulus, one that focused on tax cuts, incentives to small businesses, and ‘ready-to-go' infrastructure projects." From the February 13, 2009 Press Release from Rep. Calvert on the passage of the stimulus bill: "Shovel-Ready" Highway Project Funding Reduced Funding for highways and bridges in the final bill has been reduced to $27.5 billion. The original House bill provided $30 billion. A recent study, which included the participation of all 50 States and the District of Columbia, identified over 5,000 "shovel-ready" highway projects, of over $64 billion in value, which could create nearly 1.8 million jobs. "Most Americans, myself included, strongly support a short-term surge of funding to help construct and repair our nation's highways and bridges," said Rep. Calvert. "Yet somehow, despite the glaringly obvious need for more funding, the Democrats actually cut highway funding." Meanwhile, the final bill provides $8 billion for a High Speed Passenger Rail Program, after the House did not include any funding for the program and the Senate included $2 billion. There are no "shovel-ready" high speed rail projects in the country. The bill does not require that any of the high speed rail funding be spent for another three and half years. ###
07.17.2009	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (R-CA) voted against the conference report to H.R. 1, the so-called American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, which the House approved by a vote of 246 to 183, with one member voting "Present." "Although we have only had a few hours to review the final bill, I think it is safe to say Speaker Pelosi somehow found a way to make a bad bill even worse," said Rep. Calvert. "From removing E-Verify provisions to reducing highway funding to gutting the homebuyer tax credit, the Democrats in Congress have found a number of ways to reduce the benefits American families deserve in an economic recovery bill." Cost per Job According to figures provided by the White House yesterday, the stimulus bill will create or save 9,800 jobs in the 44th Congressional District of California. However, a simple analysis shows that the cost to American taxpayers is $180,000 for each one of those 9,800 jobs. Furthermore, according to the Census Bureau, there are 116.8 million households in the U.S. A total cost of $1.1 trillion for the bill ($792 billion for the legislation plus at least $300 billion in debt service to pay for it) amounts to a per-family cost of at least $9,418 in new spending/debt. Rep. Calvert asked, "Given the fact that this bill is expected to cost nearly $10,000 per family, American taxpayers should ask themselves a critical question: Who can spend the $10,000 more wisely – the federal government or my family?" "Shovel-Ready" Highway Project Funding Reduced Funding for highways and bridges in the final bill has been reduced to $27.5 billion. The original House bill provided $30 billion. A recent study, which included the participation of all 50 States and the District of Columbia, identified over 5,000 "shovel-ready" highway projects, of over $64 billion in value, which could create nearly 1.8 million jobs. "Most Americans, myself included, strongly support a short-term surge of funding to help construct and repair our nation's highways and bridges," said Rep. Calvert. "Yet somehow, despite the glaringly obvious need for more funding, the Democrats actually cut highway funding." Meanwhile, the final bill provides $8 billion for a High Speed Passenger Rail Program, after the House did not include any funding for the program and the Senate included $2 billion. There are no "shovel-ready" high speed rail projects in the country. The bill does not require that any of the high speed rail funding be spent for another three and half years.Homebuyer Tax Credit Gutted While the bill does expand the current tax credit for first-time homebuyers it provides a much more limited benefit than the version unanimously approved by the Senate. The original provision, which was added to the Senate bill by amendment, would have given any homebuyer purchasing a primary residence in 2009 a $15,000 tax credit. The conference report simply raises the maximum tax credit by $500, extends it through November, 2009, and removes a provision that requires the credit to be repaid over time. "As people in the Inland Empire know all too well, the driving force behind our economic woes is the collapse of the housing market," said Rep. Calvert. "The homebuyer tax credit could have been a useful step towards reviving our housing market, yet, the final bill drastically reduces the benefits American families receive from the credit." "I'm also disappointed that a number of other targeted tax provisions for families and small businesses that were contained in Republican alternatives were not included in the final bill." E-Verify Provisions Stripped Without any explanation, E-Verify provisions adopted by the House were not included in the final bill. The two provisions, one to reauthorize the current voluntary E-Verify program which expires March 6, 2009 offered by Rep. Calvert, and one requiring any entity receiving stimulus funds to participate in E-Verify offered by Rep. Kingston (R-GA), were unanimously accepted by both Republicans and Democrats in the House Appropriations mark up of the bill. Here is the actual language, absent of any explanation, from the Conference Report's Explanatory Statement: "The conferees do not include section 1114 of the House bill, which relates to the E-Verify program; and sections 7001 through 7004 of the House bill, which relate to authorization of the Basic Pilot system." Military Construction Funding Cut Military Construction projects for renovating quality-of-life facilities, such as housing for military families, military and veterans hospitals, and child care centers was cut drastically in conference from the both House and Senate passed levels. Both the Senate and House each passed versions which would have provided more that $7 billion in Military Construction funding, but the final bill provides only $4.2 billion. The project list will be provided in 30 days after the enactment of the bill. Rushed Vote The House was forced to vote on the Democrats' stimulus bill with less than 24 hours for Members and the public to review it. The bill was posted on the Rules Committee website late Thursday night. Earlier this week an overwhelming majority of House Members (403) voted for no less than a 48 hour period to review the bill before voting on it. Included among those voting for the 48 hour period were the House Democrat Leader and Democrat Whip. Sen. Frank Lautenberg (D-N.J.) predicted on Thursday that none of his Senate colleagues would "have the chance" to read the entire final version of the $790-billion stimulus bill before the bill comes up for a final vote in Congress. Welfare Reform Rollback The final bill includes $5 billion to create a new Temporary Assistance for Needy Families (TANF) welfare program emergency fund. The emergency fund would be used to provide money to States that increase TANF caseloads or provide increased short-term cash benefits. The bill waives requirements that obligate states to consider rising caseloads when determining TANF work requirements. Thus, the legislation would encourage States to increase caseloads without increasing the number of individuals required to obtain work, which was a key component of the 1996 welfare reform that has dramatically decreased the number of Americans dependent on welfare. ###
07.01.2009	Today Rep. Calvert voted against H.R. 2454, the so-called "Cap and Trade" bill introduced by U.S. Reps. Henry Waxman, D-Los Angeles, and Ed Markey D-Mass. The bill passed the House by 219 to 212. "What people should know first about cap and trade is that it is a tax, despite the effort -1,200 pages' worth - to hide that fact," stated Rep. Calvert. "The cap and tax bill will increase the price of fossil fuels, with the cost passed on to consumers. The point of the bill is to force Americans to use less energy and force energy providers to create new, alternative sources. The result is that millions of Americans will lose their jobs as more and more companies leave an unfriendly business environment in the U.S." Economic organizations and think tanks from around the country have studied the economic impacts of the bill before us and the results are not good. A study conducted by the National Black Chamber of Commerce determined that by 2030 the Waxman-Markey bill will cut net employment by 2.5 million jobs – even after accounting for new "green" jobs. Similar studies by the Brookings Institution and the Heritage Foundation also project huge job losses. "The reality is that the cap and tax bill will kill jobs, weaken our economic security, and enact punitive measures that will only make matters worse for families struggling to get by," said Rep. Calvert. "Beyond my strong objections to the substance of the bill, I was very disappointed that Speaker Pelosi closed the process so severely that out of 224 amendments submitted for consideration, only one was allowed." ###
07.01.2009	Late last night, the House passed the Republican Motion to Recommit (MTR) the FY2010 Homeland Security Appropriations bill, H.R. 2892, by a vote of 234 to 193. The motion recommitted H.R. 2892 to the Committee on Appropriations with an amendment to reduce funding for the Office of the Under Secretary for Management by $50 million, and increase funding for U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services by the same amount. The transferred funds would be used to assist in the implementation of the E-Verify pilot program. The program would allow employers to electronically verify the employment eligibility of their newly hired employees. "As the original author of E-Verify, I can attest to its reliability, accuracy and efficiency," stated Rep. Calvert, who spoke on the House floor in support of the MTR. "I am pleased that the motion passed by an overwhelming margin which is a testament to the bipartisan support of E-Verify in the House. Now Congress must work together to move forward on the federal contractors rule and eventually make employment verification mandatory." ###
07.01.2009	Today Rep. Calvert (R-CA) made the following remarks on the House floor on the Fiscal Year 2010 Homeland Security Appropriations bill: "Madam Speaker, "I would like to thank Chairman Price and Ranking Member Rogers for crafting a very thoughtful Fiscal Year 2010 Homeland Security Appropriations bill and I appreciate the recognition of the Air and Marine Operations Center which is located in my congressional district. AMOC has become the foremost aviation-oriented law enforcement operations and coordination center in the U.S. It plays an integral role in protecting us from attack and from drug and gun smuggling across our borders. "However, I was disappointed that the extension of E-Verify was reduced from the President's request of three-years to two-years. The House overwhelmingly passed a five-year reauthorization last year and I think many people would support a permanent reauthorization of E-Verify. "During full committee markup of the bill I offered such an amendment but was repeatedly told that a reauthorization of E-Verify will be part of comprehensive immigration reform, which simply makes no sense. A reauthorization of a voluntary program that has existed for 13 years should not be a part of the immigration reform debate. "Perhaps my friends on the other side of the aisle are confusing reauthorization with mandatory participation in E-Verify – which I support, of course. However, the thousands of businesses that use E-Verify to comply with existing federal law, and the two states that have made it mandatory, deserve assurance that the program will continue to be available. "Furthermore, I would like to clear up some misconceptions about the E-Verify program which seemed to be endlessly repeated: "E-Verify is 99.6% accurate – that's right, only point four percent of tentative non-confirmations are an error in the data. "E-Verify is free to employers – it does not cost anything, other than the minutes it takes to sign up for the program, to use the system. "My friends on the other side of the aisle repeatedly state that 10% of naturalized citizens receive a tentative non-confirmation and I would like to deliver goods news – that statistic is now down to 6.1%. So 93.9% of naturalized citizens are immediately cleared to work. Of the 6.1% that receive the tentative non-confirmation, they only need to call a toll-free number to rectify their information. "Other than my disagreement with the length of the reauthorization I was also disappointed that an amendment I offered to the Rules Committee was ruled out of order. My amendment would have allowed Members to vote on whether the Executive Order requiring federal contractors to use E-Verify should not be delayed again. The Executive Order has been delayed three times for dubious reasons. "Secretary Napolitano has stated her support for E-Verify and the people running E-Verify have declared they are ready for the federal contractor's requirement. When it comes to doing business with the federal government, which is funded by the American taxpayer, the use of E-Verify should be mandatory. "In closing, I would like to reiterate my support for the bill but with strong reservations about the Majority's actions that has severely restricted amendments and has shut down a once open process. "Thank you and I yield back the balance of my time." ###
07.01.2009	Last night during the full committee mark up of the FY2010 Interior and Environment Appropriations Bill, Rep. Calvert (R-CA) introduced an amendment to increase funding for Diesel Emissions Reduction Act (DERA) programs from $60 million to $75 million for FY10 with the offset being an increase of the EPA rescission from $35 million to $50 million, coming primarily from EPA accounts with unspent funds over 10 years old. "Recent studies indicate that Black Carbon, like that emitted from Diesel Engines, may be the second greatest contributor to climate change," said Rep. Calvert. "Retrofit technology implementation supported by DERA Collaboratives reduces Black Carbon emissions by up to 90%." A broad and diverse coalition of over 250 environmental, science, public health, industry, state and local governments recently wrote Congress encouraging increased DERA funding. Forty-three bipartisan Members of the House have also sent a letter seeking an increase in DERA funds. The Diesel Emissions Reduction Act authorized $200 million per year from FY07-FY11. To date, the program has only received $134 million in regular fiscal year appropriations funding from FY07-FY09. The Calvert amendment would have maintained funding for DERA at FY09 levels. To date, the EPA has received over 650 applications for federal DERA funds totaling over $2 billion. DERA leverages two state and local dollars for every one federal dollar invested and provides $13 of economic benefit for every dollar spent on economic activities. A recent EPA Inspector General report shows over $162 million in unspent obligations in EPA accounts from FY1999 and prior. These funds have been sitting idle for over 10 years. The Calvert amendment would have rescinded $15 million of these stagnant funds and put it toward a program that improves air quality and creates jobs. "The Inland Empire suffers from poor air quality due to several factors, one of which is Black Carbon emitted from the thousands of trucks that make their way from the ports of LA and Long Beach inland," said Rep. Calvert. "Congress must maximize programs, such as DERA, that can have a direct and immediate positive impact in our communities." Rep. Calvert also introduced an amendment to the FY2010 Agriculture Appropriations bill that would prohibit any funds in the bill from going to any entity that does not use E-Verify. E-Verify, created by Rep. Calvert through legislation in 1996, is a web-based, user-friendly, free system that allows employers to check the legal status of newly hired employees. Both amendments failed on a mostly party-line vote. ###
07.01.2009	Rep. Calvert (R-CA), who led the effort to increase funding for the State Criminal Alien Assistance Program (SCAAP), was pleased that the amendment increasing funding to $400 million was accepted by voice vote late last night by the House. SCAAP is managed by the Department of Justice and is a program that reimburses state and local law enforcement for the costs of incarcerating criminal aliens. "I was pleased to work with Chairman Mollohan, and others, to find the appropriate offset in the FY2010 Commerce, Justice, Science Appropriations bill so that we could provide a $100 million increase to SCAAP," said Rep. Calvert who offered a similar amendment during committee mark up of the bill but was defeated. "Illegal immigration is a federal responsibility and we cannot continue to ask more of our local law enforcement communities without providing the necessary resources." A recent GAO report found that local law enforcement only receive a partial reimbursement through SCAAP: states spend more than $1.7 billion each year to incarcerate criminal aliens, and Congress has only reimbursed about 20 percent of these local expenditures over the years. Riverside County only received about 17% reimbursement for the cost of incarcerating criminal aliens in Fiscal Years 08-09. Of the 65,000 inmates booked each year at Orange County jails, approximately 19% are criminal aliens. ###
07.01.2009	Last Saturday, Rep. Calvert hosted his annual Academy Appointee Breakfast which officially ends the Class of 2013 admissions cycle. "I was proud to nominate 23 candidates to the various U.S. Military Academies and am very impressed that 13 received an appointment," said Rep. Calvert. "The high appointment rate is a reflection of the quality of the candidates, the excellent judgment of the Academy Nomination Selection Committee I formed to select the individuals to nominate, and my district office staff who has truly set the standard for the Academy nomination process." Below are the 13 candidates who received and accepted an offer. UNITED STATES AIR FORCE ACADEMY Ryan Aceves – Graduated from Jurupa Valley H.S. in June 2008, and graduated from the Air Force Academy Prep School in May 2009. Daniel Frymire – Home-schooled and graduated from the Air Force Academy Prep School in May 2009. Kristina Kemp – Graduated from Santiago High School in 2009. Megan Lewis – Graduated from Martin Luther King High School in 2009. Michael Martin – Graduated from Tesoro High School in 2009. Michael Rommel – Graduated from Santa Margarita Catholic High School in June 2008, and graduated from the Air Force Academy Prep School in May 2009 Christopher Villanueva – Graduated from Martin Luther King High School in 2009. UNITED STATES MILITARY ACADEMY AT WEST POINT Nicholas Bayer – Graduated from Norco High School in 2009. Asael Flores – Graduated from John W. North High School in 2009. Richard Garcia – Graduated from San Clemente High School in 2009. Brady Mosk – Graduated from San Clemente High School in 2009. Jason Pancoe – Graduated from Santa Margarita Catholic High School in June 2008, and graduated from Salisbury Prep School in May 2009 UNITED STATES NAVAL ACADEMY Georgia Riojas – Graduated from Riverside Christian School in 2009. ###
07.01.2009	Today Congressman Ken Calvert (R-CA) introduced an amendment to the FY2010 Department of Homeland Security Appropriations bill to make E-Verify a permanently authorized program which would not be subject to an expiration date. "There have been several instances in which Congress has neglected the reauthorization of E-Verify and the program has been very close to expiration before a stop-gap measure extends the program for another few months," said Rep. Calvert. "There is no reason that the 128,000 employers who rely on the system should have to worry about the continued existence of E-Verify. It is a proven system and employment verification will continue to be a part of our national strategy to combat illegal immigration in the years ahead so there is simply no reason to have an expiration date on E-Verify." The amendment was defeated 36 to 21 with all Democrats voting against it. "I'm disappointed the Committee rejected my amendment and while I am pleased with the two year authorization provided in the bill, I have no doubt that two years from now we will once again brush up against a deadline to reauthorize E-Verify," stated Rep. Calvert. "It is time to dispense with the back and forth and simply make the program a permanent part of a larger effort to stem the tide of illegal immigration." ###
07.01.2009	Today during the Appropriations Committee mark up of the FY2010 Commerce, Justice, Science Appropriations bill, Rep. Ken Calvert (R-CA) offered an amendment to restore funding to the State Criminal Alien Assistance Program (SCAAP) to the FY2009 level of $400 million. "My amendment would take $100 million from the Census Bureau in order to restore funding for the State Criminal Alien Assistance Program to the Fiscal Year 2009 level of $400 million," stated Rep. Calvert at the committee mark up. "The $300 million included in the subcommittee mark is inadequate as counties across the country depend on SCAAP for reimbursement of the costs associated with the detention and incarceration of criminal aliens. Keep in mind, local law enforcement only receives a partial reimbursement through SCAAP. For example, in my district, Riverside County only received about 17% reimbursement for the cost of incarcerating criminal aliens in Fiscal Years 08-09." Rep. Calvert requested a roll call vote after introducing the amendment. The vote was party-line with Democrats defeating the amendment 30 to 21. "Illegal immigration is a federal responsibility and we cannot continue to ask more of our local law enforcement communities without providing the necessary resources," said Rep. Calvert after the amendment was defeated. "I will continue to fight on behalf of the local law enforcement community and work to restore funding to SCAAP." ###
07.01.2009	Today Congressman Calvert (R-CA) questioned the Obama Administration's decision to once again delay implementation of an Executive Order that would require all federal contractors to use E-Verify and ensure they are hiring legal workers. The Executive Order issued by President Bush would have required federal contractors to sign up with E-Verify by February 20, 2009 but the Obama Administration originally delayed the order until May 20, 2009; delayed it again to June 30, 2009; and now has pushed to implementation date to September 8, 2009. "This is the third time the new Administration has delayed the order and it simply makes no sense. E-Verify has stated they are ready and have the capacity to run the increased number of queries to the system. During a recent hearing of the Appropriations Subcommittee on Homeland Security, Secretary Napolitano voiced her support of E-Verify. At a time when Americans are losing jobs, we should be doing everything we can to ensure that federal funds are going to employ American citizens and legal workers – not illegal immigrants. I call on the Administration to quit stalling and move forward with the order to require federal contractors to use E-Verify." Rep. Calvert was the original author of the bill that created E-Verify in 1996 and is leading the effort to reauthorize the current voluntary program (H.R. 662). Rep. Calvert also introduced legislation that would make use of E-Verify mandatory for all employers in the U.S. Over the last 11 years, E-Verify has evolved from a humble five state pilot program to a nationwide voluntary program. The States of Mississippi and Arizona have made E-Verify mandatory for all employers. E-Verify is 99.6% accurate and 96.1% of checks to the system receive an instant "green light" to work. For individuals who receive a tentative non-confirmation, they have eight business days to contact SSA or DHS. DHS has also implemented the Photo Tool program for non-citizens (legal residents authorized to work in the U.S.) which allows employers to check the photo presented on the Employment Authorization Document with the photo in the DHS database. A study by the Center on Immigration Studies shows that 1.3 million illegal immigrants have left the U.S. since the summer of 2007, mostly due to increased border and worksite enforcement (Christian Science Monitor, 7/31/08, Tide of illegal immigrants now being reversed). In addition to the government crackdown on illegal immigration, the economic downturn is dramatically slowing immigration to the U.S., according to data from the Census Bureau. (Wall Street Journal, 9/23/08, Immigration Slows in Face of Economic Downturn). ###
07.01.2009	In response to President Obama's address on the plan to close Guantanamo Bay this morning, Rep. Calvert (R-CA) issued the following statement. "The President still has not clearly stated how some of the most dangerous detainees at Guantanamo Bay will be handled. There must be a clear plan for dealing with violent terrorists housed there and where detainees will be held. Holding detainees at military facilities or among prison population in our communities is unacceptable and would distract service members from their wartime missions and would place terrorists in close proximity to military families and communities. The Congress has acted in a bipartisan way to block the Administration from closing Guantanamo Bay prison until he produces a plan: today's speech, while heavy on rhetoric, was light on details. "Three months ago, I introduced the Guantanamo Bay Detention Facility Safe Closure Act of 2009 (H.R. 1069) which mandates: (1) that the President shall notify the congressional defense committees at least 90 days before taking any action associated with the closure and transfer of prisoners; (2) directs the President to submit a study regarding the feasibility of closing Guantanamo which shall address such issues as legal ramifications, security, infrastructure and other support requirements associated with the closure and transfer of prisoners. "Two weeks ago, I signed on as a cosponsor of Keep Terrorists Out of America Act (H.R. 2294) to (1) affirm Congress' opposition to transferring or releasing terrorists held at the Guantanamo Bay prison into the United States; (2) prohibits the Administration from transferring or releasing any terrorist detainees at Guantanamo Bay to any state without express approval from the state's governor and legislature; and (3) prohibits the President from transferring or releasing a terrorist detainee into the United States unless he provides notification and certification to Congress." ###
07.01.2009	Following the bipartisan California delegation meeting yesterday with Governor Schwarzenegger, Congressman Ken Calvert (R-CA) issued the following statement in light of California's budget crisis and the need for new sources of energy: "As Californians went to the polls to vote no on several tax raising propositions yesterday, I call on Governor Schwarzenegger and the federal government to embrace a win-win solution that will help solve California's budget fiasco as well as provide new sources for energy production. The MORE Act, which I introduced earlier this year, will encourage additional offshore oil and natural gas exploration and production in the Outer Continental Shelf. The State of California would retain 90% of the royalties paid on leases allowed within 25 miles of its shoreline and 75% of royalties paid on leases outside of 25 miles. "California is on the brink of fiscal ruin and our state should not be demanding more taxes from its citizens when it is clearly inept at financial management. The time has come to open up our own natural resources which will provide a financial boon to our state coffers; wean our country off foreign dependence on oil; put people to work and utilize our own resources in an environmentally sound way." The MORE Act, H.R. 797: The MORE Act removes restrictions on offshore leases for oil and natural gas exploration and production for any area of the Outer Continental Shelf (OCS). The bill prevents any leases within 25 miles of a state's coastline, unless the state enacts a law approving such leases. The MORE Act makes significant changes to the distribution of OCS royalties from oil and natural gas leases. For oil and natural gas leases beyond 25 miles of the coastline, the bill distributes 75% of the royalties to the producing states and the remaining 25% to the U.S. Treasury. If states elect to allow exploration and production within 25 miles of their coastline, then their share of the royalties would increase to 90%. OCS Background: (Source: Congressional Research Service) The Department of the Interior (DOI) released a comprehensive inventory of OCS resources in February 2006 that estimated reserves of 8.5 billion barrels of oil and 29.3 trillion cubic feet (tcf) of natural gas. Another 86 billion barrels of oil and 420 tcf of natural gas are classified as undiscovered resources. ###
07.01.2009	Today H. Res. 438, a bipartisan resolution that expresses the sense of the House of Representatives that National Child Awareness Month should be established in the month of September passed the House. The bill was introduced by Rep. Ken Calvert (R-CA) and Rep. Loretta Sanchez (D-CA) on May 14, 2009. "It is only fitting that the month of September is designated to bring awareness to the needs and challenges facing our children," said Rep. Calvert. "Our future depends on the education and development of the future generation and I commend the many organizations and charities dedicated to the well-being of children. I thank my California colleague Rep. Loretta Sanchez for her work and applaud the House for moving the bill quickly and look forward to working with the Senate to have a companion resolution." H. Res. 438 supports the designation of a National Child Awareness Month in order to promote awareness of children's charities and youth-serving organizations across the United States. The bill recognizes their efforts on behalf of children and youth as a critical contribution to the future of our Nation. Bill text attached ###
07.01.2009	On April 30, 2009, Rep. Calvert, along with six other Members of Congress, sent a letter to President Obama urging him to protect whistleblowers. In part, the letter states: "In these uncertain economic times, we should encourage courageous public servants to continue to report evidence of misconduct on behalf of American taxpayers and families. Unfortunately, we cannot expect government employees to continue to sacrifice their careers and risk their own families' security without signals from your Administration that they will be protected…. we encourage you to take action to restore the careers of employees who were wrongly terminated or marginalized by previous administrations after blowing the whistle. Specifically, we recommend the issuance of an Executive Order establishing a program to review individual cases, and where significant injustice has occurred, to make the employee whole by restoring them to government service." Full text of letter is attached. ###
07.01.2009	Today the House Appropriations Committee pulled funding for the Administration's efforts to bring Guantanamo Bay (GITMO) detainees to U.S. soil. Rep. Calvert introduced a bill H.R. 1069 on February 13, 2009, that would require the Administration to submit a detailed plan to Congress and give 90 days for Congress to review the plan prior closing GITMO. "The first half of my bill has now been embraced as policy," said Rep. Calvert. "I'm pleased the Appropriations Committee saw the potential dangers in the Administration's seemingly ad hoc approach to the detainee situation. Majority Democrats got it half right by pulling funding; now they need to adopt the rest of my plan and require a detailed review." The House Appropriations Committee held a mark up of the Supplemental Appropriations Bill on Iraq, Afghanistan, Pakistan and Pandemic Flu. The bill passed the Committee by voice vote and is expected to be on the House Floor next week. ###
07.01.2009	Today Congressman Ken Calvert (R-CA) gave the following speech on the House floor: "Madam Speaker I rise today because California is in the middle of a water crisis. "California's current drought is not like other droughts because California is suffering from a devastating combination of a natural dry spell and a federally-imposed dry spell. "In December 2007, a federal judge ordered restrictions on water project operations in the Delta to help protect a threatened fish species, the Delta smelt. The negative impacts have been extraordinary. The restrictions have resulted in the loss of nearly a third of the water supply that 25 million Californians depend on from the Delta operations. Farm land throughout California's central valley is going fallow while workers struggle to find work. In southern California, economic growth is being thwarted because any new construction is jeopardized by a lack of a proven water supply. "There is no evidence that the federally-imposed pumping restrictions have benefitted the Delta smelt. If this Congress is going to continue to give federal agencies the authority to take actions that kill jobs and harm our economy for the benefit of a species, then the American people deserve clear and undeniable evidence that those actions actually benefit the species. Madam Speaker, it's time to put people above fish and end the harmful restrictions that have shut down the delta pumps." ###
07.01.2009	Yesterday, Rep. Ken Calvert (R-CA) introduced H. Res. 377, a resolution recognizing Armed Forces Day and the exemplary service of the members of the United States military. "I represent several military installations and it is an honor to represent the many U.S. service members and their families who reside in the congressional district," said Rep. Calvert. "The Armed Forces Day Resolution recognizes the sacrifice and service of members of the U.S. Armed Forces and encourages everyone to show their gratitude to the men and women who keep our country safe." Armed Forces Day, May 16th, was created in 1949 as a result of the consolidation of the military services in the Department of Defense. It was established to honor those serving in the Army, Navy, Marine Corps, Air Force, and Coast Guard. The proposed resolution includes recognition and an expression of gratitude for of all branches of the military, including the National Guard and Reserves. H. Res. 377: Encourages Members and all citizens to take steps to show support and appreciation for all returning troops throughout the month of May; Commends the actions of private citizens and organizations who volunteer to support America's wounded warriors; Honors and recognizes the sacrifices made by the members of the Armed Forces, and that of their families; and Understands that the American people are forever grateful to the members of the Armed for the service they have provided to the United States. ###
07.01.2009	Today Rep. Calvert voted against the Democrat Budget, S. Con. Res. 13. The conference report on the budget passed the House 233 to 193. "The Democrat budget represents a massive expansion in the role and size of the federal government," said Rep. Calvert. "While Americans are tightening their budgets and cutting expenses, Democrats are launching a spending frenzy which will require additional tax increases and put us and future generations further in debt." From the Republican Budget Committee: Spending Under they Democrat FY2010 budget, outlays total $3.555 trillion in fiscal year 2010. As a share of the economy, spending never falls below 22 percent of gross domestic product [GDP] over the next five years. Even with the full costs of the war, Katrina, and Medicare prescription drug coverage, spending during the Bush administration averaged 19.9 percent of GDP – and never exceeded 21 percent of GDP. Tax Increases Taxes increase by $1.5 trillion over 10 years. These include higher taxes on families, small businesses, and workers. Deficits Red ink totals $1.233 trillion in 2010. The budget proposes record budget deficits in nominal dollars. Deficits never fall below $500 billion. Debt Debt held by the public increases by nearly $2 trillion this year and by a total of almost $4 trillion over the next five years. Debt rises to more than two-thirds as a share of the economy by 2014. The European Union requires its member countries to keep debt below 60 percent of GDP. Republicans offered an alternative budget that reflected common-sense economics: when in debt, stop spending. The plan places a priority on national defense and veterans' health and temporarily freezes other discretionary spending for five years. It would halve the Democrat's deficit projection for 2019. It would open up our nation's natural resources and provide incentives for the use and development of alternative energy fuels to reduce dependence on foreign oil. It would make the 2001 and 2003 tax cuts permanent, cap the capital gains and dividends tax at 15% and give families and individuals options for a simplified tax code. To foster entrepreneurship and small businesses, it would cut the corporate tax rate, the second highest in the world, to 25% from 35%. ###
07.01.2009	Today Congressman Ken Calvert (R-CA) was pleased by an announcement by the Army Corps of Engineers that three local projects would receive stimulus funding. "I welcome the news that three local projects will receive funding," said Rep. Ken Calvert. "However, had the stimulus bill focused more on ‘shovel ready' projects, such as the three selected, many more local projects could have received funding and many more people could have gained employment. Unfortunately, the stimulus bill over-funds social programs that do not have nearly the job impact of true infrastructure projects." The three projects that will receive funding include: Santa Ana River Mainstem, CA $26,050,000 - Complete contract for channel improvements to Reach 9 Phase 2B of the lower Santa Ana River $500,000 - Complete Reach 9 improvements $1,000,000 - Construct environmental mitigation measures downstream of Seven Oaks Dam $300,000 - Remove graffiti along the Santa Ana River System $1,500,000 - Remove sediment from Prado Dam to improve pool capacity in the reservoir, prevent the possible functional failure of the dam during large flood events, assure continued performance and safety of the dam, and lower the probability/risk of a public health and safety upstream and downstream of the dam. South Perris, CA $41,000 - Complete final Plans & Specifications for the South Perris desalter project Upper Newport Bay, CA $17,363,000- Funding will be used to complete Plans and Specifications and award a fully funded construction project that will complete this environmental restoration of the Upper Newport Bay and turn it over to the local sponsor. ###
07.01.2009	Congressman Ken Calvert (R-CA) made the following speech on the House Floor in support of H. Con. Res. 101 to accept the statue of President Ronald Reagan for placement in the U.S. Capitol. The Concurrent Resolution passed the House on a voice vote. The statue will be unveiled June 3, 2009. "Madam Speaker, today I rise in strong support of H. Con. Res. 101 providing for the acceptance of a statue of Ronald Wilson Reagan from the people of California for placement in the United States Capitol. First, I would like to thank my colleagues who joined me in the original letter requesting the California Legislature to pass a resolution to bring a Statue of Ronald Reagan to the Capitol. A special thanks to California State Senator Dennis Hollingsworth for leading the effort and carrying the resolution in the Legislature. I would also like to thank the Ronald Reagan Presidential Foundation for their support and work in bringing the statue to the Capitol and also artist Chas Fagan who I'm sure did a remarkable job in sculpting the statue of President Reagan. "In my 16 years in the House, initiating the effort to bring the statue of President Reagan to our nation's capital has been one of my greatest privileges. Like many people, President Reagan helped shape my political views as a young man and as the co-chair of his Riverside County 1980 Presidential Campaign, I was of course very proud to see him succeed in becoming the 40th President of the United States. "Just as we find ourselves today struggling with hardship and conflict, Reagan was also confronted with a troubled economy and uncertain times, not just as Governor of California but later as President of the United States. In both cases, his characteristic optimism and can-do attitude helped meet those challenges. "Ronald Reagan was elected the 33rd Governor of California in 1967, and during his administration led California toward a ‘Creative Society', one that, ‘… turns away from increasing reliance on government and leads toward renewed respects for – and greater reliance on – the collective genius and common sense of the people.' "As President, he inherited an economy facing double digit unemployment and inflation. President Reagan initiated sweeping economic reforms, deep across-the-board tax cuts, and implemented sound monetary policies to contain inflation. His policies resulted in bringing the economy out of recession and turning it into the largest peacetime economic boom in American history. "The country was also facing the continuation of a 35-year long Cold War. President Ronald Reagan, in his famous June 1982 speech to the British Parliament, described, ‘a plan and a hope for the long term—the march of freedom and democracy which will leave Marxism-Leninism on the ash-heap of history as it has left other tyrannies which stifle the freedom and muzzle the self-expression of the people.' "Five years later, Reagan delivered his courageous address at the Brandenburg Gate in West Berlin, near the infamous Wall, and demanded, 'Mr. Gorbachev, tear down this wall!' This was the beginning of the end of the Cold War and also signified a new beginning for relations between the U.S. and Russia. "Madam Speaker, there are too many accomplishments for me to name here, but it is clear that President Reagan was a Californian, an American, and a Patriot. California is proud to have had such a leader, as both a Governor of our state and President of our nation, who brought so much greatness to the world. Today, I encourage all of my colleagues to support the resolution and bring the statue of President Ronald Reagan to the Capitol so that visitors from all over the world can honor the man who declared America's destiny is ‘to be as a shining city on a hill for all mankind to see.'" The National Statuary Hall Collection in the United States Capitol is comprised of statues donated by individual states to honor persons notable in their history. Each state is allowed two statues of their choice to be placed in the U.S. Capitol. Currently, the statues donated by California honor Father Joseph Serra and Thomas Starr King. California State Senator Dennis Hollingsworth (SD-36) carried the state resolution by which the California Legislature voted in August 2006 to replace the statue of Thomas Starr King with a statue of President Reagan. The Reagan Library Foundation selected an artist, Chas Fagan, to sculpt the statue which is completed and ready to be transported to Washington, D.C. Congress must now approve a concurrent resolution authorizing the use of the Rotunda for the ceremony and accepting the statue. ###
07.01.2009	Today Congressman Calvert (R-CA) questioned the Obama Administration's decision to delay implementation of an Executive Order that would require all federal contractors to use E-Verify and ensure they are hiring legal works. The Executive Order issued by President Bush would have required federal contractors to sign up with E-Verify starting February 20, 2009 but the Obama Administration originally delayed the order until May 21, 2009; now the date has been pushed to June 30, 2009. "This is the second time the new Administration has delayed the order and it simply makes no sense. E-Verify has stated they are ready and have the capacity to run the increased number of queries to the system. At a time when Americans are losing jobs, we should be doing everything we can to ensure that federal funds are going to employ American citizens and legal workers – not illegal immigrants. I call on the Administration to quit stalling and move forward with the order to require federal contractors to use E-Verify." Rep. Calvert was the original author of the bill that created E-Verify in 1996 and is leading the effort to reauthorize the current voluntary program (H.R. 662). Rep. Calvert also introduced legislation that would make use of E-Verify mandatory for all employers in the U.S (H.R. 19). Over the last 11 years, E-Verify has evolved from a humble five state pilot program to a nationwide voluntary program. The States of Mississippi and Arizona have made E-Verify mandatory for all employers. E-Verify is 99.6% accurate and 96.1% of checks to the system receive an instant "green light" to work. For individuals who receive a tentative non-confirmation, they have eight business days to contact SSA or DHS. DHS has also implemented the Photo Tool program for non-citizens (legal residents authorized to work in the U.S.) which allows employers to check the photo presented on the Employment Authorization Document with the photo in the DHS database. A study by the Center on Immigration Studies shows that 1.3 million illegal immigrants have left the U.S. since the summer of 2007, mostly due to increased border and worksite enforcement (Christian Science Monitor, 7/31/08, Tide of illegal immigrants now being reversed). In addition to the government crackdown on illegal immigration, the economic downturn is dramatically slowing immigration to the U.S., according to data from the Census Bureau. (Wall Street Journal, 9/23/08, Immigration Slows in Face of Economic Downturn). ###
07.01.2009	oday Rep. Calvert (R-CA) submitted testimony for tomorrow's public hearing in San Francisco. The public hearing is one of many being conducted by Secretary of the Interior, Ken Salazar to discuss the future of offshore energy development on the nation's Outer Continental Shelf (OCS). Due to scheduling conflicts Rep. Calvert will not be able to attend. In part his testimony states: "Offshore energy production is just part of an all-of-the-above energy solution that we need to support in order to increase the production of American-made energy. In addition to the production of traditional energy sources, we must find ways to encourage the production of renewable energy on federal lands on and offshore. "I am confident that we can enact real solutions to our country's energy challenges by taking a comprehensive and balanced approach that utilizes America's natural resources as well as our innovative technologies." Full text of Rep. Calvert's testimony is attached. Rep. Calvert has introduced legislation called the MORE Act, H.R. 797, in which states would receive 75% of the royalties for oil and natural gas production beyond 25 miles of the coastline and the U.S. Treasury would receive the remaining 25%. If states elect to allow exploration and production within 25 miles of their coastline, then their share of the royalties would increase to 90%. At 25 miles from the coast, no evidence of energy exploration is visible from the coast under any condition. The MORE Act will provide: MORE offshore domestic energy production; MORE royalty revenue for producing states and the U.S. Treasury; MORE energy security for America; and MORE relief at the gas pump. The MORE Act will increase oil and natural gas supplies by removing existing restrictions on offshore energy exploration and production in the OCS. The bill establishes a state's choice on exploration and production for areas within 25 miles of the coastline. ###
07.01.2009	Yesterday Congressman Calvert (R-CA), the former Chairman of the Resources Subcommittee on Water and Power, sent a letter to Secretary of the Interior, Ken Salazar, asking him to take a more active role in the California water drought. "I am pleased Secretary Salazar is visiting our great state and I look forward to working with him to provide strong federal leadership in helping California overcome serious water supply challenges," stated Rep. Calvert. During his upcoming trip, Secretary Salazar is expected to tour the Bay-Delta as well as attend a press conference in San Francisco regarding the Outer Continental Shelf. In December 2007, a federal judge ordered restrictions on water project operations in the Bay-Delta to help protect a threatened fish species, the delta smelt. The restrictions have significantly reduced the amount of water available to Californians and the order has been a point of contention. In part the letter to Secretary Salazar states: "It is worth noting that our current drought is not like other droughts. In addition to suffering from a natural dry spell, California is also suffering from a federally-imposed dry spell… The consequences of inaction and allowing the status quo to continue are far too great and damaging to California's economic outlook. I am confident that aggressive and engaged action by the state and federal water and resource management agencies can have a positive impact." The full text of the letter is attached. ###
07.01.2009	Rep. Ken Calvert (R-CA) welcomes the announcement by the Speaker that the statue of President Ronald Reagan will be presented in the U.S. Capitol on Wednesday, June 3, 2009. "In my 16 years in the House, initiating the effort to bring the statue of President Reagan to our nation's capitol has been the greatest privilege," said Rep. Calvert, who spearheaded the idea to honor the 40th President of the United States and former Governor of California by including his statue in the National Statuary Hall Collection in the United States Capitol. "President Reagan showed America that even through dark times there was always a brighter day ahead. He always had faith in the American spirit and he will be remembered as one of America's greatest Presidents." The National Statuary Hall Collection in the United States Capitol is comprised of statues donated by individual states to honor persons notable in their history. Each state is allowed two statues of their choice to be placed in the U.S. Capitol. Currently, the statues donated by California honor Father Joseph Serra and Thomas Starr King. California State Senator Dennis Hollingsworth (SD-36) carried the state resolution by which the California Legislature voted in August 2006 to replace the statue of Thomas Starr King with a statue of President Reagan. The Reagan Library Foundation selected an artist, Chas Fagan, to sculpt the statue which is completed and ready to be transported to Washington, D.C. Congress must now approve a concurrent resolution authorizing the use of the Rotunda for the ceremony and accepting the statue. ###
04.09.2009	Inland Empire Representatives Calvert (CA-44), Lewis (CA-41), Bono (CA-45), and Issa (CA-49) announced today that the closure of the pharmacy located at March Air Reserve Base in Riverside, California has been extended until March 31, 2004. The pharmacy closure was extended before to January 31, 2004 after the original closing date of December 31, 2003. "The pharmacy at March has been a valuable resource to veterans and military personnel over the past few months and I understand the frustration at its closing," said Rep. Calvert. "However, customers should know that they do have options other than having to travel to Camp Pendleton to obtain their prescriptions and we are continuing to work to keep those prescriptions at reasonable prices. I am grateful for my colleagues for their work on this matter and look forward to working with them to in our continued support of March Air Reserve Base." "It has become clear that veterans and military families throughout the Inland Empire have come to appreciate having the pharmacy available at March Air Reserve Base, and I would like to thank Congressman Calvert for his leadership in delaying the closing of this popular facility," said Congressman Jerry Lewis. "All of the members who represent this area are committed to ensuring that the needs of these constituents will be met conveniently and inexpensively in the years to come." "While I am disappointed that we are losing a tremendous facility, we will continue to work to find ways to provide our local veterans and military personnel with price parity between government run and civilian pharmacies," said Congresswomen Mary Bono. As customers transition from using the March Air Force base facility, it is our hope that they will continue to receive the lowest prices possible while enjoying a higher accessibility in obtaining their prescription drugs. Our local veterans and military personnel should rest assured that that we will continue to fight for affordability and accessibility." "My office stands ready to assist constituents affected by the closure of the March Air Force Base pharmacy," said Rep. Darrell Issa. "It is important that military personnel, veterans and their families in Riverside County continue to have affordable and accessible pharmaceutical options." Currently the pharmacy is in a transition period and while no new prescriptions are being accepted, refill service will continue through the month of March. In addition, there are three options available to beneficiaries such as the utilization of the TRICARE Mail Order Program, the retail network (i.e., filling prescriptions at a local Rite Aid), and pharmacies available in Military Medical Treatment Facilities. Beneficiaries can learn more about their options at the TRICARE website: www.tricare.osd.mil/pharmacy/default.cfm. Representatives Calvert, Lewis, Bono and Issa are also willing to disseminate information and answer constituent's questions who have used the pharmacy since April 2003. ###
04.09.2009	Congressman Ken Calvert (R-Corona) was pleased to announce the Corona Fire Department would be the recipient of a $57,232 grant from the Assistance to Firefighters Grant program for Fire Operations and Firefighter Safety. "The City of Corona is surrounded by potential wildfire catastrophes and has previously donated its assistance in battling the recent wildfires that severely impacted Southern California," said Rep. Calvert. "These funds will go a long way in helping the Corona Fire Department continue the excellent work they do in fire prevention and in providing medical services." The Assistance to Firefighters Grant program awards one-year grants directly to local fire departments, enhancing their abilities to respond to fire and fire-related hazards in their communities. For FY 2003, the $750 million in the firefighters grants program distributed by the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) marks a significant increase from the $360 million in grants announced last year. This vital program seeks to support departments by providing them the tools and resources necessary to protect the health and safety of the public and their firefighting personnel. These awards will be used to increase the effectiveness of firefighting operations, fund fire fighter health and safety programs, acquire new fire apparatus, enhance EMS programs, and conduct fire prevention and safety programs. In 2003, there are four program areas that are supported through the Assistance to Firefighter Grants: Fire Operations and Firefighter Safety Program. Includes training, wellness and fitness, firefighting equipment, personal protective equipment, and modifications to fire stations and facilities. Fire Prevention Program. Includes public education and awareness activities, fire codes enforcement activities, fire inspector certifications, purchase and installation of smoke alarms and fire suppression systems, wildland fire mitigation, and arson prevention and detection activities. Emergency Medical Services Program. Includes equipment, training, and wellness and fitness initiatives for fire-based EMS units. Firefighting Vehicles Acquisition Program. Includes pumpers, brush trucks, tankers, rescue, ambulances, quints, aerials, foam units, and fireboats. For the 2003 program, Congress appropriated, and President Bush signed into law, $750 million in direct assistance in support of the nation's firefighters and the services they deliver. This year FEMA received approximately 19,950 applications for the 2003 grant program. The application period closed in early April 2003 and the total request of all departments, including the non-federal share, totaled approximately $2.5 billion. "Our local fire departments need all the help they can get, especially inland California where water is scarce and temperatures are high," stated Rep. Calvert. "These funds will help train firefighters and combat out of control fires." ###
04.09.2009	Congressman Ken Calvert (R-CA) voted in favor of H.J. Res. 2, the Fiscal Year 2003 Appropriations Conference Report, which had been delayed for more than four months. The remaining 11 of 13 appropriation bills for fiscal year 2003 had been consolidated in to the omnibus package, H.J. Res. 2. The federal government had passed a series of Continuing Resolutions to keep the government running at fiscal year 2002 funding levels before passing the omnibus bill. "I'm pleased that the House and Senate were able to come to agreement on the fiscal year 2003 appropriations, but this process has been held up for way too long. We have been in the fiscal year 2003 for almost five months and its disappointing that it has taken us this long to finish up these appropriations," said Rep. Calvert. California priorities included in the omnibus at the request of Congressman Calvert are: Extension of the Water Desalination Act of 1996 through 2004. Increased authorization for the Salton Sea Reclamation Act of 1998 from $3,000,000 to $10,000,000. The omnibus also included authorization of CALFED Bay Delta Program-related activities including feasibility studies for storage projects and also provides a mechanism to determine actual money being spent on CALFED programs within the state of California. There had been contention over whether any language would be part of the omnibus, but due to the cooperation of Senator Feinstein, Chairman Pombo, and Congressman Calvert, this vital authorization was included. "CALFED is crucial if we are to have enough water for the future in California and throughout the West," stated Rep. Calvert. "In light of the recent cutoff of California's over usage of the Colorado River, it is more important than ever that we find solutions for water conservation, storage and delivery. I remain dedicated to finding these solutions and securing a long-term authorization for CALFED." Local priorities included in the omnibus at the request of Congressman Calvert: $500,000 for the Riverside County Office of Education, County Achievement Team (CAT) which assists individual schools in identifying and meeting student achievement improvement targets. "I am particularly pleased that the county of Riverside has received this funding for CAT. Under the exemplary leadership of Dr. Long, CAT has made remarkable progress in traditionally underperforming schools and is model for the future of education in our country," said Rep. Calvert. Funding for USDA's Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (APHIS) for the containment and control of Pierce's Disease. Pierce's Disease is spread by the Glassy-winged Sharpshooter and has been found throughout California's wine and grape vineyards. Grant for continued research of Pierce's Disease at the University of California. Funding for the Center for Exotic Pest Research (CEPR) at the University of California, Riverside. CEPR provides a strategic, collaborative approach to stopping dangerous pests, like the Glassy-winged Sharpshooter, before they become established. Funding for the Viticulture Consortium. The Consortium focuses on the unmet research needs important to the wine industry through an active partnership of federal, state and industry resources. The Consortium enhances research coordination, collaboration and improved efficiency by eliminating duplication of effort. Funding for the construction of transit centers to be located in downtown Riverside and at the Metrolink commuter train station in Corona. Riverside Municipal Airport will also be the recipient of federal grant dollars for the purchase of 14 acres on the west side of the airport for the Airport Improvement Program. Funding to The City of Riverside, the County of Riverside and UCR to develop a University Research Park and for the construction of the Regional Technology Transfer Center. Funding for The College of Engineering-Center for Environmental Research and Technology (CE-CERT) at UCR that has been working to develop unique vehicle emissions measurement technology and improved models for assessing the potential effectiveness of new technologies and control strategies. Funding for the City of Murrieta's improvement of deteriorating septic systems in low-to-moderate income housing areas. The funding will be used to extend sanitary sewer trunk lines to the area and to provide hook-ups to properties. Funding to begin construction on the Murrieta Creek Project in order to protect the communities of Murrieta and Temecula and the Camp Pendleton Marine Base from known flood threats. "I am pleased that so many worthwhile local projects were included in the omnibus in a year that required fiscal restraint on behalf of Congress. Not only do these projects receive funding but also the validation of the importance of their work," said Rep. Calvert. National priorities included: The bill also includes language, identical to a bill sponsored by Congressman Calvert, to prohibit the Treasury Department from moving forward with a rule allowing banks to participate in real estate activities. "Allowing financial institutions access to real estate activities is a dangerous proposition," said Rep. Calvert. "In order to properly protect consumers and home buyers, as well as the national economy, banking and commerce should remain separate." ###
04.09.2009	Tomorrow Congressman Ken Calvert (R-CA), Chairman of the Subcommittee on Water and Power, will conduct an oversight hearing on the proposed fiscal year 2005 budgets of the Bureau of Reclamation, U.S. Geological Survey, Western Area Power Administration, Bonneville Power Administration, Southwestern Power Administration and Southeastern Power Administration. "The hearing is an opportunity for these agencies to present their budgets for 2005 and discuss their priorities for the coming year." said Chairman Calvert. The Bureau of Reclamation administers and operates approximately 180 projects in the 17 Western States and more than 300 recreation sites. The Bureau of Reclamation serves as the nation's largest wholesale water supplier through 348 reservoirs with a total water storage capacity of 245 million acre-feet, providing agricultural, household and industrial water to about one-third of the population of the West. Reclamation is also a major source of energy for the West. "As this Subcommittee has witnessed time and time again, communities throughout our Nation need adequate and reliable water and power supplies," said Rep. Calvert. "Many in the Western United States are very dependent on water supplies and renewable hydropower delivered from federal multi-purpose facilities. These projects have proven to be the lifeblood of many of our communities, providing economic, recreational and social benefits to millions of Americans throughout the last century and I look forward to discussing their coming priorities." The hearing is scheduled for 2:00 p.m., Wednesday, February 25, 2004, in 1334 Longworth House Office Building. ###
04.09.2009	Yesterday Congressman Ken Calvert (R-CA), Chairman of the Water and Power Subcommittee, addressed the Association of California Water Agencies (ACWA) about water issues in the West and plans for the remainder of the legislative year. "California and the West will need multiple components such as water reclamation, transfers and desalination in order to provide a solution to increasing water demand," said Rep. Calvert. "My bill, H.R. 2828, incorporates all these parts and I look forward to marking up the bill in full committee next month." Congressman Calvert called on the water agencies to support his bill and support the Bureau of Reclamation and Title XVI water reclamation projects. He recognized water agencies, such as the Long Beach Water Department, for working on projects to further California's water supply and new water technologies. "In the weeks ahead, it will be essential that California's congressional delegation unite behind Chairman Calvert's bipartisan legislation to put these options to work in our state," said ACWA's Executive Director Steve Hall. "With his leadership, we've come very far toward revitalizing the federal commitment to California water. We need to get this bill passed and get the commitment confirmed." "New technology, such as improving desalination to the point where it is an affordable option and finding new ways to reclaim water, will be crucial to sustain the population growth in California," stated Rep. Calvert. "There is no such thing as wastewater; we need to reuse every drop again and again." ###
04.09.2009	Today Congressman Ken Calvert (R-CA-44) voted in favor of the Unborn Victims of Violence Act, H.R. 1997 which passed the House 254 to 163. The bill will allow those who injure an unborn child to be charged with a separate offense. "An expectant mother, eagerly awaiting the arrival of a new baby, deserves this protection under the law," said Rep. Calvert. "Criminals who attack pregnant women need to feel the full consequences of their actions and prosecutors must be allowed to charge an additional offense if an unborn child is harmed in any way." Currently an individual who commits a Federal crime of violence against a pregnant woman receives no additional punishment for killing or injuring the woman's unborn child while committing the crime. The Unborn Victims of Violence Act would apply the same punishment that is applied to a similar crime against the woman herself. Twenty-nine states have similar unborn victims of violence laws and the House has passed identical legislation twice. "It is sad that in our present world that there is even a need for this type of legislation," stated Rep. Calvert. "But we need to face reality that there are individuals out there who simply lack a conscience and would actually hurt a pregnant woman. This bill sees to it that never again will those who choose violence against pregnant women escape punishment for the crimes they've committed against both mother and child." The legislation has strictly to do with fetuses harmed or murdered by violence committed against the mother and does not infringe upon the right of a woman to an abortion. ###
04.09.2009	Today Congressman Ken Calvert (R-CA-44) introduced H.R. 3845, the Shoreline Augmentation, Nourishment and Development Act (SAND Act). The legislation would raise the maximum amount that may be allotted by the Secretary of the Army for the construction of small shore and beach restoration and protection projects. "Increasing the cap on the federal share will allow local communities to engage in a meaningful partnership with the federal government in order to better manage and protect their shorelines," said Rep. Calvert. "This bill is important to my constituency in Orange County who are constantly working to maintain the high quality of beaches in our area." In the past, Congress passed its authority to approve certain Army Corps of Engineers projects to the Chief of Engineers. This authority is known as the Continuing Authorities Program, and it includes Section 103 projects which address Shoreline Protection. Section 103 projects would allow the Army Corps of Engineers to partner with local authorities to investigate and construct shoreline protection projects, including sand replenishment. The problem is that beach replenishment projects are costly, and under Section 103, these projects are capped at $3,000,000 for the Federal cost share. This amount no longer reflects the real costs of engaging in beach restoration and shoreline protection projects. The proposed legislation raises the Section 103 statutory Federal cost limitation per project from $3,000,000 to $10,000,000. The proposed legislation also modifies the Section 103 total annual program from $30,000,000 to $50,000,000, to account for the proposed increase of the Section 103 project cost limit. "This increase is desperately needed for communities who simply cannot absorb the costs of shoreline protection on their own," stated Rep. Calvert. "The federal government does have a role in protecting our public beaches and increasing this cap demonstrates a federal commitment to the beauty and care of national treasures, such as Southern California's beaches." ###
04.09.2009	Today Congressman Ken Calvert (R-CA-44) issued the following statement in response to California's public health goal level of 6 parts perchlorate per billion parts of water. "Perchlorate has been an important issue in my congressional district and I'm encouraged that the state has come forward to adopt a standard that citizens can feel comfortable with. However, I think it is also important to keep this standard flexible until a study being conducted by the National Academy of Science (NAS) is complete. The National Academy of Science, renowned for having some of the most qualified experts in their respective disciplines, is under contract with federal agencies to issue their independent findings on perchlorate this fall. Their findings will be based on sound science that all states can rely on. Differing state standards for perchlorate will adversely affect the ability to deliver water to consumers. Residents of California, and the country, deserve a water supply that is safe and reliable. The National Academy of Science will provide the proper health standards for perchlorate and at the same time ensure that unnecessary hardships will be avoided. I encourage the leadership in California to keep the recently issued standard as a flexible and temporary guide until the NAS study is completed this fall." ###
04.09.2009	Today the House Armed Services Committee, with the support of Congressman KenCalvert (R-CA-44), is expected to pass four bills in support of the men and women of the United States Armed Forces. The four bills include: H.R. 3966 - The R.O.T.C and Military Recruiter Equal Access to Campus Act of 2004. This bill would improve the ability of the Department of Defense to establish and maintain ROTC detachments and to ensure military recruiters have equal access to college campuses and students as other employers. S. 2057 – The bill would require the Secretary of Defense to reimburse members of the United States Armed Forces for transportation expenses incurred in connection with the rest and recuperation leave program from the Iraqi theater. "It is preposterous that troops are only covered to fly to the nearest point of entry in the United States," said Rep. Calvert. "Servicemen and women who live in the West, Northwest, Midwest, or Southwest are forced to pay out of pocket to get home to see their families. This bill will rightfully require reimbursement for those expenses." H.R. 3104 – The bill would provide for the establishment of separate campaign medals to be awarded to members of the Armed Forces who participate in Operation Enduring Freedom and Operation Iraqi Freedom. H. Con. Res. 374 – Expressing the Sense of Congress that the Secretary of Defense and federal banking, credit union, and trade organizations should work to mitigate financial hardships being experienced by mobilized reservists. "Reservists currently serving in Iraq or Afghanistan need to know that Congress is doing everything we can to relieve the stress of financial hardship," stated Rep. Calvert. "Many reservists currently serving are experiencing a loss in income. By encouraging banks to defer payment on loans we give reservists a little relief and lessen the worries they may have when it comes to their finances." ###
04.09.2009	Congressman Ken Calvert (R-CA-44) spoke on the House floor in support of H.Res. 557, relating to the liberation of the Iraqi people and the valiant service of the United States Armed Forces and Coalition Forces. Below is a transcript of his statement submitted for the record: "Mr. Speaker, consider this scenario: "The formation of a free and democratic society is being hampered by internal and external strife. The drafting of a constitution encounters opposition and various parties within the country are struggling for power. The economy is underdeveloped and there is little order. The people are unsure of their future and this promise of democracy. It would take decades for this democracy to truly flourish and become the republic that it is today." That's the history of America, Mr. Speaker. The people of Iraq, a year after their liberation, are facing many of the same obstacles of early Americans. However, they have accomplished more in one year than the United States accomplished in a decade – they have drafted a working constitution that guarantees freedom of religion and worship, freedom of expression, freedom to peacefully assemble and demonstrate, freedom to organize political parties, freedom to join unions and the right to equal treatment under the law. This progress is unprecedented. "365 days ago, our troops, along with other coalition forces, entered the country of Iraq to liberate a badly battered and abused population. Our troops performed with determination and tenacity: they were given their mission and performed brilliantly. Now, because of their accomplishment, 24 million people live in a country that has voiced its dedication to freedom and democracy. Unfortunately, there are those in this country that lack the same resolve to freedom and democracy. At the first sign of opposition and test of honor they run and hide behind words such as "quagmire." This wavering support is disheartening at best and it undermines the incredible accomplishments of our troops, especially those that have made the ultimate sacrifice. It also undermines the determination of the Iraqi people to establish a democracy – deeming them incapable and incompetent. "Even as we speak here today, progress is being made in Iraq. As Chairman of the Water and Power Subcommittee I've visited Iraq and witnessed first-hand their accomplishments. With our help, they have surpassed pre-war peak electrical generation levels and are on track to be "generating at 140 percent over their pre-war level by June. Water facilities are currently operating at 65 percent of pre-war levels, mostly due to years of neglect, electricity shortages and post-war looting of plant and emergency generators. Current projects include the rehabilitation of 15 water treatment facilities and portions of the Sweet Water Canal to Basrah. These projects will benefit over 14.5 million Iraqis and provide a future for water reliability. "One year ago this country, along with our allies, made the decision to topple a tyrannical regime, liberate a people, and help build a democracy in the heart of a terrorist breeding ground. Our troops have done, and continue to do, their part. It is time for all leaders in America to do their part: we must stand by the Iraqi people and government as they begin their long and challenging journey towards freedom. Our own past demonstrates that democracy is messy; at times there will be setbacks and frustrations, but in the end, freedom is worth every sacrifice." ###
04.09.2009	Congressman Ken Calvert (R-CA-44) was pleased to announce that several of his requests were included in the Transportation Equity Act reported out of the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure. The House is expected to take up the bill next week. "Southern California has some of the worst traffic problems in the country," said Rep. Calvert. "These funds to improve transportation are important to the future growth and prosperity of my region, the state and the country." The following are requests included in the bill: $14 million for Riverside County's Community Environmental Transportation Acceptability Process (CETAP). The CETAP process is one of four components of the Riverside County Integrated Project (RCIP) that includes a study of an alternative corridor between Riverside County and Orange County. $10 million for the Cajalco Road Interchange Project. The Cajalco Road Interchange Project is a key component in the effort to eliminate congestion along the I-15/60/91 corridor. Reducing congestion along this corridor is essential to improving air quality, eliminating congestion on surface roads, and supporting infrastructure needed for national goods movement from the ports of Los Angeles and Long Beach. The project also will provide efficient and direct connectivity for the March Air Reserve Base. $480,000 for the Automatic Traveler Information System (ATIS). The ATIS system will accurately monitor real time arrival information and relay the schedule to passengers. Users will be able to access the information at kiosks, bus stops, on RTA linked websites and over Interactive Voice Response (IVR) phone systems, which would significantly benefit Riverside's disabled community. Still others would utilize mobile device, such as cellular phones and PDA's to obtain instant information. "Improved transportation is one of my highest priorities and I am extremely pleased these crucial projects have been included in the transportation authorization bill," said Rep. Calvert. "The residents of the Inland Empire and Orange County must constantly fight traffic on their freeways, major streets and even their neighborhood roads. Alternatives to driving and improvements to our major highways are essential in order to preserve and improve the quality of life for the residents of the Inland Empire and Orange County." ###
04.09.2009	Today Congressman Ken Calvert (R-CA-44) commended the passage of H.R. 3966 - ROTC and Military Recruiter Equal Access to Campus Act of 2004. The bill would improve the ability of the Department of Defense to establish and maintain ROTC detachments and to ensure military recruiters have equal access to college campuses and students as other employers. "This bill simply ensures the same access to institutions of higher education provided to private employers to the military," said Rep. Calvert, a co-sponsor of the bill. "The squeezing out of military recruiters at college campuses is a disservice to the students and our military." The Reserve Officer Training Corps (ROTC) program is the most common path for undergraduates to become U.S. military officers. In the past, universities have failed to equally provide access to students and, in some instances, the universities' policies have been openly hostile to military recruiters. At New York University students who signed-up to be interviewed by military recruiters received harassing phone calls and letters, as their names were released to protestors. The protestors took pictures of the student interviewees and used the photographs to create a poster entitled "Faces of Complicity" which was displayed throughout the law school. "Students have a right to explore all opportunities to them, including the military," stated Rep. Calvert. "Denying access to military recruiters and intimidating prospective candidates will no longer be an option to universities." The U.S. House of Representatives also passed H.Con.Res. 386 - Congratulating the United States Air Force Academy on its 50th Anniversary and recognizing its contributions to the Nation. Congressman Calvert was a co-sponsor of the bill. "The Air Force Academy has a long and distinguished history and I am proud to congratulate 50 years of success today," said Rep. Calvert. ###
04.09.2009	Congressman Ken Calvert (R-CA-44) was pleased to announce that several of his requests were included in the Transportation Equity Act passed by the House of Representatives today. The $275 billion authorization bill will go to conference with the $318 billion senate version of the bill to reconcile the difference. The President has threatened vetoing the bill if it exceeds $275 billion. "Southern California has some of the worst traffic problems in the country," said Rep. Calvert. "These funds to improve transportation are important to the future growth and prosperity of my region, the state and the country." The following are requests included in the bill (totals represent Rep. Calvert's and other members' requests): $17.52 million for Riverside County's Community Environmental Transportation Acceptability Process (CETAP). The CETAP process is one of four components of the Riverside County Integrated Project (RCIP) that includes a study of an alternative corridor between Riverside County and Orange County. $10 million for the Cajalco Road Interchange Project. The Cajalco Road Interchange Project is a key component in the effort to eliminate congestion along the I-15/60/91 corridor. Reducing congestion along this corridor is essential to improving air quality, eliminating congestion on surface roads, and supporting infrastructure needed for national goods movement from the ports of Los Angeles and Long Beach. The project also will provide efficient and direct connectivity for the March Air Reserve Base. $10 million for SR-241 Foothill South Extension. The extension of the 241 toll road would connect to Interstate 5 and would relieve south Orange County roadways. $5 million for SR-76 widening at Melrose Drive in North San Diego County to Interstate 15. This will improve travel from North County San Diego into Riverside County. $480,000 for the Automatic Traveler Information System (ATIS). The ATIS system will accurately monitor real time arrival information and relay the schedule to passengers. Users will be able to access the information at kiosks, bus stops, on RTA linked websites and over Interactive Voice Response (IVR) phone systems, which would significantly benefit Riverside's disabled community. Still others would utilize mobile device, such as cellular phones and PDAs to obtain instant information. "Improved transportation is one of my highest priorities and I am extremely pleased these crucial projects have been included in the transportation authorization bill," said Rep. Calvert. "The residents of the Inland Empire and Orange County must constantly fight traffic on their freeways, major streets and even their neighborhood roads. Alternatives to driving and improvements to our major highways are essential in order to preserve and improve the quality of life for the residents of the Inland Empire and Orange County." ###
04.09.2009	Congressman Ken Calvert (R-CA) was pleased to testify today before the Subcommittee on Benefits of the House Veteran's Affairs Committee on behalf of his legislation H.R. 2206, the Prisoner of War (POW)/Missing in Action (MIA) National Memorial Act. This legislation would designate the POW/MIA Memorial being built at Riverside National Cemetery as the National POW/MIA Memorial. "The POW/MIA Memorial at the Riverside National Cemetery would stand to fulfill the need for a permanent place where we can remember and honor all Veterans who, in service to this Nation, sacrificed their physical and mental well-being as prisoners of war and recognize the plight of the more than eighty-nine thousand military men and women who did not return home…our MIAs," said Rep. Calvert. Currently, no national memorial exists to honor both prisoners of war and those missing in action, nor is there a designated POW/MIA statue. Andersonville National Historic Site in Andersonville, GA, is the only park in the National Park System to serve as a memorial specifically for American prisoners of war throughout the nation's history, but does not include recognition of those missing in action. In addition, few National Memorials and Monuments are located east of the Mississippi making them extremely inaccessible to those that live on the west coast. The concept planned for the POW/MIA memorial is similar to that of the National Congressional Medal of Honor Memorial located at Riverside National Cemetery, which was paid for and maintained by non-federal dollars. ###
04.09.2009	Today Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-44th) was pleased to have his bill, H.R. 2828, the Water Supply, Reliability and Environmental Improvement Act, overwhelmingly approved by the Committee on Resources. This legislation, also known as CalFed, would allow California, and the Western States, to meet their goal of enhanced water quality and supply through more efficient delivery and additional storage. "Today's victory of my bill brings us within reach of CalFed reauthorization. It means viable and livable solutions to California's, and the Western States', water needs for our children and grandchildren," said Rep. Calvert. "Furthermore, Senator Dianne Feinstein's work in the Senate was critical to bringing the bill to this point, and I look forward to working with the Leadership of the House of Representatives to bring H.R. 2828 to the full House floor for a vote as soon as possible." Rep. Calvert offered an amendment to his original legislation today which resolved most of the outstanding issues of concern among various water stakeholders and contributed to its overwhelming passage. The changes included a dramatic cost reduction to a total of $389 million, mirroring the costs in Senator Dianne Feinstein's bill S.1097; dictates that new storage will be limited to CalFed projects only; and other policy provisions. Those other provisions, in brief, are: Bay-Delta Water Quality Protections: Disallows increased pumping unless water quality standards are met; and requires the reduction of salinity in the Delta through increased flow and recirculation. Water Storage: Gives great flexibility in delivering water supplies throughout the state of California by permitting CalFed storage projects to move forward following appropriate feasibility studies, no disapproval from Congress within 120 days, and appropriation of funds. This ensures that adequate storage is part of a balanced CalFed blueprint. Projects would still be required to meet regulatory processes, including those from ESA, NEPA, CEQA and the Clean Water Act. Ecosystem Restoration: Requires that federal agencies submit a management plan – cost analysis, possible alternatives, disclosure of impact and required mitigation – for CalFed related ecosystem projects under the "right to know" provisions as to how taxpayer dollars are being spent on ecosystem restoration. This provision does not give Congress any authority to veto management plans, but is simply a "good government" safeguard. The Water Supply, Reliability and Environmental Improvement Act recognizes the importance of improving management and coordination of existing water supply projects for meeting present and future water demands. The bill also recognizes the importance of preserving and enhancing ecosystems while both developing new sources of water for growing consumptive needs and moving existing supplies to meet changing demands. ###
04.09.2009	Representative Ken Calvert (R-CA) today voted in favor of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2005 (H.R. 4200) to ensure that the men and women of our Armed Forces get the financial support they need for equipment, family survivor's benefits, and more. "As Memorial Day approaches and we continue to fight The War on Terror, it is crucial that we in Congress honor those who have served and who are currently serving to protect our freedom. Today we send a message to our Armed Services: We honor you, we're grateful for your service and we will make good on promises," stated Rep. Calvert. At Rep. Calvert's request the following projects received funding: $9.850 million for the Naval Surface Warfare Center, Corona Division, to construct an analysis facility to enhance the Corona Division's ability to meet its mission requirements of combat and weapon system performance assessment. NAVSEA, Corona works with the National Institute of Standards and Technology to develop measurement standards and capabilities to support the development, test, evaluation, and ultimately, the maintenance of cutting-edge technology deployed in emerging military systems. $1.2 million for the Metrology and Calibration (METCAL) Program at the Naval Surface Warfare Center, Corona Division. METCAL provides the Navy with products and services to maintain accurate test equipment used for maintenance of weapons, aircraft, ships, submarines, and Marine Corps ground systems. This funding will be used to procure calibration equipment and prevent drifts to inaccurate performance levels; and, thereby ensuring errors in weapons systems do not result in serviceable components being removed for unnecessary maintenance or unserviceable components remaining in a weapons or support system. $3.0 million for the Naval Sea Cadet Corps (NSCC) to defray the costs for Cadets while promoting interest and skill in seamanship and aviation. Individual Cadet out-of-pocket costs can reach $500 per year. The NSCC youth program teaches Cadets, ages 11-17, that they must contribute to their community and country; as well as accept responsibility for their own actions. Summer training onboard Navy and Coast Guard ships and stations is a challenging training ground for developing self-confidence and self-discipline, promotion of high standards of conduct and performance, and a sense of camaraderie and teamwork. $24.0 million for Tactical Reconnaissance (SHARP). SHARP is multi-mission EO/IR tactical reconnaissance pod designed for integration on a number of manned and unmanned platforms in a network centric environment. Prototype medium altitude sensors were successfully deployed to Iraq with the F/A-18 in March 03 and Low Rate Initial Production has commenced. The high altitude sensor is in flight testing presently. Formal system operational evaluation is expected in late FY04. $70.0 for the Common Remotely Operated Weapon Station (CROWS). CROWS provides Army and Air Force armored and light armored vehicles with stabilized, remotely operated weapons, enhancing combat capability and providing a significant increase in personnel protection. The bill also includes the following: $25 billion to be additionally appropriated for fiscal year 2005 to support the War on Terror's operational costs, personnel expenses and the procurement of new equipment. $829.6 million for production of Up-Armored Humvees, which provide improved ballistic protection for soldiers from anti-personnel, armor piercing munitions and Improvised Explosive Devices (IEDs). $400 million for Interceptor Body Armor, including funding for add-on protection for the shoulder and side body areas. Increase in Military Manpower: 30,000 in active Army personnel and 9,000 in active Marine Corps personnel over the next three years; and an increase in the number of reservists on active duty by 1,515. 3.5% across-the-board pay raise for members of the Armed Forces. Increase in the maximum amount of hardship duty pay from $300 to $750 per month. Extension of the increased rates for imminent danger pay, from $150 per month to $225 per month, and family separation allowance, from $100 per month to $250 per month. Up to $3,000 per month in income replacement payments for Reservists who experience a reduction in their income while away from their civilian jobs. $9.9 billion for troop and family housing, medical facilities and schools for Department of Defense dependents. Increased annuities under the Survivor Benefit Plan, also know as "The Widow's Tax," however top the list as one of the Armed Services long time issues of concern. "The program was not providing military survivors the level of benefits they were promised or that they deserve," said Rep. Calvert. "Military survivors lose as much as one-third of their Survivor Benefit Plan annuities thanks to the unfair Widow's Tax at age 62. When soldiers serve in the U.S. military, their families serve too. Depriving them of the funds that they rightfully deserve is outright unfair." In the ‘70s and ‘80s, enrollees were not informed of the sharp drop in benefits, and the unexpected loss of income was often financially devastating. However, H.R. 4200 eliminates the Social Security offset under the Survivor Benefit Plan and increases the annuities paid to survivors of military retirees who are 62 years or older from 35 percent of retired pay to the percentages indicated for the following periods: (1) For months after September 2005 and before April 2006: 40 percent (2) For months after March 2006 and before April 2007: 45 percent (3) For months after March 2007 and before April 2008: 50 percent (4) For months after March 2008: 55 percent ###
04.09.2009	Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-44) issued the following statement today on the release of the Report of the President's Commission on Implementation of the United States Space Exploration Policy – A Journey to Inspire, Innovate, and Discover: "I thank Chairman Aldridge and the Commission Members' hard work and constructive contribution in the ongoing debate over NASA's future. The report along with NASA's agency transformation plans will provide tremendous focus for our hearing next week. The Commission's recommendations for greater private sector participation in our quest for space as well as their endorsement of the JPL model are both positive ideas which I intend to explore. In the final analysis, it is people who settle frontiers – not governments. It is my hope that NASA's transformation will support this kind of approach to space exploration." A complete copy of the report can be found at http://www.moontomars.org Congressman Calvert is a senior member of the House Committee on Science, Space and Aeronautics Subcommittee. ###
04.09.2009	Today, Representative Ken Calvert (CA-44th) hailed the 2004 Academy Appointments from the 44th Congressional District. As a Member of Congress, Rep. Calvert has the privilege of recommending a select group of highly qualified young men and women for admission to the United States Service Academies – Army, Navy, Air Force and Merchant Marine. "In light of all that has happened since the tragedies of September 11th, I am heartened by the interest our future generations are taking in serving our country," stated Rep. Calvert. "Their decision to pursue an education and career in the military is commendable and admirable; our military is made of the best and the brightest and I have no doubt that our appointees from the 44th District will continue that fine tradition." AIR FORCE ACADEMY Miles Blocker, 2004 Graduate of Riverside Poly High School Brian Williams, 2004 Graduate of John W. North High School NAVAL ACADEMY Taylor Dodd, 2003 Graduate of St. Margaret's Episcopal School Michael Izbicki, 2004 Graduate of San Clemente High School Joseph Monteon, 2003 Graduate of Riverside Poly High School Ryan Nienhuis, 2004 Graduate of Santa Margarita Catholic High School Brandon Walker, 2004 Graduate of Clemente High School WEST POINT Cara Enright, 2004 Graduate of Rosary High School Youngmin Park, 2004 Graduate of Riverside Poly High School Sterling Showalter, 2003 Graduate of Santa Margarita Catholic High School Mirae Yang, 2004 Graduate of Centennial High School AIR FORCE ACADEMY PREPARATORY SCHOOL Michelle Flammer, 2004 Graduate of Ramona High School NORTHWESTERN PREPARATORY SCHOOL Ryan Rutherford, 2004 Graduate of San Clemente High School Each Appointee to the Armed Service Academies will receive an education valued in excess of $300,000. Rep. Calvert's appointments to the Armed Service Academies are awarded on a strictly competitive basis through a "Congressional Nominations Selection Committee," which has been expanded include representatives from South Orange County following redistricting. The Committee evaluates each candidate and makes recommendations. Six of the members of the committee are Military Academy graduates who recognize the qualities in potential candidates that the Academies look for and will ensure a successful career. The Committee Members are: Chairman of the Committee, Major Joseph Calderon, U.S. Air Force Academy Class of 1984; General Charles Lamb, U.S. Naval Academy Class of 1953; Colonel Phil Rizzo, U.S. Air Force (Retired) and current Director of March Air Reserve Base Joint Powers Authority; Commander Allie Kuhns, U.S. Naval Academy Class of 1985; Lt. John Best, U.S. Military Academy Class of 1950; Major Christina Bell, U.S. Air Force Academy Class of 1991; DeAtte Allert, Blue and Gold Officer for the United States Naval Academy; Colonel Anthony Poletti, United States Marine Corps; Major Dawn Deshefy, United States Air Force; and, Guy Langley, United States Naval Academy Class of 1969. ###
04.09.2009	This week, the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) began a multi-agency operation to crack down on criminals who smuggle illegal aliens at Los Angeles International Airport (LAX). Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-44) applauds the work of the southern California Border Patrol and Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) to enforce our immigration laws. "DHS and ICE is to be commended for going after these smugglers," said Rep. Calvert. "These operations will help deter illegal immigration in the future. The Border Patrol should continue cracking down on smugglers and illegal immigrants through internal enforcement. "However, enforcement of current laws already on the books is only one part of a larger problem. The Border Patrol and Congress must do a better job to stem the tide of illegal immigrants coming to America." Congress has created a program to help employers discern which employees are legal to work and which are not. Called the Basic Pilot program, employers are able to utilize the system, which automatically checks whether new employees are eligible to work in the U.S. The Basic Pilot is available in California, Florida, Illinois, Nebraska, New York, and Texas and it will be available to employers in all states in October 2004. "If Congress is serious about stopping illegal immigration, we must remove the biggest incentive for illegal immigration, namely jobs," stated Rep. Calvert. "The Basic Pilot program has been successful on a small scale and I hope it will continue its success as it expands to all states and more employers." Additionally, Congress passed H.R. 4481, yesterday, which authorizes funding for U.S Customs and Border Protection (CBP) and U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) for Fiscal Years 2005 and 2006. CBP is authorized to receive $6.203 billion for FY05 and $6.466 billion FY06; ICE is authorized to receive $4.011 billion for FY05 and $4.336 for FY06. "This funding will go a long way to giving the Border Patrol the resources it needs to continue its job and increase internal enforcement efforts," said Rep. Calvert. "I urge the Department of Homeland Security, especially Undersecretary Asa Hutchinson, to use their resources to stop illegal immigrants at the border and arrest and deport illegal immigrants who slip through our first line of defense." ###
04.09.2009	Today Rep. Jerry Lewis (CA-41), Chairman of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Defense, and Rep. Duncan Hunter (CA-52), Chairman of the House Armed Services Committee, joined Rep. Ken Calvert (CA-44) in touring and inspecting the Navy's only Independent Assessment facility – the Naval Surface Warfare Center, Corona. "NAVSEA Corona could not have a stronger advocate than Ken Calvert," House Armed Services Committee Chairman Duncan Hunter said. "He continues to make the case regarding the Center's unique assessment capabilities – and I know folks in Washington, DC are listening." "As our 21st Century war-fighting systems become ever more technologically complex, it is vital that we know they will work as predicted before our men and women in uniform take them into battle," said Congressman Jerry Lewis, Chairman of the House Defense Appropriations Subcommittee. "The Naval Surface Warfare Center at Corona is one of the few facilities in the nation that has the capability of evaluating the most technologically advanced systems - both individually and in conjunction with other systems - and it is vital that we maintain this unique research center." Rep. Calvert added, "I thank my colleagues for coming to NSWC, Corona. Given the critical oversight and funding roles which these two Chairmen provide, it is only natural and essential they see first hand the facilities and work carried out at NSWC, Corona. NSWC, Corona plays an irreplaceable role in ensuring that the equipment and weapon systems that make the U.S. military the most powerful in the world perform both in the laboratory and in the field. This is not simply a California asset, or only a Navy asset, but a national asset." For more information on NSWC, Corona go to: http://www.corona.navy.mil/ NSWC Corona Division Mission: "To gauge the warfighting capacity of ships and aircraft, from unit to battle group level...by assessing the suitability of design, the performance of equipment and weapons, and the adequacy of training..." For more information on NSWC, go to: http://www.navsea.navy.mil/command "The Naval Surface Warfare Center (NSWC) Corona Division - a Naval Sea Systems Command activity, is the Navy's only independent analysis and assessment center." ###
04.09.2009	Congressmen Ken Calvert (R-CA) and Solomon P. Ortiz (D-TX) today commended the pilot, crew and designers of SpaceShipOne on their successful launch in to low Earth orbit for the second time in two weeks, winning the much-sought after Ansari X prize of $10 million. Calvert and Ortiz are the Congressional sponsors of the bipartisan bill, INVEST In Space Now Act of 2003, which encourages investment in companies, both large and small, that are creating cost effective, commercial Space Launch Vehicles (SLVs) and Reusable Launch Vehicles (RLVs). SpaceShipOne is the first privately funded commercial Space Launch Vehicle to launch into space, and return within one week. "We are very hopeful that the success of SpaceShipOne will focus the attention of the nation – and the world – on the promise of commercial space flight," Calvert and Ortiz said. "Our bill to reward private investors with a tax credit would generate much-needed investment in this market, allowing private businessmen to jump start the commercial space industry in the United States." "The importance of this bill is that it rewards private investors with a tax credit, one that passes through the start?up companies to their investors," said Ortiz. "This credit will help provide the lion's share of the start?up investment the industry needs. Like the Deltas, American Airlines and Continentals of today ?? who built their industry on the basic science of the Wright brothers – these emerging commercial space launch companies want to build an industry of commercial travel in near?earth space on the science of space pioneers throughout the last three decades." "The U.S. has led the world in space exploration and science, and now we have an opportunity to continue that leadership in the commercial space transportation field to include commercial launch vehicles, space tourism and space flight," said Calvert, who serves on the House Science Committee's Subcommittee on Space and Aeronautics. "Our bill will provide financial incentives to those who follow in the footsteps of pioneers like Burt Rutan and the SpaceShipOne team." Ortiz and Calvert, both of whom also serve on the House Armed Services Committee, introduced this bill in the 107th Congress and the 108th Congress. The Ways and Means Committee has yet to schedule a hearing on the bill. ###
04.09.2009	The House today overwhelmingly rejected by a vote of 402 – 2 a bill sponsored by Rep. Charles Rangel, Democrat of New York, which would require that all young persons in the United States, including women, perform a period of military service or a period of civilian service in furtherance of national defense and homeland security. Identical legislation (S. 89) was also introduced in the Senate by Sen. Ernest Hollings (D-SC), however, it is not expected to be taken up for debate. "This puts an end to the internet rumors and other irresponsible reports of an impending draft. Our volunteer military has served America well for over a quarter of a century and will continue to do so in the future" said Congressman Ken Calvert. The recent call for additional combat capability in Iraq and Afghanistan to conduct the global war on terror has fueled misconceptions that the United States will need to reinstate the draft to perform its military missions. There is only one reason that would justify conscription: if the military were unable to recruit enough volunteers to meet its personnel needs. This is not the case. Needed military personnel strength increases can be achieved through the existing recruitment and retention system. No one in the Administration, at the Department of Defense, or at the Selective Service System is advocating the reinstatement of the draft in any form. Currently, we have an experienced, trained, resilient, and disciplined all-volunteer force who want to serve in the U.S. military. ###
04.09.2009	Today the House of Representatives passed H.R. 2828, also known as CALFED, the Water Supply, Reliability, and Environmental Improvement Act. "This bill will help California develop a reliable and independent water supply for the 21st century." Said Calvert, who introduced the bill in July 2003. "I have worked closely with Senator Feinstein to bring this bill through the House and Senate and to the President's desk. We could not have gotten where we are today without her help and the willingness of all of California's water stakeholders to work together to meet our state's water needs." Calvert, who chairs the House Resources Subcommittee on Water and Power is known for his success in advancing innovative legislation to wean California from its reliance on out of state water suppliers. His leadership has enabled bills dealing with desalinization, groundwater reclamation, and storage to clear the House in the 108th Congress. CALFED is his most ambitious legislation to date. The bill encompasses a ten year Record of Decision. Passage of the bill brought immediate praise from leaders in California and the Bush administration. Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger said "Water & Power Subcommittee Chairman Ken Calvert and Ranking Member Grace Napolitano of the Water & Power Subcommittee played key roles in crafting this bill and should be praised for their tireless efforts." Department of the Interior Secretary Gale Norton remarked, "I commend Chairman Calvert for his accomplishment in working to pass this important piece of legislation. CALFED has played an important role in expanding the water system and improving the environment in California. CALFED is a model of collaboration and conservation from which the rest of the West can learn as we struggle with unmet needs and ever-growing demands." The CALFED Bay-Delta Program was established in 1994 to improve California's water supply while protecting the environment. It is a joint federal-state program designed to balance the various demands for California's limited water supply. CALFED is charged with ensuring that water is available for urban and rural uses as well as for environmental protection. It also encompasses a complex infrastructure to store, convey and improve the quality California's water. The federal authorization for the program expired in 2000 and federal funding since its expiration has been minimal. H.R. 2828 includes two Titles, and has a four year authorization for appropriations that total $395 million. ###
04.09.2009	Representative Ken Calvert (R-CA) voted in favor of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2005 (H.R. 4200) to ensure that the men and women of our Armed Forces get the financial support they need for equipment, family survivor's benefits, and more. "As we continue to fight The War on Terror, it is crucial that we in Congress honor those who have served and provide the necessary support to those currently serving to protect our freedom. Today we send a message to our Armed Services: We honor you, we're grateful for your service and we will make good on promises," stated Rep. Calvert. At Rep. Calvert's request the following projects received funding: 14 C-17 Globemaster Aircraft as well as $199.6million for research and development and $2.941 billion in procurement dollars for the program. 8 C-17's will eventually be stationed at March Air Reserve Base with the first aircraft scheduled to arrive in the middle of 2005. $9.850 million for the Naval Surface Warfare Center, Corona Division, to construct an analysis facility to enhance the Corona Division's ability to meet its mission requirements of combat and weapon system performance assessment. NAVSEA, Corona works with the National Institute of Standards and Technology to develop measurement standards and capabilities to support the development, test, evaluation, and ultimately, the maintenance of cutting-edge technology deployed in emerging military systems. $82 million for the Common Remotely Operated Weapon Station (CROWS). CROWS provides Army and Air Force armored and light armored vehicles with stabilized, remotely operated weapons, enhancing combat capability and providing a significant increase in personnel protection. The bill also includes the following: $ 25 billion to be additionally appropriated for fiscal year 2005 to support the War on Terror's operational costs, personnel expenses and the procurement of new equipment. $829.6 million for production of Up-Armored Humvees, which provide improved ballistic protection for soldiers from anti-personnel, armor piercing munitions and Improvised Explosive Devices (IEDs). $400 million for Interceptor Body Armor, including funding for add-on protection for the shoulder and side body areas. Increase in Military Manpower: 30,000 in active Army personnel and 9,000 in active Marine Corps personnel over the next three years; and an increase in the number of reservists on active duty by 1,515. 3.5% across-the-board pay raise for members of the Armed Forces. Increase in the maximum amount of hardship duty pay from $300 to $750 per month. Extension of the increased rates for imminent danger pay, from $150 per month to $225 per month, and family separation allowance, from $100 per month to $250 per month. Up to $3,000 per month in income replacement payments for Reservists who experience a reduction in their income while away from their civilian jobs. $9.9 billion for troop and family housing, medical facilities and schools for Department of Defense dependents. Increased annuities under the Survivor Benefit Plan, also know as "The Widow's Tax," however top the list as one of the Armed Services long time issues of concern. "The program was not providing military survivors the level of benefits they were promised or that they deserve," said Rep. Calvert. "Military survivors lose as much as one-third of their Survivor Benefit Plan annuities thanks to the unfair Widow's Tax at age 62. When soldiers serve in the U.S. military, their families serve too. Depriving them of the funds that they rightfully deserve is outright unfair." In the ‘70s and ‘80s, enrollees were not informed of the sharp drop in benefits, and the unexpected loss of income was often financially devastating. However, H.R. 4200 eliminates the Social Security offset under the Survivor Benefit Plan and increases the annuities paid to survivors of military retirees who are 62 years or older from 35 percent of retired pay to the percentages indicated for the following periods: (1) For months after September 2005 and before April 2006: 40 percent (2) For months after March 2006 and before April 2007: 45 percent (3) For months after March 2007 and before April 2008: 50 percent (4) For months after March 2008: 55 percent H.R. 4200 also includes a provision to remove disabled retirees, who are rated as 100 percent disabled, from the 10-year phase in period established in 2004. President Bush will soon sign the bill and these retirees will receive their full benefits beginning in January 2005. Veterans across the country are already receiving their increased benefits. In February of this year, concurrent receipt benefits were paid to more than 142,000 retirees, representing over 90 percent of expected eligible payees. To improve living conditions at U.S. military installations, H.R. 4200 eliminates a cap on investments in housing privatization programs. Congress established the Military Housing Privatization Initiative (MHPI) in 1996 as a tool to help the Department of Defense improve the quality of life for our troops and their families by improving the condition of their housing. The MHPI was developed to attract private sector financing, expertise and innovation to provide necessary housing faster and more efficiently than traditional military construction processes would allow. Under the program, each of the armed services is authorized to enter into agreements with private developers to own and operate family housing via a fifty-year lease. Despite the success of the program, a statutory ceiling on government obligations to privatization projects would force a halt to the program in fiscal year 2005. If this were allowed to happen, it would jeopardize privatization of approximately 60,000 units over the next two years, as well as efforts to eliminate inadequate family housing units by 2007. However, the defense bill eliminates the statutory ceiling and allows the program to continue without interruption. MHPI addresses two significant problems concerning housing for military service members and their families: (1) the poor condition of some Defense Department-owned housing, and (2) a shortage of quality affordable private housing. ###
04.09.2009	Today Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-44th) was pleased that his bill, H.R. 2828, the Water Supply, Reliability and Environmental Improvement Act, became law. This legislation, also known as CalFed, would allow California, and the Western States, to meet their goal of enhanced water quality and supply through more efficient delivery and additional storage. [H.R. 2828 was to be signed by President Bush by midnight E.T. on 10/25/04, after which it would become law without his signature.] "This bill will help guarantee viable and livable solutions for California's, and the Western States', water needs," said Rep. Calvert. "I wish to offer my thanks to the President for his support of this important bipartisan legislation. Additionally, my gratitude goes out to the Chairman of the House Committee on Resources, Richard Pombo, Ranking Member Grace Napolitano, and Senator Diane Feinstein, for their commitment to meeting California's water needs." The Water Supply, Reliability and Environmental Improvement Act authorizes $389M over 6 years to improve management and coordination of existing water supply projects for meeting present and future water demands. The bill also recognizes the importance of preserving and enhancing ecosystems while both developing new sources of water for growing consumptive needs and moving existing supplies to meet changing demands. Provisions which were included are: Bay-Delta Water Quality Protections: Disallows increased pumping unless water quality standards are met; and requires the reduction of salinity in the Delta through increased flow and recirculation. Water Storage: Allows building and improving water storage projects throughout California, which will ensure that adequate storage is part of a balanced CalFed plan. Ecosystem Restoration: Requires that federal agencies submit a management plan and be accountable for ecosystem restoration– cost analysis, possible alternatives, disclosure of impact and required mitigation – for CalFed related ecosystem projects under the "right to know" provisions as to how taxpayer dollars are being spent on ecosystem restoration. This provision does not give Congress any authority to veto management plans, but is simply a "good government" safeguard. The Water Supply, Reliability and Environmental Improvement Act recognizes the importance of improving management and coordination of existing water supply projects for meeting present and future water demands. The bill also recognizes the importance of preserving and enhancing ecosystems while both developing new sources of water for growing consumptive needs and moving existing supplies to meet changing demands. Levee Protection: Provides for $90,000,000 for the reconstruction of levees in the Delta, Suisan Marsh, and in the lower San Joaquin. "We have spent a decade working on a bill that would enhance water quality, supply, and delivery for the people of California," Chairman Pombo said. "This would not have been possible without the tireless efforts of Congressman Ken Calvert (R-Riverside) and the other members of the Resources Committee." The President's statement on H.R. 2828 is expected soon at www.whitehouse.gov/news. ###
04.09.2009	Yesterday, President Bush signed H.R. 2828, the Water Supply, Reliability and Environmental Improvement Act, into law. Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-44th) was the lead sponsor of H.R. 2828. This legislation, also known as CALFED, allows California, and the Western States, to meet their goal of enhanced water quality and supply through more efficient delivery and additional storage. U.S. Interior Secretary Gale Norton praised H.R. 2828 in a statement today. "This landmark legislation represents the culmination of a strong bipartisan effort by the California Congressional delegation to secure California's water future," Norton said. "As the largest and most comprehensive water management plan in the nation, the CALFED program is a national model of collaborative resource management. The Department of the Interior affirms its commitment to working with the State of California and water and environmental interests to address California's water needs." "I want to acknowledge the extraordinary efforts of Chairman Richard Pombo, Sen. Dianne Feinstein, Chairman Pete Domenici, and Rep. Ken Calvert in working to craft this bill," Norton continued, "and for working so hard with the many stakeholder interests in California that support this program. With the President's signature, the CALFED family can now take on the most challenging phase in its decade long history -- implementation." "This bill will help guarantee viable and livable solutions for California's, and the Western States', water needs," said Rep. Calvert. "I wish to offer my thanks to the President for his support of this important bipartisan legislation. Additionally, my gratitude goes out to the Chairman of the House Committee on Resources, Richard Pombo, Ranking Member Grace Napolitano, and Senator Diane Feinstein, for their commitment to meeting California's water needs." The Water Supply, Reliability and Environmental Improvement Act authorizes $389M over 6 years to improve management and coordination of existing water supply projects for meeting present and future water demands. The bill also recognizes the importance of preserving and enhancing ecosystems while both developing new sources of water for growing consumptive needs and moving existing supplies to meet changing demands. Provisions which were included are: Bay-Delta Water Quality Protections: Disallows increased pumping unless water quality standards are met; and requires the reduction of salinity in the Delta through increased flow and recirculation. Water Storage: Allows building and improving water storage projects throughout California, which will ensure that adequate storage is part of a balanced CalFed plan. Ecosystem Restoration: Requires that federal agencies submit a management plan and be accountable for ecosystem restoration– cost analysis, possible alternatives, disclosure of impact and required mitigation – for CalFed related ecosystem projects under the "right to know" provisions as to how taxpayer dollars are being spent on ecosystem restoration. This provision does not give Congress any authority to veto management plans, but is simply a "good government" safeguard. The Water Supply, Reliability and Environmental Improvement Act recognizes the importance of improving management and coordination of existing water supply projects for meeting present and future water demands. The bill also recognizes the importance of preserving and enhancing ecosystems while both developing new sources of water for growing consumptive needs and moving existing supplies to meet changing demands. Levee Protection: Provides for $90,000,000 for the reconstruction of levees in the Delta, Suisan Marsh, and in the lower San Joaquin. "We have spent a decade working on a bill that would enhance water quality, supply, and delivery for the people of California," Chairman Pombo said. "This would not have been possible without the tireless efforts of Congressman Ken Calvert (R-Riverside) and the other members of the Resources Committee." ###
04.09.2009	For the Veterans' Day, Congressman Ken Calvert (R-Corona) issued the following statement and update on Congressional action taken this year regarding veterans. "As we pause to honor all veterans, I am humbled by their stories, their commitment, and their patriotism. We cannot reflect often enough on the gift of freedom that our veterans have given us through their sacrifices; it is a gift our service members continue to provide. I wish to express my thanks to all veterans, retirees, and their families." Congressman Calvert encourages people to support our veterans and our troops on Veterans Day and throughout the holiday season. The following websites are great resources to find an organization to help those men and women who have sacrificed for our freedom. For our Veterans: http://veterans.house.gov/vetlink/index.html For our Troops: http://www.defendamerica.mil/support_troops.html Congress has worked hard to improve the benefits provided to our veterans. The Senate passed S. 2486, the Veterans Benefits Improvement Act, which improves the education, housing, employment, and medical benefits for our veterans. This bill is expected to pass the House when it comes up for a vote during the week of November 15th. S. 2486 also contains language, championed by Congressman Calvert, that would designate the Prisoner of War/Missing in Action (POW/MIA) memorial at the Riverside National Cemetery as a "National POW/MIA Memorial." For more information, visit Congressman Calvert's former press release here: www.house.gov/calvert/press/releases/2003/POW_MIA.htm. Six new laws have been enacted during the 108th Congress that affect veterans, not including S. 2486. A list of those laws, as well as legislation passed only by the House, can be found at the House Veteran's Affairs Committee website: http://veterans.house.gov/legislation/index.html. One bill that passed the House most recently is H.R. 4231, the Veterans Affairs Nurse Recruitment and Retention Act. H.R. 4231 would establish new and enhance existing Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) programs designed to improve the recruitment and retention of nurses. With a nursing shortage already manifesting itself throughout many VA facilities, this legislation would provide additional incentives for nurses to choose a career at VA. As passed, H.R. 4231 would allow VA to provide alternative work schedules for nurses, such as paying them for 40 hours in situations where they work three 12-hour shifts in one week. Such policies are designed to make VA a more attractive employment opportunity for nurses who need the flexibility, especially those balancing family needs with work. Finally, the House is expected to consider H.R. 5041, the FY05 Veterans Affairs and Housing and Urban Development and Independent Agencies Appropriations bill, as part of a larger omnibus appropriations bill during the lame duck session. H.R. 5041 passed the House Appropriations Committee and included an increase from FY04 of $1.9 billion for veterans healthcare. Information about what was included in H.R. 5041 can be found at the House Appropriations Committee website: http://appropriations.house.gov/. ###
04.09.2009	Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-44) applauded the passage of S. 1727 today in the House of Representatives. The bill authorizes additional appropriations for the Reclamation Safety of Dams Act of 1978. "This is an important bill to ensure the safety of our dams and water supply. I commend Senator Domenici for his efforts in introducing this bill and guiding it through the Senate," said Calvert, who oversees the issue as chairman of the House Subcommittee on Water and Power. S. 1727 authorizes additional appropriations for the Reclamation Safety of Dams Act of 1978 and provides for certain opportunities for participation by project beneficiaries. With the Teton Dam failure in 1976, the Bureau of Reclamation experienced the only dam failure in its 100 year history. Congress responded by enacting the Reclamation Safety of Dams Act of 1978. The goal of Reclamation's dam safety program is to ensure the safety and reliability of 369 high hazard dams and dikes located at 250 water projects in Reclamation's inventory. At the Senate hearing on the bill, the Administration testified that, as of September 30, 2003, the approximately $159 million remaining in budget authority for the dam safety program would likely be committed in fiscal years 2004 and 2005. The purpose of S. 1727 is to increase by $540 million (indexed for inflation) the authorized cost ceiling for the Reclamation Safety of Dams Act of 1978. The increased funding level provided by S. 1727 will provide the Bureau with the authority to carry out safety of dams activities through fiscal years 2012-2014, based on current projected funding needs. ###
04.09.2009	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-44) praised the passage of 3 bills to support Veterans. S. 2484, The Department of Veterans Affairs Health Care Personnel Enhancement Act of 2004, S. 2486, the Veterans' Benefits Improvements Act of 2004 and H.R. 3936, The Veterans Health Programs Improvement Act of 2004 all passed by a voice vote Wednesday afternoon. "It is important for our nation to demonstrate to those currently serving in uniform that we are taking care of those who came before them," Said Calvert, who was recently elected to a seventh term. The three bills improve the health care, education and job training benefits for all veterans and address the housing needs for disabled veterans. Reemployment rights for mobilized members of the Reserves and National Guard are also expanded and clarified. Highlights of each bill are provided below. S. 2484, Department of Veterans Affairs Health Care Personnel Enhancement Act of 2004 1. Establish a reformed compensation system for physicians and dentists appointed in the Veterans Health Administration (VHA) of the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). The compensation system would require VA to determine the rate of pay for a physician or dentist on the basis of three elements as follows: (1) a 15-step Physician and Dentist Base and Longevity Pay Schedule established in law; (2) a market pay band for clinical specialties and subspecialties set by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs; and (3) an incentive bonus not to exceed the lower of $15,000 or 7.5 percent of the combined base and market pay of a physician or dentist who meets established performance goals set by the Department. 2. Require the Under Secretary for Health to be compensated at the annual rate of base pay for positions at Level III of the Executive Schedule, and permit the Under Secretary who is also a physician or dentist to be paid the market pay element of the reformed compensation system. 3. Require the Secretary to submit a series of reports to Congress on the effectiveness of the reformed compensation system and include an assessment of its impact on recruitment and retention. 4. Establish the effective date of the reformed compensation system to be the first day of the first pay period that begins on or after January 1, 2006. 5. Provide a transition pay authority for physicians and dentists appointed before the effective date of the revised compensation system and guarantee that current physician pay rates would be held harmless. 6. Authorize VA to offer two additional options for alternative tours of duty for nurses working in VA health care facilities as follows: (1) three 12-hour tours of duty in a week would be paid as 40 hours; and (2) nine months of work with three months off in a year that would be paid over a 12-month period. 7. Authorize VA to provide nurse executives employed in VA health care facilities and VA's Central Office special pay allowances of not less than $10,000 or more than $25,000. S. 2486, Veterans' Benefits Improvements Act of 2004 TITLE I – VETERANS EARN AND LEARN ACT 1. Modify VA on-job training and apprenticeship benefit entitlement rates under the Vietnam-era and survivors' and dependents' programs to be consistent with the entitlement rates for the Montgomery GI Bill-Active Duty and Selected Reserve programs and the Post-Vietnam Era Veterans' Educational Assistance Program. The modification would charge benefits entitlement usage based on "dollars used" rather than "time spent" in training, to help the trainee conserve entitlement. This provision would take effect as of October 1, 2005. 2. Increase by 10 percent the percentage of the full-time VA monthly educational assistance allowance payable to individuals pursuing a full-time apprenticeship or on-job training program. For the first six months of training, the percentage of the monthly benefit would increase from 75 percent to 85 percent; for the second six months of training, from 55 percent to 65 percent; and for subsequent months, from 35 percent to 45 percent. These percentage increases would apply to the Montgomery GI Bill Active Duty and Selected Reserve programs, the Post-Vietnam Era Veterans' Educational Assistance program, and the Survivors' and Dependents' Educational Assistance program. This provision would take effect from October 1, 2005 through December 31, 2007. 3. Authorize VA to pay benefits for competency-based apprenticeships, in addition to time-based apprenticeships, and require State approving agencies to consider the recommendation of the Secretary of Labor regarding the approximate term and standards for such registered apprenticeship programs. Competency-based apprenticeships are completed upon demonstration of mastery of job skills rather than a set time period. 4. Extend eligibility for Survivors' and Dependents' Educational Assistance from 10 years to 20 years for a surviving spouse of any person who died on active duty. 5. Authorize VA to provide educational assistance benefits to reimburse eligible beneficiaries for the cost of certain national tests required for admission to institutions of higher learning or graduate schools, and for national tests that can qualify veterans for receipt of college credit. 6. Require coordination of information among the Departments of Veterans Affairs, Defense, and Labor with respect to on-job training or registered apprenticeships pursued by servicemembers while serving in the military and their receipt of appropriate credit for such training in civilian training programs. 7. Provide the Secretary of Veterans Affairs the discretion to establish a pilot program that furnishes on-job training benefits under VA educational assistance programs to claims adjudicators training in its disability compensation, dependency and indemnity compensation, and pension programs. 8. Permit the Secretary of Defense (or, in cases involving the activation of Coast Guard personnel, the Secretary of Homeland Security) to collect an activated Selected Reserve member's $1,200 payment for use of Active Duty Montgomery GI Bill educational assistance benefits under Chapter 30 of title 38, United States Code, not later than 1 year after completion of 2 consecutive years of active duty. TITLE II – EMPLOYMENT MATTERS Subtitle A – Employment and Reemployment Rights 1. Increase from 18 months to 24 months the maximum period of employer-sponsored health coverage that an employee covered by USERRA may elect to continue, beginning with the date the absence from the position of employment begins; and providing that the effective date of the increased coverage would be the date of enactment. 2. Reinstate the requirement for comprehensive annual reports from the Secretary of Labor to Congress on the disposition of cases filed under USERRA; such reports would begin no later than February 1, 2005. 3. Require employers to provide notice to employees of the rights, benefits and obligations of employers and employees that apply under USERRA, and require the Department of Labor to make available to employers the text of the notice to be provided within 90 days after date of enactment. 4. Establish a demonstration project for the referral of federal employee complaints under USERRA to the Office of Special Counsel for investigation and resolution, and require the Secretary of Labor and the Office of Special Counsel to carry out the demonstration project. The Comptroller General is required to evaluate and report on the project. Subtitle B – Other Matters 5. Direct the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to contract for a report on placement, retention, and advancement of recently separated servicemembers in private sector employment for the purpose of determining ways to improve their employment opportunities. TITLE III – BENEFITS MATTERS 1. Provide an additional $250 in dependency and indemnity compensation (DIC) paid monthly to the surviving spouse with one or more children below the age of 18. The additional benefit would be paid for months occurring during the 2-year period beginning on the date on which entitlement for DIC commenced. 2. Permit a radiation-exposed veteran who received payment under the Radiation Exposure Compensation Act (RECA), administered by the Department of Justice, to be eligible for VA compensation. A survivor who received a payment under RECA would be entitled to dependency and indemnity compensation (DIC). VA compensation and DIC would be reduced by any amounts received under RECA. 3. Exclude life insurance proceeds paid upon the death of a veteran from consideration as income for death pension benefits. 4. Provide specially adapted automobile and adaptive equipment benefits to veterans who are injured in a VA hospital due to negligence, carelessness, or similar reasons, and to veterans who are injured because of VA-sponsored rehabilitation or training, and specify that such veterans are eligible for specially adapted housing grants. 5. Make an award of death pension effective the first day of the month in which the death occurred if the claim is received within one year from the date of the veteran's death. 6. Codify VA regulations establishing cancer of the bone, brain, colon, lung and ovary as diseases for which a presumption of service connection is made for a veteran exposed to ionizing radiation. In addition, specify that the definition of "radiation-risk activity" includes service in a capacity that, if performed as an employee of the Department of Energy, would qualify the individual for the Energy Employees Occupational Illness Compensation Program Act of 2000, as amended (42 U.S.C. §7384 et. seq.). 7. Codify the current dollar amounts of disability compensation and dependency and indemnity compensation provided for in Public Law 108-147. TITLE IV – HOUSING MATTERS 1. Extend eligibility for specially adapted housing grants to veterans with permanent and total service-connected disabilities due to the loss, or loss of use, of both arms at or above the elbows. 2. Allow volunteers to provide services in connection with the construction, alteration, or repair of multi-family transitional housing. Permit commercial activities other than neighborhood retail services and job training programs to be performed by a multi-family transitional housing project. 3. Increase the maximum VA home loan guaranty to 25 percent of the Freddie Mac conforming loan amount for a single family residence and annually index the maximum amount of VA's home loan guaranty for construction or purchase of a home to the Freddie Mac limit. In 2004, the increase is expected to raise from $240,000 to $333,700 the maximum amount for a home loan guaranteed by VA. 4. Reinstate the program of VA-guarantees for adjustable rate mortgages (ARMs) through fiscal year 2008. The program expired at the end of fiscal year 1995. 5. Extend the authority of VA to guaranty hybrid adjustable rate mortgage loans through fiscal year 2008, and make additional improvements to the program. This program is set to expire at the end of fiscal year 2005. A hybrid ARM offers lower interest rates (like most adjustable rate loans) after a fixed payment for a longer period of time than most traditional ARMs. 6. Terminate the collection of home loan fees from veterans rated eligible for compensation at pre-discharge rating examinations. 7. Extend the Native American Home Loan program through December 31, 2008. TITLE V – MATTERS RELATING TO FIDUCIARIES 1. Define a fiduciary as a guardian, curator, conservator, committee or person legally vested with the responsibility or care of a claimant (or the estate) or of a beneficiary (or the beneficiary's estate), or any other person appointed in a representative capacity to receive money paid by VA. 2. Require VA to conduct an inquiry or investigation as to the fitness of a fiduciary, prior to certification. Such inquiry or investigation would include, to the extent practicable, a face-to-face interview, a copy of a credit report within one year of appointment, in addition to the furnishing of any bond that may be required by the Secretary. 3. Require the Secretary, as a part of the inquiry or investigation, to request information about whether the potential fiduciary has been convicted of any offense under Federal or State law. 4. Permit a less rigorous inquiry or investigation of the parent of a minor beneficiary; spouse or parent of an incompetent beneficiary; person appointed by a court of competent jurisdiction; or appointed to manage an estate where the annual amount of veterans' benefits to be managed does not exceed $3,600. 5. Give the Secretary the authority to appoint a temporary fiduciary for a period not to exceed 120 days, if needed to protect the assets of the beneficiary when a determination of incompetence is being made or appealed, or a fiduciary is appealing a determination of misuse. 6. Prohibit the Secretary from continuing the temporary fiduciary beyond 120 days if a final decision has not been made on the competence of the beneficiary or fiduciary, unless the Secretary has obtained a court order for a guardian, conservator or similar legal fiduciary. 7. Prohibit a fiduciary from collecting a fee from the beneficiary for any month when the Secretary or a court has determined the fiduciary has misused some or all of the veterans' benefits. 8. Require the Secretary to repay misused benefits if the misuse is due to the Secretary's failure to investigate or monitor a fiduciary; when the fiduciary is not an individual; or is an individual who, for any month during a period when misuse occurs, serves 10 or more individuals who are beneficiaries. 9. Require the Secretary to conduct periodic on-site reviews of any person or agency located in the United States that serves as a fiduciary to more than 20 beneficiaries and the total annual amount of benefits exceeds $50,000. 10. Authorize the Secretary to require a fiduciary to personally appear at a VA regional office to receive payments. 11. Authorize federal courts to issue judicial orders of restitution when sentencing a fiduciary who is a defendant in a criminal matter arising from the misuse of benefits. 12. Require the Secretary to include in annual reports information on the fiduciary program including the number of beneficiaries, the types of benefits being paid, the number of cases in which the fiduciary was changed by the Secretary because of a finding that benefits had been misused, and other information concerning actions taken in cases of misuse. TITLE IV – MEMORIAL AFFAIRS MATTERS 1. Designate a memorial currently under construction at the Riverside National Cemetery in Riverside, California, as: Prisoner of War/Missing in Action National Memorial. 2. Authorize the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to lease any undeveloped land and unused or underutilized buildings belonging to the United States and part of the National Cemetery Administration (NCA). The term of any lease would be limited to 10 years. Proceeds from the lease of land or buildings and proceeds from agricultural licenses of NCA lands would be deposited in a National Cemetery Administration Facilities Operation Fund. Fund proceeds would be available to cover costs incurred by NCA in the operation and maintenance of national cemeteries. 3. Expand the authority of the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to acquire additional lands for national cemeteries by exchanges of existing land. TITLE VII – IMPROVEMENTS TO SERVICEMEMBERS CIVIL RELIEF ACT (SCRA) 1. Add to the definitions in the general provisions of SCRA that the term "judgment" would mean "any judgment, decree, order or ruling, final or temporary." 2. Clarify that waivers by servicemembers of rights and protections under SCRA must be in writing and must be executed in a separate instrument; and require that certain written waivers must be in at least 12-point type. 3. Provide that plaintiffs as well as defendants may under SCRA request stays of civil proceedings. 4. Clarify that dependents as well as servicemembers are covered by SCRA's residential and motor vehicle lease termination provisions on joint leases. 5. Provide that SCRA's lease termination provisions also apply when the servicemember residing in a State outside the continental United States receives permanent change of station orders to any location outside that State, for example, from Hawaii or Alaska to the 48 contiguous States or a foreign country. 6. Define for the purposes of SCRA's lease termination provisions that the term "military orders" would mean with respect to a servicemember, "official military orders, or any notification, certification, or verification from the servicemember's commanding officer, with respect to the servicemember's current or future military duty status." 7. Define for the purposes of SCRA's lease termination provisions that the term "continental United States" would mean "the 48 contiguous States and the District of Columbia." 8. Clarify that SCRA's lease termination provisions also cover individual deployments, as well as military unit deployments. TITLE VIII – OTHER MATTERS 1. Authorize the principal office of the United States Court of Appeals for Veterans Claims to be located at any location in the Washington, D.C., metropolitan area, rather than only in the District of Columbia. 2. Extend the requirement for the Advisory Committee on Former Prisoners of War to report to the Secretary of Veterans Affairs through 2009. 3. Provide a veteran separated from the Armed Forces under honorable conditions after 3 years or more of active service with administrative and judicial redress for alleged violations of his or her rights under section 3304(f)(1) of title 5, United States Code, which grants veterans preference to compete for vacant positions in the Federal government. 4. Direct the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to submit a report to Congress, not later than 1 year after date of enactment of this Act, detailing the Department's outreach efforts to make veterans and servicemembers aware of VA benefits and services to which they may be entitled. H.R. 3936 Veterans Health Programs Improvement Act of 2004 TITLE I – ASSISTANCE TO HOMELESS VETERANS 1. Increase the authorization for the grant and per diem program for homeless veterans from $75 million to $99 million for fiscal year 2005. TITLE II – VETERANS LONG-TERM CARE PROGRAMS 1. Direct the Secretary to make payments to States to assist them in hiring and retaining nurses in State veterans' homes; makes State homes eligible for such payments if it has an employee incentive program and is receiving per diem payments from VA; limit the amount of payment a State home may receive each year; require a State home receiving such payment to provide an annual report to VA; and require VA to implement the assistance program so that eligible States would begin to receive payments no later than June 1, 2005. 2. Clarify that per diem payments made by VA for the care of veterans in State veterans homes shall not be used to offset or reduce other payments made to assist veterans. 3. Extend until December 31, 2005, VA's authority to provide care to veterans participating in certain long-term care demonstration projects previously authorized in the Veterans Millennium Health Care and Benefits Act. 4. Eliminate copayments for hospice care furnished by VA. TITLE III – MEDICAL CARE 1. Make permanent the authority of the Secretary to provide sexual trauma counseling to veterans. 2. Establish centers for research, education and clinical activities that specialize in treating complex multi-trauma associated with combat injuries. 3. Reduce the amount authorized to establish four National Medical Emergency Preparedness Centers from $20 million to $10 million per year. TITLE IV – MEDICAL FACILITIES MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION Subtitle A – Major Medical Facility Leases 1. Authorize leases (all requested by the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA)) to be paid from the medical care account for outpatient clinics or other health care facilities which VA currently operates or plans to operate in: Wilmington, North Carolina, in the amount of $1,320,000; Greenville, North Carolina, in the amount of $1,220,000; Norfolk, Virginia, in the amount of $1,250,000; Summerfield, Florida, in the amount of $1,230,000; Knoxville, Tennessee, in the amount of $850,000; Toledo, Ohio, in the amount of $1,200,000; Crown Point, Indiana, in the amount of $850,000; Fort Worth, Texas, in the amount of $3,900,000; Plano, Texas, in the amount of $3,300,000; San Antonio, Texas, in the amount of $1,400,000; Corpus Christi, Texas, in the amount of $1,200,000; Harlingen, Texas, in the amount of $650,000; Denver, Colorado, in the amount of $1,950,000; Oakland, California, in the amount of $1,700,000; San Diego, California (two sites), in the amounts of $1,300,000 and $1,100,000, respectively. 2. Authorize appropriations of $24,420,000 for the leases in the preceding paragraph. 3. Authorize VA to enter into a long-term lease of up to 75 years for land to construct a new medical facility on the Fitzsimons Campus of the University of Colorado, in Aurora, Colorado. Subtitle B – Facilities Management 4. Provide the Secretary with additional authority to transfer unneeded VA real property and retain the proceeds from the transfer. 5. Require VA to receive fair market value for any transfer of real property, except when transferred to providers of homeless veterans' services receiving grants under section 2011 of title 38, United States Code. 6. Establish a new "Capital Asset Fund" for deposit of proceeds from transfers of real property to be used to defray VA's cost of such transfers, including demolition, environmental remediation, maintenance, repair, establishment of new and improved facilities, historic preservation and administrative expenses. 7. Authorize an appropriation of $10,000,000 for the Capital Asset Fund. 8. Terminate the Nursing Home Revolving Fund and transfer unobligated balances from the fund to the Capital Asset Fund subsequent to the Secretary's certification that VA facilities maintain long-term care capacity as required by law. 9. Require an inventory and two subsequent annual reports to Congress on the status of, and plans for, VA properties listed on the National Register of Historic Properties. 10. Authorize VA to acquire and transfer certain real property in the District of Columbia for use for homeless veterans. 11. Require VA to notify Congress of the impact of actions proposed for health facilities specified in this Act that may result in a facility closure, consolidation, or administrative reorganization, and prohibit such actions from occurring until 60 days following the notification or 30 days of continuous session of Congress as specified. 12. Authorize the use of project funds to construct or relocate surface parking incidental to an authorized major medical facility construction project. 13. Provide the Secretary flexibility in using funds to develop advance planning for major construction projects previously authorized by law. 14. Exempt VA from state and local land use laws under the enhanced-use lease authority. 15. Allow the Commonwealth of Kentucky the first option on the further use of the VA Medical Center in Louisville, Kentucky for a State veterans' home upon any proposed VA disposal of the medical center. 16. Transfer to VA certain property in Boise, Idaho, currently administered by the General Services Administration, for the provision of veterans' benefits. Subtitle C – Designation of Facilities 17. Authorize VA to name the VA Medical Center in Amarillo, Texas, the Thomas E. Creek Department of Veterans Affairs Medical Center. 18. Authorize VA to name the VA Medical Center in the Bronx, New York, the James J. Peters Department of Veterans Affairs Medical Center. 19. Authorize VA to name the outpatient clinic in Peoria, Illinois, the Bob Michel Department of Veterans Affairs Outpatient Clinic. 20. Authorize VA to name the outpatient clinic in Lufkin, Texas, the Charles Wilson Department of Veterans Affairs Outpatient Clinic. 21. Authorize VA to name the outpatient clinic in Sunnyside, Queens, New York, the Thomas P. Noonan, Jr. Department of Veterans Affairs Outpatient Clinic. TITLE V – PERSONNEL ADMINISTRATION 1. Establish a pilot program within the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) to study the use of outside recruitment, advertising and communications agencies and interactive and online technologies, to improve VA's program for recruiting nursing personnel. 2. Add blind rehabilitation personnel to the category of positions VA is permitted to hire through use of a hybrid appointment authority. 3. Repeal the requirement for VA's Under Secretary for Health to be a medical doctor. TITLE VI – OTHER MATTERS 1. Extend and codify VA's authority to recover overpayments made for fee and contract health care services for veterans. 2. Require VA to establish an inventory of medical waste management activities at VA health care facilities and submit a report to Congress by June 30, 2005, concerning such activities. 3. Clarify that veterans enrolled in VA health care are eligible to use the Veterans' Canteen Service (VCS). 4. Require VA to submit annual reports through 2007 to Congress on veterans' waiting times for VA specialty care appointments. ###
04.09.2009	Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-44) announced today the designation in Congress of the Riverside National Cemetery's Prisoner of War / Missing in Action Memorial as a National Memorial. "This effort demonstrates our community's appreciation for those who have been captured or have been unaccounted for in war. I am happy to have had the California delegations' support and the bi-partisan support of the Senate, in particular Senator Boxer and her staff, " said Calvert, a member of the House Armed Services Committee. The bill provides for the designation of a Prisoner of War/Missing in Action National Memorial at the Riverside National Cemetery in Riverside, California. Many of our National Memorials and Monuments are located east of the Mississippi, making them extremely inaccessible to people that live out on the west coast. An initiative at Riverside National Cemetery (RNC) is underway which would memorialize our nation's veterans at National Cemeteries throughout the country through the incorporation of the memorial park concept. The memorial recognizes and honors all Veterans who, in service to this Nation, sacrificed their physical and mental well-being as Prisoners of War and recognizes the plight of more than 89,000 Veterans who did not return home -- our MIAs. The Riverside National Cemetery is an ideal location for this memorial. In less than five years it is expected to be the largest cemetery in the national system. In six decades it will have more than 1.4 million honored veterans, making Riverside National Cemetery larger than the Arlington National Cemetery – the most widely recognized. It is Funded entirely by private groups and organizations. The memorial would not become a unit of the National Park Service, nor would the national memorial designation require or permit federal funds to be expended for any purpose related to the memorial. The POW-MIA memorial is the first phase of a larger Master Plan approved by the Riverside National Cemetery Monuments and Memorial Commission as well as the National Cemetery Administration. The concept planned for the POW/MIA memorial is similar to that of the National Congressional Medal of Honor (CMOH) Memorial, which was paid for and is maintained by private dollars. The provision was originally introduced as H.R. 2206, but the language was later added to S. 2486 - Veterans` Benefits Improvements Act of 2004. ###
04.09.2009	Saturday, the House voted in favor of H.R. 4818, the FY2005 Omnibus Appropriations Bill. The amalgamated bill included nine appropriations bills for a total of $388.4 billion in discretionary spending. When added to the other four discretionary appropriations bills, the total FY05 discretionary spending is $821.9 billion. "I am very pleased that the House completed their work on appropriations for the fiscal year," said Rep. Ken Calvert. "I am pleased that many worthwhile local projects were included in the omnibus. California consistently receives less in federal appropriations than it pays in federal taxes. Our local communities need to see a return on their tax dollars in order to provide vital services for residents such as funding to improve transportation, to prevent gang violence and improve education." An across-the-board cut of 0.83% will be applied to these figures through a general provision in the omnibus bill. A number of Calvert's requests were included in the omnibus bill. They are listed under their respective appropriations bills below. Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration $25.3 million for the USDA's Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (APHIS) for the containment and control of agricultural pests and diseases. APHIS is responsible for excluding these pests from plant and animal imports to the United States. $2.1 million to continue Pierce's disease research. Pierce's disease is a grapevine disease which has plagued California's wine industry in recent years. Commerce, Justice, State, and the Judiciary $250,000 for the COPS Law Enforcement Technology Program in the City of Corona, CA Police Department for law enforcement equipment. $500,000 for I-SAFE under COPS Law Enforcement Technology Programs Account to educate children about internet safety. Energy and Water Development $17.9 million for the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers construction of the Santa Ana River Mainstem Project which includes the Prado Dam. $300,000 for the Riverside Special Area Management Plan (SAMP) which will ensure compliance with U.S. Army Corps of Engineers and EPA requirements for a county-wide integrated development plan. $195,000 for the Orange County Special Area Management Plan (SAMP). This SAMP will be the basis of a long-term Section 404 permit that will balance environmental and economic priorities in regulating wetland and aquatic resources in Orange County. $178,000 for a Shoreline Erosion study in San Clemente. This feasibility study will assess the extent of San Clemente's shoreline erosion. Interior $6.5 million for the United States Geological Survey's (USGS) Water Resource Research Institute Program. The research institute at the University of California at Riverside participates in this program and will receive a portion of the funding. Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education $100,000 for La Sierra University in Riverside, CA, for science and computer equipment software. $200,000 for the Orange County Council of Governments, Santa Ana, CA, for a Healthy Waterways Initiative. This will provide communities throughout the county with effective mitigation strategies to address the region's serious urban runoff problem. $200,000 for Riverside County Office of Education, Riverside, CA, for the Riverside County Achievement Team (RCAT) Plus Program. This funding will go to further implement and develop the RCAT Plus model as a national model for collaborative intervention in low performing schools to raise achievement among special education students. Transportation, Treasury, and Independent Agencies $2,000,000 for the Community and Environmental Transportation Acceptability Process (CETAP). The Riverside County Integrated Plan (RCIP) is a three-year local planning effort to coordinate all land use issues, including transportation, environmental, and housing concerns; CETAP is the transportation component of RCIP. This funding would help develop an alternative corridor between Riverside and Orange Counties. $1,000,000 for the City of Riverside to construct a grade separation at an intersection of a highway and railroad tracks. Current at-grade crossings take an enormous toll on the residents of Riverside, particularly in terms of public safety emergency response delays, vehicular delays, vehicular safety, and air quality. There are at least 27 intersections that need a grade separation constructed. The City of Riverside will have the authority to choose which grade crossing to fund with this money. $125,000 for the Riverside Transit Agency (RTA) for any transit-related expenditures, such as building and operating transit centers, purchasing or operating their bus fleet, or developing additional transit projects. $400,000 for the Temecula Transit Center. Mr. Calvert joined with Rep. Darrell Issa in support of this project. $350,000 for the Hemet Transit Center. Mr. Calvert with Rep. Mary Bono in support of this project. Veterans Affairs, Housing and Urban Development, and Independent Agencies $200,000 for Riverside Community College for new construction for the School of Nursing in Riverside, CA. $350,000 for the Center for Environmental Research & Technology at the University of CA, Riverside. Funding will go to continue vital emissions research at the center. $200,000 for the City of Riverside, CA for costs associated with the completion of the Arlanza Neighborhood Center. ###
04.09.2009	Today, the House voted in favor of H.R. 4818, the FY2005 Omnibus Appropriations Bill. The amalgamated bill included nine appropriations bills for a total of $388.4 billion in discretionary spending. When added to the other four discretionary appropriations bills, the total FY05 discretionary spending is $821.9 billion. "I am very pleased that the House completed their work on appropriations for the fiscal year," said Rep. Ken Calvert. "I am pleased that many worthwhile local projects were included in the omnibus. California consistently receives less in federal appropriations than it pays in federal taxes. Our local communities need to see a return on their tax dollars in order to provide vital services for residents such as funding to improve transportation, to prevent gang violence and improve education." The FY05 appropriations bills included in the omnibus were: 1. Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration 2. Commerce, Justice, State, and the Judiciary 3. Energy and Water Development 4. Foreign Operations and Exporting Financing 5. Interior 6. Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education 7. Legislative Branch 8. Transportation, Treasury, and Independent Agencies 9. Veterans Affairs, Housing and Urban Development, and Independent Agencies A more detailed analysis of projects will be available on Monday. ###
04.09.2009	Legislation passed by the House and Senate that authorizes $540 million per year for the Bureau of Reclamation to carry out dam safety projects, was signed by President Bush today. The Bureau's "Safety of Dams Program" is currently authorized at $109 million a year. "We have an aging federal dam system that needs new resources to enhance the safety and reliability of these vital facilities. Water capture and storage is key to providing a reliable water supply to California and the western states," said Calvert, Chairman of the House Subcommittee on Water and Power which oversees the federal dam system. Interior Secretary Gale Norton praised the legislation. "I want to commend Representatives Richard Pombo and Ken Calvert for sponsoring this important legislation. The Act ensures that the Bureau of Reclamation will continue to be able to identify dam safety problems and carry out timely repairs and modifications at the lowest possible cost. Reclamation's monitoring and emergency management authorities are critical to the safety of project beneficiaries and the downstream public." "The legislation also provides greater opportunities for stakeholders to consult with the bureau on the need for repairs and modifications and the status and costs of those projects. I also appreciate the discretionary waiver authority that the act provides the Secretary of the Interior to take appropriate action deemed necessary for the safety and security of Reclamation dams," said Norton. Approximately one half of the Bureau's dams are between 50 and 100 years old. They were built before modern design and construction practices were available. The Bureau of Reclamation is responsible for 457 dams and dikes. The bill, S.1727, was passed on November 17th. It is the Senate version of H.R.4893, introduced by Congressman Ken Calvert and passed on October 7, 2004. ###
04.09.2009	Today we remember a day in American History when our nation first realized that the conflicts in faraway lands could harm us at home. A day when we learned that what our enemies lacked in military strength they made up for in treachery and deception. And that a mighty fleet could be laid to waste in a matter of hours in a surprise attack. But that day America also saw that its soldiers, sailors and marines would man their battle stations and return fire, in spite of the devastation and confusion surrounding them. In the years to come the entire world would witness the "terrible resolve" that filled America on December 7, 1941. Millions would come to know the fighting spirit of the American military, backed by an industrial capacity unprecedented in scope and focus. For the free world this combination meant salvation, for the axis powers it meant annihilation. 60 years later America again suffered a sneak attack. This time it was at the hands of an enemy whose soldiers wore no nation's uniforms and saluted no nation's flag. Our victims were civilians and the first soldiers on the scene wore the uniforms of firefighters, police and paramedics. Like the aftermath of Pearl Harbor, America mourned, regrouped and took action. In the mountains of Afghanistan and the desert of Iraq the men and women of our armed forces took the fight to the enemy while our civil agencies protected us from further attacks at home. Once again America's might spelled salvation for those living under tyranny and annihilation for the enemies of freedom. As today's soldiers, sailors, airmen and marines fight the Global War on Terror they are carrying on the tradition of those we honor today. We are all inspired by that "greatest generation" of men and women who rose from the ashes of Pearl Harbor to save the world. We honor their dedication and sacrifice, without which America could never have achieved such greatness and inspired those who seek freedom throughout the world. ###
04.09.2009	The March Air Reserve Base (ARB) Joint Powers Authority (JPA) today approved an agreement with global cargo company DHL to open a new cargo facility at March ARB. Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-44) applauded the decision. "I would like to congratulate the JPA on the fair and open approval process that led to this decision. This is the kind of bold action that is needed to bring high paying jobs to the Inland Empire. I join with the majority of our community in welcoming DHL to March ARB. I have every confidence that they will be a good employer, neighbor and member of the March ARB team," said Calvert, who serves on the House Armed Services Committee. "The DHL cargo facility at March will be the catalyst for new economic development in the area. Furthermore, by lowering the operating cost of the airfield to the military, DHL's presence will increase March's chances of avoiding closure in the 2005 BRAC process," predicted Calvert. ###
04.09.2009	The rule covering the expansion of the Basic Pilot Program to all 50 states and the District of Columbia was published in the Federal Register on Tuesday, December 20, 2004 (FR Doc. 04-27702). The program allows employers to immediately verify the immigration status of new employees by matching the name and Social Security number provided by the employee on the current Employment Eligibility Verification (I-9) form. The program was introduced in 1996 and has been available in six states. "I'm pleased that this program is now available to all employers in the United States. It is a fast and efficient way for employers to verify that their workers are in our nation legally. It is available over the internet and free to employers. In the 109th Congress I will introduce legislation to make this program gradually mandatory, starting with America's largest employers. It is the next logical step in ensuring that only those people who have played by the rules are allowed to work in our country. This program is also extremely useful in detecting and discouraging document forgery and identity theft," said Calvert. The Federal Register Notice is included below. Federal Register: December 20, 2004 (Volume 69, Number 243) Notices Page 75997-75999 From the Federal Register Online via GPO Access [DOCID:fr20de04-107] ----------------------------------------------------------------------- DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY Citizenship and Immigration Services [CIS No. 2321-04; Docket No. DHS-2004-0024] RIN 1615-ZA06 Expansion of the Basic Pilot Program to All 50 States and the District of Columbia; Providing Web-Based Access AGENCY: U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, Department of Homeland Security. ACTION: Notice. ----------------------------------------------------------------------- SUMMARY: U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) currently operates a pilot program (the Basic Pilot Program) which allows employers to get automated confirmation of a newly hired employee's work authorization after an Employment Eligibility Verification form (Form I-9) has been completed. This pilot program is offered to employers in six states. USCIS has been directed by Congress to expand it to all 50 states and the District of Columbia by December 1, 2004. This notice announces the expansion of the Basic Pilot Program to all 50 states. This notice also announces that the USCIS is offering Web-Based Access for the Basic Pilot Program to all employers volunteering to participate in the Basic Pilot Program. DATES: The expansion of the Basic Pilot Program to all 50 States and the District of Columbia is effective December 1, 2004. The Web-Based Access method became available to current and new users beginning July 6, 2004. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Phyllis A. Lancaster, Assistant Director, SAVE Program, U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, Department of Homeland Security, 20 Massachusetts Avenue, NW, ULLICO Building, 4th Floor, Washington, DC 20529, Telephone (202) 514-2317. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: What Are the Automated Employment Eligibility Confirmation Pilot Programs? Section 401 of the Illegal Immigration Reform and Immigrant Responsibility Act of 1996 (IIRIRA), Public Law 104-208 (Sept. 30, 1996), established three pilot programs for employment eligibility confirmation: the Basic Pilot Program; the Citizen Attestation Pilot Program; and the Machine-Readable Document Pilot Program. Section 401(b) of IIRIRA provided that the pilot programs were to be conducted for 4 years. Pursuant to IIRIRA, the Basic Pilot Program was to be made available to all employers in, at a minimum, five of the seven states with the highest estimated population of aliens unlawfully present in the United States. On September 15, 1997, the former Immigration and Naturalization Service (Service) published a notice in the Federal Register, at 62 FR 48309, announcing these states to be the States of California, Florida, Illinois, New York, and Texas (in March 1999, the former Service published a notice in the Federal Register, at 64 FR 13606, adding Nebraska to the list). The notice also described the procedures for all of the pilot programs and how employers could elect to participate in them. In 2001, section 2 of the Basic Pilot Extension Act of 2001, Public Law 107-129 (Jan. 16, 2002), extended the pilot programs until November 30, 2003. More recently, section 2 of the Basic Pilot Program Extension and Expansion Act of 2003, Public Law 108-156 (December 3, 2003), extended the pilot programs for another five years. Under this amendment, the pilot programs are set to terminate on November 30, 2008. The Service and Systematic Alien Verification for Entitlements (SAVE) Program, administered the pilots in conjunction with the Social Security Administration (SSA). On March 1, 2003, the Service transferred from the Department of Justice to DHS pursuant to the Homeland Security Act of 2002, Pub. L. 107-296, 116 Stat. 2142 (Nov. 26, 2002). USCIS administers the Basic Pilot Program for DHS. Of the three pilot programs, only the Basic Pilot Program remains operational. All employers must ensure proper completion of the Employment Eligibility Verification form (Form I-9) for each newly hired employee, including U.S. citizens and aliens. Employers who sign up to participate in the Basic Pilot Program complete the Form I-9 verification process as usual, but then enter and submit Form I-9 information through a web-based computer program to the SSA database. If SSA does not have sufficient information to confirm work authorization status, queries are instantaneously sent to USCIS for confirmation. In most cases, confirmation or nonconfirmation of work authorization is provided within seconds. If more information is required to complete the confirmation process, the employer is asked to have the employee contact SSA or USCIS to provide the needed information. This is the only way an employer can get confirmation from DHS regarding their employees' work authorization. Employers who do not use the Basic Pilot Program continue to use the Form I-9 process alone. The purpose of the Basic Pilot Program is to test this method of providing an effective, nondiscriminatory work eligibility verification procedure focusing on electronic verification. With a couple of exceptions, an employer's participation in the Basic Pilot Program is voluntary and free to participating employers. The first exception applies to certain federal government entities. Each Department of the federal government must elect to participate in a pilot program (one of the three), but may limit it to the states covered by the program and to certain divisions within the department. Each member of Congress, each officer of Congress, and the head of each agency of the legislative branch that conducts hiring in a state in which a pilot program is operating must elect to participate in a pilot program of his or her choosing. The second exception applies to certain employers who have been found to have knowingly employed unauthorized aliens or engaged in unfair immigration-related employment practices. Such employers may be required to participate in a pilot program with respect to the employer' hiring (or recruitment or referral) of individuals in a state covered by the program pursuant to an order issued under section 274A(e)(4) or section 274B(g) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (INA). How Is the Basic Pilot Program Being Expanded? In addition to extending the pilot programs, section 3 of Public Law 108-156 directs the Secretary of Homeland Security to expand the Basic Pilot Program to all 50 States and the District of Columbia no later than December 1, 2004. Before implementing this expansion, Public Law 108-156 requires that USCIS prepare a report to Congress addressing the extent to which problems identified in the pilot evaluation reports were resolved and actions that would be taken to resolve any outstanding problems. The report was submitted to Congress on July 22, 2004, and is available to the public in USCIS'' Web site. Pursuant to Public Law 108-156, USCIS announces through this Notice that it will expand the Basic Pilot Program to employers in all 50 States and the District of Columbia beginning December 1, 2004. What Access Method Is Available to Participating Employers? This Notice also announces that the Basic Pilot Program Web-Based Access is now available to all new users. USCIS launched this new access method on July 6, 2004. Prior to this, participation in the Basic Pilot Program required employers to access the Alien Status Verification Index (ASVI) database, by using a dial-up access method to obtain employment authorization. During March 2004, the Verification Information System (VIS) replaced the ASVI database, allowing USCIS to provide employers with a new Web-Based Access Method. Unlike the Basic Pilot Program dial-up method, which required installation of software and a modem, the new Internet version of the program allows users to access the Basic Pilot Program from any personal computer that has Internet access. Other features of the Internet version of the Basic Pilot Program include on-line registration, reporting capability for users, and availability of the system seven days a week, 19-hours a day (the system is shut down from 12 a.m. to 5 a.m. for maintenance and updating of data). In addition, employers will have quick and easy access to on-line resources such as the Basic Pilot Program User Manual, the Basic Pilot Program Tutorial, Handbook for Employers (M-274), Identity Document Guide (M-396), and links to various sources containing information relating to employment issues. Current dial-up Basic Pilot users switching to the Web-Based Access Method will be required to re-register on-line at https://www.vis-dhs.com/employerregistration , because of new features associated with the Web version, e.g., each employer site must now have a program administrator and employer sites can generate user reports. Prior to gaining access to the Web Basic Pilot Program, employers are required to complete the Web tutorial to become familiar with the new processes, and to review policies and procedures of the Basic Pilot Program. At this time, USCIS will continue to support employers accessing the Basic Pilot dial-up method; however, new Basic Pilot participants will be directed to use only the Web-Based Access Method. How Can Employers Elect To Participate in the Basic Pilot Program? In order to participate, employers must enter into a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) with USCIS and SSA. To register for the Basic Pilot Program, employers can log on to https://www.vis-dhs.com/employerregistration, which provides instructions for completing the MOU and registering for the program. Employers who are currently using the Basic Pilot Program dial-up method must re-register on-line to take advantage of the Web-Based Access method. How Are the Privacy of Records Safeguarded? USCIS' VIS certification and accreditation adheres to the security requirements of the Bureau of Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE), USCIS and DHS. VIS ensures that appropriate safeguards are implemented to minimize the risk to data and systems from data integrity threats. This is critical to national security and to other government entities that rely on the information contained in DHS databases. Data integrity refers to the validity of the information from the beginning to the end of a transaction, including the consistency, accuracy, and correctness of data stored in the databases. VIS employs mechanisms to protect system data and implements data integrity and validation controls. Data integrity controls are in place to protect data from accidental or malicious alteration or destruction, and provide assurance to the user that the information meets the expectation about its quality and that it has not been altered. Validation controls are in place to test and evaluate compliance with security specifications and requirements. How Can Employers Contact USCIS To Obtain Additional Information? Employers may request additional information about the Basic Pilot Program by writing to the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, 20 Massachusetts Avenue, NW., ULLICO Building, 4th Floor, Washington, DC 20529, Attention: SAVE Program. Employers may also fax a request for information to the SAVE Program at (202) 514-9981, or call the SAVE Program toll free at 888-464-4218. Paperwork Reduction Act The information collection requirement contained in the MOU (including registration) has been previously approved for use by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB). The OMB control number for this collection is 1653-0033 (previously 1115-0228). Since USCIS is expanding the Basic Pilot Program to all 50 States and the District of Columbia, the number of respondents will increase. Accordingly, USCIS has submitted the required Paperwork Reduction Change Worksheet (OMB-83C) to OMB reflecting the new burden hours, and the OMB has approved the changes. USCIS will also be amending the MOU to reflect the new organization structure from the former Immigration and Naturalization Service to USCIS. Dated: December 14, 2004. William R. Yates, Associate Director of Operations, U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services. [FR Doc. 04-27702 Filed 12-16-04; 9:27 am] BILLING CODE 4410-10-P ###
04.09.2009	Today Congressman Ken Calvert introduced legislation to make the basic pilot program for employment eligibility verification permanent and gradually mandatory. "The program has been a success since it was originally implemented in 1996, re-authorized in 2001 and implemented nation-wide in 2004," stated Rep. Calvert. "It also provides an easy way for law-abiding employers to check whether employees are eligible to work legally in the U.S." In 1996, Congressman Ken Calvert introduced a bill that created authority for the Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS) to allow participating employers to access via computer software both the INS and the Social Security Administration databases for purposes of new employment verification. The program is now being administered by the Bureau of Citizenship and Immigration Services (BCIS). Initially available in a limited number of states, the program became available in all 50 states and the District of Columbia in December 2004. The system allows employers to verify over a secure web-based service the Social Security information provided by their new hires on the I-9 form. "It is imperative that employers verify the worker eligibility for all new employees. The program helps prevent identity theft, helps uncover forged documents and stops unscrupulous employers who use illegal immigrant workers to cut costs rather than hire legal immigrants and U.S. citizens." stated Rep. Calvert. H.R. 19 would make a number of changes to the Basic Pilot program, which are summarized below: The name would change from the Basic Pilot program to the Employment Eligibility Verification System (EEVS). The authorization for the current system expires in 2008. H.R. 19 would extend it indefinitely. H.R. 19 would authorize all necessary funding for EEVS. EEVS would remain free to employers. H.R. 19 would require employers to use the program, based on the following phase-in timeline: 1 year after the enactment of the H.R.19: Employers with more than 10,000 employees (1,500 companies) 2 years: Employers with more than 5,000 employees (an additional 3,000 companies) 3 years: Employers with more than 1,000 employees (an additional 10,000 companies) 4 years: Employers with more than 500 employees (an additional 13,200 companies) 5 years: Employers with more than 250 employees (an additional 33,000 companies) 6 years: Employers with more than 100 employees (an additional 140,000 companies) 7 years: All employers with 1 employee or more (an additional 12,000,000 companies) The Basic Pilot program double checks the information on employee's I-9 Immigration Forms. Since November 1997, the Social Security Administration (SSA) and the Systematic Alien Verification for Entitlements (SAVE) Program have been conducting the Basic Pilot program in the States of California, Florida, Illinois, Nebraska, New York and Texas. The program was made available to employers in all states December 20, 2004. The Basic Pilot involves verification checks of the SSA and the now Department of Homeland Security databases of all newly hired employees, regardless of citizenship. The Basic Pilot program is currently a voluntary program and is free to employers who volunteer to participate. The Basic Pilot is used by over 2,000 employers and used at nearly 12,000 worksites nationwide. ###
04.09.2009	Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-44) today introduced H.R. 111, the Community Choice in Real Estate Act. The bill is designed to prevent the conflicts of interest that would result from financial institutions entering the real estate business. In one of their first acts of interpreting the 1999 Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, the Federal Reserve Board and the Treasury Department, at the request of national banks, issued a proposed rule that would potentially allow national banks and financial holding companies and their subsidiaries to engage in real estate management and brokerage. The proposed rule has encountered considerable opposition in Congress. For the past 3 years Congress has added language in appropriations bills to prevent the rule from being finalized. Calvert's bill would permanently prevent the rule from being implemented. The essence of Calvert's bill has been included in annual appropriations bills, including H.R. 4818, the 2005 Omnibus. "Congress never intended for banks to be directly involved in real estate transactions. Allowing financial institutions access to real estate activities is a dangerous proposition," said Rep. Calvert. "In order to properly protect consumers and home buyers, as well as the national economy, banking and commerce should remain separate." The Community Choice in Real Estate Act was introduced with support of 106 cosponsors. Calvert expressed confidence that that number would soon increase to a supermajority. "H.R. 111 is essential in maintaining stability and fairness in the fields of banking and real estate," stated Rep. Calvert. ###
04.09.2009	Congressman Ken Calvert, Vice Chairman of the California Republican Delegation and a member of the House Republican Steering Committee, today offered congratulations to the six members of the California Republican Delegation who were selected by the Republican Steering Committee to serve as Committee Chairmen. Congressman Jerry Lewis was selected as the new Chairman of the Appropriations Committee while Congressmen Duncan Hunter and David Dreier retained their chairmanships of the Armed Services and Rules Committees, respectively. Congressman Bill Thomas will continue as chairman of the Committee on Ways and Means and Richard Pombo will again chair the Resources Committee. The Committee on Homeland Security, which was originally designated as a temporary committee in response the 9-11 attacks, has been made permanent. Congressman Chris Cox will continue as the chairman. "I commend the Steering Committee on their selection of these outstanding Representatives to chair these committees. After careful deliberation they picked the most qualified candidate for each position. With his prior experience as head of the Defense Appropriations Subcommittee Jerry Lewis is the right man to help us control spending while at the same time ensuring our troops get everything they need to fight the Global War on Terror. Duncan Hunter's steadfast leadership on the Armed Services Committee is crucial to this effort as well. With David Dreier at the helm of the Rules Committee we can be sure that the legislative process will move smoothly and fairly," stated Calvert. Further, as the nation grapples with the all important issue of Social Security Reform, the Ways and Means Committee will continue to be led by its knowledgeable and dedicated chairman, Bill Thomas. Of course, I'm also pleased to see that our state is so well represented on these committees," said Calvert, who holds seats on the armed Services, Science and Resources committees. ###
04.09.2009	Congressman Ken Calvert (R-CA) was pleased to announce that he will continue his service on the Armed Services Committee. In addition to serving on the full committee, Calvert will hold seats on two key subcommittees; Tactical Air and Land Forces and Projection Forces. "I look forward to working with Chairman Hunter to ensure our military is fully manned and equipped to fight and win the Global War on Terror. But we will also be looking very closely at how we can most efficiently spend our defense dollars in these tight budgetary times." stated Rep. Calvert. The Subcommittee on Tactical Air and Land Forces has jurisdiction over all Army and Air force acquisition programs (except strategic weapons and lift programs, special operations and information technology accounts). It is also responsible for all Navy and Marine corps aviation programs, National Guard and Army and Air Force reserve modernization, and ammunition programs. The Subcommittee on Projection Forces oversees the Navy and Marine Corps programs, deep strike bombers and related systems and strategic lift programs, including the United States Air Force. "These subcommittees deal with an array of issues pertinent to my home district, such as the Air Force, National Guard and Reserves and Navy and Marine Corps Aviation." said Rep. Calvert. The 109th session of Congress will be Calvert's third term on the Armed Services Committee. He is also expecting to serve on the Science and Resources Committees. Memberships on their respective subcommittees are expected to be finalized later this week. ###
04.09.2009	Representative Ken Calvert (R-CA) today announced that the Riverside County Fire Department has received a grant of $175,409 as part of the 33rd round of the 2004 Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program (FIRE Program), which provides competitively awarded grants directly to fire departments for the purchase of equipment, vehicles and training. "The FIRE Program provides vital support to our nation's fire departments, ensuring they have the tools and resources they need to do their jobs protecting the rest of us. I'm proud to be a strong supporter of the program and I'm especially proud that our area has been very successful in obtaining Fire Grant funding," said Calvert. This 33rd round of grants will provide more than $18 million to help local fire departments fund the purchase of firefighting equipment, fund firefighter health and safety programs, enhance emergency medical services programs and conduct fire education and prevention programs. ###
04.09.2009	Congressman Ken Calvert announced today that he has been selected to chair the Space and Aeronautics Subcommittee of the House Science Committee. "I'm honored to have been chosen to lead the subcommittee during this exciting time of innovation in Space and Aeronautics. I am also humbled to be taking on this responsibility as we mark the second year since the loss of Columbia and her crew. NASA is preparing to return the Space Shuttle fleet to flight and resume the assembly of the International Space Station. At the same time entrepreneurs are developing the first generation of privately funded and operated space transportation systems. In addition the President has laid out an ambitious space exploration agenda that will establish an extended human presence on the moon and manned missions to Mars," said Calvert. The Space and Aeronautics Subcommittee has jurisdiction over all matters relating to astronautical and aeronautical research and development. One of its primary roles is to authorize the annual budget of NASA. "There's a lot of work to do in order to move forward with the President's vision on space exploration. A key issue is ensuring that NASA is properly structured, staffed and funded to accomplish the mission. In this time of tight budgets we will need to make sure that every dollar allocated to exploring space does just that. I also think NASA should continue its long tradition of developing cutting edge technologies that will keep America in the lead in aeronautics." stated Calvert. For further inquiries contact Bob Carretta at 202-225-1986. ###
04.09.2009	Today, the U.S. House of Representatives overwhelmingly approved a resolution honoring the people of Iraq and congratulating them on their first free election in 50 years. By a vote of 404-9, Members of Congress recognized the courageous achievement by the Iraqi people who voted in defiance of the threats made by the terrorists. Congressman Ken Calvert voted in favor of this historic measure. "I was pleased to support this legislation that congratulates the Iraqi people on their landmark achievement. Also, this resolution expressed our gratitude to the American service men and women, coalition forces, and Iraqi security forces who gave the ultimate sacrifice in providing security for this monumental election. I applaud all of those individuals who were so dedicated and committed to making this vote a success," said Calvert. "I know that the American people and constituents in my district share my view that this election in Iraq is an exciting step forward for a people who suffered for so long under the tyranny of Saddam Hussein. This election signals to terrorists all over the world that courage, a love of liberty, and a desire to have a representative form of government cannot be deterred by threats or suicide bombers." ###
04.09.2009	Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed a resolution expressing the support of Congress for equal access of military recruiters to college campuses. Congressman Ken Calvert supported the measure. "At a time when our nation is engaged in a global war on terror, I was pleased to vote in favor of the resolution expressing Congressional support for equal access at institutions of higher education. I am a strong proponent of allowing our military recruiters the same access that other potential employers have on campus and believe that their ability to recruit should be unimpeded. We rely on an all volunteer force and quality recruiting is a crucial component of that force. Our recruiters should have equal access to the best and the brightest students America has to offer. Moreover those students should be afforded the opportunity to choose to serve their country," said Calvert, who serves on the House Armed Services Committee. The resolution was offered in response to a judicial decision that overturned previous legislation to deny federal funding to those institutions which did not allow military recruiters on campus. Today's vote signals the strong and committed support from both sides of the aisle; the resolution passed the House by a bipartisan vote of 327-84. ###
04.09.2009	Congressman Ken Calvert applauded House passage of H.R. 418, the Real ID Act. This measure would implement much-needed driver's license reforms, close asylum loopholes, enhance border security, and strengthen deportation laws. "Since 9-11 most states have required that lawful presence be proven in order to obtain a driver's license and limit temporary licenses to the visa term. Yet, it is still too easy for the wrong people to obtain valid state driver's licenses. The 19 terrorists who carried out the 9-11 attacks had 63 valid driver's licenses between them. Not all states check whether someone is already carrying a valid driver's license from another state or is ‘lawfully present' in the United States. Asylum fraud is real. The 9-11 report specifically noted that two plotters of the first World Trade Center attack concocted bogus political asylum stories when they arrived in the United States," said Calvert. The Real ID Act will boost U.S. border security by: Requiring ID applicants to provide proof they are in the country legally; Requiring identity documents to expire at the same time as the expiration of lawful entry status, preventing those who have illegally entered or are unlawfully present in the U.S. from having valid identification documents; Strengthening judges' ability to determine whether the asylum seeker is truthful. This provision codifies the factors immigration judges use to assess credibility; Requiring the completion of the San Diego 14 mile border fence on the US-Mexican border; and Providing that any alien contributing funds to a terrorist organization would be deportable. ###
04.09.2009	Congressman Ken Calvert addressed the eighth annual AST Commercial Space Transportation Conference today. "It's an exciting time for commercial space transportation. That's why I wanted to address this conference so soon after becoming chairman," said Calvert, who was selected last week to chair the Space and Aeronautics Subcommittee of the House Science Committee. Calvert noted the need for new space launch systems and asked those in attendance to offer up innovative solutions. "In 2010 the Shuttle will be retired. So there is right now a need to move people into space quickly, safely and reliably. I believe that need could be met in large part by the private sector and that the people in this room will play a key role in making it happen. The job of Congress is to pass legislation and exercise its oversight functions in such a way that will enable this industry to succeed," stated Calvert. After the address Calvert took questions from the audience on the potential for new space prize incentives, investment opportunities in space and his legislative goals as Chairman of the Space and Aeronautics Subcommittee. Since 1998, the office of the FAA's Associate Administrator for Commercial Space Transportation (AST) has invited all of those interested in the commercial space transportation industry to join the office for a two-day conference in the Washington, DC, area featuring dozens of industry and government experts speaking on and discussing a wide range of topics of interest to the space launch community. This year, the conference theme is, "Ready for the Next Giant Leap," looking at the latest developments in expendable and reusable launch vehicles, and the potential for new markets, especially space tourism. More information on the conference is available at http://ast.faa.gov/aboutast/conference.htm . The full text of Congressman Calvert's address is included below. ### Congressman Ken Calvert address to Commercial Space Transportation Congress, February 10, 2005. It's an exciting time for commercial space transportation. That's why I wanted to address this group so soon after becoming chairman. I want to share my thoughts on the best way to manage the relationship between this industry and the government. Let me begin by saying that the United States government officially endorses, supports, and indeed depends upon a viable U.S. commercial space transportation industry. I was selected to chair Space and Aeronautics subcommittee last week. I've been a member of the Subcommittee since my first term in Congress. We are living on the cusp of a new era in Space Exploration. President Bush has announced his new vision for Space exploration and the Aldridge report outlines a way for us to achieve that vision. We hope and believe that the Shuttle will soon return to flight and continue the assembly of the ISS. In 2010 the shuttle will be retired. So there is right now a demand for a way to move people and cargo into space quickly, safely and reliably. I believe that need could be met in large part by the private sector and that the people in this room will play a key role in making it happen. In addition to this need, the potential for technological advancement from the developments in commercial space transportation are tremendous. That's why we need to ensure that the United States remains attractive to commercial space developers. I think we got off to a strong start with the recent enactment of H.R. 5382, the Commercial Space Launch Amendments Act of 2004. That law provides a regulatory framework that is intended to give those in the human commercial space flight industry the "breathing room" needed to grow. As Ronald Reagan once said, "you have to cut red tape to see blue sky." – and that's the general philosophy of the law. My predecessor as Chairman, Dana Rohrabacher was instrumental in both authoring and passing that legislation. A cutting edge industry like commercial human space transportation needs the freedom to innovate and experiment. Success will come more from test flights than computer simulation. We need to recognize at the outset that not all launches will be successful and that there will be risks. That said, the process of nurturing the industry and its research requires a certain degree of regulation to attract investment and insurers. The government has the responsibility to provide the highest level of safety to the uninvolved public, and to ensure that the passengers who will fly on these new craft be fully informed of the risks. H.R. 5382 struck an appropriate balance among these competing priorities. It provides for liability risk sharing with the government and government indemnification. Under this umbrella the industry will be able to move forward. Just as crucial to the commercial space industry is the new U.S. Space Transportation Policy signed by the President on December 21, 2004. It tells our government agencies how to operate with regard to space. I think this document is an important step forward for the commercial space transportation industry and I echo its sentiments. Here are some of the critical highlights: It puts our government on record as being committed to "encouraging and facilitating a viable U.S. commercial space transportation industry." In order to do that it directs United States Government departments and agencies to: Purchase commercially available U.S. space transportation products and services; Provide a timely and responsive regulatory environment for licensing commercial space launch and reentry activities; Refrain from conducting activities with commercial applications that preclude, deter, or compete with U.S. commercial space transportation activities; Provide stable and predictable access to the Federal space launch bases and ranges on a direct-cost basis; this means the government is not allowed to use these facilities to generate revenue. Encourage private and government investment in the development and improvement of space infrastructure, including non-Federal launch and reentry sites; we're going to need more places to launch and recover these new space vehicles. Most importantly, in my view, is that it directs the Secretaries of Commerce and Transportation to "encourage, facilitate, and promote U.S. commercial space transportation activities, including commercial human space flight." With the recent success of SpaceShipOne in the field of private human space flight and the attention it received, it is evident that ordinary citizens want to take the extraordinary journey into space. Now, the Government must adopt a regulatory framework that enables you in the industry to make those dreams a reality. But this is not just about space tourism, which is a natural first step in commercial human space transportation. This industry is much broader than space tourism and has to move forward because the new vision on Space exploration, our economy and our national defense depend upon it. Over the past fifty years, the pattern we've seen has been NASA breaking new ground and then industry adopting, improving and refining the new technologies. I believe that pattern will continue in the future, but with industry working with NASA and improving the technologies and efficiencies at a faster rate. NASA's first big achievement in U.S. Human space flight was sending Alan Shepard into Space on a suborbital flight. SpaceShipOne essentially duplicated Alan Shepard's suborbital flight. Critics might say that this feat was less impressive because NASA did it over forty years ago. That is true, NASA did it long ago, but the SpaceShipOne team did it for around $20 million. I know that today NASA could not put a man in sub orbital space for $20 million. In fact, I don't think they could do it for $200 million. But the reason NASA couldn't do it for $200 million isn't because they don't have the drive, the talent, or the will to put people in space on the cheap. The fact of the matter is that NASA is a government agency and government agencies operate under different conditions and in a different environment than the private sector. NASA got the U.S. into suborbital space. The commercial space industry will make that journey more efficient, affordable and accessible. NASA's second major milestone in U.S. Human Space Flight was putting John Glenn into orbit and orbital flight is the next challenge for the pioneers of commercial human space flight. I'm looking forward to seeing an American company put the first private citizen into orbit and -bringing him back. Current legislation doesn't specifically address orbital flights, but I can assure you that one requirement will be for round trip tickets. NASA's third milestone in Human space flight was sending man to the moon and returning him safely to Earth. Widely considered among the greatest of man's achievements, the Moon landing inspired a generation. And now we look to the Moon once again, but this time as a preliminary destination – a testing ground – for a longer and broader mission to Mars. As NASA works on its fourth major milestone, having a continuous human presence in space, commercial space innovators are contemplating their own manned missions to orbital space hotels. NASA's mandate is to further our exploration in space. Its mission must be to pave the way into space so the commercial sector can follow. NASA is going to take on the space projects that are just too big and too leading edge for the private sector alone. This is the pattern we've seen in the past and it is the pattern we'll see in the future. As NASA formulates its plans for a Moon-Mars mission, the commercial space transportation industry is ready. We've been to the Moon before but the goal this time is to establish a permanent, sustainable presence. To get there and stay there we'll need unprecedented technological breakthroughs. Some of these will come from NASA and some will come from the private sector. In my view, in order for NASA to achieve its exploration goals two things are going to have to happen. The first is that NASA needs to be restructured to focus on its core mission of Space exploration. This is already happening. NASA has been restructured into four distinct Mission Directorates, with Exploration Systems as one of the directorates. This process of aligning the organization with its objectives and goals is not yet complete. After we return to flight, I intend to focus on the President's Vision and ongoing refinement to NASA's mission and infrastructure. The second thing that will have to happen is that a newly focused NASA will rely on the commercial space transportation industry to accomplish its mission. As NASA shares technological innovations with the private sector it will be up to the private sector to figure out how to efficiently implement these technologies into space transportation. It is vitally important that NASA learn to buy space goods and services from this industry in a market-friendly fashion. NASA needs to do this not just to help the industry, but to help itself move out into the frontier and explore. This will be crucial because the NASA budget is going to remain the same, in real dollars, for the foreseeable future. The days of the unlimited budgets of the Apollo era are long gone. A nearly unlimited budget was a key enabler in getting us to the moon. We basically applied a Manhattan Project mindset to get us to the moon as quickly as possible. Our Journey to the moon was born of a national imperative to beat the Soviet Union in the space race. We wanted to get to the moon but we had no comprehensive vision or strategy on what to do once we got there. That lack of vision was due more to a lack of money than a lack of inspiration among NASA and the space community. The reality was that there just wasn't going to be an unlimited funding stream after Apollo. But now, nearly four decades later, after some missteps, I think we are putting in place the structure, strategy and funding to move forward with a sustainable space exploration vision. Some of this is born of necessity. Our government and economy now rely on space assets to function. Communications, weather and surveillance satellites have been in use for decades. But never before have space assets played such a role in our daily lives. Global Positioning Systems are now the primary means of commercial air and sea navigation. They are available for our cars and used by backpackers. Millions of Americans have Direct TV dishes on their houses or listen to satellite radio on their daily commute. Our government uses satellites to monitor enemy communications and coordinate military operations. We are developing space systems to protect us from enemy missiles. But this new reliance on space has not come with much improved access to space. Disruption of space assets today will have a much more significant impact on our security and economy than it would have just a few years ago. So we need to find a way to improve our access to space. We need affordable, reliable and responsive ways to get people and hardware into orbit. NASA took the lead in proving we could get there. Now it is the private sector's duty to make it efficient and affordable. The job of Congress is to pass legislation and exercise its oversight functions in such a way that will enable this industry to succeed. We must keep a watchful eye on our government agencies to ensure they are operating and cooperating with the commercial Space industry and not implementing unnecessary or overly burdensome regulations. In the American tradition, government opens frontiers but people settle them. This was true in the west, with medical research and with cyberspace. If we follow that model we will succeed. In conclusion, I'd like to say that my door is always open to the commercial space transportation industry. I want to hear your ideas on how we move commercial space forward and what the government can do to help. I only have one rule when you visit with mE: No PowerPoint briefings. Well, you can have a PowerPoint brief, but it can't have any more slides than I presented here today. Before I take your questions I'd like to introduce some staff who will be working with me on space issues. Bill Adkins is the Majority Staff Director of the Space and Aeronautics Subcommittee. Tim Hughes is Majority Counsel to the Science Committee. Deena Contreras is my Legislative Assistant for Space and Aeronautics and Bob Carretta is my Communications Director.
04.09.2009	Congressman Ken Calvert (R-CA-44) yesterday reintroduced the Shoreline Augmentation, Nourishment and Development Act (SAND Act), H.R.754. The legislation would raise the maximum amount that may be allotted by the Secretary of the Army for the construction of small shore and beach restoration and protection projects. "Increasing the cap on the federal share will allow local communities to engage in a meaningful partnership with the federal government in order to better manage and protect their shorelines," said Rep. Calvert. "This bill is important to my constituency in Orange County who are constantly working to maintain the high quality of beaches in our area." In the past, Congress passed its authority to approve certain Army Corps of Engineers projects to the Chief of Engineers. This authority is known as the Continuing Authorities Program, and it includes Section 103 projects which address Shoreline Protection. Section 103 projects allow the Army Corps of Engineers to partner with local authorities to investigate and construct shoreline protection projects, including sand replenishment. The problem is that beach replenishment projects are costly, and under Section 103, these projects are capped at $3,000,000 for the Federal cost share. This amount no longer reflects the real costs of engaging in beach restoration and shoreline protection projects. The proposed legislation raises the Section 103 statutory Federal cost limitation per project from $3,000,000 to $10,000,000. The proposed legislation also modifies the Section 103 total annual program from $30,000,000 to $50,000,000, to account for the proposed increase of the Section 103 project cost limit. Calvert plans to solicit support for the bill from lawmakers with coastal areas in their districts. "This increase is desperately needed for communities who simply cannot absorb the costs of shoreline protection on their own. The hurricanes of 2004 showed how necessary this protection is," stated Rep. Calvert. "The federal government does have a role in protecting our public beaches and increasing this cap demonstrates a federal commitment to the beauty and care of national treasures, such as Southern California's beaches." ###
04.09.2009	Representative Ken Calvert (CA-R) was pleased to announce his co-sponsorship of legislation reintroduced by Rep. Bart Gordon (TN-D) that would help communities more thoroughly clean the sites where methamphetamine labs are found. Rep. Ken Calvert is a co-chairman of the Congressional Caucus to Fight and Control Methamphetamine. Alarmed at the toxic mess created by methamphetamine production, Reps. Gordon, Calvert and Science Committee Chairman Sherwood Boehlert (NY-R) introduced and cosponsored H.R. 798, along with 22 other colleagues, to bring focus on the procedures and standards needed to decontaminate a site where a methamphetamine lab is found. "This drug doesn't choose political sides of the aisle; it devastates indiscriminately and is impacting communities from coast to coast. To put a stop to it, we must work together to identify and clean up methamphetamine at its source," stated bill author Rep. Bart Gordon (D-TN). Currently the Drug Enforcement Administration disposes of the chemicals found at a methamphetamine site, but doesn't address other environmental factors such as potential groundwater contamination or leftover chemical residue. "This drug is devastating, not just in the way it affects individuals and their families, but in the toxic hazards its illegal production inflicts on our communities. Scientific research is needed to determine the point at which a site may be declared safe after cleanup. Without parameters to measure toxins and contaminants we cannot ensure the safety of the public and communities affected well into the future. This bipartisan bill does just that by directing the Environmental Protection Agency and the National Institute of Standards and Technology to support research programs to develop methamphetamine lab detection technologies, with an emphasis on practical test kits for field use - where the dangerous work is being done by our law enforcement units," said Calvert. ###
04.09.2009	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert announced the hiring of Ms. Roselee Nichols Roberts as his designee as a professional staff member on the House Subcommittee on Space and Aeronautics. "I'm delighted to have her on board during this exciting time of change in space exploration and transportation. She is a fine addition to the already outstanding subcommittee staff. Roselee has over twenty-five years of experience in government and the private sector. As the new Chairman of the Subcommittee, I will rely on her expertise and sound judgment as we work to return the shuttle to flight, complete the International Space Station (ISS) and move forward with the President's vision on space exploration," said Calvert. House Majority Leader Tom DeLay (R-Texas), who represents the Johnson Space Center and is a long-time advocate of NASA, praised Roberts' hiring. "I have known Roselee for years, and not only does she have great expertise in space issues, but she's also a tremendous advocate for the future of our nation's space exploration," DeLay said. "Rep. Calvert and Roselee Roberts share a strong commitment to the future of space exploration, and together they will oversee the development of the president's new vision for NASA." Prior to being hired by the Space and Aeronautics Subcommittee Roselee Roberts worked for the Boeing Company as the Director for Legislative Affairs. Roberts has been responsible for representing the company's space and aeronautics interests to the U.S. Congress for the past 17 years, including 10 years with the McDonnell Douglas Corporation prior to its merger with Boeing. She has been involved with such programs as the International Space Station (ISS), the space shuttle, launch vehicles and satellites, and aeronautical research. Before working in the private sector, Roberts spent nine years on Capitol Hill, serving as the legislative director and appropriations staffer for two congressmen. During that tenure, she was also the Staff Director to Cong. Bill Nelson (D-FL) when he was Chairman of the House Space and Aeronautics Subcommittee. Nelson is now a U.S. Senator from Florida. Prior to her experience on Capitol Hill, Roberts was an economist for several federal agencies, including the Office of Management and Budget, the President's Council of Economic Advisers, and the Department of Transportation. In 1997, Roberts was nominated by McDonnell Douglas as one of two women for the Leadership America program. She has also received the Outstanding Young Woman of America award, the Women in Aerospace Emeritus award, Women in Aerospace Outstanding Leadership Award, the Outstanding Alumna of the Year (1994) for the University of Miami's School of Arts and Sciences and the Alumna in Residence for the University of Miami for 2003-4. Roberts has served as President and as a member of the Board of Women in Aerospace, and as President of Women in Aviation. Roberts is a member of the University of Miami President's Council and is the University's Regional Alumna Representative. She earned a bachelor's degree in economics/mathematics from the University of Miami and a Master's degree in Economics from Virginia Tech. She is married to Art Roberts (BBA '64 UM) and has two grown daughters. ###
04.09.2009	Congressman Ken Calvert will appear in a production at the Shakespeare Theatre in Washington DC this evening. The production titled "Will on the Hill: Lessons from Shakespeare on making it in Washington" features several members of Congress and well known media personalities playing traditional Shakespearean characters. "It's a fun night for a good cause so I'm happy to participate. As the Bard said ‘Brevity is the soul of wit' - that must be why they only gave me three lines," said Calvert, whose only previous acting experience was trying out for "Oklahoma" at Corona High School. The production is part of the Shakespeare Theater of Washington, D.C.'s annual Congressional Night. Proceeds from the ticket sales will go to benefit the theatre's education and community outreach programs. ###
04.09.2009	Congressman Ken Calvert (R-CA-44) was pleased to announce that several of his requests were included in the Transportation Equity Act – a Legacy for Users (TEA-LU) passed by the House of Representatives today. The $284 billion authorization bill (H.R. 3) was passed today by a vote of 417-9. It must now be considered by the Senate before it can go to a conference committee. Many of the most difficult issues, such as the relationship between "donor" and "donee" states and the final overall spending amount will be worked out during the House/Senate conference. The President has threatened to veto the bill if it exceeds $284 billion. H.R. 3 reauthorizes the Transportation Equity Act for the 21st Century (TEA-21), which continues to govern the federal government transportation policy and funding levels. TEA-21 was scheduled to lapse on October 1, 2003, but Congress has extended the law several times. TEA-21 is currently scheduled to lapse on May 31, 2005. The lack of a long-term transportation bill has created problems for state governments as they plan their future transportation goals. "Southern California has some of the worst traffic problems in the country," said Rep. Calvert. "These funds to improve transportation are important to the future growth and prosperity of my region, the state and the country." The following projects were included in the bill and sponsored by Rep. Calvert: $10 million for the Cajalco Road Interchange Project. The Cajalco Road Interchange Project is a key component in the effort to eliminate congestion along the I-15/60/91 corridor. Reducing congestion along this corridor is essential to improving air quality, eliminating congestion on surface roads, and supporting infrastructure needed for national goods movement from the ports of Los Angeles and Long Beach. The project also will provide efficient and direct connectivity for the March Air Reserve Base. $500,000 for the Automatic Traveler Information System (ATIS). The ATIS system will accurately monitor real time arrival information and relay the schedule to passengers. Users will be able to access the information at kiosks, bus stops, on RTA linked websites and over Interactive Voice Response (IVR) phone systems, which would significantly benefit Riverside's disabled community. Still others would utilize mobile device, such as cellular phones and PDAs to obtain instant information. $500,000 for the restoration of historic Victoria Avenue in Riverside. Victoria Avenue was built to showcase the Riverside, CA citrus industry circa 1888. Officially opened by President T. Roosevelt in 1902, the avenue remained largely intact until the 1950's when residential encroachment damaged the trees and the look of the avenue. The City has halted all future encroachments, but the avenue can be restored in simple, but meaningful ways. This money would bury telephone lines that run through the avenue and create an irrigation system to water the three sides of the avenue (south, north, and median). $1 million to help construct the three mile San Clemente Beach Trail. This is part of a state-wide project to improve pedestrian access to beaches and allow pedestrians and others to travel along the coast. The following project was included in the bill and sponsored jointly by Rep. Calvert and Rep. Chris Cox: $19.75 million to Study and construct highway and transit alternatives between Orange County and Riverside County, building off the work of the Major Investment Study currently underway. "Improved transportation is one of my highest priorities and I am extremely pleased these crucial projects have been included in the transportation authorization bill," said Rep. Calvert. "The residents of the Inland Empire and Orange County must constantly fight traffic on their freeways, major streets and even their neighborhood roads. Alternatives to driving and improvements to our major highways are essential in order to preserve and improve the quality of life for the residents of the Inland Empire and Orange County." ###
04.09.2009	Congressman Ken Calvert yesterday called for a new set of rules and tools to move the United States Space Program forward in the second space age. Calvert was the featured speaker at the 21st annual Space Symposium in Colorado Springs, CO. "I'm honored to have the chance to address this distinguished group of commercial, civil and military space professionals. These are the people who will develop the policies, procedures and infrastructure, the ‘rules and tools,' that will propel us into the second space age. The President has given us an exploration Vision and the task now is to establish the framework to make it a reality," said Calvert, who chairs the House Subcommittee on Space and Aeronautics. The Space Symposium is the annual gathering of the Space Foundation, a non-profit organization dedicated to advancing the exploration, development and use of space and space education. More information on the symposium can be found at http://www.spacecrossroads.org/information/index.cfm . Congressman Calvert's prepared remarks to the symposium are included below. The Theme for the 21st National Space Symposium is " New Horizons." It's easy to get excited about the next new thing in a field which basically creates the future. But, I believe that a new horizon is coming into our view and it is gatherings like this that will shape the policies, priorities, and indeed the very vehicles which will take us to theses new horizons. Of course, that means that the methods and motives that got us to this point may not be the most appropriate rules and tools for the future. We are in our fifth decade of human space exploration since Yuri Gregarin took humanity's first voyage into space. It was also a little more than five decades between the perilous exploration of Lewis and Clark and the Homestead Act, the policy rules and tools which helped us settle a frontier. The very place which we meet today, the American West, was settled by an often fractious coalition of Government Administrators, Commercial Investors, Military Protectors, and wild-eyed entrepreneurs –- risk takers all --- sound familiar? It's a good thing that we've retained that American collection of colorful characters as we try to settle the final frontier…….because we're going to need them all. As you all know, I am just beginning my tenure as the Chairman of the Space and Aeronautics Subcommittee in the House of Representatives. Although I have served on the Science Committee as well as on the Space and Aeronautics Subcommittee for twelve years, I now have a new perspective. I am here to listen and to learn about Space and our Nation's space program. I look forward to visiting with some of you here at the Symposium and to walking around the exhibit hall. I am also planning to visit each of the NASA centers during the 109th Congress. We are at the cusp of a new era in space exploration. From where I sit, we are at a crossroads in furthering the human race's journey beyond the confines of our planet. As we look back on nearly half a century of unmanned and manned space flight we can be proud of our accomplishments. But as we look ahead to the future, the choices we make today will impact our space journey for decades to come. I believe that now is the time to take a hard look at our U.S. Space Program and to begin making the decisions about what kind of program we need for the future. As we undertake this process we can learn from the past but we should not be constrained by it. The first steps on this road have already been taken. The Columbia Accident Investigation Board painstakingly documented the shortcomings of our national civilian space program in its 2003 report. In January of 2004, the President declared his Vision for Space Exploration. In June of 2004 the Aldridge report provided a roadmap for realizing the Vision. It is now up to us to lay the groundwork for achieving that Vision, to put in place the policies, structures and funding that will allow us to succeed. This isn't going to be easy. Building a new space program along the lines of the Vision requires that every aspect of our current program be analyzed and validated. Much of what we have today may not match up with what we need for the future. But at the same time there will be opportunities for fantastic new programs which we haven't been able to afford under the existing structure. The President's Vision aims to fulfill and capitalize on mankind's nature to explore. Our space exploration program will provide exciting new scientific discoveries, but equally important is that it will provide a clear and focused set of challenges to the U.S. Space Program. Challenges that will drive launch technology, communications, sensors, robotics, new materials, propulsion systems and more. These advances will spin off into new capabilities for national security and commercial space. Why should everyone in the American space business care about exploration? Because it will be a huge technological engine that will spend over $100 billion in pushing the state of the art over the next fifteen years. Everyone will benefit from this investment. There are three primary areas that comprise our current US Space Program: Commercial Space, National Security Space and Civil Space and Aeronautics. They have a lot in common and each program is an integral part of our future in space. Each program has suffered setbacks and successes in recent years. Each program makes vital contributions to the national interest. Unfortunately, each program has unnecessary barriers between them. These barriers have resulted in the duplication of efforts, excessive regulation, and a lack of technological synergy. The stove piping and lack of coordination has resulted in redundant research and development and procurement programs which leads to inefficiencies in all of the space programs. The result is that none of the programs have access to space that is as reliable, responsive or as efficient as they would like. They all lack that which they need the most. There are many reasons these three programs developed barriers between them. Funding, philosophy, international treaties, security classifications, government regulations, the list goes on and on. The main reason is that our space habits and organizations were put in place during the first space age which was shaped by the Cold War. We are now in a second space age and we must respond to its unique challenges. We will need a new set of rules and tools to succeed in this second space age. What concerns me more than how they arose is what is keeping these barriers in place. Some in the civil space programs don't want to cooperate with National Security space because of the perceived "militarization" of space. The National Security space program wants its own launch capability because they aren't confident that our civil and commercial launch capabilities meet their needs. The $30 billion a year commercial space sector works with both to win contracts to launch payloads. But when it comes to the newest and most exciting field of commercial space, human space transportation, the leader in the field deliberately chose not to have any involvement with our civil space program. This is troubling on a number of levels, but none more so than the fact that finding cost effective ways of moving people into space will be a crucial part of achieving the Vision. We no longer have the luxury of each sector of our Nation's space program working in isolation from the others. The barriers that separate our civil space program from our national security space program from our commercial space programs must come down so that the expensive duplication of effort is reduced -- while still keeping our critical national security programs secure. We're going to need government mangers to work together, across different disciplines and organizations and even agencies. The legislative and executive branches need to talk more to each other as well. The commercial space program has been reinvigorated by the recent success of Burt Rutan's SpaceShipOne. It is amazing what a small group of people could accomplish for a mere $20 million. But just as important as the accomplishment of putting a man into suborbital space is that the X-Prize competition validated the incentive concept for commercial space. Congress strongly supports a prize program and we are developing a program to be included in the NASA authorization bill. I'm very pleased that NASA is starting now with a small prize program based on its current authority. As we saw with the success of SpaceShipOne, there is even a chance of having commercial human space flight sooner than was thought even 20 years ago. There are companies like Constellation Services International, who have innovative ideas for taking cargo to the International Space Station; Kistler, who is developing a fully reusable two-stage unmanned space launch vehicle; and Elon Musk's company SpaceX, which is developing a simple, reliable, low cost launch vehicle. We need to take advantage of these great minds and to help NASA to take advantage of these commercially developed ideas as it plans for the future of exploration. By leveraging the power and freedom of the market Commercial sector has the potential to revolutionize space access, making it reliable and efficient. National Security Space is growing to meet the needs of the Intelligence Community and the Department of Defense. In the President's Fiscal Year (FY) 2006 budget request for the Department of Defense, all space spending is on an upward trend and the launch support funding was doubled. This is reflective of the directives in the US Space Transportation Policy that was issued a few months ago. Space based radars, imagery and navigation satellites, communications satellites, and network centric warfare are here to stay! For our military fighting the global war on terror, space is the high ground, space based imagery and communications are the weapon and bandwidth is the ammunition. Operation Iraqi Freedom used 10 times more space based bandwidth than was used in Operation Desert Storm 12 years earlier. These technologies are some of those same technologies that are required for our civilian space programs – this is the time to combine these parallel technologies for the greater good! Our Civil Space program is represented by NASA, an agency undergoing a radical transformation to align itself with the goals of the exploration vision. The President's Vision has given us a national direction and a destination for civil space. We will fly the shuttle until 2010. We will complete the International Space Station. Then we will go on to the Moon and to Mars. The Hubble Space Telescope program has been a fantastic program that has delivered images beyond our wildest dreams! It is performing beyond its original design life. NASA already has plans for a next generation telescope – the James Webb Telescope. Although we will have a gap of coverage, Hubble has delivered volumes of data that will keep scientists busy for years to come. NASA is planning the development of a de-orbit module, which I think is a wise way to proceed. The challenges facing NASA right now are unprecedented. Here is an organization that is being tasked with revamping the operations of its biggest program, the space shuttle, so it can return to flight and complete its second biggest program, the International Space Station. At the same time it is developing a plan to transition from these programs to the Crew Exploration Vehicle and returning to the Moon and then going to Mars. NASA also runs a wide ranging aeronautics program, a robust earth sciences program, a diverse education program, space telescopes and many other research and development programs too numerous to list. NASA works with and relies on our international partners to service and construct the International Space Station and to send probes throughout the solar system. NASA even operates its own TV channel. It does all this on a relatively fixed budget. The Space Operations directorate, in particular, is facing an extraordinary challenge. It is being tasked with returning the shuttle to flight in a "zero defect" environment with a mandate to keep the risk to the absolute minimum. At the same time NASA is being asked to transform itself to conform to the President's vision on space exploration, something that will require innovation and taking risks. The two mandates could not be more diametrically opposed. I am confident that the people of NASA can meet these challenges. The work they have done in the wake of the Columbia tragedy has been outstanding. They have taken the Columbia Accident Investigation Board's recommendations for return to flight and developed amazing solutions to problems. They are attempting to forge a new culture and organizational structure to ensure safety and quality assurance in all of their operations. But to move into the future NASA's workforce deserves an organization that is designed around their core mission. They deserve personnel policies that maximize the use of their drive and talent while offering a viable career path. They deserve a plan for the future and the budget to get us there. They deserve the chance to benefit from the synergy that comes from cooperation with the commercial and National Security Space sectors. We need these technicians, engineers and scientists. And NASA needs a Human Capital Strategy that retains the best people and encourages the next generation to pursue careers in science, engineering and technology. It's up to us in Congress and the administration to provide that support. The President has given us the broad vision, a clear space transportation policy and nominated a new administrator for NASA. Congress must now provide a rational and stable budget to accomplish the goals laid out by the President. Most importantly, we must exercise our oversight authority to ensure the U.S. Space Program stays on course. Getting a NASA Authorization bill to the President is one of my highest priorities this year. We have a lot of new players on the Space committees in both the House and the Senate. Not only am I new as the Chairman of the Space and Aeronautics Subcommittee, but I have a new Ranking Democrat – Cong. Mark Udall of Colorado. Mark and I serve on other committees together and I look forward to working with him in this 109th Congress, under the leadership of Science Committee Chairman Sherwood Boehlert, as we shape the future of NASA. On the Senate side, we have a new Chairwoman of the Science and Space Subcommittee – Sen. Kay Bailey Hutchison of Texas as Chair and Senator Bill Nelson of Florida as her Ranking Democrat. Both have NASA interests in their states. From the beginning, I have supported the President's Vision. We in Congress asked him to offer a direction for our civilian space program – and he did. I know how difficult that it is to get a NASA Authorization through the Congress. I plan to work with members of my Subcommittee and the Science Committee to get a bill out of the Committee and through the House. I also look forward to working with my colleagues in the Senate to get a good bill on to the President's desk for signature. We owe it to NASA and our Nation to take leadership in the direction that NASA is moving. My role as Chairman of the Space and Aeronautics subcommittee will be to focus on NASA and its programs and on our commercial space sector. We need to be sure that the entrepreneurial spirit on which this Nation was founded thrives as we push towards the outer limits of exploration. The bill that originated in our Committee -- the Commercial Space Launch Amendments Act -- last year went a long way to paving the road for some of these entrepreneurs to operate safely and still have the flexibility of a small entrepreneur. I am looking forward to working with the newly appointed Administrator for NASA – Mike Griffin – once he is confirmed – probably around the second or third week of April. He appears to be the right person for NASA at this time. He is a free thinker, a rocket scientist, and a business man who understands the government. What a great combination to lead NASA at this critical time! He's going to have a lot on his plate. There are a lot of big decisions ahead for NASA, both within the Vision as well as other areas. Although NASA is one of the few agencies to receive an increase in the FY06 President's budget request -- it received a 2.4% increase, it still fell short of the planned increase of about 5% that was projected when the FY05 budget was sent to the Congress last year. I would assume that NASA's current request of about $16.5 B is probably the best top line that we will see. We in the Congress may have to realign spending within NASA to be sure that this Nation is getting the most bang for its buck in its civilian space investment. In addition to the traditional approaches, NASA will have to examine entrepreneurial options that have been developed by some of our brightest minds. We will need the best and the brightest of our talent to make this work. A sustainable exploration strategy is key to the Nation's success. This movement forward will be impossible if we insist on clinging to legacy programs and the old ways of doing things. The status quo will not move us forward. NASA's role is to accomplish the "extreme"– going where humans have never gone before! For the Vision to succeed, it must be a sustainable program that will require incremental development – build a little and fly a little, build a little and fly a little... There will be a mix of robotic and manned missions as we explore space. There will be a sharing of technology and innovation between robotics and human space flight. There are a lot of milestones ahead in the Vision. In the near-term, the Crew Exploration Vehicle (CEV) has an Request For Proposal (RFP) that was issued March 1st and has a response expected from industry by May 2, with a contract award on September 1st. Then launch vehicles will have to be chosen – decisions must be made on the Evolved Expendable Launch Vehicle (EELV), shuttle-derived vehicles, or other heavy lift options. When we talk about aligning NASA with its core mission of Space Exploration we are talking about people, infrastructure and budget. But the people are the lifeblood of the organization. The NASA workforce represents the greatest pool of engineering, technical and scientific talent the world has ever seen. They are a national resource whose skills will be essential to meeting the challenges NASA faces today and achieving the goals of the vision in the future. But I don't think the current NASA structure or even the ongoing reorganization properly capitalizes on this talent. Moreover, I am concerned that we are providing conflicting signals to this workforce and not sufficiently involving them in the process of change. A perfect example is the proposed personnel cuts in NASA's Aeronautics program. Cuts that are being driven by the budget rather than the mission. What's happening in NASA's Aeronautics program is a microcosm of the change in NASA. Now I believe that aeronautics research and development is an important sector for investment for our Nation. And let's not forget that the first A in NASA stands for Aeronautics. But what should NASA's role in Aeronautics be? Should it be developing air traffic control systems and new technologies for commercial aviation safety? Or should NASA be developing cutting edge aircraft that push limits in speed, distance and altitude? I think both are a National priority. The Europeans have thrown down the gauntlet and said that they will dominate aerospace in the world by the year 2020. Aerospace products are a huge source of export sales and a major contributor to the United States' international balance of trade. Our Nation's preeminence in commercial aircraft is being seriously challenged by Airbus and many believe that reduced aeronautics research and development funding has directly played a role in the cause of this weakened position of the American aerospace industry. But is this type of commercial aeronautics development a NASA priority? Or are the technologies mature enough that their refinement would fit within another government agency? We need to be sure that we are getting the most efficient investment with our NASA dollars. Which brings me back to the people issue. Over the next five years, NASA is proposing to reduce its aeronautics workforce by approximately 2000 people and to shut down a number of its wind tunnels. But NASA has yet to decide on an Aeronautics strategy. How can you properly align the people and infrastructure with the mission if you don't have a clear mission? There is a lot of concern that the investment in aeronautics research and development by this Nation has been limping along for several years, and that there is a lack of a national strategy. The lack of a National Aeronautics strategy is reflected in the haphazard personnel cuts and buyouts being implemented in NASA's Aeronautics program. In the last Congress we passed a bill that gave NASA greater flexibility with personnel policies. But it appears that the current reductions in workforce are driven by the budget rather than a Human Capital Strategy. One of my main concerns with the current buyout plans is that the workers we need the most are leaving NASA. NASA needs a Human Capital Strategy. A recent GAO report on the NASA workforce makes that clear. But in order to develop a Human Capital Strategy NASA needs a clearly defined mission. It may be time for something like a Zero Based Review for NASA that would look at the entire organization down to the individual employee level. The goal would be to create a new, requirements based organization capable of fulfilling the exploration vision and NASA's other core missions.. It would involve quantifying the skills needed to man the organization and then putting people in positions that required their particular skill set. Admiral John Cotton, of the US Navy Reserve, has briefed me on the Navy Reserve's recent Zero-Based Review. Implementation of the recommendations of this review allowed the Navy Reserve to most efficiently make use of its personnel. It was so successful for the Navy Reserve, that the US Navy is implementing a similar review across the entire service. A Zero-Based Review, or similar private sector management and personnel solution, could be beneficial for an agency in transition-- like NASA -- to consider as it moves forward. This would allow NASA to leverage its human capital in a cost-effective manner. As NASA is trying to "reinvent" or "transform" itself, it will also have to take a hard look at its infrastructure. NASA's infrastructure is not designed for its future direction. Our wind tunnels are dated. Test stands for rocket engines are limited. We need to do more in technologies, materials, engines and sciences. However it comes about, a newly focused NASA will rely on the commercial space transportation industry to accomplish its mission. It is vitally important that NASA learn to buy space goods and services from this industry in a market-friendly fashion. NASA needs to do this not just to help the industry, but also to help itself move out into the frontier and explore. We in the Congress now have to foster the synergy among all the space programs through funding levels and legislative oversight. We in Congress need to offer NASA a framework for solutions as NASA restructures to adapt to the new direction provided by the President's Vision. The people in this room need to work together to enable the comprehensive change our space program so desperately needs. My challenge to you is to help us build a new space program. Don't cling to legacy programs or the old way of doing things. I want to hear your ideas, but they must come in the context of the new program we are creating. I am in the learning mode. I need your inputs. Bring me innovative solutions to problems. I expect every program to be able to justify its use and cost in the context of a mission statement. I have met with folks all over the space spectrum. The only common theme is that no one is happy with the National Space Program that we have today. We can and we must do better – we will do better. Our economy, security and our quest for knowledge depend on it. We have the building blocks for a fantastic space program. American technology, entrepreneurial spirit, and drive to explore the unknown are second to none. We will lead the way into this second space age. Thank you very much. ###
04.09.2009	Congressman Ken Calvert supported the passage of H.R. 6, the Energy Policy Act of 2005, today on the House floor. The bill passed by a vote of 249 – 183. The Energy Policy Act increases domestic production of traditional, alternative, and renewable energy, provides incentives for the development and use of efficient energy, improve the reliability of our energy infrastructure, and helps reduce America's dependence on foreign sources of energy. "This bill is long overdue and is critical not only to meet our current energy demands, but also to develop future energy technology," said Mr. Calvert. "While we continue to advance renewable and clean energy technologies, we must ensure our economy has access to affordable and reliable fossil fuels. This legislation shows that improving our energy production and protecting the environment are not mutually exclusive goals." Additionally, Mr. Calvert raised an important issue on the House floor regarding Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG) facilities. Mr. Calvert believes that the Department of Defense should have the authority to concur with any proposed site of a LNG facility on or near a military base. House Energy and Commerce Chairman Joe Barton agreed to consider this issue during the House-Senate conference committee. Additionally, Congressman Calvert voted to return local and state participation in the siting of LNG facilities. Some of the provisions of H.R. 6 would: Establish a commission to make recommendations for a coordinated and comprehensive North American energy policy that will achieve energy self-sufficiency by 2025 within the three contiguous North American nation area of Canada, Mexico, and the United states. Strengthen security of nuclear energy facilities, including improved federal oversight of plant security and the expansion of federal statutes for sabotage of nuclear facilities. Promote a cleaner environment by encouraging new innovations and the use of alternative power sources by launching a state-of-the-art program to enable hydrogen fuel cell cars to compete in the marketplace by 2020. The legislation also authorizes $200 million for the "Clean Cities" program, which will provide grants to state and local governments to acquire alternative fueled vehicles. Create a nonrefundable personal tax credit for the purchase of residential solar water heating and photovoltaic equipment (i.e., equipment that uses solar energy to generate electricity). The credit equals 15 percent of the investment up to a maximum credit of $2,000. H.R. 6 must now be considered by the Senate before it is presented to the President for signature. ###
04.09.2009	Congressman Ken Calvert was pleased to announce today that his drive to bring a statue of Ronald Reagan to Statuary Hall in the U.S. Capitol moved a step closer to reality with the passage of Senate Joint Resolution (SJR 3) by the California State Senate. In August of 2004, Calvert sent a letter to Governor Schwarzenegger and the leaders of the California State Legislature, signed by twenty four members of the California Congressional Delegation, requesting that they pass a resolution to bring a statue of Ronald Reagan to the Capitol. Federal legislation permits states to request the Joint Committee on the Library of Congress to allow the placement of a statue which the state has provided for display in the Capitol of the United States. The state's legislature must pass and the governor must sign a resolution making the request. SJR 3, introduced by California State Senator Dennis Hollingsworth, is the official request from the state of California to the United States Congress to place a statue of Ronald Reagan in Statuary Hall. It passed unanimously in the California Senate. It must be passed by the California State Assembly and be signed by the governor before it is forwarded to the Joint Committee on the Library of Congress. "I want to congratulate Senator Hollingsworth for his hard work in moving this resolution forward. The people of California deserve to have a statue of our fortieth President and two-term Governor representing them in Statuary Hall in the United States Capitol," said Calvert. ###
04.09.2009	March Air Reserve Base received the highest military value rating of all air reserve component bases for the tanker mission in the 2005 Department of Defense Base Closure and Realignment Report. "March will remain open. I'm pleased that the Base Closure and Realignment Report recognized March's high military value. March is a key component of the Global War on Terror and in defending the Homeland. This base is capable of handling additional personnel and missions," said Representative Ken Calvert, a long time supporter of the base. March is affected by the report's recommendation to redistribute nine KC-135 tanker aircraft of the California Air National Guard currently based at March. Four of the nine aircraft would remain at March but be transferred to the base's Air Force Reserve 452nd Air Mobility Wing. The other five would be distributed to three other bases. Calvert expressed disappointment that the preliminary list for 2005 Base Realignment And Closure (BRAC) round slated the Naval Surface Warfare Center, Corona for closure. "I'm surprised and disappointed that this important facility is listed to be closed. The Norco base is the Navy's only Independent Assessment facility. When it comes to whether and how weapons systems function in the real world, the highly educated and trained people at Norco are our best advocates for the war fighters in the fleet." "NSWC Corona provides expert and specialized work for the Navy and other DoD customers which has been developed in place over the last five decades. It is my belief that the Department of Defense should not only retain the base, but enhance this special function," said Calvert. Calvert promised to keep fighting for the base. "I will be analyzing the documentation provided by the Department of Defense as to their reasons for closing the base. It appears that the Navy will only save $400,000.00 over a twenty year period from closing this base. That's a net saving of $20,000.00 per year, less than the cost of a new car. Moreover, the Navy recognized that the core functions of the base should remain intact and co-located." "If the base is closed and its functions relocated, the Navy will lose the highly skilled technical workforce of NSWC Corona. In past BRAC rounds over 70 percent of workers refused to move when their base was relocated. This is too big a risk to take for such a meager monetary return. I believe we can make a strong case to the BRAC Commission that this facility is vital to national security and should be removed from the base closure list." Now that the list has been released the nine-member BRAC commission will review the Pentagon's work at a series of public hearings over the next several months. The panel has until Sept. 8 to make final recommendations to the president. These recommendations can include adding facilities to or removing facilities from the list. If the president approves the final list, it will be forwarded to Congress, which then has 45 legislative days to accept or reject it. "We've been down this road before. When the Norco facility was initially slated for closure in the 1995 round we were able to make a case to remove it from the list. I think we have any even stronger case this time," said Calvert. Copies of the BRAC list and the documentation for March ARB and NSWC Corona are listed on Congressman Calvert's web site at www.house.gov/calvert . Additional information on the BRAC process can be found at www.defenselink.mil/brac . ###
04.09.2009	Today Congressman Ken Calvert (R-CA), announced the passage of a bill authorizing the Riverside – Corona Feeder System and the City of Corona Water Recycling and Reuse project. The projects were included in H.R. 540, which passed the House of Representatives by a voice vote on Monday afternoon. "I'm pleased we were able to get these important water projects passed. We need the ability to capture water in the wet years so we don't have to import as much water in the dry years. When you add new water recycling projects to the water supply infrastructure you get that much closer to the ultimate goal of drought-proofing Southern California," said Calvert. The Riverside-Corona Feeder will provide increased capacity for groundwater pumping and delivery pipelines that will allow water to be stored safely by providing the means to control water tables. It will also provide a means to deliver stored water to communities in western Riverside County, including the cities of Riverside, Corona and Norco. The system will improve local drought protection and groundwater management while reducing demand on imported water from the Colorado River and Northern California sources. The City of Corona Water Recycling and Reuse Project is a water reclamation system which will enable the City of Corona to provide recycled water to parks, landscape maintenance districts, schools, landscaped freeway frontages and any other project that does not require potable water. The City of Corona receives 55 percent of its water from imported sources and 45 percent from local groundwater supplies. To ensure an adequate supply for current needs and future growth, recycled water will be used for irrigation. Recycled water is wastewater which is then purified so it is suitable for landscaping, irrigation and other non drinking purposes. Its chief advantages are that it is drought proof and reduces the demand on the drinking water supply ###
04.09.2009	Congressman Ken Calvert voted in support of H.R. 2360, the FY-06 Department of Homeland Security Appropriations Act, which passed by a roll call vote of 424 to 1 on Tuesday evening. "I'm proud to support this bill which provides the funding to support our most important security related programs and those who are on the front lines maintaining our safety. Appropriations for the Department of Homeland Security put Americans' tax dollars to work where they are needed most. I'm especially pleased with the provisions that enhance identification security and revitalize our immigration enforcement programs," said Calvert. H.R. 2360 provides $30.85 billion for operations and activities of the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) in FY 2006. The bill provides $19.4 billion for border protection, immigration enforcement, and related activities, an increase of $1.9 billion over fiscal year 2005 enacted levels and $285 million over the President's request. These funds support next generation technology to screen high-risk cargo coming through our land and seaports; an expansion of cargo inspection at foreign ports; improvements to supply chain security; maritime security, and support a robust revitalization of immigration enforcement efforts both along our borders and within the interior of the nation. Specific funding includes: $1.61 billion for border security and control, providing for an additional 1,000 Border Patrol Agents; when combined with the pending FY05 Supplemental, 1,500 new Border Patrol agents will be hired in FY06. $3.2 billion for Immigration and Customs Enforcement, providing for an additional 150 criminal investigators and 200 Immigration Enforcement Agents; when combined with the pending FY05 Supplemental, 568 new ICE agents and officers will be hired in FY06. $61 million for border security technology, including surveillance and unmanned aerial vehicles. $489 million for Air and Marine Operations for border and airspace security. $20 million for replacement Border Patrol aircraft. $188 million for vehicle and cargo inspection technologies. $45 million for increased intelligence and targeting for cargo and passengers. $138.8 million for the Container Security Initiative, expanding this program to a total of 48 foreign ports. $54.3 million for the Customs-Trade Partnership Against Terrorism. $2.6 billion for the Coast Guard's homeland security missions. $4 million to continue and expand an immigration security pilot project at foreign airports. $690 million for custody management, including an additional 1,920 detention beds; when combined with the pending FY05 Supplemental, 3,870 detention beds will be added by the end of FY06. $166 million for immigration case management. $119 million for Fugitive Operations teams, including an additional three teams. $88 million for the Institutional Removal Program, including an additional 100 agents. $43 million for Alternatives to Detention, including an additional 49 positions. $211 million for transportation and removal of undocumented aliens. Supporting State and Local First Responders The bill provides $3.6 billion for first responders, including grants to high threat areas, firefighters, and emergency management. Since September 11th, 2001, $32.4 billion has been provided to first responders – including terrorism prevention and preparedness, general law enforcement, firefighter assistance, airport security, seaport security, and public health preparedness. The bill also recognizes that no community is immune from terrorism and achieves a balance between basic formula grants, used by states and localities to achieve a minimum level of preparedness, and funds for high-risk urban areas. Specific funding levels include: $1.215 billion for high-density urban areas, including $850 million for urban area grants, $150 million for rail security, $150 million for port security, and $65 million for other infrastructure protection. $750 million for basic formula grants. $600 million for firefighter grants. $400 million for State and local law enforcement terrorism prevention grants. $180 million for Emergency Management Performance Grants. $200 million for First Responder training. No less than 10 percent of basic formula grants ($750 million) and urban area grants ($850 million) must be provided to Emergency Medical Service (EMS) providers. Enhancing Transportation Security The bill continues efforts to enhance security for all modes of transportation, including ports, rails, and aviation, with a focus on research and development of next generation technologies to inspect baggage, passengers and cargo. In total, the bill provides $6.4 billion – partially offset by fees – for TSA and Federal Air Marshals (FAMs), including: $2.5 billion for passenger and baggage screeners. $85 million for the training of airport screeners. $468 million to procure, install, maintain and integrate in-line explosive detection systems. $983 million for aviation direction and enforcement activities. $100 million for air cargo security, including 100 new inspectors, funding to fast track pending air cargo regulations; and research and development of next generation technologies. $8 million for rail security inspectors and explosive detection canines. $5 million for trucking security and $4 million for HAZMAT truck tracking. $699 million for FAMs, ensuring mission coverage on both domestic and international flights, including $10 million for the continued development and implementation of secure communications technology. Using Science and Technology to Protect our Nation The bill provides $1.34 billion for research, development, and deployment of innovative technologies, including those proposed by universities, national laboratories, not-for-profit organizations, and private companies. Funds will be used to test technologies, determine their applicability to homeland security requirements, and transition these technologies for use by federal, State and local officials. Specifically, the bill includes: $651 million to develop radiological, nuclear, chemical, biological, and high explosives Countermeasures. $30 million for rapid prototyping of homeland security technologies. $10 million to accelerate deployment of new homeland security technologies. $110 million for research, development, and testing of antimissile devices for commercial aircraft. $30 million for container security research. $128 million is recommended to be transferred from other DHS agencies as part of a Department wide research and development consolidation. $127 to start-up the new Domestic Nuclear Detection Office and its help coordinate global nuclear detection and tracking. $64 million for university-based centers of excellence. Protecting the Nation's Critical Infrastructure The bill enhances the Information Analysis and Infrastructure Protection (IAIP) Directorate's ongoing work to protect our critical infrastructure and key assets, providing a total of $861.4 million in fiscal year 2005. The bill supports ongoing efforts to enhance the current inventory of our nation's critical infrastructures; develop of secure communications systems with federal, State and local entities; and continue efforts to work with the private sector to implement protective measures around this infrastructure. The bill includes: $139.4 for critical infrastructure identification and evaluation, and outreach and partnerships with industry. $74.3 million for infrastructure vulnerability and risk assessment. $91.4 million for protective actions. $119 million to identify and characterize potential bio-terrorist attacks, including $109 million for Science and Technology's BioWatch program. $43.6 million for U.S. Secret Service's Electronic Crimes Task Forces (ECTFs), including an additional 50 FTEs devoted to combating electronic crime and identity theft. $73.3 million for cyber-security. $56.1 million for the Homeland Security Operations Center, enhancing secure communications with State and local governments. Supporting Traditional Missions such as Immigration Services, Disaster Mitigation and Relief, Drug Interdiction, Law Enforcement, Maritime Safety and Security, and Trade $2.9 billion for traditional Coast Guard operating activities, including maritime safety, drug interdiction, and fisheries, environmental, and humanitarian missions. $1.2 billion for the U.S. Secret Service. $2.0 billion for Disaster Relief. $20 million to enforce laws related to forced child labor, intellectual property rights, and textile transshipment. $7.6 million to support investigations related to missing and exploited children; d $1.85 billion for citizenship and immigration services, including $1.7 billion in fee supported activities. Other Provisions Requires DHS to submit a comprehensive immigration enforcement strategy that reduces the number of undocumented aliens by 10 percent per year; requires DHS and ICE to develop a national detention plan for undocumented aliens; and requires ICE to expand the use of Immigration Enforcement Agents; Requires the development and implementation of improved air cargo security standards and protocols, as well as the use of EDS equipment to screen air cargo at airports; Requires the Office of Domestic Preparedness to submit the final National Preparedness Goal no later than October 1, 2005, establishing nationwide preparedness standards to make 2006 grant allocations based on these goals; Requires the Office of the Chief Information Officer to develop and report on its enterprise architecture and other strategic planning activities and specifically directs USCIS to submit an IT transformation plan; Requires DHS to implement a security plan to permit general aviation aircraft to land and take off at Ronald Reagan Washington National Airport within 9 0 days of enactment of this Act Prohibits the use of funds that inhibit or delay the DHS Privacy Officer from communicating with Congress. Maintains a cap of 45,000 for TSA passenger screeners. ###
04.09.2009	Congressman Ken Calvert announced that several of his key priorities were included in H.R. 2361, the Department of the Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act of 2006. "This bill includes provisions to fund technological development in water resources which will contribute to our ongoing efforts to ‘drought proof' Southern California. The University of California at Riverside is a leader in this field. It also addresses the need for increased forest health and fire prevention programs," said Calvert. H.R. 2361 includes $6.5 million for the United States Geological Survey's (USGS) Water Resources Research Institute Program. The program is a partnership of state and federal government with higher education. The California Center for Water Resources, which is headquartered at the University of California at Riverside, uses knowledge about water science and engineering to meet emerging challenges to sustain the nation's water resources for the future. The bill also provides $128 million for Forest Service forest health initiatives, including control of Southern pine beetle, mountain beetles in the West, and $76 million for State fire assistance, $26 million above the request. H.R. 2361 passed the House by a vote of 329 to 89 on Thursday night. ###
04.09.2009	Congressman Ken Calvert announced that the House Science Committee this week favorably reported H.R. 426, the Remote Sensing Applications Act of 2005. "This bill promotes cooperation between the government and industry by encouraging the government to make use of commercial data sets from the remote sensing industry," said Calvert, who serves as chairman of the House Subcommittee on Space and Aeronautics where the bill originated. H.R. 426 would establish a program within NASA to competitively award grants for pilot projects that use government and commercial remote sensing capabilities and other sources of geospatial information to address State, local and regional agency needs. It would authorize $15 million per year from 2006 through 2010 for the program.
04.09.2009	Representative Ken Calvert (CA-44th) was pleased to announce that his local priorities were included in the FY2006 Department of Defense Appropriations Act, H.R. 2863, which is expected to be passed by the House of Representatives later this evening. "I am pleased that local priorities were recognized and supported," stated Rep. Calvert. "As we face new threats, it is imperative that our Armed Forces are prepared and properly equipped." Funding for the following projects was requested by Rep. Calvert: $4 million for the Navy and Marine Corps Advanced Measurement Standards R&D. NAVSEA, Corona, (formerly the Naval Warfare Assessment Station) and similar installations participate in this program. This program provides for the development of advanced measurement standards and metrology systems to support the Navy and Marine Corp programs testing. NAVSEA, Corona works with the National Institute of Standards and Technology to develop these standards. $3 million for Submarine Command and Control Systems: Low Power Advanced Technology Insertion. In order to fully utilize new radar systems and other faster computer processing technologies, U.S. submarines must be able to incorporate low power computing technologies. These funds will ensure that the Navy can use one of the many low power technologies in U.S. submarines. $6 million for Automated Wire Analysis (AWA). The use of AWA equipment increases the accuracy and efficiency of line maintenance personnel, increases aircraft operational availability, and lowers maintenance cost through timely location of wire system failure. The Navy's deployment of this system has resulted in aircraft wiring harness and component testing up to 24 times faster than with previous equipment. The additional above funding is required to expedite the Joint Counsel on Aging Aircraft, currently led by the Navy, efforts to improve the detecting and repair of wire system failures on again aircraft. $2 million for the Expeditionary Deployable Oxygen Concentration System (EDOCS) and Mobile Oxygen Storage Tank (MOST). Currently there exists an unanticipated need for additional deployable equipment to provide oxygen for medical purposes on Air Force evacuation aircraft. These life-saving devices will help meet the needs of our front line medical evacuation teams. The EDOCS is an innovative solution to the problem of generating oxygen in remote areas. Once deployed, the system eliminates the need to resupply any oxygen. The MOST is a storage and distribution system consisting of lightweight, high-strength, high-pressure composite-wound brass-lined cylinders secured within a rugged waterproof case. It is two person-portable and used aboard military aircraft for treating casualties and on the battlefield to quickly supply oxygen to front line troops. $3 Million for Advanced Materials for Weapons Systems, Air Force RDT&E. Currently, the design of the Ectro Optical Targeting System (EOTS) selected for the Joint Strike Fighter (JSF) calls for a single sapphire window panels that are nearly 25" across, making them more than twice the size of currently available sapphire panels. Using innovative technologies, infrastructure improvements, and advanced manufacturing technologies, large panel sapphire windows will be grown, fabricated, coated and tested to achieve the both challenging and required performance characteristics for use in the EOTS windscreen for JSF. $3 million for the Deployable Medical Oxygen Generation Advanced Development. The lessons learned during Operation Iraqi Freedom have led to changes in the Military's Deployable Medical Oxygen Generation Systems(DMOGS). However, the Military cannot meet is DMOGS needs only through commercial solutions. These funds would help improve the DMOGS to move medical oxygen supplies to wherever it is needed. $6 million for the Common Remotely Operated Weapons Station (CROWS) and CROWS-Light. CROWS is a remotely operated weapons system that allows gunners operating crew-served weapons to remain within the protection of up-armed vehicles and armored vehicles. CROWS-Light is a reduced size and weight version of CROWS, specifically designed to protect trucks, transport and other combat service support vehicles that have little ability for self-defense. $2 million is appropriated for CROWS, and $4 million for CROWS-Light. $5 million for SOCOM High Value Target Tracking Devices. This Research and Development funding will accelerate introduction of miniature High Value Target Tracking and Localization capability and provide the forces with the tools and ability to track and report position information of these critical assets. Current funding levels do not support this level of concentration on these miniature, low power, low cost devices. However, without this key capability our forces will be limited and at times put in harms way when required to track and locate High Value Targets. $2 million for Low Altitude IED Detection Systems. Countering Improvised Explosive Devices (IED's) is a high-priority force protection objective. The U.S. Army Night Vision Lab (NVL) is developing an airborne IED detection system that would identify suspected IED's from a low-flying helicopter or fixed wing platform. The Low-Altitude IED Detection System (LAIDS) concept is based on analysis of wide field-of-view, high resolution EO/IR imagery with specialized detection software in order to pinpoint the location of suspected IED's. $3.5 million Air Force (AFRC) Information Technology (IT) Consolidation for Base Information Infrastructure at March Air Reserve Base. AFRC IT/Server Consolidation is a service-wide initiative to consolidate all IT systems, manpower, and resources. These efforts have resulted in a more effective and secure IT environment, and reduced costs and complexity by eliminating 4,000 servers and sharply improving productivity. Consolidation also decreases the total cost of IT operations. The AFRC area of responsibility extends across the United States. The communications infrastructure, and the protection of it, is a critical requirement to the AFRC. March Air Reserve Base hosts many key components of the 4th Air Force, including the 452nd Air Mobility Wing, and many tenant organizations including the American Forces Radio and Television Service (AFRTS), the Air Force Audit Agency, and the Air Force Office of Special Investigations. As a result of the 1995 BRAC, a critical component of the March AFB information infrastructure—the central communications switch—is now located outside of the March AFB fence line. As a result, the communications switch—which supports tenant units at March AFB (including AFRTS which supports the entire Department of Defense)—must be relocated inside the base security perimeter as a result of Force Protection requirements that have elevated the Threat Condition at March AFB. $300,000 for the Naval Sea Cadet Corps (NSCC) Program. This program defrays the costs for Cadets while promoting interest and skill in seamanship and aviation. Individual Cadet out-of-pocket costs can reach $500 per year. The NSCC youth program teaches Cadets, ages 11-17, that they must contribute to their community and country; as well as accept responsibility for their own actions. Summer training onboard Navy and Coast Guard ships and stations is a challenging training ground for developing self-confidence and self-discipline, promotion of high standards of conduct and performance, and a sense of camaraderie and teamwork. ###
04.09.2009	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (R-Corona) voted in support of H.J. Res. 10 which would amend the United States Constitution to prohibit the physical desecration of the flag. "The flag holds as many meanings as there are individuals who admire Old Glory as our nation's symbol," said Rep. Calvert. "For many, the flag is a symbol of liberty, freedom and of the price that has been paid for the way that we live. The flag reminds us, everyday, what is means to be an American; to be able to come from the most desperate circumstances and to have the opportunity to work and achieve our dreams, whatever they may be." During the Vietnam conflict, in response to the numerous flag burnings by protestors, Congress enacted the first Federal Flag Protection Act. This protection was overturned in 1989 when the U.S. Supreme Court ruled in favor of a lower court reversal of the decision in Johnson vs. Texas in which a man was charged, tried and convicted with the desecration of the flag in violation with Texas statute. That decision ruled that the flag protection statutes of 47 states and the federal statute could not be applied to a flag burning that was part of a public demonstration. Since that time, various other attempts have been made to prohibit the desecration of the flag. An amendment of the Constitution requires a two-thirds majority of each House and the amendment would then go to the states for ratification. After the submission of the ratification, three-fourths of the states must accept the amendment within seven years. "The desecration of the flag is an affront to all those who have sacrificed their lives for this country," stated Rep. Calvert. "It is not an act of free speech but an act of desperation to insight anger in order to divide people. Banning the physical desecration of the flag in no way prohibits the ability of the America people to express themselves freely but, rather, ensures that a sacred symbol of our history and heritage is preserved and guarded from desperate acts of vandalism." ###
04.09.2009	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (R-Corona) voted for H.R. 3010, the Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education Appropriations bill. This bill provides $145.5 billion in discretionary spending for Fiscal Year 2006, which begins October 1, 2005 and ends September 30, 2006. "I want to commend Chairman Lewis and Chairman Regula for crafting a well balanced bill that seeks to increase funding for key programs but holds down overall spending," said Rep. Calvert. "Chairman Lewis has done an amazing job to keep this year's appropriations process moving quickly, which is no small feat." H.R. 3010 is the ninth appropriations bill passed by the House of Representatives. Only two appropriations bills are left for consideration by the House and both are expected to be considered next week. Some of the highlights of the bill include: An increase in the maximum Pell Grant award to $4,100 per year. $190 million for Math and Science Partnerships program, which increases the number of teachers trained in math and sciences. This is an $11 million increase from FY05. $6.9 billion for the Head Start program, and increase of $56 million over FY05 levels. $28.5 billion for the National Institutes of Health (NIH), which is a $145 million increase from last year. $2.1 billion for the Ryan White AIDS Program, a $10 million increase from FY05. ###
04.09.2009	Chairman Ken Calvert's Opening Remarks Subcommittee Mark-up of H.R. 3070 NASA Authorization Act of 2005 Today, Rep. Ken Calvert (R-Corona), as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Space and Aeronautics, marked-up H.R. 3070, the National Aeronautics and Space Administration Authorization (NASA) Act. This was the first mark-up by the Subcommittee since Rep. Calvert became Chairman earlier this year. This bill, if passed and signed into law, would be the first NASA authorization bill since 2000. Chairman Calvert made the following opening statement: Today, as the new Chairman of six months of the Space and Aeronautics Subcommittee, I am delighted to preside over today's markup of the NASA Authorization bill for 2006. I also sit on the House Armed Services Committee, a committee that produces an authorizing bill every year, increasing its influence as an authorizing committee. If we want a "seat at the table," we must be part of the process. Authorizing Committees need to protect and use their jurisdiction. I want to keep our Committee on track in its oversight of NASA, the largest agency under the Science Committee's jurisdiction. I look forward to continue working with Chairman Boehlert and the members of the Subcommittee today to get this bill on the first step to being enacted. I have enjoyed working with Mr. Udall on all three committees on which we are members. I look forward to working with the other members as well, since this Committee has traditionally been very bipartisan in its outlook and efforts. I have been talking with both Mr. Udall and Mr. Gordon and am confident that we can get a bipartisan bill out in a timely manner. It is very important to go to full committee markup the week of July 11, when we return from our July 4 District Work Period and then to the House floor, the week of July 18. If we miss those windows, we will be forced to move during the busy fall time period when prospects for precious floor time grows slim. Also by then we will trail the appropriators on conferencing our bill with the Senate. NASA is ready to work with the provisions in our bill, but we all know that we have a long way to go before we get a bill to the President's desk. The Senate marked up their Authorization bill last week and is hoping to get through the Senate floor sometime in July. We have a real opportunity to get a meaningful, proactive bill out this year for the first time in a long time. Our general approach to this authorization is to get NASA back on track so that we can move forward in a constructive way, giving Dr. Griffin the flexibility he needs while providing the Congress with the proper tools to perform effective oversight. This bill represents the first time that the Vision for Space Exploration has been endorsed officially by the House of Representatives. Due to concern from both sides of the aisle regarding the direction that the rest of NASA is proceeding, we have asked for a comparable strategic plan for aeronautics and for the science programs. We have asked for these to be submitted with the FY 2007 President's Budget Request, so that in next year's Authorization we will have the information we need to do successful oversight and to construct a more prescriptive NASA Authorization. In addition to this, we have directed NASA to develop a Human Capital Strategy and to avoid any Reduction In Force or buyouts until this plan is submitted with the FY2007 President's budget request as well. NASA facilities will have a parallel study, but we allow an additional year for this strategic plan because this is really even more dependent on NASA's overall strategic plan. We have requested that the Director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy (OSTP) conduct a study to address the duplication of research and technology programs among federal agencies and whether research throughout the Federal government presents opportunities for collaboration and how it relates to for the national interest. We also direct OSTP to report back to the Congress on the funding invested by the government in each area. We have included cost control language that is similar to that of this year's House Armed Services Committee's Defense Authorization bill, which requires NASA to report to the Congress annually on the status of "major" programs, defined as a program with a life cycle cost greater than $100 million. In the event that a major program is expected to exceed its original estimated development cost by 15% or the schedule by more than 6 months, NASA is required to notify Congress. If the development cost is expected to exceed original estimated development cost by 30%, Congress will have to evaluate whether to continue the program at all. The bill contains authorization for a NASA Prize structure, modeled after the X-Prize that was won last year by famed aeronautics and aerospace engineer Burt Rutan and his SpaceShipOne team. We do not limit the amount of the prize, but do require NASA to report to the Congress before offering any prize greater than $10 million. We have a couple of housekeeping provisions that are included in this bill as well as H.R. 1022, The George E. Brown., Jr. Near Earth Object Survey bill, that was passed previously by this Committee, and H.R. 1023, The Charles "Pete" Conrad Astronomy Awards Act, also previously passed by this Committee. We have also authorized NASA's top line at $16.471 billion as the level that the House Appropriations bill included. This is about $15 million above the President's FY2006 request. No other funding levels for programs are included. I am looking forward to getting started today and taking the first step in producing a 2006 NASA Authorization bill. ###
04.09.2009	Today, Rep. Calvert supported H.R. 3058, the FY06 Treasury, Transportation, Housing and Urban Development, The Judiciary, and District of Columbia Appropriations bill. H.R. 3058 includes a total of $66.935 billion for the Fiscal Year beginning on October 1, 2005 through September 30, 2006. "I hear about transportation more than any other issue when I talk to residents of Riverside and Orange counties," said Rep. Calvert. "Although amounts of funding for projects are not specified in the bill at this time, I am confident that Riverside and Orange counties will receive federal funding before a final bill is signed into law. Congress now must complete a long-term transportation bill authorizing spending on national transportation priorities." The House has now passed all 11 appropriations bills for Fiscal Year 2006. "The House has passed all the appropriations bills before the July 4th district work period, which has not happened since I can remember," continued Rep. Calvert. "The pace set by Chairman Lewis is remarkable and I congratulate him on moving the appropriations process along. I look forward to continuing the work we have begun and to complete the appropriations process by the end of the fiscal year, if not earlier." ###
04.09.2009	Two important events are scheduled this week regarding the Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) process and its impact on the Naval Surface Warfare Center (NSWC), Corona Division. Representative Ken Calvert (R-Corona) will be available to speak with the media regarding both events. Tuesday, July 12, 2005: BRAC Commissioners James Bilbray and Philip Coyle tour NSWC, Corona. The Commissioners will tour the base facilities, speak with employees, and be briefed regarding the Navy's recommendation to close the base and move the current mission to the Naval Air Station, Point Mugu. This will not be open to the media, but it is a vital part of the community's effort to keep the base and mission in Norco. The Commissioners are expected to tour the site around 12:00 P.M. For more information call NSWC, Corona public affairs office at (951) 273-5482.Thursday, July 14, 2005: Regional BRAC Hearing in Los Angeles, open to the public. The BRAC Commissioners, the public, and the media will listen to representatives from regional communities about the impacts, costs, and benefits of closing and realigning military installation in California and Guam. Representatives for the community surrounding NSWC, Corona will have approximately 25 minutes to present their argument that the base and mission should remain in Norco. What: Regional Hearing on BRAC Where: Westchester High School Auditorium; 7400 West Manchester Avenue; Los Angeles, CA 90045 When: 1:00 P.M. Doors open at 12:30 P.M. More Info: http://www.brac.gov/meetings.asp?p=1 The Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) Commission has recommended that NSWC, Corona be closed and the mission consolidated onto another base or split into several bases. NSWC, Corona is located in Norco, CA. ###
04.09.2009	Rep. Calvert plans to vote in favor of H.R. 3199, the USA PATRIOT and Terrorism Prevention Reauthorization Act of 2005. "The Patriot Act helped break down the wall that prevented information sharing between agencies," said Rep. Calvert. "We are safer today than we were before the Patriot Act was passed because our law enforcement and homeland security agencies are working together, rather than legally separated. The Patriot Act is a no-nonsense anti-terror law that protects America without needlessly encroaching on our civil liberties." The USA PATRIOT and Terrorism Prevention Act of 2005 reauthorizes the PATRIOT Act passed in 2001 which: Removed major legal barriers that prevented the law enforcement, intelligence, and national defense communities from coordinating their work; Allowed law enforcement to use surveillance against more terror-related activities and allowed the authorization of nationwide search warrants; Updated the law to reflect new technologies and new threats; and Increased penalties for those who commit terrorist crimes and those who harbor terrorists. ###
04.09.2009	Rep. Ken Calvert (R-Corona) applauds today's vote on H.R. 3070, the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) Authorization Act of 2005. Rep. Calvert is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on Space and Aeronautics and was the chief sponsor of H.R. 3070. Today's vote is the first time in five years that a NASA authorization bill was considered by the whole House. The final bill passed with overwhelming bipartisan support by a vote of 383-15. "As we enter the Second Space Age, we must give NASA the rules and tools it needs to succeed," said Rep. Calvert. "NASA is an agency is transition. This bill gives the agency direction as it plans the next steps in space exploration, aeronautics, and other science programs. For the first time, today's vote gave Congressional approval to the President's Vision, which was announced in January 2004. "Other nations are actively pursuing human spaceflight and exploration. China alone graduates almost as many engineers in a month as we do in a year. India too graduates five times as many engineers per year as we do. NASA, with its excellent reputation in exploration, science and aeronautics is the one national agency which can focus and inspire America's youth to take up the challenging work of math and science careers. "I want to thank Chairman Boehlert and Ranking Members Gordon and Udall for their work on this bill. Space exploration, aeronautics, and the sciences have always been bipartisan and I am pleased that tradition continued today." Some of the provisions in the NASA authorization include: Endorses the President's Vision for Space Exploration to return us to the moon and preparing for missions to Mars and beyond; Encourages NASA to complete the new Crew Exploration Vehicle as close to 2010 as possible; Directs NASA to use a balanced approach to pursue human space exploration, robotic space exploration, space science aeronautics, and earth sciences; Authorizes a prize program to spur private sector development. The program is patterned after the X-Prize that was won by Burt Rutan and the SpaceShipOne Team; Permits the NASA Administrator to undertake a Hubble servicing mission. ###
04.09.2009	his week, the House considered a number of healthcare-related measures aimed at increasing access, improving quality, and lowering costs. Rep. Ken Calvert (R-Corona) issued the following statement regarding these bills: "Along with my colleagues in the House, I am committed to improving access and affordability of health care for Americans," said Rep. Calvert. "These bills take important steps to improve our health care system and lower the cost of health insurance. I hope the Senate will consider these bills quickly and help more Americans afford health insurance." Among the provisions considered this week: H.Res. 289 – Supports the goals and ideals of National Health Center Week in order to raise awareness of health services provided by community, migrant, public housing, and homeless health centers. H.R. 3204 – High Risk Pool Funding Extension Act of 2005 - Extends Federal funding for the establishment and operation of State high risk health insurance policies so that people with chronic medical conditions can afford health insurance. H.R. 525 - The Small Business Health Fairness Act – Allows small businesses to pool together to form of Association Health Plans (AHPs). AHPs would give small business owners and their employees the opportunity to purchase health care benefits comparable to those employees who work for bigger companies. H.R. 5 – Help Efficient, Accessible, Low-Cost, Timely Healthcare (HEALTH) Act – Improves patient access to health care services and provides improved medical care by reducing the excessive burden the liability system places on the health care delivery system. S. 45 – Controlled Substances Export Reform Act of 2005 - Amends the Controlled Substances Act to lift the patient limitation on prescribing drug addiction treatments by medical practitioners in group practices S. 544 – Patient Safety and Quality Improvement Act of 2005 – Provides a network of patient safety organizations that will analyze data so that patient safety is improved and the incidence of events that adversely effect patient safety are reduced. ###
04.09.2009	Today, the House of Representatives voted for final passage on H.R. 3, the Transportation Equity Act – a Legacy for Users (TEA-LU). Rep. Ken Calvert (R-Corona) issued the following statement: "Transportation impacts the daily lives of southern California residents more than other issue," said Rep. Calvert. "This bill provides more money for California than any previous federal transportation bill in history. The lack of a long-term transportation bill has created problems for CalTrans and local transportation agencies as they plan their future transportation goals. I am particularly pleased that this bill secured substantial funding to construct grade separations in Riverside and improve the transportation corridor between Riverside and Orange counties." In addition to the formula grants, which are awarded to each state, Rep. Calvert worked on specific projects which are important to his Congressional District. These projects include: $15.8 million to study and construct highway and transit alternatives between Orange County and Riverside County, building off the work of the Major Investment Study currently underway. (Note: this represents funding supported by both Rep. Chris Cox and Rep. Calvert.) $5 million for grade separations in Riverside. These funds are expected to build separations on the Burlington Northern Santa Fe (BNSF) line at Iowa Ave, Colombia Ave, and 3rd Street. (Note: Mr. Calvert would like to especially thank the California Senators for their work on this project.) $8 million for the Cajalco Road Interchange Project. The Cajalco Road Interchange Project is a key component in the effort to eliminate congestion along the I-15/60/91 corridor. Reducing congestion along this corridor is essential to improving air quality, eliminating congestion on surface roads, and supporting infrastructure needed for national goods movement from the ports of Los Angeles and Long Beach. The project also will provide efficient and direct connectivity for the March Air Reserve Base. $418,000 for the Automatic Traveler Information System (ATIS). The ATIS system will accurately monitor real time arrival information and relay the schedule to passengers. Users will be able to access the information at kiosks, bus stops, on RTA linked websites and over Interactive Voice Response (IVR) phone systems, which would significantly benefit Riverside's disabled community. Still others would utilize mobile device, such as cellular phones and PDAs to obtain instant information. $800,000 to help construct the three mile San Clemente Beach Trail. This is part of a state-wide project to improve pedestrian access to beaches and allow pedestrians and others to travel along the coast. $8 million for the Foothill South (SR-241) Extension into south Orange County. (Rep. Calvert would like to especially thank Rep. Gary Miller for his work on this project.) $400,000 for the restoration of historic Victoria Avenue in Riverside. Victoria Avenue was built to showcase the Riverside, CA citrus industry circa 1888. Officially opened by President T. Roosevelt in 1902, the avenue remained largely intact until the 1950's when residential encroachment damaged the trees and the look of the avenue. The City has halted all future encroachments, but the avenue can be restored in simple, but meaningful ways. This money would bury telephone lines that run through the avenue and create an irrigation system to water the three sides of the avenue (south, north, and median). In addition to these projects, a group of California Members worked hard to ensure funding for the Alameda Corridor East (ACE) project, which was designated a "Project of National Significance." Funding for ACE will be split equally between Riverside, Orange, San Bernardino, and Los Angeles Counties to construct grade separations and improve rail capacity. Total funding for ACE was $155 million. "This money is a solid down payment to build grade separations from the ports of L.A. and Long Beach to the California border," said Rep. Calvert. "The negative impact of trains in Riverside cannot be overstated. Our local communities bear the burdens of goods movement through southern California while the rest of the nation enjoys the benefits. That is why Alameda Corridor East was recognized for the first time as a Project of National Significance and why we received substantial funding. I will continue to support strong federal funding to build grade separations in Orange and Riverside counties." ###
04.09.2009	Earlier today, the Discovery Space Shuttle successfully returned to earth after a 14-day mission to test and evaluate new safety protocols and re-supply the International Space Station (ISS). Rep. Ken Calvert (R-Corona) issued the following statement: "Congratulations to the Discovery crew and the entire NASA team for a successful mission. The brave astronauts, led by Space Shuttle Commander Eileen Collins, did a wonderful job of testing the new safety equipment and bringing needed supplies to the ISS. Although NASA must evaluate the integrity of the foam insulation during launch, a problem it had already been working on, the new video monitoring and safety protocols allowed the Discovery crew to look closely at any damage caused during launch and to repair it successfully. "This was a test flight and it gave NASA a better understanding of how to solve the Shuttle's perplexities for future launches. Ultimately, however, I know we must retire the Shuttle and replace it with a new vehicle. I am confident that NASA Administrator Mike Griffin will work toward a new Crew Exploration Vehicle that will allow America to continue leading the world in human space flight." Rep. Calvert oversees NASA as the Chairman of the Subcommittee on Space and Aeronautics, which is part of the House Science Committee. ###
04.09.2009	Rep. Ken Calvert (R-Corona) helped welcome the first C-17 Globemaster III aircraft to March Air Reserve Base (ARB) earlier today. The aircraft, named the "Spirit of California" is the first of eight C-17s scheduled for delivery to March ARB. Rep. Calvert, whose district includes March ARB, has been a strong advocate for locating the C-17 fleet at March. "The arrival of the C-17 fleet guarantees that March Air Reserve Base will continue to play a significant role in our nation's security even as the military transforms and adapts to new conflicts," said Rep. Calvert. "There is no better aircraft than the C-17 to support combat, peacekeeping, and humanitarian missions worldwide. This aircraft is important to the nation and to our community, and I am glad to welcome the first of many C-17s to March today." The C-17 Globemaster III is produced by Boeing at a facility in Long Beach, California. It is an integrated part of our airlift capability that allows the military to transport troops, equipment, and supplies around the world. Rep. Calvert spoke during ceremonies at both locations. ###
04.09.2009	Inland Empire communities supporting the Naval Station Weapons Center, Corona, provided key information to the Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) Commission in response to their questions at a hearing on July 14th in Los Angeles. The information provided to the BRAC Commission includes a report completed by Bechtel, a widely respected engineering firm, which estimates the costs of replicating two, one-of-a-kind facilities at Pt. Mugu to be more than $59.3 million. These facilities are currently located at NSWC Corona and are critical to its mission. The Navy allocated no money for new construction of two highly customized facilities in their closure proposal. "The proposed move of NSWC Corona to NAS, Point Mugu, is fundamentally flawed and would cause significant operational risk with no financial benefit whatsoever, " Rep. Ken Calvert (R-Corona) said. "NSWC Corona has an exemplary track record of providing critical service to our nation's warfighters while simultaneously saving millions of dollars in the process. Risking this established, highly efficient national treasure for some illusory benefit is both risky and not in our nation's best interest." The community also provided information about the military value of the base as it relates to similar work completed by other Department of Defense facilities across the country. Later this month the Commission will deliberate on keeping or removing installations that were put on the list by the Department of Defense. The BRAC Commission then must deliver their recommendations to the President no later than September 8th. President Bush will have 45 days to accept or reject the list in its entirety. If accepted, the Congress will have an additional 45 days to vote on the list with a up or down vote. For additional information about the report, please contact Brian Oulman with the City of Norco Redevelopment Agency at (951) 270-5645. ###
04.09.2009	Today, Rep. Ken Calvert (R-Corona) visited the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) Ames Research Center located in Mountain View, CA. Rep. Calvert serves as the Chairman for the Subcommittee on Space and Aeronautics on the House Science Committee, a position he has held since January 2005. "Ames is going through a transition, like all of NASA," said Rep. Calvert. "Visiting the NASA centers is vital to understand the role each plays in the overall NASA mission. Ames is known for its work in aeronautics, as well as the life sciences, and technology development. As one of three NASA centers in California, it helps keep our state on the forefront of technology research." Rep. Calvert has committed to visiting each NASA center during the 109th Congress. Of the 10 NASA centers (http://www.nasa.gov/about/visiting/), Rep. Calvert has visited five so far: Ames Research Center Goddard Space Flight Center Dryden Flight Research Center The Jet Propulsion Laboratory Kennedy Space Center ###
04.09.2009	Congressman Ken Calvert (R-Corona) was pleased to announce the Rubidoux Community Service District would be the recipient of a $7 million grant from the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) Public Assistance program to repair and replace elements of the regional sewer system damaged by the 2004-2005 storms. "The recent winter storms took a heavy toll on Riverside County's local budgets and infrastructure," said Rep. Calvert. "These funds will help the region recover and prepare for future natural disasters. I applaud President Bush for declaring Riverside a major disaster area, and I am pleased that FEMA has responded by the necessary delivering funds." According to a FEMA press release, President Bush declared Riverside County eligible for public assistance on February 4, 2005, at the request of Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger for damages that occurred during storm from December 27, 2004 – January 11, 2005. The $7 million represents 75% of the project's total cost of $9.3 million. The state will pay 18.75 percent with the community services district contributing the remaining 6.25 percent. ###
04.09.2009	On August 24, 2005, the Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) Commission made a final ruling on the Naval Surface Warfare Center (NSWC), Corona Division. In an unanimous (9-0) vote, the BRAC Commission has removed NSWC, Corona from the list of bases recommended for closure. This vote reversed the single largest base closure action proposed by the Department of Defense for the state of California and preserves the jobs for over 1,000 highly skilled workers. In response to the vote, Rep. Ken Calvert (R-Corona) issued the following statement: "I am delighted by the BRAC Commission's unanimous decision today. This is a victory for our local communities, who helped show the Commissioners that the mission must remain in Norco. NSWC, Corona is the Navy's only Independent Assessment site and has a number of unique facilities, which would have been costly to replicate. The Navy's COBRA [Cost of Base Realignment Actions] analysis showed that it would take over 100 years to recoup the costs of relocating NSWC, Corona. This would have been unacceptable, especially considering the damage any move would have had on the military mission performed at the base. "Keeping NSWC, Corona in Norco is good for the military and good for the community. I would like to thank all the local community groups, including the Inland Empire Installation Support Committee, the Riverside, Corona, and Norco City Councils, the Corona and Norco Chambers of Commerce, all the state representatives, and Brian Oulman at the City of Norco for their successful work on this project." Calvert emphasized, "Economic development offices nationwide work years to attract these types of high-paying jobs that have just been saved and will remain in our community." The complete list of closures and realignments will be forwarded to the President, who must either approve or reject it. If he approves it, Congress will have 45 days to either accept or reject the list in its entirety. NSWC, Corona was listed for closure during the 1995 BRAC process, but was removed from the final list as well. ###
04.09.2009	Today, Rep. Ken Calvert (R-Corona) introduced a resolution congratulating the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) team and the Discovery crew on their successful Return-To-Flight (mission STS-114). Rep. Calvert serves as the Chairman of the Space and Aeronautics Subcommittee of the House Science Committee. "The NASA team and the Discovery crew should be praised for their successful and historic return to flight," said Rep. Calvert. "This mission was the first step in the Nation's Vision for Space Exploration and its success helps revitalize NASA, especially as the agency goes through a period of transition. Commander Eileen Collins and the entire crew did an amazing job and this legislation is a small token from a grateful nation." The Discovery mission completed a number of new procedures, such as a back-flip maneuver as the Shuttle approached the International Space Station, as well as a record-setting three spacewalks. The mission launched July 26, 2005 and returned August 9, 2005. The crew aboard the Discovery Shuttle included: Commander Eileen Collins, Pilot Jim Kelly, Mission Specialist Charlie Camarda, Mission Specialist Wendy Lawrence, Mission Specialist Soichi Noguchi, Mission Specialist Steve Robinson, and Mission Specialist Andy Thomas. ###
04.09.2009	Today, the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) released a new plan, the "Exploration Systems Architecture Study," which outlines the steps NASA plans to take in order to return to the Moon and explore our solar system. Rep. Ken Calvert, who is Chairman of the Space and Aeronautics Subcommittee on the House Science Committee, released the following statement: "As the Second Space-Age begins, America must maintain our preeminence in human space exploration and space technology. I welcome the Architecture study released today, which embodies a spirit of optimism that I believe NASA has lost in recent decades. I will consider its conclusions carefully as we move forward with a NASA authorization bill. "It is important to remember that we are pursuing human space exploration in a dynamic world, not in a vacuum. Many nations have robust space programs, including China, which has recently entered into human space flight. If America is unwilling to lead by investing in the space program, other countries will step up in our place. "Clearly, we must consider the cost of exploration in conjunction with other priorities, but I do not think the cost is prohibitive. Many people forget that an investment in our space program is an investment in the U.S. economy and U.S. education. It is in America's long-term interest to invest in space exploration, and I will continue to work with my colleagues to ensure all priorities receive appropriate funding." For more information about the reporter, visit http://www.nasa.gov/missions/solarsystem/explore_main.html. ###
04.09.2009	Today, the House passed two resolutions to honor the crew of the STS-114 Discovery and the entire National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) team. Rep. Ken Calvert (R-CA), who chairs the Subcommittee on Space and Aeronautics on the House Science Committee, sponsored H. Res. 441, which honored the entire STS-114 mission team. Rep. Carolyn Maloney (D-NY) sponsored H. Res. 450 which specifically honored the women involved in the STS-114 Discovery mission. Rep. Calvert read the following statement on the House floor: "Today we are paying tribute to real American heroes – the crew of the return-to-flight STS-114 Discovery shuttle mission and the NASA team and community on the ground. These heroes have the ‘right stuff' that inspires the nation – from kids studying math and science to all of us who are awed and inspired by NASA and our astronauts. "When I introduced this resolution less than a week ago, we had such enthusiastic support, that we quickly secured 58 bipartisan cosponsors who represent communities across the nation. When we pass this Resolution today, we plan to present a copy to each member of the Discovery crew as a token of a Nation's gratitude for their heroism. "We all worry about the competitiveness of this great nation and the fact that our school children are less competitive in math and science than many of their international peers. Currently, the U.S. share of undergraduate and graduate degrees in the sciences and engineering has been falling behind those of Asia and Europe. Intuitively, we know that we need to encourage our youth to study these challenging subjects, and with heroes like Commander Eileen Collins; Pilot Jim Kelly; and Mission Specialists Charlie Camarda; Wendy Lawrence; Soichi Noguchi; Steve Robinson; and Andy Thomas, it is much easier to inspire American students to devote their time and studies to science as we saw during the Apollo program. "The NASA family and this Discovery crew have initiated the first step of the Nation's Vision for Space Exploration. Last year, the President announced the Vision for Space Exploration which states that NASA will complete the International Space Station, will return to the Moon no later than 2020, and will extend human presence across the solar system and beyond. This week, NASA released its Exploration Architecture for this Vision, which outlines the steps NASA plans to take in order to return to the Moon and explore our solar system over the next 13 years. "In the first space age, our Nation invested in the space program to gain global leadership during the Cold War. Now we are in the Second Space Age with our global competitiveness world-wide at stake. We must have the United States at the forefront in the exploration of our solar system and the global leader with our high technology industry. Our preeminence in the world is dependent on our leadership in space. "I want to honor the STS-114 Discovery crew, who are American heroes. They are strong men and women who motivate our children and inspire our Nation and the world. They have taken the historic first step of the Vision for Space Exploration and have brought us one step closer to our Nation's destiny." ###
04.09.2009	Today, the General Accountability Office (GAO) issued a report regarding the current employer verification system and provided recommendations on how to improve it. Rep. Ken Calvert (R-Corona) is the author of H.R. 19, which would make the Basic Pilot Program mandatory for all employers nation-wide. The Basic Pilot Program was a major focus of the GAO study. In response to the study, Rep. Calvert issued the following statement: "There is a growing consensus in America that we must improve our employee verification system and turn off the job-magnet, which is the major cause of illegal immigration. The Basic Pilot Program is the only electronic verification system that automatically checks the name and Social Security Number of all new employees. People need to understand that a mandatory electronic employee verification system will be included in any comprehensive immigration bill that Congress considers and the Basic Pilot Program is the only verification system currently operating. The Basic Pilot Program is available to all employers on a voluntary system and should be made mandatory. "I welcome the GAO study and appreciate their recommendations on how to improve the Basic Pilot Program. I would like to see their recommendation implemented by the Department of Homeland Security in order to prepare the Basic Pilot Program for mandatory use." Summary of H.R. 19 and the Basic Pilot Program The Basic Pilot Program The Basic Pilot program double checks the information on employee's I-9 Immigration Forms. It may not be used as a discriminatory screening tool; only newly hired employees are checked. Since November 1997, the Social Security Administration (SSA) and the Systematic Alien Verification for Entitlements (SAVE) Program have been conducting the Basic Pilot program in the States of California, Florida, Illinois, Nebraska, New York and Texas. The program was made available to employers in all states starting December 20, 2004. The Basic Pilot involves verification checks of the SSA and the now Department of Homeland Security databases of all newly hired employees, regardless of citizenship. The Basic Pilot program is currently a voluntary program and is free to employers who volunteer to participate. The Basic Pilot is used by over 4,000 employers and used at nearly 15,000 worksites nationwide. For more information, visit http://uscis.gov/graphics/services/SAVE.htm#two. H.R. 19 would make a number of changes to the Basic Pilot program, which are summarized below. The name would change from the Basic Pilot program to the Employment Eligibility Verification System (EEVS). The authorization for the current system expires in 2008, H.R. 19 would extend it indefinitely. H.R. 19 would authorize all necessary funding for EEVS. H.R. 19 would require employers to use the program, based on the following phase-in timeline: 1 year after the enactment of the bill: Employers with more than 10,000 employees (1,500 companies) 2 years: Employers with more than 5,000 employees (an additional 3,000 companies) 3 years: Employers with more than 1,000 employees (an additional 10,000 companies) 4 years: Employers with more than 500 employees (an additional 13,200 companies) 5 years: Employers with more than 250 employees (an additional 33,000 companies) 6 years: Employers with more than 100 employees (an additional 140,000 companies) 7 years: All employers with 1 or more employees (an additional 12,000,000 companies) ###
04.09.2009	The Methamphetmine Epidemic Elimination Act was introduced today in the House of Representatives. The bipartisan bill addresses the rising crisis of methamphetamine use. Rep. Ken Calvert (R-Corona), who is a co-chair of the Congressional Caucus to Fight and Control Methamphetamines (the Meth Caucus), was one of 33 cosponsors to the bill. "The Methamphetamine Epidemic Elimination Act is a truly comprehensive, bipartisan federal effort that will aid our fight against meth on both a domestic and international level," said Rep. Calvert. "Meth destroys lives and destroys neighborhoods, and use of the drug has become an epidemic. We must pass this legislation as soon as possible and stem the growing tide of meth use in America." The bill was introduced by Rep. Mark Souder (R-IN), Chairman of the House Drug Policy Subcommittee, and cosponsored by, among others, Majority Whip Roy Blunt (R-MO) Rep. James Sensenbrenner (R-WI), Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, and all four co-chairs of the Meth Caucus. This tackles every stage of meth trafficking, including precursor control, international monitoring, environmental regulation, and criminal prosecution. The Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, and Homeland Security, which is part of the House Judiciary Committee, plans to hold a hearing on the bill early next week. ###
04.09.2009	Today, Rep. Ken Calvert voted along with a bipartisan majority (vote on passage: 26-12) of the House Resources Committee to pass H.R. 3824, the Threatened and Endangered Species Recovery Act (TESRA). This bipartisan legislation updates and modernizes the historic Endangered Species Act (ESA) of 1973. "The ESA has been in effect for more than three decades, however, most people agree that the law needs to be updated," said Rep. Calvert. "Today's markup and passage of TESRA is an important first step towards improving this law. TESRA is an appropriate fix that has drawn bipartisan support because it places a greater emphasis on recovering endangered species, which is the ultimate goal of the original ESA." TESRA updates and improves the ESA by: Replacing the critical habitat program with a more integrated recovery planning process that includes the identification of specific areas that are of special value to the conservation of the species which are then given priority in recovery efforts Codifying the No Surprises/Assurances policy for persons developing habitat conservation plans Compensating private property owners for the fair market value of loss of use for foregone use of their property During the Resources Committee markup, Rep. Calvert offered an amendment to strengthen habitat conservation plans (HCP), such as the Western Riverside County Multi-Species Habitat Conservation Plan (MSHCP). The inclusion of this provision would allow landowners to move forward with previously authorized activities without having to endure a second, duplicative consultation process. This amendment was withdrawn at the request of the Committee Chairman, who pledged to work with Rep. Calvert to address this issue as the legislation moves forward. "Removing this costly and time consuming consultation process, which these activities have already undergone, will encourage more landowners to create HCPs," said Rep. Calvert. "There is broad consensus that developing a comprehensive regional HCP is the best way to preserve habitat necessary for species recovery. My amendment, if included in the final legislation, combined with the provision to codify the No Surprises assurance policy will improve the conservation of species habitat by encouraging landowners to develop HCPs." ###
04.09.2009	Congressman Ken Calvert (R-Corona) was pleased to announce the Corona Fire Department would be the recipient of a $109,185 grant from the Department of Homeland Security Firefighters Grant Program. "I am pleased that the Corona Fire Department will receive these funds to improve our safety," said Rep. Calvert. "In the wake of Hurricanes Katrina and Rita, it is clear our nation needs to strengthen our emergency response system. This grant helps our local first responders take a step forward and make our region safer." The Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program assists local fire departments to purchase firefighting equipment, fund firefighter health and safety programs, enhance emergency medical services programs, and conduct fire education and prevention programs throughout the United States. For Fiscal Year 2005, Congress appropriated approximately $650 million for local fire grants. The Program is administered by the Department of Homeland Security in cooperation with the Department's United States Fire Administration. For more information on the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program, please visit the Program Website at http://www.firegrantsupport.com/, or contact the Grants Program Office at 1-866-274-0960. For more information on USFA, please visit the Website at http://www.usfa.fema.gov/. ###
04.09.2009	Today, the Congressional Caucus to Fight and Control Methamphetamines (Meth Caucus) held a first-ever "Meth Roundtable." The roundtable allowed members of the Meth Caucus to speak with representatives from seven Federal agencies. Rep. Ken Calvert (R-Corona), who is one of the Meth Caucus co-chairs, helped coordinate the roundtable. "The Administration needs to better understand the urgency of addressing meth use in America," said Rep. Calvert. "I believe today's roundtable was a good first step to developing a coordinated federal strategy that addresses all aspects of this terrible drug. Today's event was a truly unique opportunity to have a dialogue between Congress and the Administration. However, the federal government's efforts have not been sufficient enough to defeat this scourge and the Meth Caucus will continue to bring attention to this issue until we see real improvements." An estimated 20 Members showed up during the hour and a half roundtable. The Meth Caucus has 127 Members and is one of the largest Caucuses on Capitol Hill. The Agency Representatives were: Dr. Dave Murray, Office of National Drug Control Policy; Joe Rannazzisi, Drug Enforcement Agency; Jonathan Farrar, Deputy Assistant Secretary, Department of State; Dr. Westley Clark, Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration; Dr. Nora Volkow, National Institute of Drug Abuse; Ralph Utley, Department of Homeland Security; Lisa Boyton, Environmental Protection Agency; and Randy Deitz, Environmental Protection Agency ###
04.09.2009	Today, Rep. Ken Calvert voted in favor of H.R. 3824, the Threatened and Endangered Species Recovery Act (TESRA). The bill was approved in the House by a vote of 229-193. This bipartisan legislation updates and modernizes the historic Endangered Species Act (ESA) of 1973. "ESA reform is long overdue," said Rep. Calvert. "Today, the House enacted significant improvements to the ESA that restores balanced protections to species as well as landowners. This legislation creates meaningful changes that will increase the government's focus on recovering species, while eliminating bureaucratic processes that consume limited resources and provide no additional benefits for species." Rep. Calvert submitted an amendment to H.R. 3824 that allows actions authorized under an approved Section 10 permit to be carried out without being subject to a second Section 7 consultation. This amendment was included as part of the Manager's amendment and in the final House-passed legislation. "This provision makes a common-sense change to allow actions already approved as part of a habitat conservation plan (HCP) to be carried out without having to undergo a second, duplicative consultation process. The Western Riverside County Multi-Species HCP was a historic undertaking involving local government, resource agencies, landowners, and environmentalists. The actions and plans outlined in this comprehensive agreement will be able to be effectively implemented in a timelier and less costly manner if this provision becomes law. Combined with the codification of the "No Surprises" assurance, this provision will strengthen and improve the implementation of every HCP." TESRA updates and improves the ESA by: Replacing the critical habitat program with a more integrated recovery planning process that includes the identification of specific areas that are of special value to the conservation of the species which are then given priority in recovery efforts Codifying the "No Surprises" assurances policy for persons developing habitat conservation plans Providing for the use of the best available scientific data in all decisions Creating several new tools - contracts, agreements and grants - to provide incentives for conserving endangered species Allowing private property owners to request a written determination from the Interior Secretary whether use of their property would violate the ESA and get a straight "yes" or "no" answer Compensating private property owners for the fair market value of loss of use for foregone use of their property ###
04.09.2009	Today, the House Resources Subcommittee on Water and Power heard testimony on H.R. 3929, the Dana Point Desalinization Project Authorization Act, which is sponsored by Rep. Ken Calvert (R-Corona). H.R. 3929 would authorize $2.5 million for the Interior Department to assist with preliminary engineering and environmental studies for the Dana Point Desalinization Project. No construction dollars are authorized in this legislation. "Federal participation in the relatively small desalination project in Dana Point could have a big impact on the future development of desalination projects nationwide," said Rep. Calvert. "The Dana Point Desalination Project is not a typical desalination project. The project would use a unique subsurface ocean intake system that would collect water that naturally seeps through the ocean floor. This provides a number of benefits over traditional intake systems, including removing the negative impacts on marine life as well as potentially reducing the need for extensive pretreatment filtration." Jack Garner, Acting Deputy Commissioner of the Bureau of Reclamation, was among those who testified regarding the bill. He noted that the "[Bureau of] Reclamation consistently strives to select research, development, and demonstration projects that promise to be innovative and could be applied by others if proven effective. The feasibility study that H.R. 3929 would authorize may present an opportunity for innovation. It would employ beach wells on a scale not previously tested." Rep. Calvert urged the Resources Committee to consider H.R. 3929 and report it to the whole House for passage. ###
04.09.2009	Today, Rep. Ken Calvert (R-Corona) voted to approve the Gasoline for America's Security (GAS) Act, which now must be considered by the Senate. "We desperately need to increase our country's gas refinery capacity, which has not kept up with increases in demand," said Rep. Calvert. "One of the contributing factors to the high prices at the pump is our deficiency of refinery capacity." For the first seven months of 2005, total capacity at operating refineries was 17 million barrels per day, while total United States demand averages nearly 21 million barrels per day. This growing gap is met by an increasing amount of imports of refined products from foreign sources. Refined petroleum product imports are expected to grow from 7.9 percent to 10.7 percent of total refined product by 2025. "I have serious concerns about the fact that the U.S. is now relying more and more on other countries to supply us with refined gasoline in addition to our dependence to oil," continued Pre. Calvert. "Combined, the increased need to import gas and oil raises serious national security concerns on top of the fact that it is hurting Americans in their pocketbook." In an attempt to increase refinery capacity, the GAS Act reforms cumbersome siting procedures for projects at the request of a state's governor or on providentially designated federal lands. Other provisions of the GAS Act include: Directs the Secretary of Energy to establish and carry out a program to encourage the use of carpooling and vanpooling to reduce the consumption of gasoline. Creates a grant program for state and local governments for carpooling or vanpooling projects. Creates, for the first time, a federal law prohibiting price gouging of gasoline or diesel fuel sales. Establishes a Commission for the Deployment of the Hydrogen Economy and requires the Commission to develop a strategic plan to achieve mass commercialization of hydrogen as energy source for stationary fuel cells and vehicle fuel cells. ###
04.09.2009	Today Congressman Ken Calvert (R-CA) issued the following statement in response to the announcement that the University of California, Riverside received preliminary accreditation for the new medical school: "Yesterday marked the culmination of many years of work by local, state and federal officials, in partnership with community and business leaders, to bring a medical school to UCR. I would like to thank UCR Chancellor Timothy White for his determination as well as Dr. G. Richard Olds, the dean of our new medical school. "The new medical school will train much-needed health professionals to serve our area as well as encourage UCR, and other local college graduates, to pursue their medical degree here in the Inland Empire. I know all of us are proud of UCR and our community on this momentous occasion." UCR will be able to recruit students for the charter class of 50 medical students, enrolling in August 2013. ###
04.09.2009	Today, Rep. Ken Calvert (R-Corona) visited the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) Johnson Space Center in Houston, TX. Rep. Calvert serves as the Chairman for the Subcommittee on Space and Aeronautics on the House Science Committee. Rep. Calvert had visited the Johnson Space Center previously, but today is his first visit to Johnson since he took over the Chairmanship in January 2005. "Johnson Space Center is taking a lead role in moving NASA into the Second Space Age," said Rep. Calvert. "Like all of NASA, Johnson Space Center is going through a time of transition and today's visit helps me better understand their needs and capabilities." Rep. Calvert has authored legislation, H.R. 3070, which endorses the Vision for Space Exploration and helps NASA assess its areas strengths and assets. H.R. 3070 has passed the House and a companion bill, S. 1281, has passed the Senate. Rep. Calvert has committed to visiting each NASA center during the 109th Congress. Of the 10 NASA centers (http://www.nasa.gov/about/visiting/), Rep. Calvert has visited six so far: Ames Research Center Goddard Space Flight Center Dryden Flight Research Center The Jet Propulsion Laboratory Johnson Space Center Kennedy Space Center ###
04.09.2009	Today, the House passed two bills which Rep. Ken Calvert (R-Corona) had cosponsored. H.R. 758, the Aerospace Revitalization Act, will develop a strategy to improve the aerospace workforce in the U.S. H.Res. 485 celebrates Red Ribbon Week and the U.S. fight against drug abuse. Regarding H.R. 758, Rep. Calvert said, "This bill is important to ensure America continues to lead the world in aerospace development. The aerospace workforce is aging and I am proud to support H.R. 758, which is a practical step to address the future workforce shortage in an industry that bring so much to our national economy." Rep. Calvert is Chairman of the Space and Aeronautics Subcommittee on the House Committee, which has jurisdiction over the aerospace industry. He also submitted the following attached statement in support of the bill. This week (October 23-31, 2005) is Red Ribbon Week, which commemorates the life of Special Agent Enrique Camerena of the Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA), who was kidnapped, tortured, and murdered by drug dealers in Mexico in March 1985. Red Ribbon Week helps preserve Special Agent Camarena's memory and further the cause for which he gave his life, the fight against the violence of drug crime and the misery of addiction. "The fight against drug abuse, and the impact drugs have on our communities, is not over," said Rep. Calvert. "Although we have had some success in fighting certain drugs, but there is a growing epidemic of the abuse of methamphetamines throughout the nation. This week helps remind us all that drug abuse is a very real problem and we must be vigilant in our efforts to eradicate it from our nation." ###
04.09.2009	Today, Rep. Ken Calvert (R-Corona) supported S. 1713, the Iran Nonproliferation Act (INA), which passed by a voice vote. The bill extends the INA to allow the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) to cooperate with the Russian space program on the International Space Station until 2012. Rep. Calvert is a cosponsor of the bill and is Chairman of the Space and Aeronautics Subcommittee on the House Science Committee. Rep. Calvert submitted the following statement for the record: Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of S. 1713 as amended, which strengthens the Nation's nonproliferation principals and objectives while allowing NASA to meet its operational and programmatic needs with regard to the International Space Station (ISS), as called for in the President's Vision for Space Exploration. I am pleased to be a cosponsor of such important legislation with my colleagues and friends, Chairman Hyde, Ranking Member Lantos, Chairman Boehlert, and Cong. Rohrabacher. This amendment is timely. NASA must revise its agreement and contractual arrangements with the Russian Federal Space Agency quickly in order to ensure uninterrupted training beyond October 2005. The next ISS crew is scheduled to fly on the Russian Soyuz in April 2006. If this amendment is not enacted, INA restrictions will prevent a continued presence of U.S. crew onboard the ISS and limit U.S. presence onboard the ISS to Space Shuttle visits. We could lose our leadership role on the International Space Station. I know this amendment has been negotiated and discussed by many of my colleagues, who recognize the extreme importance of passing a measure which allows NASA to continue with its current role on the Space Station. I am a sponsor of this legislation and, at the same time, I have been concerned that we not be so restrictive on NASA to prevent them from doing their mission. S. 1713 as amended grants NASA the authority to procure urgent required goods and services from Russia, including crew rescue, to allow continuing ISS operations in the most safe and effective way possible. Some of these goods and services will be required from 2012 to the end of the program's operation. Moreover, ISS is an operational program that continues to evolve, requiring enough flexibility to deal with emerging issues over time. Consequently, Congress may need to address this issue again at a later date. We should be watchful as we move forward that we are able to maintain the ISS and to retain our leadership role. As the Chairman of the House Space and Aeronautics Subcommittee, I am mindful of the importance of a continued American presence in space. This amendment moves in the right direction by supporting those Russian entities which are compliant, while helping to solve near-term problems for NASA and its international partners. Without legislative action, NASA will have limited access to the ISS until the U.S. Crew Exploration Vehicle is ready to be deployed. I urge my colleagues to pass S. 1713 as amended as expeditiously as possible. I also salute my colleagues for bringing this important legislation to the floor in such a timely manner and plan to offer my support as we pass this legislation today in the House of Representatives. ###
04.09.2009	Rep. Ken Calvert (R-Corona) voted on the final resolution which officially sets the 2005 Base Realignment And Closure (BRAC) list and spares the Naval Surface Warfare Center (NSWC), Corona Division from closure. NSWC, Corona tests new military hardware before they are issued to our troops. Rep. Calvert voted to defeat the resolution of disapproval (H.J.Res. 65) today (thereby approving of the final BRAC list), which failed by a vote of 85-324. NSWC, Corona is located in Norco, CA. "Today is a day of celebration in our local communities because today's vote officially put to rest the struggle to spare NSWC, Corona from being closed," said Rep. Calvert. "When the DoD originally recommended that NSWC, Corona be closed, our community and the base employees showed that the costs of moving the base and loss of work to their mission far outweighed any benefit they military hoped to receive. That is why the BRAC Commission voted unanimously to retain the mission at NSWC, Corona. I am proud to have had a role in protecting the base from closure and I congratulate the local community leaders for their efforts." The BRAC process allows Congress to disapprove of the proposed list within 45 legislative days after the President approves the list. If either chamber does not pass a resolution of disapproval within that time frame, the BRAC list is completed and the Department of Defense must carry out the realignment and closure orders. According to the BRAC Commission, the BRAC process expects to save $35.6 billion over the next 20 years.
04.09.2009	Today, a joint hearing of the House Science and House Government Reform Committees held a hearing to examine the National Aeronautics and Space Administration's (NASA) financial management practices. Rep. Ken Calvert, as chair of the Subcommittee on Space and Aeronautics (Science), co-chaired the hearing alongside Rep. Todd Platts, the chair of the subcommittee Government Finance, Management, and Accountability (Government Reform). "As the Second Space Age begins, NASA will push the limits of our knowledge, and it is therefore critical that NASA manages their budget to incorporate all the missions they have been asked to undertake," said Rep. Calvert. "Today's hearing showed that NASA is beginning to understand that its missions will grown in the coming years and that they are establishing the right methods to take on these missions." Rep. Calvert made the following opening statement: This morning, I want to welcome Congressman Todd Platts, Chairman of the Subcommittee on Government Management, Finance, and Accountability of the House Committee on Government Reform, as we co-chair this important joint hearing on NASA's Financial Management system. I also want to welcome my Ranking Democrat Mark Udall and Ranking Democrat Edolphus Towns, of the same Subcommittee on Government Management, Finance and Accountability. As you know, I am a strong supporter of NASA. I want NASA to be successful. However, as a businessman, I also know that without sound financial management, NASA will not be able to achieve the goals that have been set for its programs. Sound financial management is an integral part of any successful results driven organization. I have met with Ms. Sykes and Mr. Ciganer and know that they are working very hard to fix the problems with NASA's financial management operations. The Government Accountability Office (GAO) will be releasing a report at this hearing today that summarizes NASA's progress in implementing the recommendations made by GAO over the last two years. The GAO found that NASA has closed out only three of the 45 recommendations and 13 of the recommendations have only been partially implemented. This leaves 29 recommendations that are still open. While NASA has made some progress, clearly there's a long way to go. When I met with Ms. Sykes and Mr. Ciganer, they told me that there have been some improvements to NASA's financial management system: monthly statements are now more timely for the programs and centers, although there are concerns over the accuracy of these statements; NASA has improved controls over its assets; and, the financial management teams at the NASA centers now report to the agency CFO, Ms. Sykes. Although there are definitely many financial management problems ahead for NASA, I am hopeful that the agency may be turning the corner in a more positive direction as it wrestles with these very difficult, but critical, financial management challenges. I am concerned that in three of the past four years, independent auditors have been unable to give NASA's financial records a passing grade. Administrator Griffin, when he testified before the Science Committee in June, characterized the status of NASA's financial management as "deplorable." Not only is financial management critical to successful operation of the agency, but we in the Congress also need reliable financial information in order to carry out effective oversight. We don't want to risk the future of NASA's new programs and ventures, because of assumptions that are built on a shaky financial infrastructure. I want to see this great nation lead in the areas of exploration, aeronautics and the sciences, and don't want us to risk this leadership with unstable underpinnings in the agency's financial system. I look forward to hearing from our witnesses today as they identify the problems that NASA is facing, as well as offer solutions so that NASA address these challenges and manage its important programs successfully. ###
04.09.2009	Today, Rep. Ken Calvert (R-Corona) voted in favor H.R. 420, the Lawsuit Abuse Reduction Act, which would reduce frivolous lawsuits. Rep. Calvert cosponsored H.R. 420, which passed the House by a vote of 228-184. "H.R. 420 helps so many businesses, school boards, and doctors who are overwhelmed by frivolous lawsuits," said Rep. Calvert. "Our legal system rewards people who file frivolous lawsuits because there are few penalties for filing even the most egregious claims. Trial lawyers can convince innocent defendants to settle out of court due to the high cost of a legal defense. Our system needs reforms like those in H.R. 420." The legislation would reduce lawsuit abuse by: Restoring mandatory sanctions on attorneys, law firms, or parties who file frivolous lawsuits; Abolishing the "safe harbor" provision that allows parties and their attorneys to avoid sanctions by withdrawing a suit within 21 days after a motion for sanctions has been filed; Permitting monetary sanctions, including reimbursement of reasonable attorney's fees and litigation costs in connection with frivolous lawsuits; and Provides a national solution to prevent forum shopping by requiring personal injury cases only be brought only where the plaintiff resides, where the plaintiff was allegedly injured, where the circumstances of the injury occurred, or where the defendant's principal place of business is located. ###
04.09.2009	Representative Ken Calvert (CA-44th) is pleased to have important local and state projects included in the final Fiscal Year 2006 Agriculture Appropriations bill (H.R. 2744), which passed the House by a vote of 318-63. "Agriculture continues to be one of the most significant industries in California and this bill will provide important funding for a number of programs that are vital to our state," said Rep. Calvert. "Locally, the University of California, Riverside plays a key role through its world-class agriculture and exotic pest research. I am delighted that they will continue to receive funds for their invaluable work." The following projects were included at Rep. Calvert's request: $1,929,000 for Exotic Pests and Diseases Research at the University of California at Riverside's Center for Invasive Species Research. Exotic pests and invasive species have an enormous economic impact on California, costing agriculture an estimated $3 billion annually. To address these issues, the Center for Invasive Species Research coordinates research to prevent and combat pest invasions and provides sound science informing public policy decisions. $24,250,000 for Pierce's Disease containment and inspection programs at the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (APHIS). Funds will be used by APHIS for eradication and control activities related to Pierce's Disease. Pierce's Disease is a lethal disease of grapevine caused by a bacteria spread by certain kinds of leafhoppers known as glassy-winged sharpshooters. $2,211,000 for Pierce's Disease research at the University of California. Combined with state and private efforts, funding for this research will help the grape growing industry develop more resistant grapevines. $200,000 for the Irrigation Controller Installation Program at the Municipal Water District of Orange County (MWDOC). Funds will enable MWDOC to install a smart irrigation controller system that uses cutting edge technology to regulate the amount of water that is delivered based on weather conditions, soil, slope, and type of landscape. This system could save the residents of Orange County as much as 30,000 acre feet of water every year on a reoccurring basis. ###
04.09.2009	Yesterday, the Conference Report to the Fiscal Year 2006 Energy and Water Development Appropriations Act was completed and filed. The House of Representatives is expected to approve the Conference Report later this week. This legislation includes funding for civil works projects of the Army Corps of Engineers, the Department of the Interior's Bureau of Reclamation, most of the Department of Energy, and a number of independent agencies. "Over the past year all Americans were reminded about the importance of flood control projects" said Rep. Calvert. "Southern Californians witnessed a historic rainy season this past winter and it is vital that our local flood control projects be completed in a timely manner. We must also continue to invest in projects that increase our water supply. This legislation funds a number of significant projects that will provide Californians with safe, reliable, and clean water." The following local projects were supported by Rep. Calvert: $61,650,000 for the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers construction of the Santa Ana River Mainstem Project which includes the Prado Dam. This is a major regional flood control project that will protect over 3 million people living and working in the floodplain. $288,000 for the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers beach nourishment project in San Clemente. These funds will be used to complete the feasibility study and begin preconstruction and design of the project. $100,000 for planning and engineering activities for the Riverside-Corona Feeder water project, which will consist of 20 wells and 28 miles of pipeline and will manage the ground water levels through new pumping capacity that will deliver new water supply. $250,000 for the San Juan Creek watershed feasibility study of flood control, ecosystem restoration, water quality, water supply solutions, and riding and hiking trails for the lower portion of the San Juan Creek watershed. $2,250,000 for the Groundwater Replenishment System in Orange County. This purification project takes highly treated wastewater currently sent to the ocean by the Orange County Sanitation District and through advanced treatment with micro-filtration, reverse osmosis, and ultraviolet light with hydrogen peroxide treatment, produces near-distilled quality water. $169,000 for the Orange County Special Area Management Plan (SAMP) for San Diego Creek, San Juan Creek, and San Mateo Creek. This planning effort will integrate aquatic resources into existing and developing multi-species habitat conservation plans. $550,000 for flood control upgrades along Heacock and Cactus Channels. Flooding from these channels spills onto neighborhood roads and causes such significant erosion that roads are threatened with undermining. The flooding also impacts roads and facilities on March Air Reserve Base. $5,000,000 for the Upper Newport Bay ecosystem restoration project. The Upper Newport Bay, a 752 acre ecological preserve, is one of the largest coastal wetlands in Southern California. The project will restore this habitat and prevent future widespread degradation of the preserve in the future. $3,750,000 for the continued construction of the Murrieta Creek Flood Control Project. This project was designed in response to a significant flood event in 1993 that resulted in over $12 million in damages. The project is a key component of the economic development, environmental restoration, and recreational activities in our region. $1,000,000 for the development of the Inland Empire Regional Water Recycling Project. This project is one of the largest water recycling projects in the nation and will annually provide 95,000 acre-feet of high quality recycled water for outdoor irrigation, industrial reuse and groundwater recharge. $350,000 to continue the ongoing Aliso Creek Mainstem study to examine channel stability and environmental restoration. Channel degradation and flood damage along the mainstem of Aliso Creek and some of its tributaries has cause severe environmental degradation. CALFED The purpose of the California Bay-Delta account is to fund the federal share of water supply and reliability improvements, ecosystem improvements and other activities being developed for the Sacramento-San Joaquin Delta and associated watersheds by a State and Federal partnership (CALFED). In 2005, the CALFED Bay-Delta Authorization Act was enacted (P.L. 108–361), authored by Rep. Ken Calvert. This legislation authorized federal appropriations for fiscal year 2005 through fiscal year 2010. "Thanks to the reauthorization of CALFED, Congress can now provide long overdue funds for the federal participation in CALFED," said Rep. Calvert. "While CALFED continues to face a number of challenges, it is crucial that the federal government play an active role." The Energy & Water Appropriations bill provides $37 million in direct spending for the CALFED Bay-Delta Program in fiscal year 2006, nearly four times the amount spent last year. California water agencies are applauding the funding as key to keeping important projects for environmental, water supply, flood control and water quality moving forward. The funding is divided into the following programs: $11.5 million for storage program feasibility studies $8.8 million for the Environmental Water Account $4.8 million for conveyance $500,000 for planning and management $5.9 million for water use efficiency $2.5 million for ecosystem restoration in the Sacramento River Small Diversion Fish Screen Program $1 million for interagency ecological science program The bill also provides $500,000 for a CALFED 180 Day Study to determine the levee stability reconstruction projects and priorities that will be carried out through 2010. This study, as well as the projects it will prioritize, was authorized by Rep. Calvert's CALFED legislation. ###
04.09.2009	Yesterday, the Conference Report to the Fiscal Year 2006 Science, State, Commerce, and Justice Appropriations Bill (H.R. 2862) was completed and filed. The House of Representatives is expected to approve the Conference Report later this week. This legislation includes funding for the Departments of State, Commerce, and Justice as well as the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA). Congressman Calvert was particularly pleased that the bill included funds for local law enforcement grants, "methamphetamine hot spots" grants, the State Criminal Alien Assistance Program (SCAAP), and full funding for NASA. Congressman Calvert chairs the Science Subcommittee on Space and Aeronautics, which oversees NASA. "This bill funds a number of vital programs that help local law enforcement agencies to better communicate with other first responders, fight against methamphetamines, and deal with the cost of arresting and prosecuting illegal immigrants," said Rep. Calvert. "I am also pleased with the strong level of funding for NASA, which is needed as America enters into the Second Space Age and as NASA works to fulfill the Vision for Space Exploration." The following local projects were supported by Rep. Calvert: $150,000 for the City of Corona, CA, Police Department for law enforcement technologies $2,000,000 for San Bernardino County, CA, and Riverside County, CA Sheriff's Department for a regional fingerprint identification project $150,000 for Orange County, CA, District Attorney Office for law enforcement equipment and research The following is a partial list of programs supported by Rep. Calvert: $416 million for Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant program $63.6 million for "meth hot spots" under the Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS) Grant program $20 million for the Office of Justice Programs to help clean up hazardous materials from meth labs $405 million for the State Criminal Alien Assistance Program (SCAAP) to reimburse local law enforcement agencies for the cost of arresting and prosecuting illegal aliens $16.5 billion for NASA $1.69 billion for the Drug Enforcement Agency $5.65 billion for the National Science Foundation ###
04.09.2009	The Congressional Meth Caucus announced today its top priorities for anti-meth efforts for the President's National Drug Control Strategy for 2006. The Congressional Caucus to Fight and Control Methamphetamine (Meth Caucus) and its four Co-Chairs sent the White House its recommendations and suggested priorities last week in a letter to the Office of National Drug Control Policy (ONDCP). In a pointed letter to White House Drug Czar John Walters, the Co-Chairs and members of the Caucus urged the President's National Drug Control Strategy for 2006 to take aggressive and additional efforts to raise the profile of methamphetamine as part of the nation's overall drug interdiction strategy. Co-Chair Ken Calvert (R-CA) said, "I have seen first-hand the devastation meth use has on local communities. It is time for the Administration, working with state and local officials, to develop a comprehensive plan to stop the spread of meth production and use. I look forward to working with President Bush to ensure the National Drug Control Strategy for 2006 recognizes the meth epidemic and includes strong law enforcement tactics, limitations on meth precursor drugs, and treatment for met addicts" Co-Chair Rick Larsen (D-WA) said, "The Meth Caucus is 130-members strong. We will not let up until this administration recognizes that there is a meth epidemic in this country and executes a federal response equal to the magnitude of this growing problem." In September 2005, the Meth Caucus hosted a roundtable discussion with the ONDCP and six other federal agencies. During that meeting, members expressed their frustration with the administration's view that the current federal anti-meth response is appropriate. They urged the administration to move forward with many of the recommendations they set in writing in their letter to ONDCP. "Meth is a problem in every corner of our country, from Utah through California to New York. It destroys careers, families, and lives," said Co-Chair Chris Cannon (R-UT). "This evil will not be stopped by placing it on the backburner or focusing elsewhere. We have to fight it with a will to win." "The Meth Caucus has worked tirelessly to focus more attention and resources on our nation's growing meth problem," said Co-Chair Leonard Boswell (D-IA). "We need to recognize meth as the national epidemic it is and provide a comprehensive approach to dealing with this issue." The recommendations in the letter to ONDCP include: Support funding for federal programs that help local communities and law enforcement like the Byrne-JAG and COPS programs Continue to work with Canada and Mexico to stem the flow of precursors into the U.S. Endorse federal measures to reduce the amount of pseudoephedrine available for sale to consumers Expand the drug court system and develop programs specifically for meth users Develop national guidelines for the remediation of former meth labs and establish a standard for when a former lab is safe to inhabit Develop national guidelines for states to use in working with law enforcement and social service agencies to collaboratively establish methods to respond to meth labs and ensure child safety Establish a study of health effects on children who have been exposed to meth labs The Meth Caucus is made up of 130 Members of Congress. Among other goals, the Caucus works to raise national awareness of the dangers posed by meth abuse and to advance strong public policy to fight against meth manufacturing, distribution and use. ###
04.09.2009	Today, Rep. Ken Calvert (R-Corona) supported several bills which were considered by the House before the Thanksgiving recess. Military Quality of Life, Veterans Affairs, Transportation, and Housing and Urban Development Appropriations Today, Rep. Calvert also voted in favor of two appropriations bills: H.R. 3058, the Transportation, Treasury, Housing and Urban Development, the Judiciary, and the District of Columbia Appropriations Act, and H.R. 2528, the Military Quality of Life and Veterans Affairs Appropriation Act. H.R. 3058 passed the House by a vote of 392-31; H.R. 2528 passed by a vote of 427-0. "I am pleased that many worthwhile local projects were included in the appropriations bill," said Rep. Calvert. California consistently receives less in federal appropriations than it pays in federal taxes. Local Funding Highlights of H.R. 3058 include: $1,000,000 for SR-91 Chokepoint Elimination in Corona, CA $300,000 for planning and design on the Streeter Avenue Railroad Grade Crossing in Riverside, CA $750,000 for the Riverside Transit Center $500,000 for the Corona Transit Center $100,000 to the City of Riverside for the development of a Technology Center within University Research Park $100,000 to the Riverside Community College for facility construction of the School of Nursing $100,000 to the City of Corona for the renovation of the Old City Hall $100,000 to the City of Riverside for construction of a pedestrian bridge in the California Citrus State Park $2,000,000 for WESTART/CalStart to study hybrid bus technologies $225,000 for the Mission at San Juan Capistrano to renovate the Mission's security and environment systems General Funding Highlights of H.R. 2528 include: Veterans Medical Care and Benefits: Veterans Medical Services are funded at $22.5 billion, $575 million above the budget request and $1.7 billion above FY05. Over the last two years, funding for Veterans medical care has increased by 18%. Mental Health Services-For the first time ever, $2.2 billion is fenced for specialty mental health care and the bill doubles funding for mental health research. Veteran's Benefits are increased $1.9 billion over last year. Military Construction: Total military construction funding is $6.2 billion, $5.1 billion for active duty construction and $1.1 billion for reserve components. $4.0 billion for family housing construction and operations, $223 million above the request to continue the goal of providing adequate housing for our servicemembers and their families. Base realignment and closure activities are funded at $1.8 billion, $255 million for prior BRAC rounds and $1.5 billion for BRAC 2005. Other Items: Bill requires a comprehensive study on Post Traumatic Stress Disorder focusing on improving mental health research, care, and access to information. Includes $50 million for various force protection measures for soldiers stationed in Iraq. ###
04.09.2009	Early this morning, Rep. Calvert voted in favor of the of H.R. 4241, the Deficit Reduction Act of 2005, which is part of the budget reconciliation process demanded in the Fiscal Year 2006 Budget Act. The House passed H.R. 4241 by a vote of 217-215. "Today's vote is an important victory for American taxpayers," said Rep. Calvert. "H.R. 4241 will help reduce the budget deficit and strengthen core social programs by shoring up their long-term finances. This bill makes common-sense reforms to reduce waste, fraud, and abuse. It is myth that program funding is being cut. If H.R. 4241 becomes law, mandatory spending will continue to grow at 5.6%, rather than the estimated 5.7%. There is a fundamental difference between program cuts and slowing the rate of a program's growth. "I have been struck by the hypocritical rhetoric being used by some of my colleagues who deride the budget deficit yet oppose every effort to rein in spending," continued Rep. Calvert. "Every time someone claims to support reducing the deficit, you should look no further than today's vote." This is the first time in almost a decade – since 1997 – that Congress used the reconciliation process to reduce the deficit through reforms in the mandatory spending programs. ###
04.09.2009	Rep. Ken Calvert (R-Corona) voted in support of H.R. 4297, the Tax Relief Extension Reconciliation Act of 2005. Under current law, tax rates will automatically rise unless Congress passes an extension. The House passed the bill by a vote of 234-197. "The U.S. economy has grown by an average of 4.1% since the Congress passed Tax Relief in 2003," said Rep. Calvert. "Our economic dynamism is a tribute to American businesses and policies which encourage new investment. The Tax Relief Extension Reconciliation Act simply continues those economic policies which have led to nearly 4.5 million new jobs. This bill does not cut taxes, rather this bill prevents an automatically tax increase, which will dampen our economic growth and hurt small businesses." The key provisions in this legislation include extending the reduced tax rates on capital gains and dividend income through 2010. According to the Joint Committee on Taxation, over 60 percent of Americans receiving capital gains or dividend income have incomes of $100,000 or less and stand to benefit from the passage of today's bill. ###
04.09.2009	Today, Rep. Ken Calvert (R-Corona) applauds the anticipated House passage of H.R. 798, the Methamphetamine Remediation Research Act. Rep. Calvert was a co-sponsor of H.R. 798, and used his position as co-chair of the Congressional Caucus on Methamphetamine to lobby for consideration on the House floor. "Meth abuse is an epidemic in many parts of our nation and I am happy to report that Congress is moving to combat this problem," said Rep. Calvert. "H.R. 798 addresses the horrific environmental impacts of meth labs by establishing procedures and standards needed to decontaminate a site where a methamphetamine lab is found so our communities can more thoroughly remediate these sites." Rep. Calvert submitted the following speech for the Congressional Record: Mr. Speaker, I am proud to have joined Mr. Gordon and Mr. Boehlert as a lead sponsor of this legislation - H.R. 798, the Methamphetamine Remediation Research Act of 2005. I thank Mr. Gordon for bringing this very important issue to the Congress' attention and Mr. Boehlert for steering the bill quickly through the Science Committee. I also thank the Science Committee's Majority and Minority staffs who have diligently worked together for the last two years to develop and revise this legislation. As a Co-Chairman of the 135 member Congressional Caucus to Fight and Control Methamphetamine, I know the growing meth epidemic in our country shows no deference to district or party-line. This is an issue everyone can agree is wreaking havoc on communities across the nation. As mentioned by my colleagues, H.R. 798 focuses its efforts on the procedures and standards needed to decontaminate a site where a methamphetamine lab is found so our communities can more thoroughly remediate these sites. The creation of voluntary, health-based remediation guidelines for former meth labs, crafted by the Environmental Protection Agency, will protect and ensure the health of our citizens and the surrounding environment. In my area of Riverside, California, methamphetamine production has reached epidemic proportions with many of these labs having the distinction of being labeled superlabs – these are labs that are capable of producing over ten pounds of finished methamphetamine per batch. One such lab which was seized in 2003 operated out of a barn in a rural area of Riverside County and produced over 6,000 pounds of finished product with a street resale value of over $33 million dollars. Over 4 million pounds of contaminated toxic soil had to be removed with heavy equipment, costing in excess of $226,000. Officials from the California Department of Toxic Substance Control have called this the most difficult and costly methamphetamine lab clean up in California's history. This is a distressing issue with which my region, and quite frankly, most of America is becoming all too familiar. Our state and local agencies need all the resources and tools that we can provide them with in their efforts to address this epidemic. Although we are all aware that much more needs to be done to win the fight against this devastating drug, I am convinced H.R. 789 will be a good start in that fight and will be welcomed by our communities. I strongly encourage my colleagues to vote yes in favor of H.R. 798 today. ###
04.09.2009	Today, the House passed H.R. 3199, the USA PATRIOT and Terrorism Prevention Reauthorization Act, which included provisions to fight the growing methamphetamine abuse epidemic in the U.S. The Congressional Caucus to Fight and Control Methamphetamine (Meth Caucus) worked with Rep. Mark Souder (R-IN) and other House leaders to create comprehensive meth legislation that was then attached to the Patriot Act conference report. The Caucus Co-chairs, Rep. Rick Larsen (D-WA), Rep. Ken Calvert (R-CA), Rep. Leonard Boswell (D-IA), and Rep. Chris Cannon (R-UT), issued the following joint statement: "Today, we struck a blow against those who prey on society by producing and selling meth, a drug that is destroying lives from California to Maine. Meth abuse is an epidemic in the U.S. The provisions passed today are key to stopping this scourge on our communities. "The Combat Methamphetamine Epidemic Act provides a comprehensive strategy for anti-meth enforcement and makes it harder for the bad guys to use legal ingredients to make meth. Along with all the members of the Meth Caucus, we have worked to educate our colleagues about meth abuse and pushed for comprehensive federal anti-meth legislation. This bill is a great start, but we have a lot of work to do. As a Caucus, we will continue to push for better laws and better enforcement until we have eliminated the meth epidemic." Highlights of meth-related provisions include: Restrictions on Retail Sales of Precursor Chemicals: Repeals the federal "blister pack exemption" that currently allows unlimited sales of pseudoephedrine pills; Classifies pseudoephedrine, ephedrine, and phenylpropanolamine, the major meth precursor chemicals, as "Scheduled Listed Chemicals" (SLCs); Imposes a daily purchase limit of 3.6 grams, and a monthly limit of 9.0 grams, for SLCs; Requires all SLC products to be sold from behind the counter, or kept in a locked cabinet; Requires purchasers of SLC products to show I.D. and sign a log book; and Imposes new restrictions on mail order, Internet, and "flea market" sales of SLCs. Import and Wholesale Regulations: Authorizes import and domestic manufacturing quotas of SLCs to ensure no oversupply leads to diversion; and Closes a loophole in the regulation of the wholesale "spot market" for SLCs. International Monitoring: Requires reporting of major meth precursor exporters and importers, and holds them accountable for their efforts to prevent diversion to meth production; Requires information from importers on the "chain of custody" from foreign manufacturer to U.S. shores of precursor chemicals; and Authorizes funding for cooperative efforts with Mexico to stop meth production there. Other Provisions: Toughens federal penalties against meth traffickers and smugglers; Toughens penalties against persons who cook or deal meth in the presence of children; Requires updates from the Department of Transportation and the EPA about whether meth lab chemical byproducts are covered by appropriate environmental regulations; Makes improvements to the drug courts program to ensure greater accountability, and authorizes new funding for the program; Authorizes the Meth "Hot Spots" grant program that provides assistance to state and local agencies in dealing with meth labs and trafficking; and Authorizes new grants to help states assist drug-endangered children, as well as addicted women with children. The Meth Caucus is made up of 135 Members of Congress. Among other goals, the Caucus works to raise national awareness of the dangers posed by meth abuse and to advance strong public policy to fight against meth manufacturing, distribution and use. ###
04.09.2009	Today, the House began consideration of H.R. 4437, the Border Protection, Antiterrorism, and Illegal Immigration Control Act. A major component of the bill would require all employers to use a new automatic employment verification system, based on the current Basic Pilot Program which was authored by Rep. Ken Calvert (R-Corona) almost 10 years ago. Rep. Calvert has championed the Basic Pilot Program during his tenure in the House and the provisions in H.R. 4437 are based on H.R. 19, a bill sponsored by Rep. Calvert. "It is about time that Congress consider an immigration bill that truly address illegal hiring practices, which is at the root of illegal immigration," said Rep. Calvert. "The bill being considered today and tomorrow in the House will improve our border security and reduce illegal immigration." Rep. Calvert gave the following speech on the House floor: Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of H.R. 4437, the Border Protection, Antiterrorism, and Illegal Immigration Control Act. I would like to thank Chairman Sensenbrenner and Chairman King for the remarkable job they have done to bring this bill to the floor today. A mandatory electronic employment verification system must be a key component in any immigration reform bill worthy of that name. We can never gain control of our borders until we turn off the job-magnet that encourage people to flout the law. If illegal immigrants know that a job awaits them in the U.S., provided they can make it past the gauntlet at the border, no amount of border security will ever stop them. Every employee already fills out an I-9 immigration form and presents documents confirming their identity and eligibility to work. Of course, the current system doesn't work because the documents themselves are easily forged and cannot be checked. The system proposed today simply requires that the information on the I-9 form be confirmed. It is non-discriminatory, easy to use, and will do more to stem the tide of illegal immigration than any other single provision. Many people have commented on the mandatory employment verification system and some comments have missed the point. This system is all about ensuring a legal workforce by preventing document fraud during the hiring process. I believe that most employers are trying to do the right thing and hire only legal workers. Unfortunately, the current employment verification system does not give the employer enough information to be confident that their workforce is legal. Forged documents easily pass through the system without a problem, which leaves the employer with a dubious workforce, U.S. citizens and legal immigrants at a competitive disadvantage, and encourages the mass illegal immigration America is experiencing today. Not only would this system strike a blow against document fraud, it would also reduce identity theft, a practice on the rise in the U.S. Just like credit card companies can flag unusual purchases to stop identity theft, this program would flag unusual behavior in the system, such as the same name and Social Security Number being used over and over. Who can be for document fraud? Who can be identity theft? This bill targets both which is why I urge my colleagues to support this bill. ###
04.09.2009	Today, the House-Senate Conference Committee for S. 1281, the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) Authorization, issued its conference report, clearing the way for final consideration in the House and Senate. The House is expected to pass the measure before the end of the year. Rep. Ken Calvert (R-Corona) chairs the subcommittee on Space and Aeronautics on the House Science Committee and authored the House-version of the bill, H.R. 3070. Rep. Calvert, who supported the final Conference report, issued the following statement before the Committee which was chaired by Sen. Hutchinson of Texas: Madame Chairman, everyone around this table is to be congratulated for a job well done! This is the first time since 2000 that the Congress has had a NASA Authorization. It is critical that we have oversight for an agency that is going through such a major transition. I also want to thank the staff for working so diligently to assure that the Authorization bill was completed this year. I realize that this took long hours on the part of all the staff and it is great to have a final product that represents compromises made by all parties. The bill provides the agency with the rules and tools they will need to succeed. NASA represents only 7/10 of 1% of the Federal budget. I think we all agree that investing in NASA is an investment in our Nation's future. Even in this time of budget deficits, the United States cannot abandon NASA's research and technology, and exploration programs – it is not in the American spirit to shy away from this investment in our global leadership. This bill represents the first time that the President's Vision for Space Exploration has been formally endorsed by both houses of the Congress. When the President sends to Congress his budget for FY 2007, this endorsement by the Congress can only help to "grow the support" for our Nation's civil space program and for the Vision for Space Exploration. We also seek equivalent strategic plans for Aeronautics and Science. The bill also authorizes for the first time, a competitive prize program at NASA -- based on the very successful X Prize. It will allow NASA to award prizes for technologies that are useful to NASA's mission and serve as an incentive to encourage our best and brightest scientists, engineers, and entrepreneurs to pursue technologies that NASA will need to pursue our Nation's dreams of exploration. I am particularly pleased that we are doing a two-year bill, through 2008, and we look forward to providing oversight and authorization as appropriate. I think that Mike Griffin is the right Administrator for NASA in this time of transition for the agency and it is essential he has the tools he needs to lead NASA forward and into the future. We all know that in a document like this, everyone had to give a little to get a little. In fact, I have heard it said that if no one is completely happy with a bill, it is probably a good bill! I would urge everyone to support this carefully crafted legislation and to sign the conference report. We owe it to the Administration, to our national space enterprise and to the American people to pass this NASA Authorization bill this year. ###
04.09.2009	Today, Rep. Ken Calvert voted in favor of H.R. 2830, the Pension Protection Act, which passed the House by a vote of 294-132. "Workers rightfully expect their pension benefits to be there for them when they retire and this legislation will help ensure employers adequately fund pensions," said Rep. Calvert. "Hard-working Americans who contribute to pension plans are entitled to the future they planned and saved for. This bill will protect these futures by providing employers with increased requirements as well as improved methods for funding employee pensions." Funding Reforms for Single Employer Pension Plans Strengthens the outdated funding rules to ensure that workers' traditional defined benefit pensions are adequately funded. Employers must fund up to 100 percent of their pension liabilities. Funding shortfalls must be filled within seven years. Current law requires employers to fund only 90 percent of their liabilities (80 percent in some cases) and provides for amortization periods as long as 30 years. Severely underfunded plans are subject to accelerated funding rules to reduce the risk of plan termination with inadequate funding. Employers are prohibited from funding executive compensation plans when pension plans of rank-and-file workers are severely underfunded. As under current law, executive compensation is not protected if the employer files for bankruptcy. Creates incentives to increase pension contributions during profitable years. Gradually increases the flat-rate premium paid to the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (PBGC) from $19 to $30 per participant and indexes the premium annually to reflect wage growth. In addition, employers that terminate their plans in bankruptcy must pay a $1,250 premium per participant for three consecutive years once they emerge from bankruptcy. Funding Reforms for Multiemployer Pension Plans Most amortization periods for multiemployer plans are reduced from 30 years to 15 years. The maximum tax-deductible funding limit is increased from 100 percent of the full funding limit to 140 percent of current liability, thus encouraging increased pension contributions during profitable years. Triggers are used to identify financially troubled plans and to measure financial improvement. Plans with a funding status between 65 and 80 percent are deemed to be endangered ("yellow zone"). The trustees must adopt a financial plan to improve funding by one-third within 10 years (or by one-fifth within 15 years, in some cases). Plans that are less than 65 percent funded are deemed to be critical ("red zone"). Trustees must adopt a reorganization plan to exit the red zone within 10 years. The plan must include a combination of measures to reduce costs and increase contributions. Enhancing Retirement Savings in IRAs and Pension Plans Makes permanent the IRA and pension provisions enacted under the Economic Growth and Tax Relief Reconciliation Act of 2001. The 2001 law increased annual contribution limits for IRAs and qualified pension plans, created additional "catch-up" contributions for individuals age 50 and older, and created incentives for small employers to offer pension plans. Permanently extends the saver's credit, which is scheduled to expire after December 31, 2006. In addition, taxpayers could choose to have the IRS directly deposit the credit to a savings account, IRA or pension plan. Encourages employers to automatically enroll workers in defined contribution (DC) pension plans. Employees would be given the option to opt-out. Many pension experts believe that automatic enrollment will increase pension participation and retirement savings. Directs the Treasury to provide for "split tax refunds" in which taxpayers may direct all or a portion of their tax refund to be automatically deposited to an IRA of their choice. Allows tax-free rollovers from the IRA or pension of a deceased individual to an IRA or pension of a designated beneficiary. Under current law, such transfers are tax-free only if made to the account of a spouse. Allows disabled individuals to contribute to an IRA even if they do not have earned income, thus increasing retirement savings opportunities for individuals with disabilities. Affordability of Health Care and Long-Term Care Allows public safety officers who retire or become disabled to make tax-free distributions of up to $5,000 annually from governmental pension plans if the distribution is used to purchase health or long-term care insurance. Encourages the development of combination insurance products, which provide consumers with various insurance protections in a single product while also providing a saving feature. Combination products may be more attractive to consumers and less expensive. Allows taxpayers to carry forward up to $500 of unused Flexible Spending Account (FSA) balances each year. The provision applies to health care FSAs and dependent care FSAs. In the case of health care FSAs, the unused amount may be transferred to a Health Savings Account. ###
04.09.2009	Late yesterday, the House passed H.R. 4437, the Border Protection, Antiterrorism, and Illegal Immigration Control Act, by a vote of 239-182. A major component of the bill would require all employers to use a new automatic employment verification system, based on the current Basic Pilot Program which was authored by Rep. Ken Calvert (R-Corona) almost 10 years ago. Rep. Calvert has championed the Basic Pilot Program during his tenure in the House and the provisions in H.R. 4437 are based on H.R. 19, a bill sponsored by Rep. Calvert. "The passage of H.R. 4437 is a true victory for anyone concerned about our porous borders," said Rep. Calvert. "A central component of this bill requires employers to verify the name and Social Security number of their employees, an idea I have supported for a long time. The employment verification system is already working today in all 50 states on a voluntary basis and making its use mandatory will significantly improve immigration enforcement." The bill will now go to the Senate for consideration in 2006. Highlights of the bill include: Combat Hiring of Illegal Workers – The bill institutes an employment eligibility verification system in which employers will check the Social Security numbers and alien identification numbers (provided by employees) against Social Security Administration and Department of Homeland Security (DHS) records in order to weed out fraudulent numbers and ensure that their employees are not working in the U.S. illegally. This provision is based on H.R. 19, a bill authored by Rep. Calvert. Increased Penalties for Alien Smuggling – Under current law, individuals convicted of alien smuggling crimes often receive lenient sentences. Provisions in the bill would greatly increase criminal penalties for alien smuggling by establishing mandatory minimum sentences, among other things. These provisions were recommended by a panel of border-area U.S. Attorneys to make it easier to deport smugglers and illegal entrants. Crackdown on Alien Gang Members – This provision would render alien street gang members inadmissible and deportable, and authorize the Attorney General to designate groups or associations as criminal street gangs if they meet certain criteria. Also requires the detention of alien street gang members and bars alien gang members from receiving humanitarian benefits. Increased Penalties for Aliens re-entering Illegally – Provisions would stiffen penalties for aliens who re-enter the United States after having been removed. Aggravated Felony Provisions - The provisions would make aggravated felons (crimes of violence) inadmissible and would bar refugees and asylees with aggravated felony convictions from receiving green cards. Cooperation between Border Sheriffs and Federal Law Enforcement – Provisions in the bill would authorize and reimburse local sheriffs in the 29 counties along the southern border to enforce the immigration laws and transfer illegal aliens to federal custody. It also specifically reimburses those sheriffs for costs associated with detaining illegal aliens whom they arrest until they are able to hand them over to federal authorities. This provision deems aliens in sheriffs' custody to be in federal custody once determined to be in an unlawful status. Increasing DHS Authority for Long-Term Detention - The U.S. Supreme Court has limited DHS ability to detain dangerous aliens with decisions that have forced hundreds of aliens (such as murderers) to be released into American communities. One alien released because of these Court decisions later shot a state trooper in the head. This change would amend the Immigration and Nationality Act (INA) to allow for continued detention of aliens who pose a threat to Americans. Renewing DHS Authority to Use Reinstatement of Removal Process - In Morales-Izquierdo v. Ashcroft, the Ninth Circuit recently invalidated DHS reinstatement of removal regulations, which allows DHS to remove an alien previously deported by simply reinstating the alien's prior order of removal. The House Judiciary Committee has been told that this procedure was used in some 90,000 cases last year, and the Ninth Circuit's decision affects 40% of removals in the Ninth Circuit. This amendment to the INA would clarify DHS's authority to reinstate orders. Barring Terrorist Aliens from Naturalization - Bars aliens who are potential terrorists or security risks from becoming U.S. citizens. Deportation for DUI – Would make multiple DUI offenses a deportable offense for all aliens. Establishing Operational Control of All Borders and Ports Recognizing the need to bolster Border Patrol and surveillance capabilities to establish operational control of our borders and prevent the unlawful entry of terrorists and potential criminals, the bill: Requires DHS and the U.S. Department of Defense (DOD) to develop a joint strategic plan that will provide the Border Patrol with military support and increased use of DOD surveillance. Requires DHS to conduct comprehensive risk assessments of all ports of entry and international land and maritime borders to prevent the entry of terrorists and weapons. Authorizes 1,000 new, full-time port of entry inspectors over the next four years and the training of 1,500 additional K-9 units over the next five years. Establishes physical barriers and incorporates widespread, state-of-the-art surveillance technology, including cameras, sensors, radar, satellite, and Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAVs), in order to ensure one hundred percent coverage of our borders. Eliminating the "Catch and Release" Practice This year alone, some 115,000 illegal aliens from countries other than Mexico have been apprehended by the Border Patrol, only to be released due to a lack of detention space. Realizing that this so-called "catch and release" practice presents a clear danger to our nation's homeland security efforts, the bill: Requires mandatory detention for all illegal immigrants who are apprehended at U.S. land borders attempting to cross illegally, by Oct. 1, 2006. Requires all illegal immigrants apprehended at U.S. borders to remain in custody until removal from the country. Requires that DHS use every available detention bed, in addition to authorizing new detention space and contracting with state and local jails for additional space. Requires that, in the interim period before Oct. 1, 2006, illegal immigrants who are released pending an immigration removal hearing will have to post bond of at least $5,000. Effectively Organizing the Border Security Agencies Within DHS Recognizing the need to eliminate a number of identified organizational, operational, and fiscal problems and poor communication between U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) and U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP), the two main border security agencies within DHS, the bill: Requires the Secretary to take immediate action to address the lack of coordination between ICE and CBP by requiring improved intelligence sharing and implementing measures to determine the effectiveness of the Department's border security efforts. Places Air and Marine Operations (AMO) directly under the authority of the Secretary, eliminating current bureaucracy and allowing for a more flexible, coordinated air program capable of providing tracking, deterrence, rapid response, and investigative support to multiple DHS agencies. Promoting International Policies to Deter Illegal Immigration In addition to taking action domestically, the bill promotes international policies to help deter illegal immigration and protect valid claims of asylum. This includes: Requiring DHS to report to Congress on the progress of cross-border security agreements signed between Mexico and Canada and the United States, including the Smart Border Accord and the Security Partnership for Prosperity. Authorizing the Secretary of Homeland Security to refuse visas to foreign nationals from countries that deny or delay the repatriation of their own nationals. Protecting valid claims of asylum and fear of persecution through a review of the current Border Patrol training protocol, and taking measures to ensure integrity of the process. ###
04.09.2009	Today, the House approved the Conference Report for S. 1281, the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) Authorization Act by a unanimous voice vote. Rep. Ken Calvert (R-Corona) authored the House-version of the bill, H.R. 3070, and chairs the Subcommittee on Space and Aeronautics on the House Science Committee and. The Senate is expected to approve the Conference Report shortly, marking the first time in five years Congress has completed a NASA authorization bill. Rep. Calvert delivered the following statement on the House floor in support of the bill: "Mr. Speaker, I want to thank Chairman Boehlert for his leadership and both Ranking Member Gordon and Ranking Member Udall for their leadership and support and commend the members of the Science Committee on both sides of the aisle for a job well done! I also want to thank Mr. DeLay for his guidance and assistance and all the staff for working so diligently and for long hours to assure that the NASA Authorization bill could be accomplished this year. This is the first time since the year 2000 that a NASA Authorization bill has been completed. The bill provides the Agency with the rules and tools they will need to succeed. This is a critical time for the agency as it is going through a major transition. Our bill represents the first time that the President's Vision for Space Exploration has been fully endorsed by both Houses of Congress. When the President sends to Congress his budget for FY 2007, today's backing by the Congress can only help us to increase the support for our Nation's civil space program and for the Vision for Space Exploration. We also seek equivalent strategic plans for Aeronautics and Science. NASA represents only 0 .7 % of the Federal budget and is an investment in our Nation's future. Even in this time of budget deficits, the United States cannot abandon NASA's research and technology, and its exploration programs – it is not in the American spirit to shy away from this investment in our global leadership. The bill also authorizes for the first time, a competitive prize program at NASA, based on the very successful X-Prize. This program will allow NASA to award prizes for those technologies that are useful to NASA's mission. This prize program will encourage our best and brightest scientists, engineers, and entrepreneurs to pursue technologies that NASA will need to pursue our Nation's dreams of exploration. I am pleased that we are doing a two-year bill, through 2008, and we on the Science Committee look forward to providing oversight and authorization as appropriate. I want to urge my colleagues to vote Yea on this truly bi-partisan conference report. We owe it to the Administration, to our national space enterprise, and to the American people to pass this NASA Authorization bill this year." ###
04.09.2009	Representative Ken Calvert (R-Corona) was pleased to announce that his local priorities were included in the Fiscal Year 2006 (FY06) Department of Defense Appropriations Act, H.R. 2863, as well as H.R. 1815, the FY06 Defense Authorization Act; both of which were passed by the House of Representatives early this morning. "As our nation continues to address current and future threats to our security, it is imperative that our Armed Forces are equipped with the resources they need to achieve their objectives," said Rep. Calvert. "By raising military pay across-the-board and increasing funds for other personnel programs, our troops will be provided the assets they need now and when they return home from the battlefield." The FY06 Defense Appropriations Act provides $403.5 billion for military spending, which represents an increase of just over $12 billion from FY 2005. The bill also fully funds the 3.1% military pay raise, effective January 1, 2006, as well as an increase of $71 million for Family Advocacy, childcare programs, and assistance to military families. Funding for the following projects/programs was requested by Rep. Calvert and included in the final appropriations bill: $2.0 million – Navy and Marine Corps Advanced Measurement Standards R&D. NSWC, Corona and similar installations participate in this program. This program provides for the development of advanced measurement standards and metrology systems to support the Navy and Marine Corp programs testing. NAVSEA, Corona works with the National Institute of Standards and Technology to develop these standards. $1.5 million – March Joint Powers Authority Arnold Heights Reuse Project located at March Air Reserve Base in Riverside, California. Arnold Heights is a former military housing complex consisting of 558 single-story housing unites. The complex will be demolished to make way for economic development on the parcel which would bring an estimated 4,000 jobs to the area. $300,000 – Naval Sea Cadet Corps (NSCC) Program. This program defrays the costs for Cadets while promoting interest and skill in seamanship and aviation. Individual Cadet out-of-pocket costs can reach $500 per year. The NSCC youth program teaches Cadets, ages 11-17, that they must contribute to their community and country; as well as accept responsibility for their own actions. Summer training onboard Navy and Coast Guard ships and stations is a challenging training ground for developing self-confidence and self-discipline, promotion of high standards of conduct and performance, and a sense of camaraderie and teamwork. Highlights of the Avian and Pandemic Influenza Preparedness The FY06 Defense Appropriations Act also provides $3.8 billion for avian flu preparedness, 3.46 billion below the request. This amount funds roughly the FY06 portion of the Administration's request. These funds include: $3.3 billion for the Public Health and Social Services Emergency Fund to improve pandemic preparedness. Within that amount $350 million is provided for upgrading State and local response capacity, particularly the planning and exercising of pandemic response plans by State and local officials; $241 million for international activities, disease surveillance, vaccine registries, research, and clinical trials; and $50 million to increase laboratory capacity through the Centers for Disease Control. HHS is provided with flexibility to utilize the balance of the funds to support other core preparedness activities, such as expanding the domestic production capacity of influenza vaccine, developing and stockpiling of pandemic vaccine, stockpiling of antivirals and other supplies for the Strategic National Stockpile necessary for protecting and preserving lives in the event of an outbreak of pandemic influenza. The remainder of the funds are provided for international assistance, monitoring and tracking, and research and development. ###
04.09.2009	Early this morning, Rep. Ken Calvert (R-Corona) voted in favor of the final Conference Report to S. 1932/H.R. 4241, the Deficit Reduction Act of 2005. The House agreed to the Conference Report by a vote of 212-206 and the Senate is expected to approve it later this week. The legislation provides $39.732 billion of savings over 5 years in the federal government's mandatory spending programs. ("Mandatory spending" refers to programs that are not subject to the annual appropriations process.) "Passage of the Deficit Reduction Act is an important first step in addressing the exploding growth in our mandatory spending programs and reducing our deficit," said Rep. Calvert. "Entitlement programs are projected to double in ten years and if we fail to properly curb this growth, today's youth will face an even greater problem down the road. By slowing the rate of growth today, we reduce the chance of being faced with deep program cuts or large tax increases in the future." The Deficit Reduction Act savings – pursuant to the budget resolution for fiscal year 2006 (H.Con.Res. 95), and adjusted following Hurricanes Katrina and Rita – have three principal goals: To provide a down-payment toward hurricane recovery and reconstruction costs. Congress already has provided nearly $65 billion in recovery funding, and more funding is expected in the near future. To begin a longer-term effort at slowing the growth of entitlement spending, which now consumes about 54 percent of the total budget, and will rise to 62 percent in 10 years if no action is taken. To stimulate reform of entitlement programs, many of which are outdated, inefficient, and excessively costly. ###
04.09.2009	Early this morning the Senate approved the Conference Report for S. 1281, the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) Authorization Act by a unanimous consent agreement. On Saturday, December 17, 2005, the House approved the Conference Report by a unanimous voice vote. The bill will now be sent to the President for his expected signature, marking the first time in five years a NASA authorization bill has been signed into law. Rep. Ken Calvert (R-Corona) authored the House-version of the bill, H.R. 3070, and chairs the Subcommittee on Space and Aeronautics on the House Science Committee. "Senate passage of S. 1281 culminates a year's worth of effort by the House, Senate and the Administration," said Rep. Calvert. "This bill will provide the ‘rules and tools' to help America succeed in the Second Space Age." On Saturday, December 17, 2005, Rep. Calvert delivered the following statement on the House floor in support of the bill: "Mr. Speaker, I want to thank Chairman Boehlert for his leadership and both Ranking Member Gordon and Ranking Member Udall for their leadership and support and commend the members of the Science Committee on both sides of the aisle for a job well done! I also want to thank Mr. DeLay for his guidance and assistance and all the staff for working so diligently and for long hours to assure that the NASA Authorization bill could be accomplished this year. This is the first time since the year 2000 that a NASA Authorization bill has been completed. The bill provides the Agency with the rules and tools they will need to succeed. This is a critical time for the agency as it is going through a major transition. Our bill represents the first time that the President's Vision for Space Exploration has been fully endorsed by both Houses of Congress. When the President sends to Congress his budget for FY 2007, today's backing by the Congress can only help us to increase the support for our Nation's civil space program and for the Vision for Space Exploration. We also seek equivalent strategic plans for Aeronautics and Science. NASA represents only 0 .7 % of the Federal budget and is an investment in our Nation's future. Even in this time of budget deficits, the United States cannot abandon NASA's research and technology, and its exploration programs – it is not in the American spirit to shy away from this investment in our global leadership. The bill also authorizes for the first time, a competitive prize program at NASA, based on the very successful X-Prize. This program will allow NASA to award prizes for those technologies that are useful to NASA's mission. This prize program will encourage our best and brightest scientists, engineers, and entrepreneurs to pursue technologies that NASA will need to pursue our Nation's dreams of exploration. I am pleased that we are doing a two-year bill, through 2007, and we on the Science Committee look forward to providing oversight and authorization as appropriate. I want to urge my colleagues to vote Yea on this truly bi-partisan conference report. We owe it to the Administration, to our national space enterprise, and to the American people to pass this NASA Authorization bill this year." ###
04.09.2009	"When I first introduced HR 1152, a bill to re-designate the dam located on the Santa Ana River as the "Victor V. Veysey Dam" on March 8th of this year, it was my firm hope and clear purpose to honor a man of great distinction who had served our area with statesmanship and foresight. Given his early leadership in the area of flood control for our region, I believed that naming our local dam at Prado after him would be an appropriate tribute. At the time I introduced the idea I spoke with the Corps of Engineers and, based on that conversation, I believed that the proposal would be met with approval. HR 1152, was cosponsored by a number of my regional colleagues and the Democratic Dean of the US House, Rep. John Dingell, who had served with Rep.Veysey. As a lifelong resident of Corona, with family roots here, I only wish to act in what I regard as the clear and compelling interests of our region and the public I serve. Therefore I am announcing that when Congress reconvenes in January I will ask the committee of jurisdiction to withdraw my proposal to re-designate the Prado Dam as the "Victor V. Veysey Dam." The positive support for retaining the traditional name of the Prado Dam has been manifest and clear. Most important to me were the friends and citizens of the old families of Corona and Riverside who have privately shared their advice with me. These are people who my family and I have known for over fifty years and whose opinions I value above all others. As the good friends and neighbors they have always been to me, they have counseled me to respect the traditional Prado name and to find another venue to honor Victor Veysey. This is what I will do. I will seek their counsel and advice as to an appropriate and acceptable manner and venue in which Victor V. Veysey may be honored in our local community. I have explained my decision to the Veysey family and know that they join me in honoring the proud heritage of the Prado Basin and wish to work constructively to find a way to honor their father, a leading proponent of modern flood control in Southern California." ###
04.08.2009	On December 30, 2005, the President signed into law S. 1281, the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) Authorization Act of 2005. The President's signature completed the first NASA Authorization Act in five years. Rep. Ken Calvert (R-Corona), the primary sponsor of the House version of the bill (H.R. 3070), welcomed the President's signature. "The NASA Authorization Act of 2005 will help NASA excel during the Second Space Age. I believe that investing in NASA is an investment in our nation's future. Even in this time of budget deficits, the United States cannot abandon NASA's research and technology, and exploration programs – it is not in the American spirit to shy away from this investment in our global leadership. This bill continues our legacy as a leader in space exploration and technology advancements. The President has provided solid leadership in developing a new Vision for Space Exploration and his signature last week solidified that Vision." Rep. Calvert chairs the Subcommittee on Space and Aeronautics on the House Science Committee. Highlights of the bill include: Directs NASA to carry out programs in human space flight, aeronautics, space science, earth science and microgravity research. Endorses the President's Vision for Space Exploration. Changes NASA's budget structure to separate funding for human space flight and NASA's science, aeronautics and education activities. Authorizes about $17.9 billion for NASA in fiscal year 2007 and about $18.7 billion in fiscal year 2008 – significantly more than provided for the outyears in the Administration's fiscal year 2006 budget request. Requires that at least 15 percent of the spending for the International Space Station (ISS) be used for microgravity research not related to exploration programs. Enables NASA to carry out a prize program. Puts in new reporting requirements and cost controls, modeled on the Nunn-McCurdy controls that apply to the Department of Defense, that would require Congressional action if cost overruns on a project exceed set levels. Requires multi-year plans for aeronautics, science, facilities and workforce, and prevents layoffs (Reductions in Force) before March 16, 2007. Endorses a Shuttle mission to the Hubble Space Telescope if it can be accomplished safely. Designates the U.S. portion of the ISS as a "national laboratory." Provides guidance for the transition from the Space Shuttle to the Crew Exploration Vehicle. Requires the National Academy of Sciences to review NASA's K-12 education programs. Establishes procedures for the appointment of a Presidential Commission in the event of the loss of a Shuttle or other manned vehicle. ###
04.08.2009	Congressman Ken Calvert (R-Corona) is pleased to announce the Orange County Water District will be the recipient of a $2.85 million grant from the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) Public Assistance program to repair and restore the Prado Treatment Wetlands in Corona, CA. The Wetlands were damaged during the storms in January 2005. "The winter storms in January 2005 took a heavy toll on the area's local budgets and infrastructure," said Rep. Calvert. "These funds will help the Wetlands return to their previous state and improve the water quality in the Prado Basin. I will continue to work to improve the region's water infrastructure and support efforts to repair all the damage done a year ago." The Orange County Water District owns 2,150 acres behind the Prado Dam, which is used for water conservation purposes. The District is responsible for the infrastructure and maintenance of the nearly 465 acres of constructed Wetlands. The total cost of the project is $3,803,475 of which $2,852,606 is covered by this grant and the remaining $950,868 will be paid by Orange County. According to a FEMA press release, the project includes removing debris from the Santa Ana River; restoring the river to a course that does not threaten the Prado Wetlands; constructing a diversion dike; installing culverts; restoring canal gates; removing sediment and debris from the holding ponds; restoring and replacing damaged security gates. For more information about the FEMA Public Assistance Program, visit www.fema.gov/rrr/pa. For more information about the Prado Wetlands, visit www.ocwd.com/_html/prado.htm ###
04.08.2009	Today, the National Association of Counties released two surveys that highlight the seriousness of the methamphetamine epidemic. The Congressional Caucus to Fight and Control Methamphetamine (the Meth Caucus) welcomes the new surveys and would like to thank the National Association of Counties for their work compiling this information. One survey, "The Effect of Meth Abuse on Hospital Emergency Rooms," revealed that there are more emergency visits for meth-related incidents than for any other illegal drug and that the number of these visits has increased substantially over the last five years. The second survey, "The Challenge of Treating Meth Abuse," showed that the need for treatment programs for meth addiction is growing dramatically and outpacing the funds to meet this demand. The Meth Caucus co-chairs issued the following statement: "The community costs of meth abuse extend much further than just the individual meth user and we welcome the effort of the National Association of Counties to bring attention to this issue. These surveys underscore the growing meth epidemic which is why Congress and the Administration must build on our previous work combating meth abuse. We look forward to the President's budget request and will work to increase funding for anti-meth programs this year." The Meth Caucus is co-chaired by Rep. Ken Calvert (R-CA), Rep. Rick Larsen (D-WA), Rep. Chris Cannon (R-UT), and Rep. Leonard Boswell (D-IA). The purpose of the Meth Caucus is to direct members' attention to growing nationwide problems and dangers associated with abuse and production of methamphetamine. Learn more about the Caucus by visiting www.house.gov/larsen/meth. To find the reports online, visit the National Association of Counties at www.naco.org. ###
04.08.2009	Today, Rep. Ken Calvert (R-Corona) supported a new House rule which will eliminate floor privileges and access to the Member's gym for former Members of Congress who are now registered lobbyists. "This is an important next step in the effort to bring transparency to Congress," said Rep. Calvert. "When the Republicans won a majority of seats in 1994, we instituted the first ethics rules regarding gifts, travel, and banking in Congress. Recent revelations of corruption on Capitol Hill require that Congress take another look at the rules and laws regarding lobbying. I want to thank Speaker Hastert and Rep. Dreier for leading the House to create better reforms." H.Res. 648 passed the House by a vote of 379-50. ###
04.08.2009	Today, Rep. Ken Calvert (R-Corona) voted in favor of the final Conference Report to S. 1932/H.R. 4241, the Deficit Reduction Act of 2005. The House agreed to the Conference Report by a vote of 216-214 after the Senate made technical corrections to the bill in December. The legislation provides $39.732 billion of savings over 5 years in the federal government's mandatory spending programs. ("Mandatory spending" refers to programs that are not subject to the annual appropriations process.) "Passage of the Deficit Reduction Act is an important first step in addressing the exploding growth in our mandatory spending programs and reducing our deficit," said Rep. Calvert. "Entitlement programs are projected to double in ten years and if we fail to properly curb this growth, today's youth will face an even greater problem down the road. By slowing the rate of growth today, we reduce the chance of being faced with deep program cuts or large tax increases in the future." The Deficit Reduction Act savings – pursuant to the budget resolution for fiscal year 2006 (H.Con.Res. 95), and adjusted following Hurricanes Katrina and Rita – have three principal goals: To provide a down-payment toward hurricane recovery and reconstruction costs. Congress already has provided nearly $65 billion in recovery funding, and more funding is expected in the near future. To begin a longer-term effort at slowing the growth of entitlement spending, which now consumes about 54 percent of the total budget, and will rise to 62 percent in 10 years if no action is taken. To stimulate reform of entitlement programs, many of which are outdated, inefficient, and excessively costly. ###
04.08.2009	Today, Rep. Calvert supported H.R. 4659, which extends the USA PATRIOT Act through March 10, 2006. "The Patriot Act helped break down the wall that prevented information sharing between agencies," said Rep. Calvert. "We are safer today than we were before the Patriot Act was passed because our law enforcement and homeland security agencies are working together, rather than legally separated. The Patriot Act is a no-nonsense anti-terror law that protects America without needlessly encroaching on our civil liberties." The USA PATRIOT and Terrorism Prevention Act of 2005 reauthorizes the PATRIOT Act passed in 2001 which: Removed major legal barriers that prevented the law enforcement, intelligence, and national defense communities from coordinating their work; Allowed law enforcement to use surveillance against more terror-related activities and allowed the authorization of nationwide search warrants; Updated the law to reflect new technologies and new threats; and Increased penalties for those who commit terrorist crimes and those who harbor terrorists. ###
04.08.2009	Congressman Ken Calvert was pleased to announce a $4.3 million Department of Transportation Grant to fund transit projects in Riverside and Orange Counties. "These funds will help improve the transit system, particularly in Orange County and between Riverside and Orange Counties," said Rep. Calvert. "California pays far more in federal taxes than we receive in federal dollars which is why I work hard to steer dollars to the region. These grants were awarded through Congressional efforts to ensure funding for these projects." Among other things, the grant will provide funds to purchase 12 Compressed Natural Gas (CNG) buses for inter-county express bus service along the Riverside – Orange County corridor. "I supported the inter-county bus service in particularly because it is an innovative solution to ease congestion on the 91 freeway." continued Rep. Calvert. A description of the grant from the Department of Transportation is included below. Title: FY 2004 and FY 2005 Bus Earmarks Grant Amount: $ 4,344,932.00 Description: This grant will be used to fund several projects in Riverside and Orange Counties. This grant will provide funds to implement a security camera system at the Fullerton Transportation Center, which is a multi-modal transit center located east of Harbor Boulevard on Santa Fe Avenue in the City of Fullerton, California. This grant will provide funds to implement signal priority, shelter and signage enhancements to deploy a bus rapid transit demonstration project along Harbor Boulevard traversing approximately 22 miles spanning the cities of Fullerton, Anaheim, Garden Grove, Santa Ana, Fountain Valley and Costa Mesa. This grant will provide funds to purchase 12 CNG buses for inter-county express bus service along the much traveled corridor linking Riverside County and Orange County. This grant will provide funds to acquire fare collection equipment to improve bus transit service in the area of the City of Anaheim known as the Anaheim Resort. ###
04.08.2009	Chairman of the House Space and Aeronautics Subcommittee, Ken Calvert, continued his oversight of NASA today at the House Committee on Science hearing on NASA's Fiscal Year 2007 budget request. NASA Administrator Michael Griffin and Deputy Administrator, Shana Dale, outlined NASA's $16.8 billion budget request and explained how NASA will move forward with the Vision for Space Exploration while continuing NASA's strong tradition of science and aeronautics. "The Agency has had to make some really difficult, but necessary choices to balance the priorities within NASA's budget," said Rep. Calvert. Rep. Calvert was instrumental in authoring and passing NASA's first authorization bill in 5 years in 2005. This bill represented the first time that Congress has enacted the Vision for Space Exploration in to law. Continued Rep. Calvert, "Now that we have provided the rules and tools in the NASA Authorization bill, we expect NASA to boldly move us into the Second Space Age. Consistent and responsible funding is the key factor blocking NASA from realizing its highest potential in all of its core mission areas – space exploration, aeronautics, and science. While this is generally a lean budget year, we must maximize every penny to keep our great nation competitive and this request takes us in the right direction." Chairman Calvert made the following opening statement: Mr. Chairman, I want to welcome both Administrator Mike Griffin and Deputy Administrator Shana Dale. Welcome back to the Science Committee, Shana! You and Mike will make a great team. You both know NASA; you both know Capitol Hill; and you both know all facets of the industry. The American people are lucky to have such a well-qualified Administrator and Deputy Administrator for NASA during this exciting and challenging time. Last year, the Congress passed an authorization bill for NASA for the first time in 5 years. That process underscored the lack of funding which is the key factor blocking the Agency from realizing its highest potential in all of its core mission areas - space, aeronautics, and science. Dr. Griffin alerted this Committee during the November 2005 hearing about what is now calculated to be a $2.3 billion dollar shortfall in the NASA budget. As a result the Agency has had to move funding from science and from exploration into the Space Shuttle program. We understand that this shortfall is a result of miscalculations in costs for return-to-flight activities and operations for the shuttle through its retirement in 2010 – and exacerbated by the hurricane related costs. These miscalculations were not made on Dr. Griffin's watch, yet must be resolved. Hurricane Katrina's destructive path through the Gulf Coast left NASA with $760 million in damage to its Stennis Space Center and Michoud Assembly Facility. Recognizing the severity of this situation and its implications on the Agency's already strained budget, Members of this Committee urged the Administration and Appropriators to increase recovery funds for NASA in the December supplemental. While the $349 million that was included in the final package was an increase from the President's request of $325 million, the discrepancy only added more pinch to the already tight squeeze on the budget. So this leaves us with the Fiscal Year 2007 budget request for NASA. The Agency did receive a 3.2% increase over the FY 2006 -- or a 1.5% increase when including Katrina funding in Fiscal Year 2006 -- it is not enough to fully fund all the sectors of the Agency as everyone on this dais would like to see them budgeted. Dr. Griffin, I know that hard decisions have had to be made. The Agency has made some really difficult choices to keep the Exploration programs optimally funded so that our nation can move to a Crew Exploration Vehicle; to assure the safety of the Shuttle program; to meet the obligations of our agreements with the partners of the International Space Station; to have our Science programs working on an exciting, balanced program; and to have our Aeronautics programs producing forward-looking research and technology that will keep our nation globally competitive. I congratulate you on putting together a finely-tuned budget request. It is a much stronger budget than we have had in the past with the number of "placeholders" that we were given. One of the areas that is critical for you to address – as I know you are aware – is to get NASA's financial house in order. As I have mentioned before, as a businessman, if I tried to run a business without a credible accounting system, it would be a disaster waiting to happen. In all areas of your President's Management Agenda ratings, NASA is flying high—except in the financial management area. I know that you have made improvements and have provided leadership in this area, but improvements must be shown as soon as possible. Now that the NASA Authorization Act of 2005 has been signed into law, we look forward to working with you to get the information that we need to have more effective and productive oversight. With the Administration proposing its Competitiveness Initiative, I look forward to working with you to assure that NASA is contributing to this important national objective. I know that the United States is beginning its long journey back to the Moon and then on to Mars trough the Exploration program, but I worry that we are not taking these challenges from other nations seriously. The United States must maintain its global position. We have heard that India is preparing for a lunar orbital mission in 2007; Japan plans to send a robotic rover to the Moon by 2013, and the European Space Agency has a probe that is orbiting the Moon. Although these countries are talking about sending people to the Moon, only two – the United States and China – have set dates for manned lunar landings. NASA is hoping to schedule its first manned mission in about 2018; China is heading for a landing as early as 2017. While this is generally a lean budget year, we must maximize every penny to keep our great nation competitive. I look forward to hearing from you, Administrator Griffin and Deputy Administrator Dale, on your plans to move forward with the FY07 budget request for NASA. ###
04.08.2009	Congressman Ken Calvert today voted in support of H.R. 4939, the Emergency Supplemental Appropriations Act for Defense, the Global War on Terror, and Hurricane Recovery, 2006. The bill passed by a vote of 348-71. "Our nation is at war and these emergency funds are needed to achieve victory. Our troops continue to prosecute the Global War on Terror, including the major battleground in Iraq, and they need our support at home. Today's supplemental provides $67.6 billion for Operation Iraqi Freedom and Operation Enduring Freedom to ensure our troops have the equipment they need to finish the job," said Rep. Calvert. Bill Highlights Include: Fighting the Global War on Terrorism and Supporting the Troops The War on Terrorism and Disaster Assistance Supplemental continues our commitment to the men and women in the Armed Services, providing $67.6 billion in support of Operation Iraqi Freedom and Operation Enduring Freedom and ensuring they receive the best equipment and resources available. Disaster Assistance The Supplemental provides $9.55 billion for FEMA's Disaster Relief Fund, funds used for a variety of disaster recovery and relief activities. Oversight The Supplemental requires FEMA to provide better reporting of the expenditures of disaster assistance funds as well as the specific methodologies used to allocate funds. Funding is provided to the Inspector General of DHS to continue to conduct audit and investigations of disaster assistance, to the Inspector General of HUD to monitor the administration of disaster assistance funds provided through the Community Development Block Grant program, and to the Justice Department to investigate and prosecute fraud cases. More than a five-fold increase is provided for the Department of Defense's Inspector General to monitor war expenditures. Other Interests $30 million to repair the Michoud Assembly Facility in New Orleans, LA and the Stennis Space Center in Bay St. Louis, MS. $100 million for operations and maintenance of the C-17 Globemaster III air cargo line. ###
04.08.2009	The National Federation of Independent Businesses (NFIB) released survey results yesterday on the attitude of small business owners toward immigration reform. Significantly, the results demonstrate a support for tougher immigration enforcement measures, even aimed at illegal employment. Two significant findings include: When asked whether an electronic employment eligibility verification system would be a burden, 76% of small businesses said it would be a "minimal burden" or "not a burden." Seventy-eight percent (78%) of employers surveyed support increased penalties for employers who knowingly hire illegal aliens. "A mandatory employment eligibility verification system, based on the Basic Pilot Program, will level the playing field and stem the tide of illegal immigration," said Rep. Calvert. "I wrote the law that created the current Basic Pilot Program and it has run successfully for over a decade, benefiting thousands of businesses who have voluntarily signed up. Clearly, small business owners want to be a part of the solution to illegal immigration and I hope their representatives in Washington get that message." Additional significant findings from the survey include: Over 90% of small-business owners believe illegal immigration is a problem, with 70% calling it a "serious" or "very serious" problem. The primary reason small business owners see illegal immigration as a problem is the cost to taxpayers for illegal immigrants (47%). Eighty-six percent (86%) of small business owners would deny illegal immigrants access to public support. A plurality of small-business owners (43%) say that too many legal immigrants are admitted each year, with 38% saying the number is about right. About half of those surveyed said there should be no amnesty under any circumstances, but about 44% would support it for immigrants who are employed but not dependent on government assistance. Well over half (65%) do not favor offering amnesty even if a person can prove that they have lived in the U.S. 3 years or more. Sixty-two percent (62%) of respondents support a guest worker program that would allow immigrants to work for a specified period of time and return home. NFIB indicated that because businesses were spit on the idea of a amnesty and a guest worker program, they will not take a position on that issue as the immigration debate moves forward. Eighty-six percent (86%) say that immigration should be a "very high" or "high" priority for Congress. The Basic Pilot Program The Basic Pilot program double checks the information on employee's I-9 Immigration Forms. It may not be used as a discriminatory screening tool; only newly hired employees are checked. Since November 1997, the Social Security Administration (SSA) and the Systematic Alien Verification for Entitlements (SAVE) Program have been conducting the Basic Pilot program in the States of California, Florida, Illinois, Nebraska, New York and Texas. The program was made available to employers in all states starting December 20, 2004. The Basic Pilot involves verification checks of the SSA and the now Department of Homeland Security databases of all newly hired employees, regardless of citizenship. The Basic Pilot program is currently a voluntary program and is free to employers who volunteer to participate. The Basic Pilot is used by over 5,000 employers and used at nearly 15,000 worksites nationwide. The House-passed immigration reform bill, H.R. 4437, would create a mandatory employment eligibility verification system, based on the Basic Pilot Program. ###
04.08.2009	Congressman Ken Calvert today congratulated the men and women of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) on the 25th anniversary of the first flight of the Space Transportation System (STS), more commonly known as the Space Shuttle. "I would like to offer my heartfelt thanks to the dedicated members of NASA and our aerospace industry who have given so much over the last quarter century to further human space flight. The Space Shuttle has inspired a generation to reach for the stars, study math and science and keep America technologically competitive in a changing world," said Calvert, who serves as the Chairman of the Space and Aeronautics Subcommittee in the House of Representatives. Calvert authored a Congressional Resolution congratulating NASA on the 25th anniversary of the first Space Shuttle flight. The resolution, House Concurrent Resolution 366, passed unanimously in both the House and Senate last week. The full text of the Resolution is included below. 109th CONGRESS 2d Session H. CON. RES. 366 To congratulate the National Aeronautics and Space Administration on the 25th anniversary of the first flight of the Space Transportation System, to honor Commander John Young and the Pilot Robert Crippen, who flew Space Shuttle Columbia on April 12-14, 1981, on its first orbital test flight, and to commend the men and women of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration and all those supporting America's space program for their accomplishments and their role in inspiring the American people. Whereas Space Shuttle Columbia was the first manned, reusable spacecraft that was flown into orbit without benefit of previous unmanned orbital test flights; Whereas the Space Shuttle Columbia was the first spacecraft to launch with wings, using solid rocket boosters; Whereas the Space Shuttle Columbia was the first reentry spacecraft to land on a conventional runway; Whereas the Space Shuttle program has allowed the United States to partner with other nations to build and to inhabit the International Space Station; Whereas the successful return to flight of the Space Shuttle represents the first leg of the Nation's Vision for Space Exploration; Whereas the men and women of America's Space Shuttle program have been instrumental in ensuring the Nation's preeminence in space exploration for 25 years; Whereas the very specialized and highly valued workforce of the Space Shuttle program will contribute greatly to the Vision for Space Exploration as we return to the Moon, and go on to Mars and beyond; Whereas, like the explorers Lewis and Clark who explored our great Nation, John Young and Robert Crippen opened a new era of human exploration beyond our planet; and Whereas heroes such as John Young and Robert Crippen are a great inspiration to our next generation of Americans as they stimulate interest in the study of math and science: Now, therefore, be it Resolved by the House of Representatives (the Senate concurring), That the Congress-- (1) congratulates the National Aeronautics and Space Administration on the 25th anniversary of the first flight of the Space Transportation System; (2) honors Commander John Young and the Pilot Robert Crippen, who flew Space Shuttle Columbia on April 12-14, 1981, on its first orbital test flight; and (3) commends the men and women of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration and all those supporting America's space program for their accomplishments and their role in inspiring the American people. ###
04.08.2009	Congressman Ken Calvert today announced the passage of H.R. 3929, the Dana Point Desalination Project Authorization Act. The legislation authorizes federal participation in an innovative ocean desalination project that could have a major impact on the future development of desalination projects. "The Dana Point Desalination Project is not a typical ocean desalination project. The project will use a unique subsurface ocean intake system that will collect water that naturally seeps through the ocean floor. The system provides a number of benefits over traditional intake systems, including removing the negative impacts on marine life as well as potentially reducing the need for extensive pretreatment filtration. When constructed and successful, the system would address various goals sought by environmental advocates as well as improve the feasibility of future ocean desalination projects," said Calvert, who was the lead sponsor of H.R. 3929. The Dana Point Desalination Project is believed to be the only ocean desalination project supported by the Surfrider Foundation. Their support is a direct result of the unique subsurface intake technology that avoids negative impacts to the marine ecosystem. H.R. 3929 authorizes federal participation in the Dana Point Desalination Project and limits the federal obligation to $2.5 million to assist with preliminary engineering and environmental studies. No construction dollars are authorized in H.R. 3929. ###
04.08.2009	Congressman Ken Calvert today supported two bills designed to offset high gasoline prices. H.R. 5253 requires the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) to clearly define "price gouging" as well as institute new civil penalties for convicted price gougers. The bill passed by a vote of 339 to 84. H.R. 5254, the Refinery Permit Process Schedule Act, would have improved the permitting process and established regulatory certainty for companies as they make long-term decisions to expand refining capacity. H.R. 5254 was defeated even though a majority of the House (237 members) voted in favor of the bill since the conditions under which it was brought to the floor required a two-thirds majority for passage. 224 Republican Representatives supported the bill while 2 opposed it. 13 Democrat Representatives supported the bill while 185 members, including Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi and Minority Whip Steny Hoyer opposed H.R. 5254. "Anyone convicted of price gouging should face real and serious consequences just like all other criminals. I am pleased that Congress has taken action to clearly define what constitutes gasoline price gouging and enacted penalties to hold retailers and wholesalers accountable. At the same time, I am disappointed that the Democrats decided to put partisan politics ahead of the public interest and defeated a bill that would help alleviate the tight supply of gasoline in California. Increased domestic refining capacity is essential and the best way Congress can help is to streamline the regulatory process to encourage companies to invest in expanding existing or building new refineries, " said Calvert. Gasoline prices are reaching near-record levels, due to supply and demand as well as geopolitics. According to the California Department of Energy, overall gasoline refinery production is not keeping pace with demand, which causes our state to rely on more imported gasoline. California currently imports more than 10 percent of its gasoline, and those imports are expected to grow to about 20 percent by 2010. No new refinery has been built in the United States in 30 years. Oil companies cite regulatory uncertainty as one of the reasons they forgo adding refining capacity in the United States. The Refinery Permit Process Schedule Act would establish regulatory certainty for companies as they make long-term decisions to expand refining capacity, removing one key stumbling block to expansion ###
04.08.2009	Congressman Ken Calvert joined fellow Southern California Representative Gary Miller and Transportation and Infrastructure Committee Chairman Don Young in introducing H.R. 5329, the California State Route 91 Congestion Relief Act. The bill would authorize federal funding for five congestion relief projects related to the 91 freeway. "The 91 freeway remains one of the most heavily congested freeways in Southern California. The five projects authorized in this bill will help alleviate that congestion and enable the 91 freeway to better meet the needs of our growing community. California's economy is strong and we must ensure our transportation infrastructure is sufficient to sustain it. I am proud to cosponsor H.R. 5329 and look forward to working with Chairman Young and Congressman Gary Miller to ensure its passage," said Calvert. The California State Route 91 Congestion and Relief Act would authorize federal funding for the following projects: SR-91 Widening Project. $221,325,000 to add one general purpose lane in each direction from State Route 55 to the Riverside County line. SR-91 Chokepoint Project. $40,700,000 to add an auxiliary lane along State Route-91 in each direction from State Route 241 to State Route 71. SR-91 Truck Storage Lane Project. $7,080,000 to add truck storage lanes in both directions at the existing Commercial Vehicle Enforcement Facility on State Route 91. SR-91/SR-241 High Occupancy Toll Connector Project. $56,000,000 to divert traffic from the State Route 241 Toll Road via a direct connector to the State Route-91 Express Lanes to improve the traffic operation of the interchange and alleviate traffic between Orange and Riverside County. SR-56 and I-5 Freeway-to-Freeway Connectors Project. $65,000,000 to add freeway-to-freeway connectors between State Route 56 and Interstate 5. ###
04.08.2009	Congressman Ken Calvert supported House passage of a H.R. 5143, the H-Prize Act of 2006. The bill would offer prizes to spur new innovations in hydrogen technology that would make hydrogen a viable alternative to oil for vehicle fuel. H.R. 5143 passed with an overwhelming majority of 416 to 6. "Hydrogen is the ideal transportation fuel. It is clean, it is abundant, and most importantly, it can be produced here at home. The only emission from a hydrogen car is pure water, so smog and pollution could become problems of the past. But before hydrogen cars can become practical alternatives to the cars we drive today, significant technical hurdles must be overcome. The H-Prize will help make that happen by establishing a national competition that will summon our nation's technological innovators and entrepreneurs to the task of making the hydrogen economy a reality," said Calvert, who is a cosponsor of the bill. Calvert has been a longtime supporter of Hydrogen's potential as a clean and renewable fuel. He was the original sponsor of a the Robert S. Walker and George E. Brown Hydrogen Energy Act of 2001. The H-Prize is modeled after the successful Ansari X Prize, which spurred the first privately funded suborbital human spaceflight last year. Under the bill, prizes would be awarded to researchers, universities, companies, or private citizens who develop technical breakthroughs related to key aspects of the hydrogen fuel cycle: Technological Advancements – Four prizes of up to $1 million awarded biennially in the categories of hydrogen Production, Storage, Distribution and Utilization; Prototypes – One prize of up to $4 million awarded biennially that forces working hydrogen vehicle prototypes to meet ambitious performance goals; and Transformational Technologies – One grand prize consisting of a $10 million cash award, funded in whole or in part by federal contribution. Additional matching funds could be awarded for development of wells-to-wheels breakthrough technologies. ###
04.08.2009	Congressman Ken Calvert voted today in support of a bill to prevent tax increases on small business owners, seniors, and families. The Conference Report on H.R. 4297, the Tax Increase Prevention and Reconciliation Act of 2005, extends alternative minimum tax relief, the increased limit on small business expensing, and the low rates on capital gains and dividends. House of Representatives voted 244 to 185 to approve the Conference Report. "This important legislation will help spur continued economic growth. While Republicans are extending tax relief to millions of American small business owners, families, and seniors, Democrats continue to stand for increased taxation and growth-stifling regulation. As America continues to enjoy unparalleled economic growth, it is important to extend the tax relief that helped drive that economic growth in the first place. This tax relief measure will assist seniors living off dividends, small business owners who will be able to write off business expenses, and working families currently burdened by unnecessary taxation" said Calvert. The Tax Increase Prevention and Reconciliation Act will provide the following benefits: Extend alternative minimum tax relief for an additional year. Extend the increased limit on small business expensing. Extend the lower tax rate on dividend income through 2010, thus preventing a $13 billion tax increase over the next four years. 1 in 2 taxpaying senior citizens will benefit. Extend the lower tax rate on capital gains income through 2010, thus preventing a $7 billion tax increase over the next four years. Nearly 1 in 3 senior citizens will benefit. ###
04.08.2009	Congressman Ken Calvert today announced the passage of H.R. 5122, the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2007. H.R. 5122 authorizes $512.9 billion in budget authority for the Department of Defense (DoD) and the national security programs of the Department of Energy. The legislation includes $50 billion in supplemental funding to support current operations in Iraq, Afghanistan and elsewhere in the Global War on Terrorism. "I'm proud to support a bill that provides our men an women in uniform the tools they need to fight the Global War on Terrorism. H.R. 5122 provides for improved capabilities to counter improvised explosive devices (IEDs) , including up-armored Humvees, Humvee IED protection kits and gunner protection kits, improvised explosive device (IED) jammers and state-of-the-art body armor. I am particularly pleased that the bill prevents any increases to TRICARE Prime and TRICARE Standard fees. In fielding an all-volunteer force it is important that those who serve today see that America takes care of the military retirees who served before them," said Calvert, who serves on the House Armed Services Committee. Highlights of the bill include: An additional $50 billion in supplemental funding to support the Global War on Terror's operational costs, personnel expenses and procurement of new equipment. Blocks the Department of Defense's proposed TRICARE Prime and TRICARE Standard fee increases and zeroes out co-pays for generic and formulary mail order prescriptions for military beneficiaries. Additional funding for force protection needs in support of Operation Enduring Freedom and Operation Iraqi Freedom. Additional increases of 30,000 Army and 5,000 Marine Corps active duty personnel to sustain our required missions. A 2.7% pay raise for all members of the armed forces. Increases end strength for the Army National Guard by 17,100 over the original budget request. The legislation provides an additional $471 million for National Guard personnel, operations and maintenance and defense health program, as well as $318 million for procurement to support the recommended National Guard end strength of 350,000. Authorizes grants and loan guarantees to U.S. shipyards to improve their efficiency, cost effectiveness and international competitiveness. H.R. 5122 reflects Congress's on-going commitment to improving the efficiency and effectiveness of service members' benefits, including health care. Below are several of the key provisions regarding health care in H.R. 5122. H.R. 5122 would prohibit (until December 31, 2007) the Department's ability to increase TRICARE Prime, Standard and TRICARE Reserve Select cost shares. While the House Armed Services Committee recognizes that the military health care program faces the same escalating costs that plague the private sector, the committee was concerned with the DOD proposal to increase cost shares for military retirees enrolled in the TRICARE program and prohibits the DOD from implementing its proposed increased cost shares for TRICARE Standard, TRICARE Prime and TRICARE Reserve Select. H.R. 5122 calls for an independent analysis to determine the appropriate cost-sharing formula for the TRICARE program. To ensure that a comprehensive policy and fiscal basis for sustaining future military health care benefits are in place, H.R. 5122 recommends an independent review by a task force, the Government Accountability Office and the Congressional Budget Office (CBO) to present its findings to Congress. The moratorium placed on DOD to implement any cost-share changes until December 31, 2007, will allow the committee to assess the recommendations from an independent task force, the Comptroller General and the CBO, for a comprehensive policy and fiscal review of the military health care benefit. H.R. 5122 zeroes out the costs for generic and formulary prescriptions for participants in the TRICARE pharmacy mail-order program. In order to provide beneficiaries with the incentives to use the TRICARE mail order pharmacy program, the committee recommends that the costs for generic and formulary drugs in the mail order program would be reduced to zero. H.R. 5122 recommends modest cost share increases for generic and formulary drugs through the retail pharmacy program. H.R. 5122 also adds $735 million to the Defense Health Program to restore funding cuts included in the DOD budget request in anticipation of increased beneficiary cost shares, which as mentioned, H.R. 5122 prohibits. H.R. 5122 includes TRICARE coverage for forensic examinations following sexual assaults and domestic violence. H.R. 5122 provides TRICARE coverage for anesthesia and hospital costs for dental care provided to young children and mentally or physically challenged beneficiaries. ###
04.08.2009	Congressman Ken Calvert attended today's signing ceremony for a bill to prevent tax increases on small business owners, seniors, and families. The Conference Report on H.R. 4297, the Tax Increase Prevention and Reconciliation Act of 2005, extends alternative minimum tax relief, the increased limit on small business expensing, and the low rates on capital gains and dividends. The bill was signed into law today in a ceremony at the White House. "This bill will help spur continued economic growth. Republicans are extending tax relief to millions of American small business owners, families, and seniors. This tax relief measure prevents increased taxation and fights growth-stifling regulation. It is the economic decisions of millions of Americans who are allowed to keep more of their hard – earned money which makes America a land of plenty. As America continues to enjoy unparalleled economic growth, it is important to extend the tax relief to continue economic expansion. Tax relief will assist seniors living off dividends, small business owners who will be able to write off business expenses, and working families currently burdened by unnecessary taxation" said CalvertThe Tax Increase Prevention and Reconciliation Act provides the following benefits: Extends the alternative minimum tax relief for an additional year. Extends the increased limit on small business expensing through the end of 2009. Extends the lower tax rate on dividend income through 2010, thus preventing a $13 billion tax increase over the next four years. 1 in 2 taxpaying senior citizens will benefit. Extends the lower tax rate on capital gains income through 2010, thus preventing a $7 billion tax increase over the next four years. Nearly 1 in 3 senior citizens will benefit. ###
04.08.2009	Congressman Ken Calvert announced the passage of H.R.5385, the Military Quality of Life and Veterans Affairs Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year 2007. The bill, which emphasizes health care and veterans' benefits, reflects the commitment of Congress to ensuring that the needs of the brave men and women who serve our country are fully met. "H.R. 5385 works to fully fund the needs of our veterans and the needs of those currently serving in the military. With an all volunteer force it is important to show those currently serving in the military today that our government also supports the veterans who served before them," said Calvert. Among other things, H.R.5385, the Military Quality of Life and Veterans Affairs Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year 2007 will do the following: Provide $25 billion for Veterans Medical Services – $2.6 billion above last year's level, representing a 70 percent increase in total funding over the last 6 years; Increase funding by $20 million for facility improvements in existing state veterans' homes; Increase basic medical research funding by $13 million, for a total of $412 million; Add $12 million to upgrade Veterans Affairs medical research facilities nationwide; and Increase the defense health program by $1 billion, for a total of $21 billion. ###
04.08.2009	Congressman Ken Calvert will vote in support of H.R. 5384, the Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year 2007, which is expected to pass the House later this evening. "H.R. 5384 supports our nation's farmers and ranchers as well as needed funding for research into public health issues and food safety. The legislation also provides increased financial support for critical food and nutrition programs, such as the Special Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women, Infants, and Children (WIC)", said Calvert. In light of current budgetary constraints and the need to reduce the national debt, H.R. 5384 actually reduces spending by almost $100 million while still providing sufficient funding for national priorities. Among other provisions, H.R. 5384, the Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year 2007 provides the following: $853 million for the Food Safety and Inspection Service – $24 million above last year and $96 million above the president's request $1.5 billion for the Food and Drug Administration – $54 million above last year $13.3 billion for Child Nutrition Programs – $685 million above last year $5.244 billion for the Special Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women, Infants, and Children (WIC) – $40 million above last year and $44 million above the president's request $700 million for the Rural Community Advancement Program (RCAP) – $5 million above last year and $99 million above the president's request ###
04.08.2009	Congressman Ken Calvert announced the expected House passage of H.R. 5427, the Energy and Water Development and Related Agencies Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year (FY) 2007. "Addressing the energy and water needs of Southern California continues to be a priority. This bill provides necessary funding for the Army Corps of Engineers and the Bureau of Reclamation. I am particularly pleased that it fully funds the American Competitiveness Initiative to strengthen basic science research. H.R. 5427 also supports the Advanced Energy Initiative by increasing funding for clean energy technologies, including biomass, hydrogen, solar, wind, and clean coal," said Calvert. H.R. 5427 provides a total of $30 billion in budget authority for the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, the Department of Interior, including the Bureau of Reclamation, the Department of Energy, and several Independent Agencies. The funding level is $172 million below last year's level and $546 million above the President's Budget request. Among other things, H.R. 5427, the Energy and Water Development and Related Agencies Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year 2007 will provide the following: $5 billion for the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers. $24.373 billion dollars for the Department of Energy, including fully funding the American Competitiveness Initiative at $4.132 billion and $2.0 billion for energy supply and conservation programs. A $200 million reduction in earmarks compared to last year's bill. ###
04.08.2009	Congressman Ken Calvert announced the expected passage of H.R. 5441, the Department of Homeland Security Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year (FY) 2007. The bill provides $32.08 billion for the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) in fiscal year 2007, $1.8 billion above the fiscal year 2006 enacted levels, and $1.065 billion above the President's request. "H.R. 5441 provides funding for critical homeland security and anti-terrorism activities while addressing emerging threats. It also significantly moves DHS forward in the area of port, container, and cargo security and requires changes in disaster assistance based upon lessons learned from Hurricane Katrina. Most importantly, it increases funding for border security and enforcement of our immigration laws," said Calvert. Securing America's Borders and Revitalizing Immigration Enforcement The bill provides $19.6 billion for border protection, immigration enforcement, and related activities. This includes $3.98 billion for the Secure Border Initiative, providing DHS with the appropriate mix of technology, personnel, and infrastructure to prevent terrorists and other criminals from exploiting our borders and immigration system. Highlights include: $2.33 billion for border security, adding 1,200 new Border Patrol agents, for a total of 13,580. $4.1 billion for Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE), adding 1,212 officers, for a total of 11,500. $3.1 billion for the Coast Guard's homeland security missions; $1.29 billion for ICE custody management, adding 4,870 detention beds, for a total of 25,670. $273 million for transportation and removal of undocumented aliens. $115 million for border security technology and tactical infrastructure. $535 million for Air and Marine Operations for border and airspace security, including $33.5 million for enhancements to aerial surveillance along borders and coastlines. $200 million for 28 Fugitive Operations teams for a total of 80 nation-wide. $105 million for the Criminal Alien Program, including 40 new agents; $46 million for Alternatives to Detention; $362 million for the US-VISIT program; and $114 million to support immigration verification systems. Enhancing Port, Container and Cargo Security The bill provides $4.185 billion to secure ports and inbound cargo in order to prevent terrorists and criminals from exploiting the international commerce system. Stringent performance requirements mandate a strategy to double the amount of cargo currently inspected, screen 100% of cargo through the Automated Targeting System, and establish minimum security standards for cargo containers. Highlights include: $2.05 billion for Coast Guard port and waterway security operations; $1.69 billion for CBP cargo inspection and trade operations; $139 million for Container Security Initiative, expanding the program to 58 foreign seaports; $70.1 million for C-TPAT, supporting 100% validation of over 6,070 certified partners; $178 million for radiation portal monitors; $40 million to support implementation of the Transportation Worker Identification Credential; $15 million to increase port facility and vessel inspections domestically and overseas; $200 million for port security grants; and $23 million for Science & Technology's Cargo Security Program. Supporting State and Local First Responders The bill provides $3.2 billion for first responders, including grants to high threat areas, firefighters, and emergency management. Since September 11th, 2001, and including funds in this bill, $37.4 billion has been provided to first responders –including terrorism prevention and preparedness, general law enforcement, firefighter assistance, airport security, seaport security, and public health preparedness. The bill maintains current law for all formula grants. Highlights include: $1.165 billion for high-density urban areas, including $750 million for urban area grants, $150 million for rail security, $200 million for port security, and $65 million for other infrastructure protection. $545 million for basic formula grants. $500 million for firefighter grants and $40 million for the SAFER program; $400 million for State and local law enforcement terrorism prevention grants; $180 million for Emergency Management Performance Grants; and $339 million for First Responder training, exercise, and assistance programs. Strengthening Federal Disaster Response and Implementing Katrina Lessons Learned The bill provides a total of $6.5 billion for the Preparedness Directorate and FEMA to prepare for and respond to any form of disaster or terrorist attack and includes funds and direction to address lessons learned from the 2005 hurricane season. Highlights include: $1.66 billion for Disaster Relief. $493 million for FEMA's operational capability. $198 million for flood map modernization. $20 million for catastrophic planning. $15 million for the National Preparedness Integration Program. Protecting the Nation's Critical Infrastructure The bill supports ongoing efforts to enhance the current inventory of our nation's critical infrastructures; develop secure communications systems with federal, State and local entities; and continue work with the private sector to implement protective measures around the nation's infrastructure. Highlights include: $72 million for critical infrastructure identification and evaluation. $101 million for critical infrastructure outreach and partnerships with industry. $500 million for the Domestic Nuclear Detection Office to coordinate global nuclear detection and tracking. $32 million for protective actions. $458 million for biological, chemical and explosives countermeasures. Transportation Security The bill continues efforts to enhance security for all modes of transportation, including ports, rails, and aviation, with a focus on developing and installing next generation technologies to inspect cargo, baggage and passengers. In total, the bill provides $6.3 billion – partially offset by fees – for TSA and Federal Air Marshals (FAMs). Highlights include: $2.6 billion for passenger and baggage screeners; $244 million for the training of airport screeners; $497 million to procure, install, maintain and refurbish explosive detection systems; $173 million to procure, install, and maintain technologies at passenger screening checkpoints; $55 million for air cargo; $13.2 million for rail security inspectors and explosive detection canines. $699 million for FAMs, ensuring mission coverage on both domestic and international flights. Supporting Traditional Missions such as Drug Interdiction, Law Enforcement, Maritime Safety, and Presidential Protection $2.4 billion for traditional Coast Guard operating activities, including maritime safety, drug interdiction, and fisheries, environmental, and humanitarian missions; $893 million for the Coast Guard's Deepwater program. $1.29 billion for the U.S. Secret Service including enhancement of the agency's protective and investigative capabilities. $46 million for the U.S. Fire Administration. $252 million for the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center. Key Oversight Provisions The bill withholds a total of $1.3 billion until DHS provides Congress strategic plans for catastrophic planning, chemical site security, and port, container, and cargo security. It also requires expenditure plans for the Secure Border Initiative, US-VISIT, business transformation for CIS, and explosive detection systems in airports, Customs IT systems, and better financial data throughout the Department - in particular Science and Technology. The bill creates a new, independent appropriation for the Federal Coordinator for Gulf Coast Rebuilding to ensure accountability for federal rebuilding efforts in the Gulf Coast. ###
04.08.2009	Today, the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) announced two new regulations regarding employer compliance with employee eligibility laws. One proposed regulation updates the legal obligations for businesses that receive "no-match" letters from the Social Security Administration (in response to their quarterly submission of wage reports) when the Social Security number submitted by an employee does not match with that employee's name. The other regulation would permit businesses to digitize their I-9 employment forms. Rep. Ken Calvert (R-Corona) issued the following statement in response to today's announcement by DHS: "It seems as though DHS is trying to tweak a broken system that has been failing the American people for far too long. I would rather see the Administration focus on working with Congress to implement a new mandatory electronic employee verification system that will serve as an effective tool for enforcing our immigration laws. I wrote the law that created the current Basic Pilot Program which has run successfully for over a decade, benefiting thousands of businesses who have voluntarily signed up. The immigration reform bills passed by the House and Senate endorse my approach and create a mandatory electronic employee verification program modeled after the Basic Pilot Program. Business owners want to be part of the solution to our illegal immigration problem, so we must provide employers with the resources they need to verify employees Social Security numbers immediately after they are hired, not months later when the wage reports are submitted." ###
04.08.2009	Today, Rep. Ken Calvert (R-Corona) voted for the final conference report on the Emergency Supplemental Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year 2006 to provide $94.5 billion for defense, military, border, and hurricane relief priorities. The bill passed 357-67. "This bill funds critical programs to fight the Global War on Terror," said Rep. Calvert. "It is vital that Congress and the American people support our troops and their efforts in Afghanistan, Iraq, and around the world. This bill provides support for our troops, increased border security funds, and relief for communities affected by last year's hurricane season in a fiscally responsible manner." The Senate originally passed a version of the supplemental appropriations bill authorizing $108.9 billion in new spending. House Republicans, determined to hold the line on spending, brought the bill's total down to $94.5 billion in the conference report by ensuring that unnecessary projects and programs were removed from the bill. Highlights of H.R. 4939, the Emergency Supplemental Appropriations Act for Defense, the Global War on Terror, and Hurricane Recovery for Fiscal Year 2006, include: $890 million for up-armored Humvees to protect our military men and women; Almost $2 billion for improvised explosive device (IED) countermeasures; $4.85 billion to train and equip Iraqi and Afghan security forces; $66 million for the promotion of democracy in Iran; $1.9 billion to strengthen U.S. border security; $6 billion for FEMA's Disaster Relief Fund; and $3.7 billion for flood control projects and levee repairs. ###
04.08.2009	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert supported H.R. 5576, the Transportation, Treasury, Housing and Urban Development, the Judiciary, the District of Columbia, and Independent Agencies Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year 2007. The bill passed the House of Representatives by a vote of 406 to 22. "Solving our area's transportation problems is one of my highest priorities. Residents of Riverside and Orange counties deserve relief from the traffic congestion they face every day. H.R. 5576 will help by providing funding for the full spectrum of the transportation infrastructure, including highways, air travel and railways" said Calvert. H.R. 5576 provides funding for the Federal-aid highways program, the Federal Aviation Administration, and Amtrak. The bill funds the Federal-aid highways program at $39.1 billion, the Federal Aviation Administration at $15.2 billion, and $1.1 billion for Amtrak. Funds Highway Spending The bill funds the Federal-aid highways program at $39.1 billion, as set by the recently enacted surface transportation authorization legislation, SAFETEA-LU. This is equal to the President's request and $3.5 billion more than the FY 2006 enacted level, excluding emergency supplementals. Supports Aviation A total of $15.2 billion is provided to the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) -- $1.4 billion above the fiscal year 2006 enacted level and $2.4 billion above the President's request. This includes funding for FAA operations, for the Airport Improvement Program, and for Essential Air Service. The bill includes $16 million to hire and train 132 new air traffic controllers, and an additional $12 million above the request to hire and train of safety inspectors in the office of aircraft certification and flight standards. Supports the War on Drugs Provides $27 million to the Office of National Drug Control Policy $227 million for the High Intensity Drug Trafficking Areas program. $194 million for other Federal drug control programs. $20 million for the Counter-drug Technology Assessment Center. Agency Funding Federal Transit Administration is funded at the levels set by the guarantees in SAFETEA-LU. Department of Treasury is funded at $1.04 billion, $32 million above FY06 and $26 million above the President's request. The Internal Revenue Service is funded at request level of $10.5 billion, $63 million below FY06 and $110 million below the request. Election Assistance Commission is funded at $17 million, also $3 million above FY06. Addresses Critical Housing Needs The Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) is funded at $35.3 billion, $1.2 billion above the request and $1.7 billion above last year. Tenant-Based Rental Assistance (Section 8 vouchers) is funded at $15.8 billion, $358 million over last year and $144 million below the budget request. The costs of this program alone, is 45 percent of HUD's total budget. Project-Based Rental Assistance (project-based contracts) is funded at $5.5 billion, $438 million above last year and $200 million below the request. Along with recaptures from expiring contracts this fully funds all contracts. Provides $4.2 billion for the Community Development Fund, $22 million above FY06 and $1.2 billion above the President's request. This includes $3.9 billion for the Community Development Block Grant and $270 million for Economic Development Initiative projects, $60 million less than last year. The committee created a new requirement that all grantees under this program must provide 40% matching funds in order to receive any funds. HOME Investments Partnership is level funded at $1.9 billion, $159 million above the FY06 enacted level. Includes $735 million for Housing for the Elderly, and $237 million for Housing for Persons with Disabilities. These amounts are $189 million and $118 million respectively above the requested levels. Provides the requested level for the Office of Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight of $62 million. ###
04.08.2009	Congressman Ken Calvert is pleased to announce the expected passage of H.R. 5631, the Department of Defense Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year 2007. "I'm proud to support a bill that provides our men and women in uniform the funding they need to fight the Global War on Terrorism. The bill funds improved capabilities to protect our troops from improvised explosive devices (IEDs) in addition to the replacement of equipment lost during wartime. It also provides a pay raise for military personnel and funds for Army Reserve and National Guard Operations and Maintenance accounts," said Calvert. Overall Budgetary Highlights Military Personnel $84.9 billion Operation and Maintenance $120.5 billion Procurement $81.8 billion Research, Development, Test and Evaluation $75.3 billion Revolving and Management Funds $2.4 billion Emergency Wartime Appropriations $50.0 billion Troop Support: Fully funds the 2.2% military pay raise, effective January 1, 2007, and end strength levels requested for active duty and Guard and Reserve Personnel in the President's budget. Restores $557.0 million for the Army Reserve and Army National Guard military personnel and operation and maintenance accounts that were reduced in the budget request on the basis of their current, not authorized, end strength levels. Title IX "Bridge Fund": Includes $50.0 billion in emergency funding for military operations in Iraq and Afghanistan. These funds were included in the President's budget and accommodated in the fiscal year 2007 Budget Resolution. Title IX is designed to cover 6 months worth of contingency operations costs in the global war on terror. The majority of this funding – $43.4 billion – is provided for military pay and the operation and maintenance accounts. Funds are also provided for the following: Replacement of equipment losses: Approximately $5.6 billion is added to procurement accounts for Army, Navy, Marine Corps, and Air Force equipment due to wartime losses and degradation. This includes funding for additional Humvees, trucks, radios, Hellfire missiles, and ammunition. Counter IED: $1.5 billion is provided for the Joint IED Defeat Organization of the Department of Defense in order to test and field new jammers to counter improvised explosive devices (IEDs) employed by our enemies in Iraq and Afghanistan. Personnel protection items: An additional $725 million is provided for personnel force protection items and gear for troops in the field, such as body armor. Army and Marine Corps Reset: The recommendation proposes a total of $4.8 billion for Army and Marine Corps equipment rehabilitation. Other Items: The Commander's Emergency Response Program (CERP) is provided up to $500 million to help combatant commanders secure the peace by addressing emergency civilian needs in Afghanistan and Iraq. $1 billion is provided to train and equip Iraqi and Afghan security forces. Army National Guard Equipment: $500 million in funding above the President's request for the equipment needs of the Army National Guard, primarily to provide items needed for homeland defense and disaster response. Army Ground Systems: The Army's Future Combat System (FCS) research and development program is funded at $3 billion, about $326 million below the request due to development and contracting delays. The amount provided for FCS represents an increase of $227 million above the fiscal year 2006 level. The Stryker vehicle program is funded at $800 million for 100 vehicles. The Bradley Fighting Vehicle base sustainment program is funded at $285 million, the President's request. In addition, given the need for Bradley's in the global war on terror, an additional $480 million is recommended in title IX. Army Aviation: The Army's UH-60 Blackhawk procurement is funded at $581 million. The recommendation includes an additional $19.2 million for a medical evacuation helicopter for the Army Reserve. The Administration's requests for AH-64 Apache helicopter modifications and CH-47 Chinook helicopter modifications are fully funded at $776 million and $583 million respectively. Navy Shipbuilding: The bill provides a total of $11.0 billion for Navy shipbuilding and conversion. This includes $1.8 billion to purchase one Virginia-class submarine, $1.1 billion for one LHA(R) amphibious assault ship, $455 million for one T-AKE ammunition ship, and $521 million for two Littoral Combat Ships (LCSs). The recommendation fully funds the purchase of one DD(X) destroyer, including $2.6 billion for this purpose. Navy/Marine Corps Aviation: Includes $2.9 billion for 42 F/A-18's. The bill fully funds the V-22 aircraft procurement program at $1.3 billion and the KC-130J tanker aircraft program at $300 million. The bill fully funds development of the VH-71 Presidential Helicopter Program ($638 million) and the Multimission Maritime Patrol Aircraft ($1.1 billion). Air Force programs: Includes $2.9 billion to fully fund the procurement of 20 F -22 aircraft and $477 million for advance procurement of 20 aircraft in fiscal year 2008. The C-17 program is funded at $2.2 billion for 12 aircraft and an additional $789 million is provided in the bridge fund to replace 3 aircraft. The bill provides $697 million in funding for the C-130J Air Force procurement program and $90 million for advance procurement. In addition, $253 million is provided for the Navy's KC-130J program and $45 million for advance procurement. Research and development for the Joint Strike Fighter (a joint program with the Navy) is funded at $4.2 billion, the President's request. However, the bill only funds 4 of the 5 JSF production aircraft requested, for a savings of $140 million. Missile Defense: The bill provides a total of $9 billion for ballistic missile defense, an increase of $1.3 million over FY06 and $355 million below the request. The agreement includes additional funding of $5 million for an Asymmetric Warfare Initiative, and $20 million for ballistic missile defense signals processor and open architecture. The Kinetic Energy Interceptor (KEI) program is funded at the President's requested level of $405.5 million as is the Airborne Laser program at $631.6 million. Space Programs: The bill adds $25 million to the budget request for Operationally Responsive Space and makes reductions to the request for two programs: Space Radar (-$66.4 million) and Transformational Communications Satellite (-$100 million). Additionally, the bill reduces the Evolved Expendable Launch Vehicle program by $244.2 million for launch delays and infrastructure costs and recognizes programmatic difficulty causing delays in the Global Positioning System IIF through a reduction of $73.3 million. Drug Interdiction and Counter-drug Activities: The bill provides $937 million for DOD's counter-drug activities and to fight narcoterrorism, $10.1 million over the request and $28.5 million above last year's level. Other Programs: The bill provides the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA) the President's request of $3.3 billion, and the Chemical and Biological Defense Program $1.542 million which is $84 million above the request. Member project funding: The bill includes a little less than $5 billion which is more than $1 billion below last year's House bill and $2.7 billion below last year's conference report. ###
04.08.2009	Congressman Ken Calvert is pleased to announce the expected passage of H.R. 5631, the Department of Defense Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year 2007. "I'm proud to support a bill that provides our men and women in uniform the funding they need to fight the Global War on Terrorism. The bill funds improved capabilities to protect our troops from improvised explosive devices (IEDs) in addition to the replacement of equipment lost during wartime. It also provides a pay raise for military personnel and funds for Army Reserve and National Guard Operations and Maintenance accounts," said Calvert. Overall Budgetary Highlights Military Personnel $84.9 billion Operation and Maintenance $120.5 billion Procurement $81.8 billion Research, Development, Test and Evaluation $75.3 billion Revolving and Management Funds $2.4 billion Emergency Wartime Appropriations $50.0 billion Troop Support: Fully funds the 2.2% military pay raise, effective January 1, 2007, and end strength levels requested for active duty and Guard and Reserve Personnel in the President's budget. Restores $557.0 million for the Army Reserve and Army National Guard military personnel and operation and maintenance accounts that were reduced in the budget request on the basis of their current, not authorized, end strength levels. Title IX "Bridge Fund": Includes $50.0 billion in emergency funding for military operations in Iraq and Afghanistan. These funds were included in the President's budget and accommodated in the fiscal year 2007 Budget Resolution. Title IX is designed to cover 6 months worth of contingency operations costs in the global war on terror. The majority of this funding – $43.4 billion – is provided for military pay and the operation and maintenance accounts. Funds are also provided for the following: Replacement of equipment losses: Approximately $5.6 billion is added to procurement accounts for Army, Navy, Marine Corps, and Air Force equipment due to wartime losses and degradation. This includes funding for additional Humvees, trucks, radios, Hellfire missiles, and ammunition. Counter IED: $1.5 billion is provided for the Joint IED Defeat Organization of the Department of Defense in order to test and field new jammers to counter improvised explosive devices (IEDs) employed by our enemies in Iraq and Afghanistan. Personnel protection items: An additional $725 million is provided for personnel force protection items and gear for troops in the field, such as body armor. Army and Marine Corps Reset: The recommendation proposes a total of $4.8 billion for Army and Marine Corps equipment rehabilitation. Other Items: The Commander's Emergency Response Program (CERP) is provided up to $500 million to help combatant commanders secure the peace by addressing emergency civilian needs in Afghanistan and Iraq. $1 billion is provided to train and equip Iraqi and Afghan security forces. Army National Guard Equipment: $500 million in funding above the President's request for the equipment needs of the Army National Guard, primarily to provide items needed for homeland defense and disaster response. Army Ground Systems: The Army's Future Combat System (FCS) research and development program is funded at $3 billion, about $326 million below the request due to development and contracting delays. The amount provided for FCS represents an increase of $227 million above the fiscal year 2006 level. The Stryker vehicle program is funded at $800 million for 100 vehicles. The Bradley Fighting Vehicle base sustainment program is funded at $285 million, the President's request. In addition, given the need for Bradley's in the global war on terror, an additional $480 million is recommended in title IX. Army Aviation: The Army's UH-60 Blackhawk procurement is funded at $581 million. The recommendation includes an additional $19.2 million for a medical evacuation helicopter for the Army Reserve. The Administration's requests for AH-64 Apache helicopter modifications and CH-47 Chinook helicopter modifications are fully funded at $776 million and $583 million respectively. Navy Shipbuilding: The bill provides a total of $11.0 billion for Navy shipbuilding and conversion. This includes $1.8 billion to purchase one Virginia-class submarine, $1.1 billion for one LHA(R) amphibious assault ship, $455 million for one T-AKE ammunition ship, and $521 million for two Littoral Combat Ships (LCSs). The recommendation fully funds the purchase of one DD(X) destroyer, including $2.6 billion for this purpose. Navy/Marine Corps Aviation: Includes $2.9 billion for 42 F/A-18's. The bill fully funds the V-22 aircraft procurement program at $1.3 billion and the KC-130J tanker aircraft program at $300 million. The bill fully funds development of the VH-71 Presidential Helicopter Program ($638 million) and the Multimission Maritime Patrol Aircraft ($1.1 billion). Air Force programs: Includes $2.9 billion to fully fund the procurement of 20 F -22 aircraft and $477 million for advance procurement of 20 aircraft in fiscal year 2008. The C-17 program is funded at $2.2 billion for 12 aircraft and an additional $789 million is provided in the bridge fund to replace 3 aircraft. The bill provides $697 million in funding for the C-130J Air Force procurement program and $90 million for advance procurement. In addition, $253 million is provided for the Navy's KC-130J program and $45 million for advance procurement. Research and development for the Joint Strike Fighter (a joint program with the Navy) is funded at $4.2 billion, the President's request. However, the bill only funds 4 of the 5 JSF production aircraft requested, for a savings of $140 million. Missile Defense: The bill provides a total of $9 billion for ballistic missile defense, an increase of $1.3 million over FY06 and $355 million below the request. The agreement includes additional funding of $5 million for an Asymmetric Warfare Initiative, and $20 million for ballistic missile defense signals processor and open architecture. The Kinetic Energy Interceptor (KEI) program is funded at the President's requested level of $405.5 million as is the Airborne Laser program at $631.6 million. Space Programs: The bill adds $25 million to the budget request for Operationally Responsive Space and makes reductions to the request for two programs: Space Radar (-$66.4 million) and Transformational Communications Satellite (-$100 million). Additionally, the bill reduces the Evolved Expendable Launch Vehicle program by $244.2 million for launch delays and infrastructure costs and recognizes programmatic difficulty causing delays in the Global Positioning System IIF through a reduction of $73.3 million. Drug Interdiction and Counter-drug Activities: The bill provides $937 million for DOD's counter-drug activities and to fight narcoterrorism, $10.1 million over the request and $28.5 million above last year's level. Other Programs: The bill provides the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA) the President's request of $3.3 billion, and the Chemical and Biological Defense Program $1.542 million which is $84 million above the request. Member project funding: The bill includes a little less than $5 billion which is more than $1 billion below last year's House bill and $2.7 billion below last year's conference report. ###
04.08.2009	Today, Representative Ken Calvert (CA-44th) hailed the 2006 Academy Appointments from the 44th Congressional District. As a Member of Congress, Rep. Calvert has the privilege of recommending a select group of highly qualified young men and women for admission to the United States Service Academies – Army, Navy, Air Force and Merchant Marine. "In light of all that has happened since the tragedies of September 11th and the fact that America is engaged in a Global War on Terror, I am heartened by the interest our future generations are taking in serving our country," stated Rep. Calvert. "Their decision to pursue an education and career in the military is commendable and admirable; our military is made of the best and the brightest and I have no doubt that our appointees from the 44th District will continue that fine tradition." The following is a list of the candidates nominated by Congressman Calvert who have received and accepted an Offer of Appointment to our nation's service academies, and will be part of the Class of 2010 entering in June 2006: UNITED STATES AIR FORCE ACADEMY Jack Hines – Riverside Polytechnic High School, Riverside Rachel Lovelady – Tesoro High School, Las Flores David Miller – Norco High School (Class of 2005), Norco Sean Royer – Woodcrest Christian School, Riverside Linea Stuckey – Norco High School, Norco UNITED STATES MILITARY ACADEMY AT WEST POINT Geoffrey Hewitt – Santiago High School, Corona David Watts – Riverside Polytechnic High School, Riverside UNITED STATES NAVAL ACADEMY Andrew Hetzner – Riverside Polytechnic High School (Class of 2004), Riverside John Howser – Corona High School, Corona Kathryn Whichard – Santa Margarita Catholic High School, Rancho Santa Margarita Chelsea Zuspan – Centennial High School Each Appointee to the Armed Service Academies will receive an education valued in excess of $300,000. Rep. Calvert's appointments to the Armed Service Academies are awarded on a strictly competitive basis through a Congressional Nominations Selection Committee. The Committee evaluates each candidate and makes recommendations. Five of the members of the committee are Military Academy graduates who recognize the qualities in potential candidates that the Academies look for and will ensure a successful career. The Committee Members are: Chairman of the Committee, Lieutenant Colonel Joseph Calderon, U.S. Air Force Academy Class of 1984; Brigadier General Charles Lamb, U.S. Naval Academy Class of 1953; Major Marcel Smith, graduate of the U.S. Air Force Academy; Captain William Bailey, graduate of the U.S. Military Academy at West Point; Major Dawn Deshefy, Admissions Liaison Officer for the U.S. Air Force Academy; Mrs. DeAtte Allert, Blue and Gold Officer for the United States Naval Academy and mother of a U.S. Naval Academy graduate; Mrs. Crystal Kochendorfer Member of the Board of Trustees, Capistrano Unified School District, and mother of a U.S. Naval Academy Graduate, and Mrs. Suzanne Durbeck, Northwestern Preparatory School. ###
04.08.2009	Congressman Ken testified today on Immigration and Employment Verification before the Subcommittee on Workforce, Empowerment and Government Programs. Calvert, who has long been a leader for strong border enforcement measures, is the author of the Basic Pilot Program, a web based program that allows employers to verify that the name and Social Security Number a new employee submits on the I-9 from matches the name and number in the Social security Administration Database. The program is voluntary, but language in both the House and Senate Immigration reform bills would make Employment Eligibility Verification mandatory for all employers in the United States. "Turning off the ‘job magnet' for illegal immigrants is a key component in securing America's borders. If employers don't hire illegal immigrants, there is less of an incentive for them to come to America without going through the legal visa process. A simple and effective verification system is a prerequisite for holding employers accountable for hiring illegal immigrants. That system exists today in the form of the Basic Pilot Program, which is ready to be expanded for mandatory use," said Calvert. Below is Congressman Calvert's opening statement to the Committee: Statement by Representative Ken Calvert House Small Business Committee Subcommittee on Workforce, Empowerment, and Government Programs June 27, 2006 Chairman Musgrave, Ranking Member Lipinski, and Members of the Committee, thank you for inviting me to speak today on employment verification. I am very pleased that the Small Business Committee is taking a look at this program because I strongly believe that businesses need to use the program in order to regain confidence in their workforce. Before coming to Congress, I was a small business restaurant owner in California. Like all employers, I required my employees to present documents authenticating their identity and employment eligibility as part of the I-9 Immigration Form process. Since I have never been an expert on documents, I had no way of knowing whether the documents presented were authentic or fraudulent. So when I was elected to Congress, I helped write legislation to create the Basic Pilot Program with the intention of giving employers a reliable tool to verify their employees' eligibility to work. In the 109th Congress, I introduced H.R. 19 which would make the Basic Pilot program mandatory, and phased-in over time by size of employer. This bill became the backbone of Title VII of H.R. 4437 and Title III of S. 2611. For a decade, the Basic Pilot Program has been tested, improved, and expanded. The program began as a telephone system, then became a modem-based system with software installed on each users' computers. Today, the program is internet-based and is as easy to use as buying a book off Amazon.com. I can attest to how easy the program is since I am one of the first Members of Congress to sign up to use the program in my Congressional office. I appreciate the opportunity to clear up some misconceptions about the program and highlight several key facts. The Basic Pilot Program, and its possible successor the Employment Eligibility Verification System as outlined in both the House- and Senate-passed versions of immigration reform bills, works to ensure a legal workforce by verifying information in I-9 Form. This program does not target people, but rather confirms the veracity of the information on the documents people present. It is important to remember that the program does not discriminate against people, but instead gives employers confidence that their workforce is legal and free to work. It has been noted that the Basic Pilot can not detect identify theft, yet I believe it can if the new program is used properly. Immigration Customs Enforcement must be able to monitor the program's data to look for suspicious patterns. Just as credit card companies can "flag" suspicious activity, the Basic Pilot program could be used to detect possible identity theft by flagging a name and SSN that is being used over and over again. Concerns over identity theft have lead many to conclude that we need a national identification card. I disagree. By monitoring the data and flagging suspicious activity, a mandatory program can combat identity theft without a new ID card. It is true that no program will ever be perfect, but the concerns about identity theft and document fraud can be adequately addressed through a thoughtful mandatory system as reflected in the House-passed immigration reform bill. Some of the individuals testifying today may question the accuracy, ease of use, speed, or cost of the program and may ask whether the program can be expanded for all employers quickly enough. According to the 2005 GAO report, the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services has reduced their data entry backlog from 9 months to approximately 10-12 days, significantly improving the speed and accuracy of the program. Additional reports found that 98.5% of all queries receive an immediate response and the program is 98.6% accurate. Striving for 100% accuracy is necessary, but we should not make the perfect the enemy of the good. The accuracy rate is already very good and it will improve as the system is implemented. Inaccurate results indicate that there is a discrepancy between the information presented by the employees and the data on record. Notification of a discrepancy is an opportunity for the employee to correct the record. Adequate time is mandated to allow an employee to clear up discrepancies. No one is dismissed because of an initial negative. I might add here that all employees with mismatched data will receive a chance to correct the record because employers cannot use the system to pre-screen employees. They can only use the program after they hire a new employee, which is another safeguard against discrimination. If an employee is wrongfully terminated, currently existing remedies remain available to them. Think of this as similar to the use of credit reports, which are vital to our financial system yet may contain errors. We do not demand 100% perfection in the credit report system in order to find it useful because we understand that credit reports are valuable tools and that errors can be corrected. The Basic Pilot is a good tool and the accuracy of the information will continue to improve as individuals have a chance to correct the record. The Basic Pilot has experienced incredible success since it was launched 10 years ago, and that success is even more incredible when you consider that Congress has not appropriated funds specifically for the Basic Pilot, instead requiring the Department of Homeland Security to use funds from its discretionary account. Yet the lack of funding is changing. For the first time, the House has appropriated $114 million for FY07 to expand and improve the Basic Pilot to ensure it is ready to handle a huge spike in demand. There are almost 10,000 employers using the program today, up from 2,300 in 2004 and more employers are signing up everyday. Based on the program's superior performance to this point, it is clear that the program will be adequately prepared to quickly and accurately handle queries from every employer in the nation. I believe the U.S. government needs to better enforce our immigration laws, including employer sanctions and worksite enforcement. If we are to hold employers responsible for following the law, we must give them a tool which they can use in good faith. The Basic Pilot is the tool all employers should use. A vital component of immigration reform is to make sure everyone who works in the U.S. is doing so legally by turning off the "job-magnet." Making the Basic Pilot program mandatory is an essential component of our national policy that de-incentivizes illegal employment in the U.S., and without it, all other efforts to enforce immigration laws will fall short. Thank you again for allowing me an opportunity to speak to you today.
04.08.2009	Congressman Ken Calvert announced the passage of H.R. 5672, the Fiscal Year (FY) 2007 Science, State, Justice, and Commerce appropriation bill, The bill appropriates a total of $59.84 billion for Fiscal Year 2007, which runs from October 1, 2006 through September 30, 2007. Congressman Calvert was particularly pleased that the bill included funds for local police grants, criminal alien detention reimbursement, and strong funding for the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA). Congressman Calvert chairs the Science Subcommittee on Space and Aeronautics, which oversees NASA. "This bill provides $16.7 billion for NASA," said Rep. Calvert. "As Chairman of the Subcommittee on Space and Aeronautics, I want to ensure NASA has the necessary resources to pursue the President's Vision on Space while maintaining robust science and aeronautics programs. We must continue to explore space by returning to the moon and eventually Mars. This strong funding level is a step in the right direction." Discretionary Funding Levels: FY07 Funding: $59.84 billion FY07 President's Request: $59.70 billion FY06 Funding: $57.21 billion National Aeronautics and Space Administration receives $16.7 billion, $462 million above the FY06 base level. The bill funds the President's vision for space exploration at $3.8 billion; provides full request for the Space Shuttle; and restores $100 million above the request to aeronautics research, and $75 million above the request for space science. National Science Foundation receives $6 billion, the full amount requested as part of the American Competitive Initiative and an increase of $439 million above FY06. Includes $4.6 billion for research, $334.5 million above FY06; and $832.4 million for science education, $16.2 million above the request. Fighting the Scourge of Meth and Prosecuting the War on Terror Provides a total of $22.1 billion for the Department of Justice, $724 million above FY06 and $1.0 billion above the President's request, including the following: Provides $2.6 billion for assistance to State and local law enforcement for crime fighting initiatives, $1.1 billion above the President's request, $163 million below FY06 including: $405 million to reimburse States for criminal alien detention costs; $390 million for violence against women prevention and prosecution programs; $558 million for the Edward Byrne Justice Assistance Grants program; $281 million for juvenile delinquency prevention and accountability programs; $176 million to eliminate DNA analysis backlogs; $100 million for law enforcement technologies and interoperability; $99 million for meth hot spots; and $40 million to reduce gang violence. $6.0 billion for the Federal Bureau of Investigation, an increase of $302 million above FY06 and equal to the request. Provides funding to enhance counterterrorism infrastructure needs such as secure space, training, and information technology, while continuing to address crimes such as gang violence and child exploitation. $1.75 billion for the Drug Enforcement Administration, an increase of $77 million above FY06 and $15 million above the President's request to combat meth, drug related violence and improve intelligence capabilities. $826 million for the United States Marshals Service, an increase of $25 million above FY06 and equal to the request, to enhance judicial and witness protection. $980 million for the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives, an increase of $48 million above FY06 and the same as the President's request. Does not include $1.2 billion rescission from the Crime Victims Fund. Department of Commerce and Related Agencies receives $5.95 billion, $629.2 million below FY06 and $333.7 million billion below the President's request. Highlights of the Commerce Department budget include: $1.77 billion for the Patent and Trademark Office, $87.9 million above FY06 and equal the PTO's estimated fee collections. $627 million for the National Institute of Standards and Technology, including $104 million to fully fund the American Competitiveness Initiative, and $92 million for the Manufacturing Extension Partnership program. $3.4 billion for the National Oceanic Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), $289 million below the request, and including $882.3 million to fully fund the National Weather Service. $874 million for the Bureau of the Census, $72 million above FY06 and $4 million below the request. The bill fully funds the American Community Survey. State Department and the Broadcasting Board of Governors receives $9.7 billion, $386.3 million below the request and $230 million above the 2006 level. Includes $1.7 billion to continue worldwide security improvements and replacement of vulnerable embassies as authorized by the Secure Embassy Construction and Counterterrorism Act. Provides $4.5 billion for Diplomatic and Consular Programs to fund the operating costs of the Department, which is $142 million below the request, including $351 million for public diplomacy activities. Provides $659 million for International Broadcasting, including funding to continue expanded broadcasting to the broader Middle East. Other Items of Interest: Federal Communications Commission (FCC) Bill includes $294 million, $4.5 million above FY06 and $8 million below the request. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) Bill includes $900 million in budgetary resources, $12 million above FY06 and $4 million below the request. Small Business Administration (SBA) Bill provides $643 million for the SBA, $4 million above the request, and supports a record business loan program to help American entrepreneurs access capital. The FY07 SSJC bill terminates 11 programs for a savings of $195 million. In addition, other major reductions from other programs total $665 million. The bill provides approximately $387 million for Member projects, $1.3 billion less than the FY06 enacted level and less than 1% of the total funding in the bill. ####
04.08.2009	Congressman Ken Calvert provides the following response to the Los Angeles Times June 29, 2006 editorial, "Abort this space shuttle mission." Americans can only take cold comfort in the Los Angeles Times' belief that "A six year gap in manned space flight shouldn't be discouraging" (LAT "Abort this space shuttle mission" June 29, 2006) mainly because it isn't true. Human spaceflights will continue over the next six years - - they'll just be done by Taikonauts and Cosmonauts, not American Astronauts. America's manned space program is at a crossroads and it doesn't deserve a slap in the face at this critical juncture. It is time to determine if the Shuttle program will be able to complete its remaining 16 flights before the program ends in 2010 – a time for courage and resolve. As Chairman of the House Subcommittee on Space and Aeronautics, it is my responsibility to coordinate Congressional oversight of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA). Since the tragedy of Columbia in 2003, I have closely monitored the progress of NASA as it undertook an agonizing self-analysis in the aftermath of the accident and in its restructuring and rebuilding under NASA Administrator Michael Griffin. What happened to Columbia exposed flaws in the basic design of the Shuttle to be sure, but it also highlighted a flawed organizational culture that turned a blind eye to repeated signals that something was wrong with the Space Shuttle system. NASA is still working on the foam problem, but the problem is much more understood now and there are safeguards in place to ensure that shedding foam will not endanger the crew. Discovery's flight is a test flight to see how the foam fixes developed so far will work. But more importantly, it is a test of NASA's organizational culture. All indications are that the safety culture of NASA is working well thus far throughout the pre-launch process. Two senior members of the Final Flight Readiness Review did not recommend a launch at this time. Their concerns were given due consideration by the Administrator when he made his decision to proceed with the launch. Unlike with Columbia's mission, the process was transparent and consultative throughout. The Administrator has received the entire spectrum of NASA opinion about the launch. He has taken this information, weighed the risks, and made a decision that he believes is the best one for America's Space Program. That's what we pay him for. The Shuttle is far from a perfect system. The decision to retire it in 2010 is based on a combination of the Shuttle's age and design, the need to complete the International Space Station (ISS), and the necessity of transitioning the NASA workforce and facilities to support the new Crew Exploration Vehicle (CEV). The longer we delay completing Discovery's test flight the less time remains to fly the remaining missions. But until the CEV is available sometime after 2012, the Shuttle is the only system the U.S. has to send people into space. Even if the Shuttle was retired tomorrow, the CEV will not be ready much sooner. Americans should not be comfortable with allowing six or more years to pass with only China and Russia having a human space flight capability. Human space flight is an inherently risky business. Administrator Griffin, the crew of Discovery, and the men and women of NASA understand that fact. If Discovery's test flight fails to safely complete its mission, the Shuttle era will be over. If it succeeds, America's manned space program will be able to conduct a rational transition to the next generation space vehicle. Let's give NASA the chance to succeed. Ken Calvert From the Los Angeles Times EDITORIAL Abort this space shuttle mission Why NASA should keep Discovery grounded on Saturday. June 29, 2006 CRITICS OFTEN COMPLAIN THAT NASA is good only at fixing its last problem. That's too generous. The agency plans to launch the space shuttle Discovery on Saturday despite warnings that it still hasn't fixed the problem that killed seven astronauts aboard the shuttle Columbia in 2003. What NASA hasn't been able to solve is the shuttle's perplexing habit of shedding pieces of foam that insulate its external fuel tank during launch. In February 2003, one such piece slammed into Columbia's wing as it lifted off, punching a hole in the orbiter's protective heat shield. During the shuttle's fiery reentry, that hole allowed superheated gas to act like a blowtorch on Columbia's wing, causing the craft to incinerate in the atmosphere above Texas. The problem resurfaced when an errant foam chunk was spotted during Discovery's most recent launch almost a year ago. Instead of risking another tragic or humiliating setback Saturday, NASA should abandon the shuttle and focus on more productive missions. The shuttle was intended as a reusable spacecraft that would require only routine maintenance between missions. But NASA has been working on the foam problem for more than three years. It's becoming increasingly clear that the issue with the shuttle isn't age but a design flaw. In fairness, the officials who advised against Saturday's launch — the agency's chief engineer and its chief safety officer — say there isn't much risk that the shuttle's crew could die. If debris punctures Discovery's skin, its astronauts can abandon the craft for the International Space Station; the shuttle would burn up in the atmosphere without a soul on board. NASA Administrator Michael D. Griffin has said that in order to finish the construction of the space station, the shuttle needs to carry out 16 more missions through 2010, by which time Discovery will be 26 years old. But the space station also has questionable scientific value. Intended as a platform for exploration, the station is stuck unfinished in low-Earth orbit and will end up costing the U.S. and other countries more than $100 billion. Finishing the station is no excuse to keep an obsolete, unsafe shuttle flying. Retiring the space shuttle now wouldn't spell the end of manned spaceflight for NASA. The space agency in September unveiled its blueprint for the Crew Exploration Vehicle, an Apollo-like capsule that NASA hopes will fly by 2012 and take astronauts to the moon by 2018. A six-year gap in manned spaceflights shouldn't be discouraging. In the meantime, the space agency could focus on more science-rich, unmanned missions that could be better funded without the costly shuttle program. Each shuttle mission costs about $450 million for a few days in low-Earth orbit. An awe-inspiring blastoff by Discovery on Saturday could make many people forget about the price. But it won't change the fact that the shuttle is an unsafe, expensive way for humans to explore space just a few hundred miles above Earth. The problem with the shuttle isn't chunks of foam, it's the shuttle itself. NASA should mothball the program and put the nation's scientific and technological expertise to better use. ###
04.08.2009	Congressman Ken Calvert today introduced a bill in the House of Representatives to increase the amount of reclaimed water in Orange County. The South Orange County Recycled Water Enhancement Act, H.R. 5786, authorizes two water reclamation projects in south Orange County. Reclaimed water refers to wastewater that has been treated to a level that makes it suitable for a beneficial reuse, such as landscape irrigation. "The two water reclamation projects authorized in this legislation are part of a larger overall strategy to "drought proof" Southern California and ensure the stability of our economy. The more water we can reuse, the less water our community needs to import," said Calvert. The first project is the San Juan Capistrano Recycled Water System which would provide up to 2,900 acre-feet of reclaimed water per year. The project will use water treated at the J.B. Latham Treatment Plant to meet the demand for non-potable water in the City. As a result, the project will enable the City to reduce its need to import water. The second project is the San Clemente Reclaimed Water Project which would expand San Clemente's reclaimed water infrastructure by doubling its production capacity. In 1991, the City completed a state of the art water reclamation plant that produces 2.2 million gallons of reclaimed water per day. The plant was designed so that its capacity could easily be expanded to 4.4 million gallons per day. The legislation authorizes the expansion of the system to utilize the unused capacity of the current reclaimed water facilities and to expand them to 4.4 million gallons per day. ###
04.08.2009	Congressman Ken Calvert applauded the safe return of the Space Shuttle Discovery today. Discovery and her crew successfully completed a 13 day mission to resupply the International Space Station (ISS) and test procedures for evaluating the condition of, and repairing, the Shuttle's heat shield while in orbit. "I want to offer my congratulations to NASA Administrator Mike Griffin, the crew of Discovery, and the men and women of NASA who worked hard to make Discovery's mission a success. I look forward to the remaining shuttle flights to complete the ISS and perhaps service the Hubble Space Telescope before the Shuttle is retired in 2010 and NASA transitions to the Crew Exploration Vehicle (CEV). America's space program has a bright future. Discovery's mission highlights our continuing cooperation with our international partners. I was privileged to meet Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency (JAXA) astronaut Soichi Noguchi after his flight on STS-114 and I wish European Space Agency (ESA) astronaut Thomas Reiter all the best for his mission aboard the ISS. Discovery's mission continues the building blocks of the Vision for Space Exploration to the Moon, Mars and beyond," said Calvert, who serves as the Chairman of the Space and Aeronautics Subcommittee in the House of Representatives. ###
04.08.2009	Congressman Ken Calvert was proud to be an original cosponsor of a bipartisan resolution to recognize the success of the Space Shuttle's second Return-to-Flight mission. H.CON.RES.448, Commending the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) on the completion of the Space Shuttle's second Return-to-Flight mission passed the House of Representatives by a vote of 415 to 0. "The men and women of NASA, the crew of the Space Shuttle Discovery, and NASA Administrator Mike Griffin worked hard to get America's manned space program since the tragic loss of the Space Shuttle Columbia. With the successful conclusion of this second test flight we are ready to complete the International Space Station (ISS) and hopefully extend the life of the Hubble Space Telescope. The last two missions have highlighted the international aspect of our space program with Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency (JAXA) astronaut Soichi Noguchi as a crewmember on STS-114 and European Space Agency (ESA) astronaut Thomas Reiter who has begun his mission aboard the ISS," said Calvert. Congressman Calvert's remarks on the floor of the House of Representatives and the text of H.CON.RES.448 are included below. Floor Statement H. Con. Res. 448 Commending NASA on the successful completion of the Space Shuttle's second Return-to-Flight mission Honorable Ken Calvert (R-CA) July 19, 2006 Mr. Speaker, today I rise in hearty support of H. Con. Res. 448, which commends the National Aeronautics and Space Administration for its successful completion of the Space Shuttle's second return-to-flight test mission. NASA gave the United States a birthday present and the best fireworks show imaginable with the breathtaking launch of the Discovery mission, also known as STS 121, on the fourth of July this year. The shuttle Discovery spent nearly 13 days in orbit, nine of which were spent docked to the International Space Station. During the 18th shuttle mission to the International Space Station, the STS-121 crew members delivered over 28,000 pounds of equipment and supplies and transported one additional crew member to the station for a six month stay. The astronauts also performed three successful space walks to test equipment and conduct maintenance. This Discovery mission is an essential building block for the Vision for Space Exploration to the Moon, Mars and beyond. NASA is already fast at work on preparation for the next shuttle launch – with a window that begins August 28 – just a little more than a month away! This mission will resume the assembly of the International Space Station with the delivery of two truss sections and a set of solar arrays. NASA Administrator Mike Griffin, the Discovery crew, and the men and women of NASA deserve accolades from the American public for a successful STS-121 mission and for effectively reviving America's space program to the heights of its glory. These astronauts represent the best of humankind. As the President stated upon the return of the Discovery crew on Monday, "Your courage and commitment to excellence have inspired us all, and a proud Nation sends its congratulations on a job well done…America's space program is a source of great national pride." I urge the passage of H.Con.Res.448. 109th CONGRESS 2d Session H. CON. RES. 448 Commending the National Aeronautics and Space Administration on the completion of the Space Shuttle's second Return-to-Flight mission. IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES July 13, 2006 Mr. PAUL (for himself, Mr. BOEHLERT, Mr. CALVERT, and Mr. ROHRABACHER) submitted the following concurrent resolution; which was referred to the Committee on Science CONCURRENT RESOLUTION Commending the National Aeronautics and Space Administration on the completion of the Space Shuttle's second Return-to-Flight mission. Whereas, on July 4, 2006, the National Aeronautics and Space Administration performed a successful launch of the Space Shuttle Discovery; Whereas this mission, known as STS-121, marks the second Return-to-Flight mission; Whereas the crew of the Discovery consisted of Colonel Steve Lindsey, Commander Mark Kelly, Piers Sellers, Ph.D, Lieutenant Colonel Mike Fossum, Commander Lisa Nowak, Stephanie Wilson, and Thomas Reiter; Whereas the STS-121 mission tested Space Shuttle safety improvements, building on findings from Discovery's flight last year, including a redesign of the Space Shuttle's External Tank foam insulation, in-flight inspection of the shuttle's heat shield, and improved imagery during launch; Whereas the STS-121 mission re-supplied the International Space Station by delivering more than 28,000 pounds of equipment and supplies, as well as added a third crew member to the International Space Station; Whereas, due to the overall success of the launch and on-orbit operations, the mission was able to be extended from 12 to 13 days, allowing for an additional space walk to the two originally scheduled; Whereas the success of the STS-121 mission is a tribute to the skills and dedication of the Space Shuttle crew, the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, and its industrial partners; Whereas all Americans benefit from the technological advances gained through the Space Shuttle program; and Whereas the National Aeronautics and Space Administration plays a vital role in sustaining America's preeminence in space: Now, therefore, be it Resolved by the House of Representatives (the Senate concurring), That it is the sense of Congress that the National Aeronautics and Space Administration be commended for-- (1) the successful completion of the Space Shuttle Discovery's STS-121 mission; and (2) its pioneering work in space exploration which is strengthening the Nation and benefiting all Americans. ###
04.08.2009	Congressman Ken Calvert was pleased to submit for the record a statement in support of H. Res. 892—Recognizing the dedication of the employees at the National Aeronautics and Space Administration's Michoud Assembly Facility. The resolution passed by a voice vote Monday afternoon. Thirty eight NASA employees stayed on duty during Hurricane Katrina to protect the Space Shuttle's external tank assembly facilities from flooding and other damage. Their bravery is credited with preventing damage to the external tank and keeping NASA's manned space program intact and on schedule. "The brave members of the Michoud Ride-out Team deserve to be recognized for their selfless dedication to America's space program. I look forward to visiting the Michoud Assembly Facility and thanking these heroes in person in the near future," said Calvert, who serves as Chairman of the House Science Committee Subcommittee on space and Aeronautics. Congressman Calvert's floor statement and the text of H. Res. 892 are included below. Floor Statement Honorable Ken Calvert (R-CA) July 24, 2006 H. Res. 892—Recognizing the dedication of the employees at the National Aeronautics and Space Administration's Michoud Assembly Facility Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H. Res. 892, which recognizes the dedication of the employees at the National Aeronautics and Space Administration's Michoud Assembly Facility. The end of next month is the anniversary of Hurricane Katrina's landfall on our Gulf coast. Today we celebrate the bravery exhibited by the "Michoud Hurricane Ride-out Team," which saved not only the facility, but also our Nation's manned space program. Last week, both Houses of Congress passed H. Con. Res. 448, which commended the men and women of NASA, the crew of the Space Shuttle Discovery, and NASA Administrator Mike Griffin for the successful conclusion of the second return to flight test mission—STS-121. This would not have been possible without the thirty-eight brave members of the Michoud Ride-out Team. Many of the members of this team lost their homes and did not know the fate of their families until days after the Hurricane. They risked their lives manning generators and pumps at the Michoud Facility to protect the Shuttle's external tank program and, hence, the future of the manned space program. Despite the Facility's proximity to the center of the hurricane's destructive path, only one external tank was damaged when a concrete panel fell and bounced off the side of the tank. Despite the extensive damage to the 832 acre facility and the entire surrounding area, the Ride-out team exhibited the bravery and the pride for the importance of the space program not only to our Nation, but also to the area in Louisiana. In September, as Chairman of the House Space and Aeronautics Subcommittee, I am planning to travel to both the Michoud Assembly Facility in Louisiana and the Stennis Space Center in Mississippi. I am looking forward to meeting some of these brave individuals, both at Michoud and at Stennis. Since I became the Chairman of this Subcommittee in 2005, I have visited 7 of NASA's 10 facilities around the country. I am looking forward to visiting and to learning even more of the importance of these NASA centers to our Nation's space program. Today, I want to extend thanks and gratitude from the American people for the outstanding work of these brave individuals at both the Michoud Assembly Facility and at the Stennis Space Center. Thank you, Mr. Speaker. 109th CONGRESS 2d Session H. RES. 892 Recognizing the dedication of the employees at the National Aeronautics and Space Administration's Michoud Assembly Facility, the `Michoud Hurricane Ride-Out Team', who risked their lives during Hurricane Katrina's assault on southeast Louisiana, and kept the generators and pumps running to protect the facilities and flight hardware, and whose dedication kept the Michoud Assembly Facility an island of dry land, which made it possible to resume External Tank production less than 5 weeks after the storm passed. IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES June 26, 2006 Mr. MELANCON (for himself, Mr. BOEHLERT, Mr. GORDON, Mr. CALVERT, and Mr. UDALL of Colorado) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the Committee on Science -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- RESOLUTION Recognizing the dedication of the employees at the National Aeronautics and Space Administration's Michoud Assembly Facility, the `Michoud Hurricane Ride-Out Team', who risked their lives during Hurricane Katrina's assault on southeast Louisiana, and kept the generators and pumps running to protect the facilities and flight hardware, and whose dedication kept the Michoud Assembly Facility an island of dry land, which made it possible to resume External Tank production less than 5 weeks after the storm passed. Whereas the Michoud Assembly Facility plays a vital role in the United States manned space flight program, including production of the Shuttle External Tank, a vital component of the Shuttle program; Whereas the 37 members of the `Michoud Hurricane Ride-Out Team' who stayed behind during Hurricane Katrina risked their lives in dedication to the space program and faced down one of the greatest natural disasters in this Nation's history, at great personal risk; and Whereas, if not for the dedication of this team, the Michoud facility would have suffered a great loss of National Aeronautics and Space Administration assets and technology, which would have severely limited the National Aeronautics and Space Administration's mission: Now, therefore, be it Resolved, That the House of Representatives commends the dedication of the 37 members of the `Michoud Hurricane Ride-Out Team' who stayed behind at the National Aeronautics and Space Administration's Michoud Assembly Facility and protected vital program assets, which enabled the facility to resume production of the Shuttle External Tank within 5 weeks of Hurricane Katrina's landfall, including Ronald L. Adams, Jr. of New Orleans, LA, Joseph Charles Barrett of Metairie, LA, Donald K. Bollich of Metairie, LA, Frederick H. Castle of Bay Saint Louis, MS, Daniel Alvine Doell of Terrytown, LA, John Lee Fisher of Slidell, LA, James E. Ford II of Madisonville, LA, Stephen Lynn Francis of New Orleans, LA, Monroe Lewis Frazier Jr. of Harvey, LA, William Carl Hale III of Slidell, LA, Willie Frederick Henderson III of New Orleans, LA, Simmie Paul Herrin of Slidell, LA, Royal Kenneth Holland of New Orleans, LA, Ivory Jordan, Jr. of Lacombe, LA, Joe E. Kennedy of Pearl River, LA, Donald P. Leon Jr. of New Orleans, LA, Michael Wilson Moore of Metairie, LA, Daryl Ordes of Pearlington, MS, Michael A. Parquet of Slidell, LA, George Elson Rogers, Sr. of Kenner, LA, Steven L. Roshto Jr. of Slidell, LA, Alan J. Rovira of New Orleans, LA, Joan B. Savoy of Saint Bernard, LA, Vickie Ann Schmersahl of Slidell, LA, Patrick Shawn Shea of Mandeville, LA, Henry Peter Sissac Jr. of New Orleans, LA, Aline H. Sullwold of Picayune, MS, Richard Leowen Treat of Picayune, MS, Stephen Avery Turner of Slidell, LA, Byran Dale Walker of Picayune, MS, Edward Perry Watts Jr. of Metairie, LA, Reginald Bruce Williams of New Orleans, LA, Terry Michael Winchester of Slidell, LA, Malcolm Wayne Wood of Picayune, MS, Guy Mitchell Jackson of Chalmette, LA, and John Melvin Pucheu of Waveland, MS. ###
04.08.2009	Congressman Ken Calvert applauded an announcement Monday by the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) that over 10,000 employers now use the Basic Pilot Employment Verification Program. The program allows employers to quickly verify that the name and Social Security number provided by new employees on the I-9 employment eligibility form match what is in the Social Security database. "The Basic Pilot Program has successfully helped businesses conform to the law by ensuring that their workforce is legal to work in the U.S. By reaching the 10,000 participating employer milestone, the program has proven that it is an effective business solution to the problem of undocumented workers. I commend U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services Director Emilio Gonzalez and Department of Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff for their efforts to improve and expand the program. I will continue to work with USCIS and my colleagues in Congress to make this program mandatory as part of any immigration reform legislation," said Calvert, who authored the legislation that created the Basic Pilot Program in 1997. According to the USCIS, "Participation in this free program has more than doubled during the first three quarters of this fiscal year. Nearly 200 new employers are joining the Employment Verification Program each week. These businesses are verifying the work authorization of more than one-million new hires a year at 36,000 hiring sites across the United States. "Employers can register for the Employment Verification Program on-line at https://www.vis-dhs.com/EmployerRegistration. Additional information for employers about the program is available by calling 202-272-8720 or visiting www.uscis.gov." ###
04.08.2009	In response to the passage of H.R. 4, the Pension Protection Act and H.R. 5970, the Estate Tax and Extension of Tax Relief Act, Rep. Ken Calvert issued the following statement. "Congress acted to secure pensions and family-owned businesses by passing tax relief and incentivizing additional investment in pensions. People pays taxes every day of their lives and they should not have to pay again upon their death. Workers invest in a pension system every day and they deserve a secure benefit when they retire. Each of these bills increase fairness for workers, gives certainty to family-owned businesses, and spurs economic growth and security." ###
04.08.2009	Congressman Ken Calvert spoke today at the groundbreaking ceremony for an expansion of the Joint Warfare Assessment Laboratory (JWAL) at the Naval Surface Warfare Center (NSWC) Corona. The JWAL is being expanded with the construction of a 4,170 square meter (44,886 SF) analysis facility that will be joined to an existing high security data fusion center. The combined facility will enhance the ability of the Corona Division to meet its mission requirements in a contiguous secure environment that will allow for improved operational efficiency and reduced cost. "Today we can move forward with the much needed expansion of the Joint Warfare Assessment Lab. The money for this project was authorized and appropriated in the Fiscal Year 2005 defense budget. The funds could not be spent while the future of NSWC Corona remained in doubt. Today there is no doubt. The ground breaking and the new JWAL is a great indicator of the important work continuing to be done here in Norco. Our people and facilities create an unmatched capability to provide the men and women in the U.S. military with reliable equipment that has been independently tested," said Calvert, who was instrumental in getting NSWC Corona removed from the 2005 Base Realignment And Closure (BRAC) list.
04.08.2009	"In the five years that have passed since September 11, 2001, I have found that words often fail to describe the magnitude and impact of that day. Today is a day of remembrance for the 2,996 men and women who lost their lives and a day of solidarity with the families and friends they left behind. Today we honor our heroes, ordinary Americans, who in the moment of decision chose to give their life to save another. There is sorrow and loss coupled with the immense pride of a nation that saw our bravest citizens rush into burning buildings to save their fellow man. And it is with humble gratitude and sheer awe that we remember, honor and vow never to forget them. "Today also brings to mind the thousands of young service members serving our country in Iraq, Afghanistan and across the world. Let us learn from them the resolve and determination it takes to win the war and secure the peace. Let us all pray for them and their families that we may see them home safe to quieter and more peaceful times. "Thank you and God Bless America." - Rep. Ken Calvert
04.08.2009	Congressman Ken Calvert (R-Corona) was pleased to learn of the Department of Interior and Agriculture's announcement that veterans will have free access to all National Parks and Lands on Veterans' Day. "California is home to some of the most beautiful National Parks in the country and also home to millions of veterans. It is only right that those who served and sacrificed for our country should be allowed access to some of our most beautiful lands." Rep. Calvert, a member of the Armed Services Committee, is a co-sponsor of H.R. 5452 which would allow veterans discounted access to National Parks and Lands. The bill, if passed, would allow any veteran not dishonorably discharged to pay $10 for a year car pass, $55 less than the normal price. Veterans can renew the pass every year. "This bill is a simple, straightforward way for Americans to thank our veterans. This gratitude should not be limited to one day a year on November 11th but available to all our veterans year round. I urge all Americans to contact their representatives and ask them to support H.R. 5452." ###
04.08.2009	Today Congressmen Ken Calvert (R-Corona) applauded the passage of the Secure Fence Act of 2006, H.R. 6061. "The Secure Fence Act is the first step towards securing our border," said Rep. Calvert, a co-sponsor of the bill. "It reinforces fencing along some of the weakest locations and enhances the ability of DHS to use technology to watch the border." The Secure Fence Act of 2006 is the first of several packages to be introduced by House Republicans to control illegal border crossings. The Act provides for reinforced fencing in Tecate, California; along the majority of the Arizona border, and two areas along the Texas border. The bill also provides an analysis of the northern border, evaluates the ability of Border Patrol agents to stop fleeing vehicles and provides increased usage of technology such as ground sensors and air unmanned vehicles to survey the border. "Republicans will not rest on the issue of illegal immigration: it is not only affecting our communities through the degradation of public services from schools to emergency rooms but it is an issue of national security," stated Rep. Calvert. "The House is committed to passing focused, enforcement-first legislation. The Senate has no excuse for not taking up these measures that the American people have so consistently demanded." Congressman Calvert wrote legislation that became the Basic Pilot Program which provides a way for employers to verify that the name and Social Security number of new employees match. The program is web-based, available in all 50 states at no charge and is now used by over 10,000 employers to verify the legal status of new employees. The program is voluntary, timely and accurate. He has also authored, H.R. 19, the Employment Eligibility Verification System (EEVS), which would make the Basic Pilot Program mandatory for employers over seven years. "Border security is certainly a crucial aspect in the solution to illegal immigration but until we cut off the magnet of jobs through employment verification, we will never truly have control of the problem." ###
04.08.2009	Today Congressmen Ken Calvert (R-Corona) applauded the passage of three border security bills: the Community Protection Act of 2006, the Immigration Law Enforcement Act of 2006, and the Border Tunnel Prevention Act of 2006. "Border security is the number one issue to the American people and House Republicans are working to address it," said Rep. Calvert. "These three bills crackdown on the dangerous ‘catch and release' policy of the past; reaffirm local government's authority to investigate, apprehend and detain illegal immigrants; and increases penalties to those who build tunnels under our borders." Congressman Calvert wrote legislation that became the Basic Pilot Program which provides a way for employers to verify that the name and Social Security number of new employees match. The program is web-based, available in all 50 states at no charge and is now used by over 10,000 employers to verify the legal status of new employees. The program is voluntary, timely and accurate. He has also authored, H.R. 19, the Employment Eligibility Verification System (EEVS), which would make the Basic Pilot Program mandatory for employers over seven years. "Border security is certainly a crucial aspect in the solution to illegal immigration but until we cut off the magnet of jobs through employment verification, we will never truly have control of the problem." ###
04.08.2009	Today Congressman Ken Calvert (R-Corona) participated in a House Resources Subcommittee on Water and Power hearing focused on H.R. 5786, the South Orange County Recycled Water Enhancement Act. Rep. Calvert introduced H.R. 5786 on July 13, 2006. "The South Orange County Recycled Water Enhancement Act authorizes two water reclamation projects in the south Orange County portion of my district," stated Rep. Calvert at the hearing. "South Orange County relies heavily on imported water from sources such as the Colorado River and Bay-Delta in northern California. Any steps these cities can take to reduce demand for imported water benefits all regional water users." Bill Huber, San Juan Capistrano's Assistant City Manager testified before the subcommittee. H.R. 5786 will amend The Reclamation Wastewater and Groundwater Study Facilities Act to authorize the design, planning and construction of an advanced water treatment plant facility and recycled water system. The bill authorizes $13,500,000 or twenty-five percent of the total San Juan Capistrano project cost of $54,000,000. The project anticipates the construction of a 9 million gallons per day Advanced Water Treatment (AWT) Facility at the J.B. Latham Regional Wastewater Plant. It is anticipated that over the next decade, customer demand for this non-potable water could be over 4,000 acre-feet. H.R. 5786 will also provide funding up to $5 million or 25 percent of the total project costs of $20 million to double the production of the San Clemente recycled water system. The project would consist of constructing a 2 million gallon storage reservoir, building a new pumping station, retrofitting an existing pumping station at the treatment facility, and adding new pipelines to provide more reclaimed water to new users in San Clemente. It is anticipated that approximately 3,400 acre-feet of reclaimed water will replace potable water demand. ###
04.08.2009	Rep. Ken Calvert (R-CA) yesterday voted in favor of the Military Commissions Act of 2006, which passed the House by a vote of 253-168. The Military Commissions Act will help create a system of justice for suspected terrorists that will protect our nation's intelligence capabilities while giving the suspected terrorists basic legal protections. "Our country is at war with terrorists who do not value life and certainly do not honor any part of the Geneva Convention," stated Rep. Calvert. "However, our country has always strived for respect of human rights and human dignity, even for those who seek to harm innocent civilians. The Military Commissions Act codifies our basic respect of all mankind and provides a fair process to prosecute terrorists, allow them legal protection while protecting sensitive intelligence." The Military Commissions Act establishes a system of military tribunals to try alien enemy combatants who have engaged in or supported terrorist activities. The act ensures that terrorists have basic legal rights, including the right to counsel, the right to obtain evidence and witnesses, and the right to appeal a guilty verdict. Suspected terrorists have the right to be present at all legal proceedings, and no evidence may be presented to the jury unless it is also provided to the accused terrorist. The substantive findings of classified evidence will be admissible in an unclassified form, but the classified evidence itself is protected and is privileged from disclosure to accused terrorists—as well as the panel of jurists—if the disclosure of the information would be detrimental to national security. The act also protects our military and intelligence personnel by codifying violations of Common Article 3 of the Geneva Convention. Currently, the article's vague provisions are open to a variety of interpretations, potentially rendering American personnel liable to prosecution without just cause. ###
04.08.2009	Congressman Ken Calvert (R-CA), who worked with Appropriations Chairman Jerry Lewis (R-CA) and Rep. Jim Saxton (R-NJ), was pleased that additional C-17 funding was included in the final passage of the FY2007 Defense Appropriations Conference Report. "It was a priority for me and others to increase the C-17 procurement numbers in the FY2007 Defense Appropriations," said Rep. Calvert. "The Air Force needs the strategic airlift capability that only the C-17 provides to fulfill its mission in the Global War on Terror." The C-17 is a strategic cargo aircraft, capable of rapid delivery to main operating bases and directly to forward bases in a deployment area. The aircraft is also capable of performing tactical airlift and airdrop missions. The FY2007 Defense Appropriations Conference Report provides $2.1 billion for 10 additional planes. There has been debate between the Department of Defense (DoD) and Congress over the requirement for additional C-17s. DoD's Mobility Capabilities Study (MCS), released in December 2005, determined that current inventories were sufficient to meet future mobility needs. However, the Government Accounting Office (GAO) reviewed the study and found inadequacies in the MCS methodology. "As measured against relevant generally accepted research standards, we identified limitations in the MCS study and report that raise questions about their adequacy and completeness." – September 2006 GAO Report on the DoD MCS. The GAO Report found the MCS failed to account for future growth and mobility needs from areas such as the Army's Future Combat Systems, Special Operations Missions, Homeland Defense and Civil Support Operations, among others. "This plane is instrumental to the Global War on Terror and underestimating the need for C-17s could be catastrophic in the long-term," stated Rep. Calvert. "I would like to congratulate Chairman Lewis, Rep. Saxton for their diligent work in securing additional C-17s and thank Governor Schwarzenegger for his support." Rep. Calvert's congressional district includes March Air Reserve Base in Riverside, CA, which is the only reserve base to host C-17s. March ARB is also home to the "Spirit of Ronald Reagan," a C-17 named after the former President. Former First Lady Nancy Reagan visited March ARB in January to the dedication ceremony for the "Spirit of Ronald Reagan." ###
04.08.2009	Today Rep. Calvert (R-CA) voted in favor of H.R. 4772, the Private Property Rights Implementation Act, which passed the House by 231-181. "This bill corrects a poor decision handed down by the Supreme Court in which individuals with federal property rights are unable to raise federal taking claims in federal court," stated Rep. Calvert. "The decision makes absolutely no sense and required congressional action." Under current law, property owners are now blocked from raising a federal Fifth Amendment takings claim in federal court. The Supreme Court's 1985 decision in Williamson County v. Hamilton Bank requires property owners to pursue to the end all available remedies for just compensation in state court before the property owner can file suit in federal court under the Fifth Amendment. Then, just last year, in the case of San Remo Hotel v. City and County of San Francisco, the Supreme Court held that once a property owner tries their case in state court, and loses, the legal doctrine of claim preclusion requires federal courts to dismiss the claims that have already been raised in state court, even though the property owner never wanted to be in state court with their federal claim to begin with. The combination of these two rules means that those with federal property rights claims are effectively shut out of federal court on their federal takings claims, setting them unfairly apart from those asserting any other kind of federal right, such as those asserting free speech or religious freedom rights, who nearly universally enjoy the right to have their federal claims heard in federal court in the first instance. H.R. 4772, the Private Property Rights Implementation Act, corrects the unfair legal bind that catches all property owners in a Catch-22. This bill, which is based on Congress' clear authority to define the jurisdiction of the federal courts and the appellate jurisdiction of the Supreme Court, would allow property owners raising federal takings claims to have their cases decided in federal court without first pursuing a wasteful and unnecessary litigation detour (and possible dead end) in state court. ###
04.08.2009	Today Congressman Calvert (R-CA), a member of the House Armed Services Committee, voted for the FY2007 National Defense Authorization Act. The legislation sets the policies, programs and funding levels for the nation's military. The $532.8 billion bill was approved overwhelmingly in the U.S. House of Representatives by a vote of 398-23. The annual authorization bill will now go to the President for enactment into law. "Our military has performed tremendously in Iraq, Afghanistan and around the world," state Rep. Calvert. "This bill ensures that the military can continue to provide the best equipment to our troops currently fighting the Global War on Terrorism while also investing in our future military force." Highlights of the bill include: Conferees authorized $532.8 billion in budget authority for the Department of Defense and the national security programs of the Department of Energy. This includes $84.2 billion in procurement funding, $73.6 billion for research, development, testing and evaluation, $110.1 billion for military personnel, $155.3 billion for operations and maintenance and $17.1 billion for military construction and family housing. Specific provisions include: An additional $70 billion in supplemental funding to support the war on terror's operational costs, personnel expenses, procurement of new equipment and the necessary immediate funding to reset the force. Additional funding for force protection needs in support of Operation Enduring Freedom and Operation Iraqi Freedom, including up-armored Humvees, Humvee IED protection kits and gunner protection kits, improvised explosive device (IED) jammers and state-of-the-art body armor. Additional increases of 30,000 Army and 5,000 Marine Corps active duty personnel to sustain our required missions. A 2.2% pay raise for all members of the armed forces. Increases end strength for the Army National Guard by 17,100 over the original budget request. The legislation provides an additional $499 million for National Guard personnel, operations and maintenance and the defense health program, as well as $318 million for procurement to support the recommended National Guard end strength of 350,000. Blocks the Department of Defense's proposed TRICARE Prime and TRICARE Standard fee increases and prohibits increases in beneficiary cost shares for prescriptions obtained through the TRICARE retail pharmacy network. Authorizes grants and loan guarantees to U.S. shipyards to improve their efficiency, cost effectiveness and international competitiveness. Fully funds the immediate Army and Marine Corps shortfalls for readiness and equipment reset. ###
04.08.2009	Today Congressman Ken Calvert (R-CA) voted for the FY2007 Homeland Security Appropriations Conference Report which passed the House. The conference agreement provides $34.8 billion for operations and activities of the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) in fiscal year 2007, an increase of $2.3 billion above fiscal year 2006. "This month we commemorated the fifth anniversary of 9-11 when our country was viciously attacked," stated Rep. Calvert. "Since that time, Republicans in the House and Senate, in cooperation with President Bush, have made homeland security a top priority. This bill reflects the importance of border and immigration security; nuclear detection, port and transportation security and providing for local first responders." Highlights of the border security provisions include: $2.77 billion for border patrol, adding 1,500 new Border Patrol agents, brings the total workforce to 14,800 agents; $1.5 billion for border fencing, vehicle barriers, technology and infrastructure; $3.1 billion for the Coast Guard's homeland security missions; $1.38 billion for ICE custody operations, adding 6,700 detention beds, for a total of 27,500; $238 million for transportation and removal of undocumented aliens; $1.5 billion for border security technology and tactical infrastructure; $600 million for Air and Marine Operations for border and airspace security; $183 million for a total of 75 fugitive operations teams nation-wide, an increase of 23; $137 million for the Criminal Alien Program; $44 million for Alternatives to Detention; $362 million for the US-VISIT program; and $135 million to support immigration verification systems. The conference report provides $4.3 billion for port, container, and cargo security. Provisions include: $2.05 billion to support Coast Guard port and waterway security operations, including the tracking and screening of high-interest vessels and inspections of domestic and international port facilities; $1.4 billion for Customs and Border Protection's (CBP) cargo inspection and trade operations; $139 million for the CBP Container Security Initiative, increasing the program from 44 to 58 foreign seaports and supporting coordination with the Department of Energy's efforts to screen cargo for radiation at foreign ports of origin; $54.7 million for Customs-Trade Partnership Against Terrorism, supporting 100% validation of over 6,070 certified partners every three years; $178 million to acquire radiation portal monitors (RPMs), bringing the total provided for RPM procurement to $383 million over the last three years; $241 million for non-intrusive inspection equipment; $210 million for port security grants, bringing the total provided to over $1.1 billion since 9/11; and $23 million for Science & Technology's Cargo Security Program, supporting the implementation and testing of cargo security standards. The agreement provides $3.4 billion for first responders, including grants to high threat areas, firefighters, and emergency management. Highlights include: $1.2 billion for high risk area grants, including $770 million for urban area grants, $175 million for rail security, $210 million for port security, and $74 million for other infrastructure protection; $525 million for basic formula grants; $547 million for firefighter grants and $115 million for the SAFER program; $375 million for state and local law enforcement terrorism prevention grants; $200 million for Emergency Management Performance Grants; and $352 million for First Responder training, exercise, and assistance programs. ###
04.08.2009	Today Congressman Ken Calvert (R-CA) expressed his disappointment over the recent sentencing of Border Patrol Agent's Ramos and Compean. Both agents were sentenced to over a decade for their pursuit of Osbaldo Aldrete-Davila, an illegal immigrant and drug smuggler from Mexico. "I am disappointed that the judge did not take into account the mitigating circumstances of this case," stated Rep. Calvert. "We should be commending Border Patrol agents for pursuing a fleeing drug smuggler, not sending them to prison based on the testimony of a criminal who received full immunity to testify." On February 17, 2005, Border Patrol agents Ramos and Compean confronted illegal alien Osbaldo Aldrete-Davila who was transporting 743lbs of marijuana from Mexico into the U.S. According to news stories, Ramos responded to a call for back up from Compean who had tried to pull Aldrete-Davila over. Aldrete-Davila ran from the Border Patrol agents and after hearing shots fired and seeing Compean on the ground, Ramos shot Aldrete-Davila. The prosecution contends that Ramos and Compean fired at Aldrete-Davila after he tried to surrender. A Texas jury convicted Ramos and Compean of assault with serious bodily injury; assault with a deadly weapon; discharge of a firearm in relation to a crime of violence; and a civil rights violation. The judge in the case sentenced Ramos to 11 years and one day, and Jose Alonso Compean was sentenced to 12 years. "In light of the special circumstances surrounding this case I fully support the call for congressional hearings by Senator Feinstein and Congressman Sensenbrenner to review this case and Border Patrol policies," said Rep. Calvert. "We should not unjustly punish those who guard our borders while protecting the ‘rights' of foreign drug smugglers." ###
04.08.2009	Congressmen Ken Calvert (R-Corona) was named to U.S. Border Control's Hall of Fame for the 109th Congress. "The Honorable Ken Calvert has distinguished himself by his efforts on behalf of border and immigration reform. For his courage and leadership, Representative Calvert has been inducted into: U.S. Border Control's Hall of Fame for the 109th Congress," read a certificate signed by Edward I. Nelson, Chairman of U.S. Border Control. Rep. Calvert received a score of 100% on U.S. Border Control's 2006 Congressional scorecard. "It is an honor to be recognized by a group dedicated to the protection of our borders. U.S. Border Control has been steadfast in their pursuit to seal our borders against drugs, disease, illegal migration and terrorism," stated Rep. Calvert. Congressman Calvert has also advocated employment verification. He wrote legislation that became the Basic Pilot Program which provides a way for employers to verify that the name and Social Security number of new employees match. The program is web-based, available in all 50 states at no charge and is now used by over 10,000 employers to verify the legal status of new employees. The program is voluntary, timely and accurate. He has also authored, H.R. 19, the Employment Eligibility Verification System (EEVS), which would make the Basic Pilot Program mandatory for employers over seven years. "Border security is certainly a crucial aspect in the solution to illegal immigration but until we cut off the magnet of jobs through employment verification, we will never truly have control of the problem." ###
04.08.2009	Last week, Congressman Ken Calvert signed on to a letter requesting a congressional hearing on the prosecution and conviction of Border Patrol Agents Compean and Ramos. "We should be commending Border Patrol agents for pursuing a fleeing drug smuggler, not sending them to prison based on the testimony of a criminal who received full immunity to testify." – Rep. Ken Calvert The letter read: The Honorable James Sensenbrenner, Jr. Chairman House Judiciary Committee 2138 Rayburn Building Washington, D.C. 20510 Dear Chairman Sensenbrenner: We are writing today to request the Immigration Subcommittee hold an immediate hearing on two U.S. Border Patrol Agents, Ignacio Ramos and Jose Alonso Compean, who were convicted and sentenced to 11 and 12 years in federal prison respectively for shooting a Mexican drug smuggler. Both Ramos and Compean will appeal these overzealous and unjust sentences through their counsel. However, their struggle to overturn these convictions would be greatly aided by a Congressional inquiry into their case. There are several discrepancies in this case which strongly question whether justice was served, thus demonstrating the need for an immediate Congressional hearing. Ramos and Compean were convicted mainly on the testimony of a habitual Mexican drug smuggler, who was given immunity by federal prosecutors to testify. The integrity of this witness must be called into question, but a sealed indictment for drug charges forbade Ramos and Compean from doing so during their trial. Also, there is insufficient proof as to whether the drug smuggler was not armed that day and in fact threatened Ramos and Compean; forcing them to fire their weapons to protect themsleves. We believe that the lawful protection of our nation's borders is of the utmost importance and we should do everything we can to support the men and women of the U.S. Border Patrol in pursuing that goal. By denying Congressional hearings to Ramos and Compean, we are effectively turning our backs on the Border Patrol and the duty we entrust to them to secure our borders. We ask that the Judiciary Committee's Immigration Subcommittee schedule a hearing before the 109th Congress adjourns to address the case of Ramos and Compean and the questionable facts that were used to sentence them to federal prison. ###
04.08.2009	U.S. Senators Dianne Feinstein and Barbara Boxer (both D-Calif.), and U.S. Representatives Mary Bono, Ken Calvert, and Jerry Lewis (all R-Calif.) today announced that they have sent a letter to President Bush urging him to move quickly in signing legislation to assist the families of the firefighters killed in the October 2006 Esperanza fire. The legislation corrects a tax loophole that has prevented the families from receiving the more than $1 million donated on their behalf. The bill was introduced in both the Senate and the House on December 8, and passed by unanimous consent before adjournment. It then moved to the President's desk, where it is waiting to be signed into law. The following is the text of the letter sent on Wednesday, December 13, to President Bush: Dear President Bush: We urge you to prioritize consideration of H.R. 6429, and promptly sign it into law. In October, five federal firefighters were killed in the Esperanza arson fire that raged through Riverside County, California. Following that tragedy, the local United Way chapter raised over $1 million for the families of the deceased firefighters. Unfortunately, the Los Angeles Times reported last Thursday that IRS rules typically prevent 501(c)(3) organizations from raising money for specified individuals – and that the United Way chapter might even risk losing its tax-exempt status if it released these funds. Faced with the prospect of having to return the contributions it had raised, the United Way then asked the California Congressional delegation for help. Upon learning of this problem, we immediately introduced corrective legislation (S. 4112 and H.R. 6429), which was introduced Friday. These bills were drafted to treat the Esperanza fire victims in the same way as 9/11 victims for whom contributions had been individually raised. In an act of prompt bipartisanship, H.R. 6429 passed both the House and Senate by unanimous consent before our adjournment sine die. Final passage took place in the Senate at 4:30 a.m. Saturday morning. This bill now heads to your desk for consideration. Although Congress acted with unusual dispatch, the United Way still cannot release these funds to the families of the fallen firefighters until this bill becomes law. With the holidays approaching – the families' first without their loved ones – we ask to you to sign this bill into law promptly, so that the outpouring of support from various donors can finally flow to the families of these heroes who made the ultimate sacrifice. ###
04.08.2009	Today Congressman Calvert (R-Corona) issued the following statement on the passing of President Ford: "I was saddened to hear of the passing of President Ford and mourn the loss of a great American President. I knew President Ford as a steady leader and a friend. During his time as President he rose above politics for the betterment of our country. As a resident of Riverside County, a distinction we were proud to have, he generously gave back to our community through charity. My thoughts and prayers are with the Ford family as we say farewell to a great leader and American." ###
04.08.2009	Congressman Calvert issued the following statement on the birthday of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr.: "Every year the United States recognizes thirteen days as federal holidays. It is vital that we remember and honor the reason behind the holiday, in this case, the life of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. "This Monday we celebrate a man who, through calm determination, redefined the American way of life. Dr. King's legacy is one of peace, understanding, equality and brotherhood. During his time he taught us all about individual responsibility to treat others with respect and dignity regardless of race, religion, or income. Although his life was taken suddenly and tragically, his memory and teachings live on. Thank you Dr. King and God bless."
04.08.2009	"The President understands that success in Iraqi is crucial for the stability of Iraq, the Middle East and the world. I support his decision for increased troops in Iraq to reinforce operations to secure Baghdad. It is vital to remember that the Iraqi Security Forces will bust down the doors, make arrests, and clear Baghdad of insurgents. U.S. forces will reinforce the Iraqi Security Forces but they will not act as the lead in this operation. The President rightly authorized more robust rules of engagement as well as a new strategy of ‘clear and hold' instead of vacating areas only to have them re-inhabited by insurgents. This new way forward may very well produce the success we have all been waiting for in Iraq. Another crucial point is that the President has demanded that the Iraqi government step up their efforts to provide security to their people and to take the reins of control for their country. The Iraqi government must demonstrate to their people – and the American people – that they are serious about taking control of their country in a fair and equal way. The leaders of both Sunni and Shia must ensure that all Iraqis receive equal treatment under the law. Prime Minister al-Maliki has stated his plans to have Iraqis in charge of security for all 18 provinces of Iraq by the end of the year. He needs American help to first stabilize the city of Baghdad. Stability in Baghdad will allow the Iraqi government to function and provide important progress on the economy and development of democratic institutions. Our nation elects one Commander-in-Chief at a time and, while Congress must conduct oversight, our Nation must speak with one voice in foreign affairs. This is the leas we can do to give our troops in the field the support they need to succed. Now is the time lend our support to the brave men and women who will carry out this mission and their families who must bear the burden of worry while their loved ones are in Iraq. The year 2007 may well be like 1865 or 1944, critical turning points in long and difficult struggles."
04.08.2009	Congressman Ken Calvert (R-Corona), an original co-sponsor, was pleased that the Methamphetamine Remediation Research Act of 2007 passed the Science and Technology Committee today. "The meth epidemic in our country shows no deference to district or party-line," stated Rep. Calvert. "This is an issue everyone can agree is wreaking havoc on communities across the nation." The Methamphetamine Remediation Research Act of 2007, H.R. 365, focuses its efforts on the procedures and standards needed to decontaminate a site where a methamphetamine lab is found so communities can more thoroughly remediate these sites. The legislation tasks the Environmental Protection Agency with the creation of voluntary, health-based remediation guidelines for former meth labs to protect and ensure the health of U.S. citizens and the surrounding environment. "This is a distressing issue with which my area of Riverside, California and quite frankly, most of America has become all too familiar with," said Rep. Calvert, a senior member of the Science and Technology Committee. "Meth poses a significant environmental threat and H.R. 365 will enable communities to better remediate the contamination that remains after meth labs are dismantled so that innocent families are not endangered." Recently, The Press Enterprise (www.pe.com) highlighted the State of California's efforts to raise the awareness of the dangers of methamphetamine use (1-17-07). The article stated that a group of volunteers created television ads and The Partnership for a Drug-Free America, a non-profit group, is hoping California television stations will air the ads free of charge as public service announcements. To view the State of California's website on methamphetamine and the accompanying television ads, visit www.adp.ca.gov/Meth/meth.shtml. ###
04.08.2009	Today Congressman Ken Calvert (R-Corona) denounced the passage of H. Res. 78, which amends the Rules of the House of Representatives to permit Delegates and the Resident Commissioner to the Congress to cast votes in the Committee of the Whole House on the state of the Union. "This is the same old Democrat Party; quickly laying the foundation to win an unpopular vote even among their own ranks – to raise taxes on the American people," stated Rep. Calvert. "It is disturbing that the Democrats are so willing to trample over the United States Constitution in order to increase their majority in the House." The Constitution says the House shall be composed of "Members chosen … by the People of the several States," not delegates representing non-state territories. The average congressional district has approximately 650,000 people, while American Samoa has 57,000, the Virgin Islands 108,000 and Guam 155,000. Under the Democrat plan, the 57,000 people in American Samoa would have the same voting rights on the House floor as the 640,000 in Nancy Pelosi's San Francisco district. "The passage of this bill will allow U.S. territories to vote on tax increases when they do not pay federal taxes themselves - so it is essentially representation without taxation!" stated Rep. Calvert. Residents of Guam, the Virgin Islands, American Samoa and Puerto Rico do not pay federal income taxes, yet the Democrat plan will allow their representatives to hike taxes on Americans who do. ###
04.08.2009	Today Congressman Ken Calvert (R-Corona) voted against the $463 billion Democrat spending bill, H.J.Res. 20, which passed the House 286 – 140. "This bill is spending almost half a trillion American taxpayer dollars without so much as a hearing, an amendment or mark-up," said Rep. Calvert. "Where is the openness the Democrats promised the American people?" Rep. Calvert voted for the Republican Motion to Recommit which would have moved to shut off funding for roughly $500 million in earmarks and use that money to restore anti-drug enforcement levels, as well as to increase support for military housing. Specifically, the Republican Motion to Recommit sought to address Democrat cuts to the Drug Enforcement Agency and the Military Construction and Quality of Life portion of the budget: In total, H.J.Res. 20 cut $39 million and 157 agents from DEA. This funding is used to fight Methamphetamines, violent drug crimes, and drug trafficking. H.J.Res. 20 also reduces the President's FY07 request for the Military Construction and Quality of Life Appropriations bill by $3.5 billion. The House passed FY07 bill included $5.54 billion in funding (the President's request included $5.62 billion). The Democrat "CRomnibus", however, includes just $2.48 billion dollars. Unfortunately the flawed legislation illogically dictates the priorities of the various governmental departments through transfer funds and $500 million in earmarks. "While the bill provides millions for duplicative activities at the Department of Energy, it cuts $545 million from the 2007 requested level for NASA," stated Rep. Calvert, former Chairman of the Subcommittee on Space and Aeronautics. "This cut will most impact development of the shuttle's replacement vehicle, the Orion. We cannot expect NASA to create the future of exploration on yesterday's budget. The United States cannot afford to lose its edge because catching up later may no longer be an option. Unfortunately, the Democrats missed the opportunity to support our space program at a time when other countries, such as China, are ramping up their space activities." ###
04.08.2009	Congressman Ken Calvert (R-Corona), an original co-sponsor, was pleased that the Methamphetamine Remediation Research Act of 2007 passed the House under suspension of the rules today. "The meth epidemic in our country shows no deference to district or party-line," stated Rep. Calvert. "This is an issue everyone can agree is wreaking havoc on communities across the nation." The Methamphetamine Remediation Research Act of 2007, H.R. 365, focuses its efforts on the procedures and standards needed to decontaminate a site where a methamphetamine lab is found so communities can more thoroughly remediate these sites. The legislation tasks the Environmental Protection Agency with the creation of voluntary, health-based remediation guidelines for former meth labs to protect and ensure the health of U.S. citizens and the surrounding environment. "This is a distressing issue with which my area of Riverside, California and most of America has become all too familiar with," said Rep. Calvert, a senior member of the Science and Technology Committee. "Meth poses a significant environmental threat and H.R. 365 will enable communities to better remediate the contamination that remains after meth labs are dismantled so that innocent families are not endangered." Recently, The Press Enterprise (www.pe.com) highlighted the State of California's efforts to raise the awareness of the dangers of methamphetamine use (1-17-07). A group of volunteers created television ads and The Partnership for a Drug-Free America, a non-profit group, is hoping California television stations will air the ads free of charge as public service announcements. To view the State of California's website on methamphetamine and the accompanying television ads, visit www.adp.ca.gov/Meth/meth.shtml. ###
04.08.2009	Yesterday Congressman Ken Calvert (R-Corona) introduced H.R. 988, a bill that would name the post office located at 5757 Tilton Avenue in Riverside, California the "Lieutenant Todd Jason Bryant Post Office." "It is an honor to introduce this bill in memory of Lieutenant Todd Bryant," stated Rep. Calvert. "Todd was one of those rare individuals who distinguished himself at every stage of life. I was proud to nominate Todd to West Point and later to have him on my staff as an intern." Todd was born on January 14, 1980, in Long Beach, California. Todd came from a military family and his desire and determination to join the military was resolute. He enlisted in the Army Reserve and completed Basic Training at Fort Sill, Oklahoma before his senior year of high school. Rep. Calvert appointed Todd to the U.S. Military Academy at West Point where he graduated from in June 2002. After graduation, Todd attended the Armor Officer's Basic Course at Fort Knox, Kentucky, graduating in December 2002. He reported to Fort Riley, Kansas in January 2003, and was initially assigned to Headquarters and Headquarters Company, 1st, Battalion 34th Armor Regiment where he served as an Assistant Operations Officer. In April of 2003, Todd was reassigned to C Company, 1-34 AR where he assumed duties as Platoon Leader, 3rd Platoon. On August 30, 2003, Todd and Jenifer Reardon were married in Pennsylvania, nine days before shipping out with his unit in support of Operation Iraqi Freedom. On Friday, October 31, 2003, Todd was killed by an explosive device as his Humvee traveled on a road between Fallujah and Baghdad. He was 23 years old. "I've often think about Todd. I consider it a great honor to have known him and to have watched him accomplish so much in his short but vibrant life," stated Rep. Calvert. "This Post Office is one way to remember Todd and to honor his family who gave the greatest of sacrifices for our country." ###
04.08.2009	Today the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) Secretary Samuel W. Bodman announced that DOE has selected a biorefinery project located in Corona, California to receive up to $40 million in federal funding. "Our country will increasingly rely on renewable and alternative energy sources and Riverside County will play a large role in developing these important technologies," said Rep. Calvert. "The $40 million dollar federal investment in this local project will significantly add to the project's viability and help turn waste into fuel. The process could reduce the amount of waste that needs to be stored and reduce our demand for oil, making it truly a win-win situation." The project, located at the El Sobrante Landfill in Corona, will be operated by BlueFire Ethanol, which is based in Irvine, California. BlueFire's proposed biorefinery project will be sited on the existing El Sobrante Landfill and produce about 19 million gallons of ethanol a year. As feedstock, the plant would use 700 tons per day of sorted green waste and wood waste from landfills. The DOE believes the project will give them a better understanding of a new biological fermentation process not using enzymes. The DOE solicitation, announced a year ago, was initially for three biorefineries and $160 million. However, in an effort to expedite the goals of President Bush's Advanced Energy Initiative, within authority of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 (EPAct), Secretary Bodman raised the funding ceiling. Negotiations between the selected companies and DOE will begin immediately to determine final project plans and funding levels. Funding will begin this fiscal year and run through FY 2010. EPAct authorized DOE to solicit and fund proposals for the commercial demonstration of advanced biorefineries that use cellulosic feedstocks to produce ethanol and co-produce bioproducts and electricity. ###
04.08.2009	Today Congressman Ken Calvert (R-Corona) announced the twenty-sixth annual Congressional Art Competition, An Artistic Discovery. "I invite all the high school students in the 44th California Congressional District to submit an entry for this year's theme – An Artistic Discovery," said Rep. Calvert. "Previous years demonstrated the wealth of talent in our area and I look forward to reviewing another round of submissions." Each year Members of Congress hold contests within their districts to choose winning pieces of art by high school students. Since this competition was created in 1982, hundreds of thousands of high school students have participated at the local level. The winning student from each district is invited to Washington, DC for the ribbon-cutting ceremony, and will have his or her artwork displayed in the U.S. Capitol for one year. Southwest Airlines will provide 3 complimentary plane tickets to Washington, DC for the winner. The guidelines of the competition are as follows: Only high school students residing in the 44th Congressional District may compete. A student release form must be attached to the art work submitted. All artworks must be original and may not violate any U.S. copyright laws. All artwork must be two-dimensional. Artwork, when framed, can be no larger that 30" high x 30" wide x 4" deep. Acceptable categories include: Paintings, Drawings, Collage, Prints, Mixed Media, Computer generated art, and Photography. The deadline for submission is Friday, May 4, 2007. Submit all artwork entries to: Congressman Ken Calvert C/O Congressional Art Contest 3400 Central Ave. #200 Riverside, CA 92506 Contact: Billy Essayli 951-784-4300 ###
04.08.2009	Today Congressman Ken Calvert (CA-44) applauded the proposal by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to severely reduce smog-related emissions from locomotives and similar diesel engines used in ships. A letter sent to the EPA by Rep. Calvert and Rep. Dennis Cardoza (CA-18) in December 2006 stated: We are writing to urge the Environmental Protection Agency to act quickly to establish timely emission standards for locomotives and marine diesel engines. Today these two source categories emit approximately ten percent of fine particulate matter and oxides of nitrogen pollution in California. "Southern California has extremely poor air quality and is home to our nation's largest port complex, which involves both locomotives and ships moving through the area," stated Rep. Calvert. "It's imperative for the quality of life of all southern Californians that the EPA holds these types of engines to similar stringent standards of other regulated engines." Rep. Calvert has led an effort, in collaboration with his California colleague Rep. Cardoza, over the past two years to increase funding for the National Clean Diesel Campaign. The EPA's National Clean Diesel Campaign is comprised of many very successful voluntary programs all designed to reduce emissions from the diesel fleet. In conjunction with state and local governments, public interest groups, and industry partners, EPA has established a goal of reducing emissions from the over 11 million diesel engines in the existing fleet by 2014. Looking at these engines, EPA determined there were general sectors that provided the best opportunity to obtain significant reductions. These sectors include school buses, ports, construction, freight, and agriculture. Each program provides technical and financial assistance to stakeholders interested in reducing their fleets' emissions effectively and efficiently. EPA's FY 2008 budget includes $35 million for National Clean Diesel Campaign grants to help meet the mandates of the Energy Act and promote more energy efficient technologies. According to the EPA, the $35 million is estimated to leverage an additional $72 million in funding assistance and reduce particulate matter by approximately 5,040 tons, which will achieve $1.4 billion in health benefits. ###
04.08.2009	Rep. Calvert (R-CA) was pleased by the announcement by President Bush that those areas affected by the January freeze are designated major disaster areas. "California citrus and other farmers will be able to receive the assistance they need to get back on their feet and start planning for the next crop," said Rep. Calvert. "I would like to thank the President for providing the much-needed federal help to the State of California and Governor Schwarzenegger for his persistence on this issue." According to figures provided by the CA Department of Agriculture, the statewide freeze-related damage is more than $1.3 billion. In Riverside County, there has been more than $86 billion in freeze-related damaged suffered by the citrus, avocado, nursery, and other industries. The President's action makes Disaster Unemployment Assistance and Food Commodities available to affected individuals in Fresno, Imperial, Kern, Los Angeles, Monterey, Riverside, San Bernardino, San Diego, San Luis Obispo, Santa Barbara, Tulare, and Ventura Counties. R. David Paulison, Director, Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) named Justo Hernandez as the Federal Coordinating Officer for Federal recovery operations in the affected areas. For assistance information contact FEMA at (202) 646-4600. ###
04.08.2009	Congressman Ken Calvert (R-CA) issued the following statement on the conditions of Walter Reed Army Medical Center: "Like most Americans, I am disturbed by the poor conditions at Walter Reed Army Medical Center. It is unacceptable that our wounded veterans are not receiving the care and the comfort they deserve. "However, I am pleased with the quick response by the Bush Administration and our new Secretary of Defense Robert Gates to the situation and support their decision to dismiss the Secretary of the Army and the commander of Walter Reed. The appointment of former Senator Bob Dole and former Health and Human Services Secretary Donna Shalala as co-chairs of a newly-established Presidential commission is an essential step in providing the quality and continuity of care that our soldiers, airmen, sailors and Marines deserve. Focusing on rehabilitative care, administrative processes, and quality of life issues for injured and sick members of the armed forces is an appropriate priority for the commission. "The independent review is tasked with identifying critical shortcomings and outlining ways in which to improve the quality of care our service members receive. The findings and recommendations should be made within 45 days to the secretaries of the Army and Navy and to the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Health Affairs and also be delivered to the House Armed Services Committee, of which I am a member. "It is unconscionable that wounded veterans are being treated in a manner that completely disrespects the sacrifices they've made for our country. Now we move forward to ensure that this type of treatment to our nation's heroes does not happen again." Rep. Calvert attended today's 10:00AM House Armed Services Committee Hearing on Challenges and Obstacles Wounded and Injured Service Members Face During Recovery. ###
04.08.2009	Today Congressman Ken Calvert (R-CA) gave the following statement on the House floor: "Mr. Speaker, I rise today in opposition to the Majority Party's Iraq Supplemental appropriations bill. "I returned from Iraq last week where I met with our troops. The one question I was asked repeatedly was ‘Why doesn't Congress support us?' "I told them that I do support them. Unfortunately this bill does not. "Right now, we have the A- Team in Iraq and they are producing results. I saw it first hand: · Sunnis working with Shia and the U.S. Marine Corps in the al-Anbar province. · Sunnis looking forward to the next elections. · An oil distribution plan that is on the brink of completion. "The Majority's Supplemental Bill is ‘defeat on an installment plan.' "How can Congress convey our support for the troops in Iraq and at the same time pass a bill which pulls out the rug from the very people we claim to support? Plain and simple, the supplemental - as written by the Majority - is a blueprint for defeat. "I urge my colleagues to reject this bill and pass a clean supplemental bill that provides support to those who are fighting and dying. We owe them that much." ###
04.08.2009	This week U.S. Rep. Ken Calvert (R-CA) voted to ensure America's injured and wounded military soldiers, sailors, airmen and Marines receive the finest healthcare available through the military health system. The Wounded Warriors Assistance Act has the support of the senior Republicans and Democrats on both the House Armed Services Committee and the House Veterans Affairs Committee. "Our troops, who have sacrificed so much for our country, deserve the absolute best care that we can provide," stated Rep. Calvert. "Congress must ensure that the disturbing conditions at Walter Reed are rectified and that the bureaucratic process is not hindering the recovery of our troops. This bill is a first step in the right direction." H.R. 1538, the Wounded Warrior Assistance Act of 2007, provides the people, training and oversight mechanisms needed to ensure that our wounded warriors receive committed quality care and that the military health system will not fail them. The legislation also sets the stage for much needed reform of administrative processes that will restore member confidence in the integrity and efficiency of the disability evaluation system and begin the process of achieving a truly seamless transition of service members to the Department of Veterans Affairs programs. The House Armed Services Committee voted in favor of the bipartisan Wounded Warrior Assistance Act for 2007 by 59-0 on Tuesday, March 20, 2007. ###
04.08.2009	Today Congressman Ken Calvert (R-Corona) was pleased to announce the House passage of H.R. 988, a bill that would name the post office located at 5757 Tilton Avenue in Riverside, California the "Lieutenant Todd Jason Bryant Post Office." "I'm pleased the House passed this bill in honor of Lt. Bryant," stated Rep. Calvert. "Todd was one of those rare individuals who distinguished himself at every stage of life. I was proud to nominate Todd to West Point and later to have him on my staff as an intern." Todd was born on January 14, 1980, in Long Beach, California. Todd came from a military family and his desire and determination to join the military was resolute. He enlisted in the Army Reserve and completed Basic Training at Fort Sill, Oklahoma before his senior year of high school. Rep. Calvert appointed Todd to the U.S. Military Academy at West Point. After graduation, Todd attended the Armor Officer's Basic Course at Fort Knox, Kentucky, graduating in December 2002. He reported to Fort Riley, Kansas in January 2003, and was initially assigned to Headquarters and Headquarters Company, 1st, Battalion 34th Armor Regiment where he served as an Assistant Operations Officer. In April of 2003, Todd was reassigned to C Company, 1-34 AR where he assumed duties as Platoon Leader, 3rd Platoon. On August 30, 2003, Todd and Jenifer Reardon were married in Pennsylvania, nine days before shipping out with his unit in support of Operation Iraqi Freedom. On Friday, October 31, 2003, Todd was killed by an explosive device as his Humvee traveled on a road between Fallujah and Baghdad. He was 23 years old. "I often think about Todd. I consider it a great honor to have known him and to have watched him accomplish so much in his short but vibrant life," stated Rep. Calvert. "This Post Office is one way to remember Todd and to honor his family who gave the greatest of sacrifices for our country. I urge the Senate to take up this bill that honors one of America's best and bravest." ###
04.08.2009	Today Rep. Calvert (R-CA) was pleased to announce two local projects were included in the Water Resources Development Act (WRDA), H.R 1495. The bill passed the House by 394 to 25. "Southern California is essentially a desert by the sea so it is imperative that we support water conservation projects such as Prado Dam and Seven Oaks Dam," said Rep. Calvert. "In addition to conservation benefits, these dams provide crucial flood protection for communities downstream of the Santa Ana River." The Water Resources Development Act Congress generally authorizes new Army Corps of Engineers water resources studies and projects in a Water Resources Development Act (WRDA) before appropriating funds to them. While WRDA enactment previously had loosely followed a biennial schedule, the most recent WRDA was enacted in 2000. At the direction of Congress, the Corps plans, builds, operates, and maintains a wide range of water resources facilities in U.S. states and territories. The agency's traditional civil responsibilities have been creating and maintaining navigable channels and controlling floods; in the last two decades, Congress has increased the Corps' responsibilities in ecosystem restoration, municipal water and wastewater infrastructure, disaster relief, and other activities. Congressional direction comes primarily through authorization and appropriations legislation and oversight activities. WRDA is the main legislative vehicle for Corps civil works authorizations. Seven Oaks Dam Seven Oaks Dam was constructed by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to provide flood protection for communities downstream of the Santa Ana River. The local project sponsors are the Flood Control Districts of Riverside, San Bernardino and Orange Counties. Under an agreement with the local sponsors, Western Municipal Water District in Riverside and San Bernardino Valley Municipal Water District have spent over $4 million to facilitate water conservation efforts at the dam. Through these efforts, the dam is now equipped to store water during wet seasons and release into the system during dry times. The language included in H.R. 1495 would authorize the Secretary to conduct a study of water conservation at the dam. Prado Dam There is currently a water conservation program operating at Prado Dam. The program began in the early 1990s, as a result of an agreement between the U. S. Army Corps of Engineers and the Orange County Water District (OCWD). The program has operated very successfully, saving some 8,000 acre feet of water per year that would otherwise flow into the ocean. While the current program has operated under a Memorandum of Agreement (MOA) between the Corps and OCWD, once Prado Dam has been raised by 30 feet, the authorization provided by H.R. 1495 is needed to guarantee that the existing water conservation program will continue without change. ###
04.08.2009	Today Congressman Ken Calvert (R-CA) voted against the Democrat Iraq War Supplemental Appropriations bill which passed the House this evening. "I was in Iraq last month and was repeatedly asked by American troops why Congress does not support them and the mission," stated Rep. Calvert. "This plan ensures that our service members will no longer have to wonder if Congress supports them, but why Congress does not support them." The war supplemental places timetables for troop withdrawals, providing U.S. enemies in Iraq a specific date in which the U.S. will hand the country over to terrorists. The disastrous bill, in order to recruit votes, also includes billions in unrelated funding. According the House Budget Committee, among the emergencies funded in the measure are the following: $3.7 billion in agriculture disaster assistance for crop years 2005, 2006, and part of 2007; $25 million for spinach growers who suffered losses as a result of last year's E.coli breakout; $74-million budget gimmick essentially to extend the Peanut Storage Costs Program. The supplemental makes the budget authority available on the last day of fiscal year 2007, ensuring that the program will be extended to the 2007 crop year of peanuts, whose costs fall entirely into fiscal year 2008. "Our troops will wonder why it is so difficult for Congress to do its part when they are the ones doing the heavy lifting, laying their lives on the line, and burying their brothers – and sisters – in arms," said Rep. Calvert. "Our military stands ready to finish the job and yet the Democratic controlled Congress is the one who lacks the will to give them the tools they need. I reject this Defeat-On-The-Installment-Plan" ###
04.08.2009	Today Congressman Calvert (R-CA) issued the following statement regarding his temporary assignment to the House Appropriations Committee: "I am taking on the Appropriations Committee position temporarily in order to represent the State of California through the annual appropriations process. I'm eager to get to work on the State's behalf on this important committee. ###
04.08.2009	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (R-Corona) was outraged by the passage of an amendment introduced by Rep. Susan Davis (D-San Diego) to repeal federal law that allowed the Department of the Navy to grant an easement at Marine Corps Base Camp Pendleton, California. The passage of the amendment represents a serious blow to two decades of work to develop a locally-preferred and environmentally sensitive route for the Foothill-South toll road. "I am appalled by the fact that a member of Congress, who's not from Orange County, is trying to stop a key regional transportation project at the behest of special interest groups and in spite the project's strong support among local elected officials," said Rep. Calvert. "Rep. Davis and her cadre of special interest groups are weakening the Marine Corps' authority and rights to manage its own land at Camp Pendleton." "The language in existing law simply reaffirms the Marine Corps' right to grant an easement over the land they own and have leased to the State. Any contention that the Foothill-South has been granted special environmental exemptions is flat out false and I've got about 50 pounds worth of environmental documents in my office to back that up." In 1971, the State of California and the Dept. of the Navy entered into a 50 year lease that allowed for the northern-most end of Camp Pendleton to be used as a State Park. In the lease, both parties signed and acknowledged the right of the Department of the Navy to grant current and future easements on the leased property. For almost two decades, federal and state transportation and environmental agencies, as well as the Marine Corps have worked to identify the most environmentally prudent alternative for the Foothill-South. After following both California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) and National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) processes, the preferred alternative route has been chosen and the environmental process is in the Final Environmental Impact Statement phase. The amendment introduced by Rep. Davis to the National Defense Authorization Act during the House Armed Services Committee mark-up repealed Section 2851of the National Defense Authorization Act of Fiscal Year 1999, which reaffirms the Department of the Navy's authority to grant an easement on the Camp Pendleton property leased to the State of California for the Foothill-South. "I'm disappointed that my Orange County colleague, Rep. Sanchez, spoke in favor of the Davis amendment to kill the toll road and falsely asserted that the project is not subject to State law when in fact it is subject and has complied with CEQA," stated Rep. Calvert. ###
04.08.2009	Today Congressman Ken Calvert (R-CA) voted in support of the Fiscal Year 2008 Defense Authorization Bill, H.R. 1585. The bill passed by a vote of 397 to 27. H.R. 1585 authorizes $503 billion in budget authority for the Department of Defense (DoD) and the national security programs of the Department of Energy. Additionally, the legislation authorizes $142 billion in supplemental funding to support current operations in Iraq, Afghanistan and elsewhere in the Global War on Terrorism. "The House Armed Services Committee has produced a good bill that provides the tools, healthcare and pay for our warfighters," stated Rep. Calvert. "I'm pleased the bill includes significant increases to the Operations and Maintenance accounts and $2.4 bill for ten additional C-17s." Calvert added, "I continue to oppose the inclusion of the Davis – Sanchez amendment which will unfairly impede the construction of the much-needed Foothill-South toll road extension." Highlights of the bill include: An additional $142 billion in supplemental funding to support the Global War on Terror's operational costs, personnel expenses and procurement of new equipment. Additional funding for force protection needs in support of Operation Enduring Freedom and Operation Iraqi Freedom, including $4.1 billion for state-of-the-art Mine Resistant Ambush Protected (MRAP) vehicles. Additional increases of 13,000 Army and 9,000 Marine Corps active duty personnel to sustain our required missions. A 3.5% pay raise for all members of the armed forces in 2008 and guaranteed pay raises in 2009, 2010 and 2011 to reduce the military-civilian pay disparity. $2.4 billion for an additional 10 C-17s to support intra-theater airlift requirements and meet the airlift needs for the increased end strength in the Army and Marine Corps. An additional $1 billion for National Guard equipment. Extends the prohibition the committee enacted last year on increases to TRICARE Prime and TRICARE Standard. Extends the prohibition the committee enacted last year on retail pharmacy cost share increases. Provides $250 million to address training shortfalls throughout the services and adds $165 million for depot maintenance. Provides a stipend to partially compensate people for the SBP-DIC offset and begins providing combat-related special compensation to some medically retired military personnel with between 15 and 20 years of service. Authorizes grants and loan guarantees to U.S. shipyards to improve their efficiency, cost-effectiveness and international competitiveness. Prohibits the Department of Defense and defense contractors from procuring goods or services from a source owned or controlled by an entity sanctioned by the U.S. Department of State for violations of the Iran and Syria Nonproliferation Act (Public Law 106-178). ###
04.08.2009	Today Congressman Ken Calvert (R-CA) issued the following statement on the Senate immigration bill: "My position on illegal immigration remains the same: I will not support a bill that provides amnesty. The Senate ‘compromise' attempts to dress amnesty up in colorful language and bury it in the 300 page bill, but make no mistake the legislation as written would provide legal status to the estimated 12 million illegally in our country. This is amnesty and I will not support the Senate bill. "The American people have not asked much from their government. They want Congress to demonstrate we can control the border and provide interior enforcement. Last Congress, House Republicans passed the Secure Fence Act which authorized 700 miles of fencing along the southern border. The Senate bill would require only 370 miles of that fence be built in addition to granting amnesty. The American people also want Congress to demonstrate an effective employment verification system. The Basic Pilot Program, created by legislation I wrote, has been improving and expanding for the last decade. It is imperative that we move this program forward and require all employers to check the legal status of newly hired employees. The Senate bill only requires that the employment verification ‘tool' be available to the Department of Homeland Security (DHS), however the legislation does not it to be used. "Unfortunately, the Senate bill places the wishes of illegal immigrants and special interest groups above those of American citizens. I will not support this bill and will do everything I can to prevent its passage." ###
04.08.2009	U.S. Senator Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.) and Congressman Ken Calvert (R-Corona) today announced that the Senate has approved a resolution to rename the Rubidoux post office in honor of Lieutenant Todd Jason Bryant, who lost his life while serving in Iraq. H.R. 988 was introduced in the House by Rep. Calvert. The post office is located at 5757 Tilton Avenue in Riverside, Calif. "I would like to thank Senator Feinstein and her staff for their work and support of this legislation which honors Lieutenant Bryant's sacrifice and his family," stated Rep. Calvert. "Todd was one of those rare individuals who distinguished himself at every stage of life. I was proud to nominate Todd to West Point and later to have him on my staff as an intern." "Representative Calvert has worked hard to pass this resolution, and I would like to thank him for his efforts," Senator Feinstein said. "Lt. Bryant was a courageous soldier, committed to serving his nation. The Rubidoux community lost a tremendous young man and determined leader. This post office will serve as a meaningful reminder of the dedication and sacrifices made by Lt. Bryant and each member of our Armed Forces serving in Iraq." Todd was born on January 14, 1980, in Long Beach, California. Todd came from a military family and his desire and determination to join the military was resolute. He enlisted in the Army Reserve and completed Basic Training at Fort Sill, Oklahoma before his senior year of high school. Rep. Calvert appointed Todd to the U.S. Military Academy at West Point. After graduation, Todd attended the Armor Officer's Basic Course at Fort Knox, Kentucky, graduating in December 2002. He reported to Fort Riley, Kansas in January 2003, and was initially assigned to Headquarters and Headquarters Company, 1st, Battalion 34th Armor Regiment where he served as an Assistant Operations Officer. In April of 2003, Todd was reassigned to C Company, 1-34 AR where he assumed duties as Platoon Leader, 3rd Platoon. On August 30, 2003, Todd and Jenifer Reardon were married in Pennsylvania, nine days before shipping out with his unit in support of Operation Iraqi Freedom. On Friday, October 31, 2003, Todd was killed by an explosive device as his Humvee traveled on a road between Fallujah and Baghdad. He was 23 years old. "I look forward to delivering this bill to the President for his signature," said Rep. Calvert. "As Memorial Day approaches I'll be thinking of Todd and all the brave heroes, and their families, who gave their lives for our country. The dedication of the post office will be one way to ensure that the memory of Lieutenant Todd Bryant lives on." ###
04.08.2009	This week Congressman Ken Calvert (R-CA) was pleased to support several bills that honor and support U.S. Veterans. "In light of the upcoming Memorial Day holiday, it is only fitting that Congress recognize and honor the men and women who chose to serve their country in the military," said Rep. Calvert. "I hope all of our veterans know how much we appreciate their service and sacrifice." The following bills passed the U.S. House of Representatives on Tuesday, May 22, 2007: H.R. 612 – To extend the period of eligibility for health care for combat service in the Persian Gulf or future hostilities from two years to five years after discharge or release. H.R. 2199 – To direct the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to provide certain improvements in the treatment of individuals with traumatic brain injuries. H.R. 2239 – To expand eligibility for vocational rehabilitation benefits administered by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs. H.R. 67 – To improve the outreach activities of the Department of Veterans Affairs. H.R. 1470 – To require the provision of chiropractic care and services to veterans at all Department of Veterans Affairs medical centers. H.R. 1660 – To direct the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to establish a national cemetery for veterans in the southern Colorado region. H. Res. 392 – To urge Americans and people of all nationalities to visit the American Cemeteries, Memorial and Markers. ###
04.08.2009	Today Rep. Ken Calvert (R-Corona) was pleased to announce that his bill H.R. 1139, the Riverside-Corona Feeder Water Supply Act, passed the U.S. House of Representatives under suspension of the rules. "The Western Municipal Water District provides water service to western Riverside County and serves a population of more than six hundred thousand people," stated Rep. Calvert on the floor of the House. "The purpose of the Riverside-Corona Feeder water supply project is to capture and store water in wet years in order to increase Western's firm water supplies, provide a cost-effective water supply, and improve water quality." H.R. 1139 authorizes the Secretary of the Interior, in cooperation with the Western Municipal Water District, Riverside County, California, to participate in the planning, design, and construction of the Riverside-Corona Feeder water supply project, which includes 20 groundwater wells, groundwater treatment facilities, water storage and pumping facilities, and 28 miles of pipeline in San Bernardino and Riverside Counties. "At a time when water demand continues to grow due to the West's increasing population, traditional water sources have been confronted by a prolonged drought and other environmental challenges," said Rep. Calvert "It is imperative that Southern California continue to reduce its dependence on imported water from the Delta and Colorado River through innovations such as the Riverside-Corona Feeder." Mr. Speaker: The Riverside-Corona Feeder Water Supply Act represents an important investment in the water infrastructure in western Riverside County, California – one of the fastest growing regions in the country. At a time when water demand continues to grow due to the West's increasing population, traditional water sources have been confronted by a prolonged drought and other environmental challenges. In fact, just last week California water officials turned off the huge pumps that send water to Southern California from the Sacramento-San Joaquin Delta to protect a tiny imperiled fish. While the shutdown is only scheduled to last a week or two, it is a stark reminder that Southern California must continue to reduce its dependence on imported water from the Delta and Colorado River. The Western Municipal Water District provides water service to western Riverside County and serves a population of more than six hundred thousand people. The purpose of the Riverside-Corona Feeder water supply project is to capture and store water in wet years in order to increase Western's firm water supplies, provide a cost-effective water supply, and improve water quality. New wet year water will come from local runoff, including regulated releases from Seven Oaks Dam and the State Water Project, and stored in San Bernardino Valley groundwater basins. To deliver the stored water to consumers in Western's service area, the project will provide for new groundwater pumping and pipeline capacity. As an additional benefit, the Riverside-Corona Feeder will provide the means to control water tables, thereby reducing liquefaction dangers in the Colton and San Bernardino communities. Additionally, the project improves local water quality as perchlorate and other contaminants would be removed from the basin when water is extracted from the well heads via the Riverside-Corona Feeder. I applaud Western and our local elected officials in Western Riverside County for taking bold, proactive steps in meeting our region's current and future water demand. In particular, I'd like to acknowledge the leadership of Western's General Manager John Rossi as well as Western Board Members Charles Field, Tom Evans, Brenda Dennstedt, Don Galleano, and Al Lopez. I also want to thank my good friend Grace Napolitano, the Chairwoman of the Water and Power Subcommittee, for her leadership and support of my legislation. Mr. Speaker, I think it is crucial that we recognize and assist communities that are working to reduce their reliance on imported water and I urge all of colleagues to support the Riverside-Corona Feeder Water Supply Act. ###
04.08.2009	"It is imperative that Congress seek solutions to the challenge of climate change in a way that does not overreact and punish the American economy. The advancement of technology through incentives and the promotion of clean fuel is one direction that Congress should continue to fund and work with the science and technology community on the actual effects, and possible solutions, of the human component of global warming. "I understand that it is fundraising season for some environmental groups, but in my case they've got the wrong guy. In fact, I've even used the much-maligned earmark process to secure funding for environmental research and facilities at the University of California at Riverside. I have also advocated for clean, low-sulfur diesel and have vigorously advocated and funded the nation's most complicated Multi-Species Habitat Conservation Plan. I was also nationally recognized for my legislation which reduced the use of animals in chemical testing." ###
04.08.2009	Congressman Ken Calvert (R-Corona) was pleased to support the Fiscal Year 2008 Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations bill, H.R. 2642, which passed the House today. "One of the most important duties of Congress is to provide for the men and women who have fought for our country," said Rep. Calvert. "Our military men and women are doing an excellent job in Iraq and Afghanistan and more lives are being saved in the field than in previous conflicts. However, more service members come home with extreme bodily injury as well as psychological conditions then from previous conflicts. This bill provides the funding to help our wounded and ensure they receive the best care possible." The bill provides more than $37 billion for veterans programs, a $4.4 billion increase over last year. $600 million for Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD) care, traumatic brain injury research and care; $4.1 billion to improve VA facilities, hospitals and clinics; $2.9 billion for mental health care and substance abuse treatment for veterans; and $480 million for prosthetic research to help wounded veterans retain a positive quality of life. Strongly supports active-duty members: The bill provides $21.4 billion for facilities needed to house and train military personnel abroad and at home. After holding up floor action on appropriations bills, Republicans were able to force Democrats to disclose earmarks in appropriation bills prior to a House vote on the bill. "After hearing non-stop criticism about earmark transparency, the Democrats went back on their promise to the American people and actually created a process that prevented any discourse on taxpayer funded earmarks which had been previously allowed under Republican rules," said Rep. Calvert. "Fortunately Republicans were able to secure a commitment from the Majority Party that all earmarks will be included in future appropriation bills." ###
04.08.2009	This week Congressman Ken Calvert (R-Corona) voted against the Fiscal Year 2008 State and Foreign Operations bill and the Legislative Branch Appropriations bill. "I'm disappointed that the Democrats did not allow the House to vote on many critical amendments such as one introduced by Rep. Kingston from Georgia which would have prohibited funds in the Legislative Appropriations bill from being used to contract with entities that do not participate in the Basic Pilot Program," stated Rep. Calvert, who wrote the legislation that created the program. "The American people have made it very clear that employment verification is vital to enforcing our immigration laws. Requiring anyone who does business with the federal government to verify the legal status of their employees would have demonstrated that the federal government is serious about this issue. Unfortunately, the Democrats would not allow Members to vote on the amendment." The Basic Pilot Program - which is user-friendly, web-based, accurate and timely - has over 16,000 employers voluntarily participating in the system (to sign up for the Basic Pilot Program go to https://www.vis-dhs.com/EmployerRegistration). H.R. 2764, the State and Foreign Operations bill, provides $34.24 billion in discretionary funding for the Department of State and Foreign Operations programs in fiscal year 2008, a 9.4% increase over non-emergency appropriations for FY2007. Congressman Calvert had concerns in regard to a number of provisions in the bill, including language weakening current abortion and abstinence policies; shifts in funding priorities for Colombia; zeroing out the Economic Support Fund requested for Iraq; and shortchanging the Administration's request for the Millennium Challenge Corporation (MCC) by $1.2 billion. Rep. Calvert also voted against H.R. 2771, the FY2008 Legislative Branch Appropriations bill which provides $3.1 billion in appropriations, which is a 6.7% increase from the FY2007 enacted level. ###
04.08.2009	Today Congressman Ken Calvert (R-Corona) voted in favor of a resolution passed by the GOP Conference that stated: "Resolved, that the House Republican Conference disapproves of the Senate immigration bill." "It's baffling how out-of-touch Senators are on the issue of illegal immigration," said Rep. Calvert. "This resolution is a clear signal that House Republicans will not vote for a bill that provides amnesty to those illegally in the United States. The American people have demanded that Congress secure the border and enforce the laws on the books. House Republicans are committed to building the fence, increasing the number of border patrol agents and requiring employment verification and not rewarding individuals whose first action was to break the law." ###
04.08.2009	Today Congressman Ken Calvert (R-Corona) voted against the Fiscal Year 2008 Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies Appropriations Bill, H.R. 2643. "The funding in this bill is considerably higher than last year's level and the President's request," said Rep. Calvert. "During a time of war, Congress should be conserving funds, not providing a ten percent increase over the President's request to the U.S. Fish and Wildlife." The fiscal year 2008 Interior Appropriations bill provides $27.6 billion in new discretionary budget authority, an increase of $1.2 billion above the 2007 enacted level and $1.9 billion, or 7.6 percent, above the President's 2008 budget request. The legislation also includes a Global Climate Change Sense of Congress and provisions that would delay or even prevent energy exploration in Alaska's North Aleutian OCS Planning Area. Congressman Calvert signed a letter stating he will uphold a Presidential Veto for appropriations bills that exceed the President's request. "I oppose the large overall increase in federal spending contained in the FY2008 budget resolution and I fully support a Presidential veto for non-defense discretionary funding that irresponsibly spends taxpayer dollars," stated Rep. Calvert. ###
04.08.2009	Tomorrow Congressman Ken Calvert (R-CA) will attend a ceremony located in the Cannon Caucus Room for the awarding of $30,000 to the City of San Clemente. "The City of San Clemente is a historic national treasure," said Rep. Ken Calvert. "I'm pleased the city has been recognized for its historical significance and will be able to use the funds to augment visitor services." The Preserve America Grant will allow the City of San Clemente to develop a way-finding program to direct visitors to city hall, the downtown, the Municipal Pier, and North Beach historical and cultural resources. Tomorrow's ceremony will begin at 9:00AM EST. City of San Clemente Councilman Eggleston will accept the award and First Lady Laura Bush will be a special guest. Preserve America is an interagency initiative that encourages and supports community efforts to preserve and enjoy our priceless cultural and natural heritage. The goals of the initiative include a greater shared knowledge about the nation's past, strengthened regional identities and local pride, increased local participation in preserving the country's cultural and natural heritage assets, and support for the economic vitality of our communities. Mrs. Laura Bush, First Lady of the United States, is the Honorary Chair of Preserve America. Detailed information on all aspects of this initiative can be found at www.preserveamerica.gov. ###
04.08.2009	This week Congressman Ken Calvert (R-Corona) opposed both the Fiscal Year 2008 Energy and Water appropriations bill and the Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education appropriations bill. "Once again, Democrats can't help themselves when it comes to spending the American people's money," said Rep. Calvert. "This is a dangerous trend which will undoubtedly lead to an assertion by the Majority Party that it will be necessary to raise taxes." The fiscal year 2008 Labor, Health, Human Services and Education appropriations bill provides $152 billion in discretionary funding, an increase of $11 billion over the President's request and $7 billion above the 2007 regular level. The Energy and Water appropriations bill also exceeded the President's request by $1.1 billion and $1.3 billion more than the FY2007 level. "Although my congressional district would benefit from both of the appropriations bills, I could not in good conscience support reckless spending which hurts all taxpayers," said Rep. Calvert. "If the President vetoes the spending bills I will vote to sustain the veto." ###
04.08.2009	This week Congressman Ken Calvert (R-Corona) voted against both the Fiscal Year 2008 Transportation-HUD appropriations bill and the Commerce, State, Justice appropriations bill. "Once again, Democrats can't help themselves when it comes to spending the American people's money," said Rep. Calvert. "This is a dangerous trend which will undoubtedly lead to an assertion by the Majority Party that it will be necessary to raise taxes." The Democrat Transportation-HUD spending bill, H.R. 3074, provides for $104.4 billion in spending for fiscal year 2008 – $4.1 billion more than current levels, and $2.8 billion more than requested by the President. The Democrat Commerce-Justice-Science spending bill, H.R. 3093, provides for $53.8 billion in spending for fiscal year 2008 – $3.2 billion more than current levels, and $2.3 billion more than requested by the President. "Although my congressional district would benefit from both of the appropriations bills, I could not in good conscience support reckless spending which hurts all taxpayers," said Rep. Calvert. "If the President vetoes the spending bills I will vote to sustain the veto." ###
04.08.2009	Yesterday Congressman Ken Calvert (R-CA-44) and other lead sponsors Kevin McCarthy (R-CA-22), Howard "Buck" McKeon (R-CA-25), and Adam Schiff (D-CA-29) introduced legislation to re-designate NASA's Dryden Flight Research Center as the Neil A. Armstrong Flight Research Center and the Western Aeronautical Test Range as the Hugh L. Dryden Aeronautical Test Range. "Southern California is an integral part of our country's space exploration and aeronautical history," said Rep. Calvert, the former Chairman of the Subcommittee on Space and Aeronautics. "It is important to recognize both the NASA Flight Research Center and the Western Aeronautical Test Range for their contributions and what better way to do that then to associate them with two great American space and aeronautics pioneers; Neil Armstrong and Hugh Dryden." "It is fitting that we pay tribute to these two American heroes who contributed to the great success of the American space program," said Rep. McCarthy. "Neil Armstrong and Dr. Hugh Dryden embody the innovative spirit that continues to move NASA forward, inspiring the next generation of aerospace pioneers and advancing our legacy as the global leader in space exploration." "Developing the United States space program has become one of the greatest endeavors this country has undertaken, so it is with tremendous honor that I help memorialize two of our most notable aeronautical contributors, Neil A. Armstrong and Dr. Hugh L. Dryden," Rep. McKeon noted. "The success of these two men helped advance NASA to be one of the finest exploration programs in the world." "Neil Armstrong and Hugh Dryden are true American Heroes," said Adam Schiff. "Naming NASA's Flight Research Center and the Western Aeronautical Test Range after these men is not only a fitting way to honor them but it is a great way to help inspire our next generation to strive to follow in their footsteps." The legislation, H.R. 3245, will accomplish three important goals: (1) to honor Neil A. Armstrong, the first human to walk on the Moon and a former test pilot who worked at the center from 1955 to 1962; (2) to emphasize the contributions of that center to the agency's current space exploration mission; and (3) to memorialize the extraordinary career of Dr. Hugh L. Dryden by naming the aeronautical test range, approximately 12,000 square miles of special use airspace in his honor. The Dryden Flight Research Center, located at Edwards, California, is NASA's primary center for atmospheric flight research and operations. NASA Dryden is also critical in carrying out the agency's missions of space exploration, space operations, scientific discovery, and aeronautical research and development. Before Armstrong became an astronaut in 1962, he served for seven years as a test pilot at what was then called the National Advisory Committee for Aeronautics (NACA) High-Speed Flight Station. The station was later established as a NASA center and eventually named after Hugh L. Dryden, one of America's most prominent aeronautical engineers. By the time he became an astronaut, Armstrong amassed 2,400 hours of flying time as a test pilot there, about 900 of it in jets. Dr. Hugh L. Dryden, was Director of NACA from 1947 until the creation of NASA in 1958, and was named Deputy Administrator of the new aerospace agency when it was created in response to the Sputnik crisis. As an aeronautical scientist and engineer, Dr. Dryden made great contributions to our nation and the world in fields such as aerodynamics research and rocket plane research and testing. ###
04.08.2009	Today Congressman Calvert (R-CA), one of the approximately 100 Republicans who left the House floor last night in protest, issued the following statement blasting House Democrats for breaking the rules of the House in order to obtain a favorable outcome. "It is absolutely disgraceful that this New Majority used deceitful methods that broke House rules in order to allow illegal immigrants to obtain welfare benefits. The American people should know that the Democrats in the House have chosen illegal immigrants over American citizens. Not only have they sullied the reputation of the U.S. House of Representatives, they have done it in the name of individuals who have no respect for the rule of law. The House Majority Party has demonstrated that they are willing to reject the procedural rules of the House, as laid out by our Founding Fathers, in order to obtain an outcome they prefer. In this case, it was to provide benefits to illegal immigrants at the cost of American taxpayers and at the cost of the reputation of the House." ###
04.08.2009	Today Congressman Ken Calvert (R-CA), the former Chairman of the Science and Technology Subcommittee on Space and Aeronautics, introduced the NASA Innovation Fund and Sponsorship Act. "For far too long, our nation's civilian space and aeronautics agency has been operating with insufficient resources," stated Rep. Ken Calvert. "My legislation will provide NASA with a private funding mechanism, which will complement our nation's federal investment." The NASA Innovation Fund and Sponsorship Act, would set up a trust fund account — to be named the Innovation Fund (IF) — to hold funds generated from private sponsorship. The IF will be directed through the Centennial Challenges program. NASA would be authorized to solicit and receive money from individuals and corporations in exchange for approved promotional programs that associate the corporation with NASA and the IF. The bill explicitly prohibits product placement on NASA assets that the public would find objectionable or inappropriate. Much like the Professional Golfers' Association or National Public Radio utilize tasteful sponsorships which are beneficial to them and their sponsors, the IF would allow NASA to do the same to benefit its prize authority program. The IF would not simply be substituting private-sector dollars derived from sponsorships for dollars Congress would otherwise appropriate. The IF will be private-sector funding directed through the Centennial Challenges program to reward competitors that accomplish challenges set by NASA. The Sponsorship Board and the vetting process it will undertake is a key component of the NASA Innovation Fund and Sponsorship Act. The board will consist of seven individuals, including the NASA Administrator, the Chief Strategic Communications Officer and five private citizens who have a stake in NASA's reputation and future. The board will screen potential applications for promotional contracts with NASA. The board will establish criteria to ensure that applicants are high caliber, reputable entities that are on good standing with the agency. The ability of the board to set the appropriate requirements for entering into a contract is fortified by giving NASA veto power over applicants. All applicants will be required to submit three parts in their sponsorship application: the monetary contribution, the content of the promotional program and an educational component to encourage the study of math and science. "The possibilities available to NASA through this legislation are endless," said Rep. Calvert. "The ability of NASA to reward private teams for science, engineering and technology advancements will be vital to maintaining our position as the premier leader in space and aeronautics. America is a country of pioneers and explorers. Let's keep this tradition alive through the NASA Innovation Fund and Sponsorship Act." ###
04.08.2009	"This week marks six years since the attacks of September 11, 2001. It is an important week and for many of our fellow Americans it is a painful anniversary of the death of a loved one. It is important that all of us recognize this day, whether by attending a local gathering or simply pausing for a moment in honor of the people who died in the attacks. "Thankfully we have not experienced another attack since that day, although many of our allies have experienced terrorist attacks. They serve as a reminder that our enemies are global and continue to plan for future destruction. "In the field, our troops continue to perform with the highest levels of professionalism and courage. As always, my thoughts and prayers are with our troops and their families who must bear the burden of their absence." -Rep. Ken Calvert
04.08.2009	Today Congressman Ken Calvert (R-CA) signed a discharge petition for H.Res. 479, legislation sponsored by Minority Leader John Boehner (R-OH) that would ensure all taxpayer-funded earmarks in all congressional bills are publicly disclosed and subject to challenge and open debate on the House floor. "It's hypocritical of the Majority Party, who ran on a platform of ‘openness,' to run the House with less transparency than the previous Republican Congress," said Rep. Calvert. "The American people have demanded more accountability, less frivolous spending and a Congress they can trust. The 11 percent approval rating of Congress reflects how poorly this new leadership is performing on those issues important to U.S. citizens." Under the current rules and procedures of the Majority Party, Members of Congress are unable to force a debate and vote on any earmark included in any tax or authorizing bill that comes to the House floor. H.Res. 479 would restore previous reforms implemented by Republicans in the previous Congress. The bill would also require earmarks in all types of bills – including tax, appropriations, or authorizing – to be disclosed in the legislation and open to challenge on the House floor. The Majority Party has refused to allow a vote on the bill and today Majority Leader Boehner filed the discharge petition. If the petition receives 217 signatures, the Majority Party must schedule a vote. ###
04.08.2009	Today Rep. Ken Calvert (R-Corona) announced two grants that benefit Riverside, California. "Today I am pleased to announce that two priorities for our region have been awarded funding from the federal government," said Rep. Calvert. The grants include: $2,000,000 for an Automated Pathogen Tracking System Awarded by The Commerce Department's National Institute of Standards and Technology Recipient: ISCA Technologies, Inc. - Riverside, California (951) 686-5008 www.iscatech.com ISCA Technologies, Inc. will develop a nano-electronic sensor to provide autonomous, rapid, sensitive, selective and reliable detection of multiple viruses simultaneously for environmental monitoring, homeland security, health care, and food safety applications. $258,306 to Enhance First Responders' Ability to Protect the Health and Safety of the Public Awarded by the Department of Homeland Security Assistance as a Firefighters Grants Recipient: Corona Fire Department, Operations and Safety The Corona Fire Department will be able to use the grant funds for activities such as training, equipment, personal protective equipment, wellness and fitness, and health and safety modifications to stations and facilities. Riverside County Natural Disaster Declaration In addition to the grant funding, the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) recently declared Riverside County a natural disaster area due to ongoing drought conditions. This designation will allow affected counties to apply for low interest emergency loans from the State Executive Director, Farm Service Agency. "The drought combined with the recent court ruling which reduces water supplies from the Delta by 30 percent paints a serious water supply challenge for the region," said Rep. Calvert. "Our farmers need relief and I'm pleased the Administration has recognized this need." In late August, the reliability of water supplies from Northern California's Sacramento-San Joaquin Delta was cast in doubt when a U.S. District Court judge set into motion one of the single largest court-ordered water curtailments in state history. Based on initial estimates supplied by the state, the Metropolitan Water District—the primary water importer for urban Southern California—stands to lose as much as 30 percent of its supplies from Northern California next year and possibly longer, under Judge Wanger's preliminary ruling in Fresno. Last week, Rep. Calvert joined a number of California delegation members in asking for a Natural Resources Committee hearing focused on the impacts of the court ruling. ###
04.08.2009	Today Congressman Ken Calvert (R-Corona), a member of the House Cancer Caucus, signed onto H.R. 1738 – the Colorectal Cancer Prevention, Early Detection, and Treatment Act of 2007. The month of September is Prostate Cancer Awareness Month. "Most Americans are impacted by cancer in some way; either through personal experience or because a family member or friend has been diagnosed with cancer," said Rep. Calvert. "Luckily, the United States has the best doctors and health professionals in the world who continually find new ways to battle this devastating disease." Colorectal Cancer Prevention, Early Detection, and Treatment Act: Establishes a program at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention to provide screenings and treatment for colorectal cancer. Targets screening services toward individuals between 50 - 64 years of age (the pre-Medicare population), or those under 50 years old but with high risk of such cancer. Gives priority to low-income, uninsured and underinsured individuals who would not otherwise have coverage for colorectal cancer screening, diagnostic follow up, and/or treatment. Provides case management and referrals for medical treatment of screened individuals. Ensures the full continuum of cancer care for individuals screened, including the appropriate follow-up for abnormal tests, diagnostic and therapeutic services, and treatment for detected cancers. Provides education and training for health professionals in the detection of colorectal cancer. Develops and disseminates findings and outcomes data in order to evaluate the program for cost, effectiveness and reach, which will inform ongoing community screening and treatment efforts. "It is estimated that in 2007, nearly 55,000 people will die of cancer in the State of California, and I understand that cancer touches all of our lives. As a member of the House Cancer Caucus, I recognize that preventative measures, such as regular screenings, consistent visits to the physician, and education are the first steps to fighting this deadly epidemic. That is why I am a co-sponsor of several bills that promote cancer research and preventative measures." Congressman Calvert is a co-sponsor of the following bills: Pancreatic Cancer Awareness Month – H.Res. 257 – Passed the House on September 10, 2007 (330 – 0) Breast Cancer Patient Protection Act – H.R. 119 – Would require insurance plans, which already cover specific breast cancer treatments, to ensure a minimum hospital stay for patients. Breast Cancer and Environmental Research Act – H.R. 1157 – Authorizes grants for the development and operation of research centers regarding environmental factors that may be related to the etiology of breast cancer. H.Res. 335 – Declares lung cancer to be a national health priority and calls for a comprehensive interagency program to reduce the lung cancer mortality rate by at least 50 percent by the year 2015. Additionally, the National Breast and Cervical Cancer Early Detection Program Reauthorization Act of 2007, H.R. 1132, passed the House with Rep. Calvert's support on March 27, 2007. The legislation would reauthorize the federal/state matching program that provides breast and cervical cancer screenings and benefits women in all 50 states, who are low-income but not eligible for the Medicaid program. Rep. Calvert is also a strong supporter of the Gynecologic Cancer Education and Awareness Act of 2005, or Johanna's Law, which was signed by the President on January 12, 2007 (P.L. 109-475). This legislation authorizes programs to increase awareness and education to women and healthcare providers regarding gynecologic cancers. FUNDING: Rep. Calvert has consistently supported increased funding for the National Institutes of Health (NIH), and in the 1990s, he voted to double federal NIH funding which Congress passed and the President signed. The FY2006 Labor, Health and Human Services and Education Appropriations Act included $4.84 billion for the National Cancer Institute ###
04.08.2009	Today Rep. Ken Calvert (R-CA) voted to sustain the President's veto of H.R. 976, a massive expansion of the State Children's Health Insurance Program (SCHIP). The vote to override the veto, which requires a two-thirds majority, failed by 273 to 156. "I find it unconscionable that Speaker Pelosi has hijacked a successful program, created by Republicans ten years ago with my support, in an effort to provide benefits to illegal immigrants and bring the U.S. one step closer to a nationalized system of healthcare," said Rep. Calvert. Rep. Calvert is a co-sponsor of H.R. 3584 which would re-authorize SCHIP for 18 months and provide and additional $2.6 billion to ensure the continued coverage of low-income children. H.R. 976 expands the program to a point that undermines the original purpose of SCHIP - to provide medical insurance for low-income children. The bill would provide benefits to middle-class families, childless adults, and would give health benefits to illegal immigrants. The bill also provides SCHIP to higher income brackets which would shift it away from covering low-income children who are already eligible but not enrolled. H.R. 976 eliminates a requirement ensuring that States are covering 95% of those children below 250% of the federal poverty level. This change would move the U.S. toward a single-payer, universal healthcare model for the U.S. The Democrat expansion of SCHIP is also irresponsibly funded by increasing the federal tax on cigarettes - a declining source of revenue. "I cannot reiterate enough my support for the existing SCHIP program and for decreasing the number of uninsured children in this country," stated Rep. Calvert. "However, I have strong concerns that the Majority Party is on a path to destroy this program and it will be our nation's neediest children who pay the price." ###
04.08.2009	"California is battling some of the worst wildfires in its history and I commend the many firefighters, policemen, first-responders, and National Guardsmen who are putting their lives on the line in this fight. My thoughts and prayers are with the many families who have lost their homes and those who are currently evacuated. I, along with my staff, stand by ready to help in any way we can." FEMA, Emergency Assistance: www.fema.gov/assistance/index.shtm FEMA, Wildfire tips: http://www.fema.gov/hazard/wildfire/wf_before.shtm California Department of Forestry and Fire Protection: http://www.fire.ca.gov/ Riverside County Fire Department: http://www.rvcfire.org/opencms/index.html Orange County Fire Authority: http://www.ocfa.org/ CALTRANS Road Closure Information: http://www.dot.ca.gov/dist8/ American Red Cross: http://www.redcross.org/
04.08.2009	Today Congressman Ken Calvert (R-CA) and Rep. Steven LaTourette (R-OH) solicited signatures for a letter to Acting Secretary of Veterans' Affairs Gordon Mansfield requesting the Department reconsider the decision that prevents the recitation of the flag-folding ceremony at military funerals. "If a family member would like the 13-flag fold recitation at the funeral of their loved one, they should not be prevented by Washington bureaucrats," said Rep. Calvert. The issue over the recitation, which includes references to Judaism and Christianity, was prompted by one complaint to the Riverside National Cemetery in Riverside, California located in Congressman Calvert's district. The Press Enterprise (www.pe.com) reported that since the complaint, federal workers and volunteers had been instructed not to perform the recitation even if requested by the family. According to Veterans' Affairs, the decision to disallow the recitation was made to provide uniformity in the funeral ceremony. "Veterans have every right to be upset that a tradition they hold sacred has been banned from the military funeral ceremony," stated Rep. Calvert. "The funeral ceremony for a veteran is a private and often very spiritual event. If a family would like the 13-flag fold recitation included, the VA should not stand in the way. What's next? Disallowing the playing of Amazing Grace at military funerals? The VA is being manipulated by out-of-control secularists who wish to banish the word ‘God' from American history and culture." Reps. Steven LaTourette and Ken Calvert will introduce a Sense of Congress resolution this week that families should be allowed to request and have a flag-folding ceremony recited at the nation's 125 national cemeteries, including two in Ohio. ###
04.08.2009	Yesterday Congressman Ken Calvert (R-CA) and Rep. Steven LaTourette (R-OH) introduced legislation, H. Res. 783, that expresses the Sense of Congress that the Veteran's Affairs National Cemetery Administration employees, volunteers, and veterans' service organizations that perform funeral honors and memorial honor details should be permitted to recite the 13 steps to fold an American flag at any national cemetery if requested by the family of the deceased (attached). "If a family member would like the 13-fold flag recitation at the funeral of their loved one, they should not be prevented by Washington bureaucrats," said Rep. Calvert. The issue over the recitation, which includes references to Judaism and Christianity, was prompted by one complaint to the Riverside National Cemetery in Riverside, California located in Congressman Calvert's district. The Press Enterprise (www.pe.com) reported that since the complaint, federal workers and volunteers have been instructed not to perform the recitation even if requested by the family. According to Veterans' Affairs, the decision to disallow the recitation was made to provide uniformity in the funeral ceremony. Late last evening, the Department of Veterans' issued a press release stating: Volunteer honor guards are authorized to read the so-called "13-fold" flag recitation or any comparable script; Survivors of the deceased need to provide material and request it be read by the volunteer honor guards. "This is certainly a step in the right direction but a press release is not policy," said Rep. Calvert. "The announcement does not address whether employees will be able to perform the recitation and in some instances volunteers are considered employees by the National Cemetery. We need to ensure that military families are not being denied their preferred service." In addition to the Sense of Congress, a letter signed by 126 congressmen was sent to Acting Secretary of Veterans' Affairs Gordon Mansfield today requesting the Department reconsider the decision that prevents the recitation of the flag-folding ceremony at military funerals (attached).
04.08.2009	Yesterday the Department of Veterans' Affairs issued a memo (attached) to all cemetery directors in the National Cemetery Administration that states the 13-fold flag recitation will be allowed at military funerals. Employees and volunteers will be able to recite the ceremony if requested by the family. "I commend the VA for their quick reversal on their previous misguided 13-fold flag policy," stated Rep. Calvert who, along with Rep. Steven LaTourette (R-OH) and 126 Members of Congress, sent a letter to the Secretary of Veterans' Affairs demanding a reversal of the policy disallowing the 13-fold flag recitation. "This is a victory for military families and veterans who should not have their funeral decisions dictated by Washington bureaucrats." "This is a victory for veterans across the country," Rep. LaTourette said. "I'm glad the VA has cleared up the mess and will let families have the funeral service they want. They did the right thing." The issue over the recitation, which includes references to Judaism and Christianity, was prompted by one complaint to the Riverside National Cemetery in Riverside, California located in Congressman Calvert's district. The Press Enterprise (www.pe.com) reported that since the complaint, federal workers and volunteers have been instructed not to perform the recitation even if requested by the family. According to Veterans' Affairs, the decision to disallow the recitation was made to provide uniformity in the funeral ceremony. In addition to the letter to the Secretary of Veterans' Affairs, Reps. Calvert and LaTourette introduced legislation, H. Res. 783, that expresses the Sense of Congress that the Veteran's Affairs National Cemetery Administration employees, volunteers, and veterans' service organizations that perform funeral honors and memorial honor details should be permitted to recite the 13 steps to fold an American flag at any national cemetery if requested by the family of the deceased (attached). To date H. Res. 783 has 57 cosponsors. ###
04.08.2009	Today Congressman Ken Calvert (R-Corona) voted in favor of H.R. 3915, the Mortgage Reform and Anti-Predatory Lending Act of 2007. "The mortgage crisis continues to impact our nation's economy and has especially impacted the Inland Empire," said. Rep. Calvert. "The bill passed by the House today takes an important step in reforming the mortgage origination process in a manner that helps to protect middle-class and low-income home-buyers. While we should not have a bailout, we should protect consumers and, through FHA programs, help those who wish to work themselves out of a tight spot." The bi-partisan H.R. 3915 provides new regulations and licensing requirements on mortgage loan originators. In addition, it requires originators of loans to make a reasonable determination that the consumer has the ability to repay the loan or that a refinanced loan will provide a net tangible benefit for the consumer. This bill also expands the scope of the Home Ownership and Equity Protection Act of 1994 (HOPEA) to cover more types of loans, to lower the "thresholds" so that loans with requirements, to add additional charges to the "points and fees" calculation used for the threshold, and to impose additional obligations on covered loans. The Wall Street Journal Online recently reported that "Among the nation's 100 largest metropolitan areas, Stockton, Calif.; Detroit; and Riverside-San Bernardino, Calif., posted the highest third-quarter foreclosure rates…Riverside-San Bernardino had one for every 43 households. Riverside-San Bernardino also had the most foreclosure filings overall -- 31,661." ("California, Ohio, Florida Lead in Foreclosure Rates," 11-14-07) "Home ownership is a central part of the American dream and all Americans should be able to experience the proud feeling of owning a home," said Rep. Calvert. "It is important that we establish a fair and transparent process for those families who are seeking a mortgage to own and live in a home." In September, Rep. Calvert attended a Foreclosure Workshop organized by HUD and the Fair Housing Council of Riverside County. The event provided anyone experiencing problems making their mortgage payments with access to mortgage counseling assistance. ###
04.08.2009	Congressman Ken Calvert (R-Corona) was disappointed that the FY2008 National Defense Authorization Act included language inserted by Rep. Susan Davis (D-San Diego) to repeal federal law that allowed the Department of the Navy to grant an easement at Marine Corps Base Camp Pendleton, California. The amendment was added during a late night mark up of the bill, H.R. 1585. The language represents a serious blow to two decades of work to develop a locally-preferred and environmentally sensitive route for the Foothill-South toll road. The conference report for H.R. 1585 was filed today. "Southern Californians spend hours stuck in traffic and the process to build new roads is an extremely long and arduous task," said Rep. Calvert. "Now, thanks to Reps. Susan Davis and Loretta Sanchez (D-CA), a toll road project that has been years in the making has been set back indefinitely. Even more dangerously, Davis and Sanchez have allowed state control over federal land. They have allowed the interests of a small group -- anti-growth, anti-population, left-wing environmentalists -- to drive policy." In 1971, the State of California and the Dept. of the Navy entered into a 50 year lease that allowed for the northern-most end of Camp Pendleton to be used as a State Park. In the lease, both parties signed and acknowledged the right of the Department of the Navy to grant current and future easements on the leased property. For almost two decades, federal and state transportation and environmental agencies, as well as the Marine Corps have worked to identify the most environmentally prudent alternative for the Foothill-South. After following both California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) and National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) processes, the preferred alternative route has been chosen and the environmental process is in the Final Environmental Impact Statement phase. The amendment introduced by Rep. Davis to the National Defense Authorization Act during the House Armed Services Committee mark-up revises the federal legislation authorizing the Navy Department to grant an easement for the construction of the Foothill-South Project on Camp Pendleton. The effect of the language is to impose state law requirements on the Navy's rights to approve construction of roads on Camp Pendleton land. "This language would not have seen the light of day if Rep. Sanchez, the leading Orange County Democrat, had not lent her support," said Rep. Calvert. "She understood the ramifications of the amendment and falsely claimed the project had been granted special environmental exemptions. While Rep. Davis had no right to interfere in Orange County transportation plans, the blame for this disastrous setback lays at Rep. Sanchez's door." ###
04.08.2009	Today Congressman Calvert (R-CA) expressed disappointment over the Democratic Omnibus Spending bill that passed the House last night without Rep. Calvert's support. "Our most important duty is to provide for our men and women in harms way and this bill fails disastrously," said Rep. Calvert. "How can we stand here and pass a $933 billion spending bill and not include the funding for our troops?" Republicans were successful in forcing the overall total of the bill down from $955 billion but the Leadership refused to add in the supplemental war spending. The Democratic leadership inserted last minute language that will hamper the ability of the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) to construct the border fence as mandated by The Secure Fence Act (PL – 109-367). "The American people have stated, in no uncertain terms, that Congress has the responsibility to secure our borders," said Rep. Calvert. "Republicans acted on the American people's concerns and passed the Secure Fence Act in 2006. Now the Democrats have stripped the two-tier fencing requirement and subjected DHS to more red tape. It is obvious that the Democratic leadership has little interest in either national security or border security." The Omnibus funds all Cabinet agencies, except the Department of Defense, for FY2008. The 3,500 page bill was released less than 24 hours to the Minority Party before it was voted on. ###
04.08.2009	Today, the National Surface Transportation Policy and Revenue Study Commission released its report to Congress, "Transportation for Tomorrow," addressing our national surface transportation system. The report outlines the Commission's assessment of the current condition of our surface transportation system, determines future needs and possible financing mechanisms to fund improvements to the system. "I commend the Commission for appropriately placing such a strong emphasis on the need to address our freight infrastructure," said Rep. Calvert. "The only way we are ever going to get a leg up on addressing our transportation needs is by dedicating funds toward our most critical projects. In the greater southern California region that means we have to find dedicated funding streams to help move goods through our region so they are not blocking traffic for parents driving their kids to school and workers commuting to work." In the report the Commission "recommends that a Federal freight fee help finance freight-related improvements as part of an overall freight program" (Volume I, 42). Additionally, the report calls on Congress to "consider whether to implement a freight fee (e.g., a container charge, freight waybill surcharge, or other equitable fee) to fund projects that remediate chokepoints and increase throughput" (Volume II, 5-23). The Commission's complete report can be found at www.transportationfortomorrow.org . "Many of the Commission's recommendations mirror the policy outlined in the ON TIME Act legislation that I have been working on for the past year," continued Rep. Calvert. "I will work with members of the Commission and my colleagues in Congress to ensure my freight fee legislation is part of any transportation policy enacted into law. Southern California must come together behind a Federal freight fee policy that will help fund critical improvements in our region to keep our goods and our commuters moving." Rep. Calvert's ON TIME Act will fund the construction of high priority transportation projects which alleviate congestion in our nation's trade gateway corridors through a dedicated trade-based funding stream. The ON TIME Act: Directs DOT to define National Trade Gateway Corridors extending out up to 300 miles from every U.S. port of entry (sea, land, and air) Empowers state transportation agencies to prioritize and select eligible projects located in the National Trade Gateway Corridors Sets forth a .075 % fee (capped at $500) on the value of freight moving in and out of our nation's ports of entry 100% of the fee is dedicated to transportation projects in the Corridor in which it is collected Requires projects to have a 80% federal, 20% non-federal match cost share Sunsets in 10 years ###
04.08.2009	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (R-CA) and Congressman Jesse Jackson Jr. (D-IL) introduced the ON TIME Act, Our Nation's Trade Infrastructure, Mobility and Efficiency Act. "Anyone stuck behind a rail crossing or crawling along our jammed freeways knows commuters in southern California are severely impacted by the overwhelming volume of goods that pass through the Ports of Los Angeles and Long Beach," stated Rep. Calvert. "The same transportation problems we see in southern California are happening at key trade gateways across the country. This bill serves a dual purpose by expediting the movement of goods to increase the efficiency of trade corridors and by providing transportation funding to those local communities most impacted by trade. I look forward to working with my esteemed colleague, Representative Jackson, to move this legislation to the floor and provide our local communities with much needed transportation relief. " "I am pleased to join with my distinguished colleague, Representative Ken Calvert, in offering a timely, sensible and viable solution to alleviating congestion at our ports, while also increasing their capacity and efficiency," said Rep. Jackson. "By improving mobility in and out of our seaports, this legislation helps to meet the growing demands of international trade, bolsters our aging infrastructure, and strengthens our nation's economy." The ON TIME ACT, H.R. 5102: Creates a freight fee based on the value of goods moved and dedicates 100% of funds from a port to the local National Trade Gateway Corridors surrounding the port. Targets funding to specific transportation improvement projects in areas around the more than 300 points of entry across the United States, including ports, airports and border crossings. The targeted areas will be called National Trade Gateway Corridors (NTGC) and be defined by the Department of Transportation in consultation with the Department of Commerce. The corridors will include routes up to 300 miles from points of entry. Is good for businesses such as freight forwarders, importers, exporters, retailers and any business that benefits from trade because it targets transportation choke points and provides funds to relieve bottlenecks and ultimately allows for more efficient ways to move goods. Is good for communities because it would alleviate traffic congestion and air quality issues specifically created by the increase trade moving through our nation's busiest trade corridors. Projects eligible to receive funding include, but are not limited to, freeway expansion, grade separations, dedicated truck lanes, and publicly-owned intermodal freight transfer facilities. Eligible projects must be located within a National Trade Gateway Corridor in order to receive funds under the ON TIME Act. Under the legislation, each state's transportation agency is required to consult with local governments, transportation agencies and freight stakeholders to rate, prioritize, and select which goods movement projects receive funding. Funding for corridors will come from a .075% fee (capped at $500) on the declared value of the goods. The fee will be paid by the shipper of the goods moving through the point of entry using an existing line item on current customs forms. One-hundred percent of the fees collected will be invested in specific and prioritized transportation improvement projects within the same corridor. For example, if the Port of Los Angeles brings in $200 million worth of revenue in fees, the $200 million will go into transportation projects in the NTGC proceeding from the port of Los Angeles. The funds will be distributed to projects in the corridors on an 80/20 matching basis. Eighty percent of the funds coming from the revenue generated by the ON TIME Act and the twenty percent coming from other sources, such as state and local transportation funds. The 80/20 matching basis shares the burden of these transportation projects between the shippers paying the fee and the citizens who also travel on these roads. ###
04.08.2009	Today Rep. Ken Calvert (R-CA) voted to sustain the President's veto of H.R. 3963, a massive expansion of the State Children's Health Insurance Program (SCHIP). The vote to override the veto, which requires a two-thirds majority, failed by 260 - 152. "I find it unconscionable that Speaker Pelosi has hijacked a successful program, created by Republicans ten years ago with my support, in an effort to provide benefits to illegal immigrants and bring the U.S. one step closer to a nationalized system of healthcare," said Rep. Calvert. This is the second veto override on SCHIP; although the bill had a different number attached, there were no substantial changes from the previous bill. Congress already reauthorized and fully funded SCHIP through March 31, 2009 – the vote today is a political ploy used by Democrats to mask an unsuccessful legislative agenda that places illegal immigrants above low-income children. Rep. Calvert is a co-sponsor of H.R. 3584 which would re-authorize SCHIP for 18 months and provide and additional $2.6 billion to ensure the continued coverage of low-income children. H.R. 3963 expands the program to a point that undermines the original purpose of SCHIP - to provide medical insurance for low-income children. The bill would provide benefits to middle-class families, childless adults, and would increase access to taxpayer funded health benefits to illegal immigrants. The bill also provides SCHIP to higher income brackets which would shift it away from covering low-income children who are already eligible but not enrolled. The Democrat expansion of SCHIP is also irresponsibly funded by increasing the federal tax on cigarettes which would require an additional 22 million new smokers to fund. The most likely target to attract new smokers would be adolescents and young adults. "I cannot reiterate enough my support for the existing SCHIP program and for decreasing the number of uninsured children in this country," stated Rep. Calvert. "However, I have strong concerns that the Majority Party is on a path to destroy this program and it will be our nation's neediest children who pay the price."
04.08.2009	Today the House of Representatives, with the support of Rep. Ken Calvert (R-CA), passed H.R. 5140, the Economic Stimulus Package. "The economic stimulus package reflects common-sense, conservative principles that believe that money is better kept with the people, not the government," said Rep. Calvert. "The agreement will return hard-earned money to the American taxpayer and allow for quicker business expensing for America's employers." Part of the agreement also includes an increase in Federal Housing Administration (FHA) /Government Sponsored Enterprises (GSE) Conforming Loan Limit: The conforming loan limits for both FHA and GSE (such as Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac) loans would be increased from $362,000 to $725,000 for FHA and from $417,000 to $625,000 for GSE. The increases would be available until December 31, 2008. FHA and GSE loans are only available for primary residences. The 44th Congressional District of California, which experienced a dramatic increase in home prices, has been severely impacted by high foreclosure rates. According to a real estate tracking firm, foreclosure filings in Riverside County jumped more than 50 percent last month and increased by 300 percent compared to a year ago. The current FHA loan limit has prevented many honest homeowners from refinancing their mortgage with an FHA loan. The increase provided in the agreement will provide families in the congressional district with an option to refinance instead of suffering through a foreclosure – an option that does not benefit either the lender or owner. "In no way do I support a taxpayer bailout for faulty financial decisions," said Rep. Calvert. "However, the current FHA loan limit is simply not realistic for southern California homeowners. The temporary increase more accurately represents the prices of homes in various parts of the country." Summary of the Economic Growth Package * Tax Relief for American Families: Rebate Checks: The economic growth package includes rebate checks in the sum of two separate calculations, with an overall phase-out for those with adjusted gross incomes above $75,000 for a single taxpayer and $150,000 for married couples. Rebate checks will include a base amount determined by the greater of two options: (a) Income tax paid in 2007, with a maximum of $600 for a single taxpayer and $1,200 for married couples; or (b) $300 for an individual and $600 for a married couple, provided the individual or couple earned income of at least $3,000 in 2007. A children's bonus also will be included in the rebate check calculation. Anyone qualifying for the base amount also receives an additional $300 per child, with no cap on the number of children. II. Tax Relief for Employers: Bonus Depreciation: The economic growth package provides for a 50 percent bonus deduction on new equipment in the year it is placed in service, with certain exceptions for equipment with a "long life." This temporary tax cut offers significant savings on new property with a depreciation period of 20 years or less. This will give employers – particularly small businesses – greater incentive to invest and create jobs for more Americans searching for work. The temporary bonus depreciation, coupled with expensing measures enacted in May 2003, resulted in a four percent increase in business spending in the first six months alone. Section 179 Expensing: This provision allows employers, including small businesses, to fully expense $250,000 in both new and used tangible property in the year it is purchased up to an overall investment limit of $750,000. This will provide a particularly strong incentive for small companies to invest in their businesses so they can continue to provide good-paying jobs for the American people. Increase in Federal Housing Administration (FHA)/Government Sponsored Enterprises (GSE) Conforming Loan Limit: The conforming loan limits for both FHA and GSE (such as Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac) loans would be increased from $362,000 to $725,000 for FHA and from $417,000 to $625,000 for GSE. III. No Extraneous Spending/Tax Hikes The legislation includes no extraneous spending on unemployment insurance, transportation infrastructure, food stamps, and Medicaid. In a letter to Speaker Pelosi last week, Republican Leader Boehner and Republican Whip Roy Blunt (R-MO) asked that any extraneous spending and tax hikes be taken off the table. All were dropped. * From the Office of Republican Leader John Boehner (R-OH)
04.08.2009	Today Rep. Ken Calvert (CA-44) issued the following statement: "As the Republican Party embarks on the next phase of its selection process for President, we have narrowed the field of public policy questions on which the election may turn. As a southern California Congressman and as a citizen with an urgent public policy question, I put forward the following for consideration: "It is fitting that tonight's debate is being held at the Ronald Reagan Presidential Library as President Reagan, like no other President in my lifetime, embodied strong national defense, robust, freedom-based economics and abiding care for America's cultural and social fabric. In 2008, one issue uniquely combines national security, economics, domestic law and American culture – the issue of illegal immigration. "As a southern Californian, and as the Congressional author of America's E-Verify employment verification system now used voluntarily by 48,000 businesses in all 50 states, I would like to know specifically what the candidates will fight for and commit to regarding border security, employment verification, amnesty, guest labor and the legal and cultural value we place on citizenship." ###
04.08.2009	Today it was announced by Appropriations Committee Ranking Member Jerry Lewis (R-CA) that Rep. Ken Calvert (R-CA) has been assigned to the Subcommittee on Energy and Water and Related Agencies. "I am eager to get to work on the subcommittee on behalf of the State of California and the country," said Rep. Calvert. The jurisdiction of the Energy and Water Subcommittee includes Department of Energy, Army Corps of Engineers and the Bureau of Reclamation. ###
04.08.2009	Congressman Ken Calvert (R-CA) was disappointed to learn of the California Coastal Commission's decision to reject the completion of the 241 Foothill-South Toll Road. "The California Coastal Commission has a long history of choosing environmental extremes ahead of what is best for the people of California," said Rep. Calvert. "Sadly, southern California families and commuters are the real losers in this decision and under state law they have little recourse in overcoming the objections of eight unelected Commission members. The Commission's rejection of the toll road is similar to their rejection of building the border fence at Smuggler's Gulch because of birds. Meanwhile, thousands of illegal immigrants, many of them smuggling drugs, pass through the Gulch to come here illegally." The 8-2 vote to reject the road came yesterday after a long day of public testimony both for and against the toll road. Outrageously, the California Coastal Commission did not allow time for some representatives of public officials to speak. Congressman Calvert was unable to be at the hearing due to votes in Washington, D.C. but his District Director attended to read a statement in support of the project. After waiting eight hours, the Coastal Commission decided to hold the vote rather than extend the hearing to allow representatives of elected officials an opportunity to speak. The Foothill South project is a response to a growing need for an additional north-south highway in south Orange County and to improve mobility along the corridor connecting Orange and San Diego Counties. There is little dispute about the current and future need for increased transportation capacity in south Orange County. Local, state and federal transportation agencies have been contributing to a twenty year process to design and develop the Foothill South project. The project has undergone 20 years of environmental review and has been subject to both the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) and National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA). "I will support the Transportation Corridor Agencies if they choose to appeal this illogical decision to the federal government," stated Rep. Calvert. "The Foothill-South can be built in an environmentally safe way that does not impact any of the recreational opportunities in the area. In fact, the toll road would increase access to these areas for more people to enjoy. It is apparent the California Coastal Commission has lost touch with the regular California commuter who is stuck on our freeways for hours every day." Calvert notes that the land the park sits on does not belong to the State of California, but is owned by the federal government. In 1971, the State of California and the Department of the Navy entered into a 50-year lease that allowed for the northern-most end of Camp Pendleton to be used as a temporary state park. In the lease, both parties signed and acknowledged the right of the Navy to grant current and future transportation easements on the leased property. While statements have been made that suggest the park was intended to exist in perpetuity, the fact remains that the existence of the park is contingent upon the terms of the lease between the state and federal government. If the land were truly intended to remain parkland in perpetuity, then the property rights attached to the land would have been conveyed to the state. ###
04.08.2009	Today Congressman Calvert (R-CA) voiced his frustration in response to testimony last week by Richard M. Stana of the U.S. Government Accountability Office (GAO) who told Congress that the first 28 mile stretch of virtual fence in Arizona is non-operable and over-budget. "Once again the Department of Homeland Security refuses to acknowledge the will of Congress, as stated in the Secure Fence Act of 2006, that we must have physical fencing and barriers along our southern border," said Rep. Calvert. "The 14 miles of double-layer fencing in San Diego demonstrates the effectiveness of an actual fence and DHS should stop wasting taxpayer money for an unproven system." GAO reported that DHS has spent $20 million on the failed virtual fence and much of the equipment will have to be replaced at taxpayers' additional expense. The first phase of the virtual fence, a 100-mile section ending in El Paso, was supposed to be deployed at the end of 2008 but is now expected to take another three years. According to the Washington Post: "The pilot virtual fence included nine mobile towers, radar, cameras, and vehicles retrofitted with laptops and satellite phones or handheld devices. They were to be linked to a near-real-time, maplike projection of the frontier that agents could use to track targets and direct law enforcement resources. GAO investigators said that Boeing's software could not process large amounts of sensor data. The resulting delays made it hard for operators in a Tucson command center 65 miles to the north to lock cameras on targets. Radar systems were also triggered inadvertently by rain and other environmental factors. Cameras had trouble resolving images at five kilometers when they were expected to work at twice that distance, Stana said. He added that the system was developed with "minimal input" from Border Patrol agents, resulting in an unworkable "demonstration project" instead of a operating pilot system. He blamed the DHS for acting too hastily in trying to deliver a working pilot by last June. The effort produced "a product that did not fully meet user needs, and the project's design will not be used as the basis for future . . . development," Stana testified, adding that the DHS plans to replace most of the components." (Washington Post, 2/28/08). "American taxpayers, who overwhelmingly support the border fence, should not have their hard-earned money wasted on untested virtual fencing when we have an alternative that delivers results: the physical two-layer fence," said Rep. Calvert. ###
04.08.2009	Today Congressman Ken Calvert (R-CA) responded to HR Initiative's erroneous press release on the E-Verify Program. HR Initiative Seeks to Terminate What Works… "HR Initiative claims to support employment verification but seems intent on killing the only program available to employers to check the legal status of their employees, known as E-Verify," stated Rep. Calvert. In a press release last week HR Initiative (http://www.legal-workforce.org) stated the following: "The New Employee Verification Act (NEVA) introduced today is designed to provide a superior, user-friendly electronic employment verification system by replacing the current paper-based and error-prone method of verifying employment eligibility." NEVA, H.R. 5515, would replace E-Verify yet use the same information, such as Social Security numbers and names, to check the legal status of a new employee. The current system, E-Verify, is web-based, accurate and timely. Employers can sign up through the website at www.uscis.gov/everify and verify that the name matches the Social Security number given on the I-9 form entirely online. Through E-Verify, participating employers have successfully instantly verified employment eligibility for 93% of new hires to the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) and the Social Security Administration (SSA) database information. Of the remaining 7% that were not verified instantly, less than 1% of those employees contested the results. Most employees who receive a mismatch notice either choose not to contest it or indicate that they will contest that finding but then fail to follow through. In addition, the mismatch notices received by persons who are not work authorized -- currently, about 5% of all E-Verify queries – are not mismatches that we would want to eliminate. Instead, these mismatches are the result of E-Verify doing what it is intended to do: quickly verify the status of those who are work authorized and those who are not. This process is done instantly 98% of the time, according to the latest Westat report. There are currently nearly 56,000 employers representing 224,330 work sites, signed up to use E-Verify and at year to date, over 2.1 million queries were run through the program. On average, more than 1,000 new employers are joining each week. On January 1, 2008, the State of Arizona began requiring all employers in the state to use the E-Verify program. Currently, over 20,000 employers in Arizona participate in the E-Verify program, representing more than 35,000 work sites. Let's Improve E-Verify, Not Kill it… In September of 2007, E-Verify's new photo screening tool became a mandatory feature for all new and existing users of the program. The photo tool is the first step in giving employers tools to help detect identity theft in the employment eligibility process. The employers can now check the photo on their new hire's Employment Authorization Document (EAD) or Permanent Resident Card ("green card") against nearly 15 million images stored in the Department of Homeland Security immigration databases. This tool is designed to detect when a photo is superimposed on an authentic immigration identification card or when the document is counterfeit but contains valid information with a different photo. At the end of FY08, the program projects 150,000 employer participants in the E-Verify program. This would result in an estimated 5 million newly hired employees being run through the program that fiscal year. Don't Make the "Perfect" the Enemy of the Good… "The New Employee Verification Act attempts to reinvent the wheel by shutting down E-Verify and starting from scratch, at the expense of the American taxpayer," said Rep. Calvert. "The bill also ensures that employment verification will never become a reality by requiring a 99% accuracy rate on the first try. Opponents of employment verification will continue to pedal the promise of a perfect yet fictional program when they know that such a program is not possible. For those of us who truly want employment verification, it is imperative that we build upon the decade of experience and success of E-Verify and extend the program and make it mandatory." Rep. Calvert authored the E-Verify program, originally called the Basic Pilot Program. From its humble beginnings in 5 states, it is now a nationwide program. He introduced a bill in the 110th Congress, H.R. 19, to make E-Verify mandatory, requiring the largest businesses to be compliant within one year. ###
04.08.2009	Yesterday Congressman Ken Calvert signed the discharge petition on H.R. 4088, the SAVE Act introduced by Rep. Heath Shuler on November 6, 2007. "The SAVE Act is a bipartisan bill that increases security along the border, gets tough on interior enforcement and, most importantly, mandates use of E-Verify to cut off the magnet of jobs that bring people across the border illegally," said Rep. Calvert. "The American people have demanded border security and employment verification: it's time for Congress to deliver." The SAVE Act, which currently has 141 co-sponsors, including 93 Republicans and 48 Democrats, includes: An increase in border patrol agents by 8,000 over the next five years; an additional 1,150 ICE agents, 140 Criminal Alien Program officers, and 250 state and local law enforcement for immigration support A strengthening of alien smuggling penalties Expedited removal of and increased detention facilities for illegal aliens Authority for additional border infrastructure and aerial vehicles/surveillance equipment Strengthened Employer Enforcement: (1) mandates usage of the E-Verify system, which allows employers to make an efficient and accurate check of a new hire's employment eligibility; (2) requires employer/employee notification of Social Security number mismatches and multiple uses; (3) requires establishment of electronic birth and death registration databases; (4) penalizes specified employers for failure to correct information returns; and (5) prohibits employers from deducting from gross income wages paid to unauthorized aliens Rep. Calvert authored the E-Verify program, originally called the Basic Pilot Program. From its humble beginnings in five states, it is now a nationwide program. He introduced a bill in the 110th Congress, H.R. 19, to make E-Verify mandatory, requiring the largest businesses to be compliant within one year. The current system, E-Verify, is web-based, accurate and timely. Employers can sign up through the website at www.uscis.gov/everify and verify that the name matches the Social Security number given on the I-9 form entirely online. Through E-Verify, participating employers have successfully instantly verified employment eligibility for 93% of new hires to the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) and the Social Security Administration (SSA) database information. Of the remaining 7% that were not verified instantly, less than 1% of those employees contested the results. There are currently nearly 56,000 employers representing 224,330 work sites, signed up to use E-Verify and at year to date, over 2.1 million queries were run through the program. On average, more than 1,000 new employers are joining each week. On January 1, 2008, the State of Arizona began requiring all employers in the state to use the E-Verify program. Currently, over 20,000 employers in Arizona participate in the E-Verify program, representing more than 35,000 work sites. ###
04.08.2009	On March 12, 2008, Congressman Ken Calvert (R-CA) introduced legislation (H.R. 5596) to extend E-Verify, also known as the Basic Pilot Program, for ten years. The program is currently set to expire November 30, 2008. "E-Verify has over 56,000 employers using the system and the State of Arizona recently made use of the program mandatory," said Rep. Calvert. "We must not let E-Verify expire and take away the only tool employers have to verify the legal status of their employees." In 1996, Rep. Calvert authored the legislation that created the E-Verify program, originally called the Basic Pilot Program. From its humble beginnings in five states, it is now a nationwide voluntary program. He also has a bill, H.R. 19, to make E-Verify mandatory, requiring the largest businesses to be compliant within one year. E-Verify is web-based, accurate and timely. Employers can sign up through the website at www.dhs.gov/everify and verify that the name matches the Social Security number given on the I-9 form entirely online. Through E-Verify, participating employers have successfully instantly verified employment eligibility for 93% of new hires to the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) and the Social Security Administration (SSA) database information. Of the remaining 7% that were not verified instantly, less than 1% of those employees contested the results. Most employees who receive a mismatch notice either choose not to contest it or indicate that they will contest that finding but then fail to follow through. In addition, the mismatch notices received by persons who are not work authorized -- currently, about 5% of all E-Verify queries – are not mismatches that we would want to eliminate. Instead, these mismatches are the result of E-Verify doing what it is intended to do: quickly verifying the status of those who are work authorized and those who are not. This process is done instantly 98% of the time, according to the latest Westat report. There are currently nearly 56,000 employers representing 224,330 work sites, signed up to use E-Verify and at year to date, over 2.1 million queries were run through the program. On average, more than 1,000 new employers are joining each week. On January 1, 2008, the State of Arizona began requiring all employers in the state to use the E-Verify program. Currently, over 20,000 employers in Arizona participate in the E-Verify program, representing more than 35,000 work sites. In September of 2007, E-Verify's new photo screening tool became a mandatory feature for all new and existing users of the program. The photo tool is the first step in giving employers tools to help detect identity theft in the employment eligibility process. The employers can now check the photo on their new hire's Employment Authorization Document (EAD) or Permanent Resident Card ("green card") against nearly 15 million images stored in the Department of Homeland Security immigration databases. This tool is designed to detect when a photo is superimposed on an authentic immigration identification card or when the document is counterfeit but contains valid information with a different photo. At the end of FY2008, the program projects 150,000 employer participants in the E-Verify program. This would result in an estimated 5 million newly hired employees being run through the program that fiscal year. ###
04.08.2009	Today Congressman Calvert (R-CA) denounced Speaker Pelosi's (D-CA) decision to delay consideration of the Colombian Free Trade Agreement (FTA). "Speaker Pelosi has changed the rules in the middle of the game; a move that not only harms our struggling economy but jeopardizes future trading relationships," said Rep. Calvert. "If we fail to pass the Colombian Free Trade Agreement, how will other countries trust the U.S. to follow through on future negotiations?" The decision to delay a vote on the Colombian FTA, which is under 90-day fast track rules, would kill the bill and set a new precedent that would severely hinder any President's ability to negotiate all future free trade agreements. Pelosi's action endangers the South Korean free trade agreement which is critical to citrus, finance, automotive and beef industries. Colombian goods currently enter the U.S. duty-free but American goods entering into Colombia are taxed. If ratified, the agreement would boost annual exports to Colombia by an estimated $1 billion. The agreement would be a boon to American businesses and workers at a time when the U.S. is struggling with slow growth and an increase in unemployment. The FTA would also help solidify an important relationship with a key ally in Latin America, a region with growing anti-U.S. sentiment. President Uribe has demonstrated his commitment to the war on terror and in combating the trafficking of narcotics. "It is a disgrace that we are abandoning our friend and ally, and American businesses and workers, to serve a protectionist union-led agenda," said Rep. Calvert. "Speaker Pelosi needs to stop listening to a few special interests and start representing the American people." ###
04.08.2009	Tomorrow Congressman Ken Calvert (R-CA) will participate in the Inland Empire Foreclosure Event to help families explore options that will keep them in their homes. "I firmly believe that home ownership is a central part of the American dream and all Americans should be able to experience the proud feeling of owning a home," said Rep. Calvert. "This event will help families who are finding themselves in a difficult financial situation with their mortgage payments." The following organizations will be on-hand to answer questions and give advice: Credit counselors from major lending institutions The U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development The County of Riverside The Neighborhood Housing Services of the Inland Empire, Inc. The Inland Gateway Association of Realtors WHAT: Inland Empire Foreclosure Event WHEN: Saturday, April 26, 2008 Registration begins at 8:00AM Workshop ends at 1:00PM WHERE: Crossroads Christian Church 2331 Kellogg Ave. Corona, CA 92881 For more information please call (951) 735-8928 or email foreclosureprevention@cnar.org. "The housing crisis has severely impacted both our state and national economy and it is important to investigate all possible options that will keep a family in their home," stated Rep. Calvert. "I adamantly oppose any form of a taxpayer bailout for irresponsible financial decisions or for speculators who were ‘flipping' houses. Hopefully we can help families work out their issues." ###
04.08.2009	"I do not support the use of American taxpayer dollars – federal, state or local – to facilitate the distribution of foreign consular identification cards. Consular identification cards should not be considered official identification documentation for the purpose of financial transactions such as the opening of a bank account or purchase of a home mortgage. That is why I am a co-sponsor of The Photo Identification Act, H.R. 1314, introduced by Rep. Marsha Blackburn (R-TN). This bill will require the federal government and financial institutions to accept only secure forms of identification. Only people who are in the United States legally will have these forms and thus be the only ones able to receive federal benefits and conduct financial transactions." ###
04.08.2009	Tomorrow Congressman Ken Calvert (R-CA) will testify at the Ways and Means Subcommittee on Social Security hearing on employment verification. "I welcome the opportunity to testify on the accuracy and effectiveness of E-Verify," said Rep. Calvert. "As the State of Arizona has demonstrated, E-Verify prevents individuals here illegally from obtaining work and it solves the problem of deportation since most people choose to self deport when they are unable to find a job." "I hope that the hearing is used to build upon the success of E-Verify, not defame it. The House has voted for E-Verify four times over the last twelve years; we need to build on our bi-partisan success." Congressman Calvert was the original author of legislation that created the Basic Pilot Program in 1997, the program is now known as E-Verify. There are currently 61,000 employers using E-Verify and the State of Arizona has mandated the use of E-Verify for all employers. He is the sponsor of H.R. 19 which would phase in mandatory use of E-Verify over seven years, starting with the largest employers. Hearing Details WHAT: Ways and Means Committee Subcommittee on Social Security "Hearing on Employment Eligibility Verification Systems and the Potential Impacts on SSA's Ability to Serve Retirees, People with Disabilities, and Workers" WHEN: Tuesday, May 6, 2008 10:00AM EST WHERE: B-318 Rayburn House Office Building Washington, D.C. 20515 WITNESSES: Panel I: The Honorable Ken Calvert, a Representative in Congress from the state of California The Honorable Dennis Moore, a Representative in Congress from the state of Kansas The Honorable Gabrielle Giffords, a Representative in Congress from the state of Arizona The Honorable Heath Shuler, a Representative in Congress from the state of North Carolina Panel II: Richard Stana, Director of Homeland Security and Justice, Government Accountability Office The Honorable Barbara Kennelly, President and Chief Executive Officer, National Committee to Preserve Social Security and Medicare Greg Heineman, President, National Council of Social Security Management Associations, Inc., Norfolk, Nebraska Mitchell C. Laird, President, MCL Enterprises, Phoenix, Arizona on behalf of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce John Trasviña, President and General Counsel, Mexican American Legal Defense and Educational Fund, Los Angeles, California Eugene Spafford, Professor of Computer Science and Director, Center for Education and Research in Information Assurance and Security, Purdue University, West Lafayette, Indiana on behalf of the Association for Computing Machinery Susan R. Meisinger, President and Chief Executive Officer, Society for Human Resource Management, Alexandria, Virginia on behalf of the HR Initiative for a Legal Workforce ###
04.08.2009	On Tuesday, May 6, 2008. Congressman Ken Calvert (R-CA) testified in defense of E-Verify, a program Rep. Calvert created in 1996 (testimony attached). "While I appreciated the opportunity to testify, it was clear that the hearing, as evidenced by the second witness panel, was slanted against E-Verify," stated Rep. Calvert. "The fact remains that E-Verify is the only tool available for employers, who are required to hire a legal workforce, to check the veracity of identification documents presented by a new employee." Rep. Calvert testified to the effectiveness of E-Verify, created by legislation Rep. Calvert authored in 1996. The State of Arizona made participation in E-Verify mandatory for all employers and to date there have been no reported problems with the system. E-Verify instantly verifies 92.7% of employees. Of the remaining almost 7%, only .5% are successfully contested. "There are certain interests that simply do not want employment verification," said Rep. Calvert. "That is why they will denounce E-Verify and assert that there is a perfect system out there somewhere, when in fact there is no perfect system. The Social Security Administration database is the best database to use to check the status of legal workers. The complaints that Social Security should not be involved with E-Verify do not make sense. There are ‘errors' for numerous reasons. Sometimes people forget to update their records after a name change, employees accidentally write in a wrong digit on their I-9 form, or bureaucrats make mistakes entering information into the database. If a citizen of the U.S. receives a mismatch, it is an opportunity for them to update or correct their records – something they will be required to do at some point in their lives anyway. The Social Security database should be current, accurate and sacrosanct. "Furthermore, the states are picking up where the U.S. Congress if failing by requiring, at different levels, the use of E-Verify. The question before Congress is whether we will continue to shirk our responsibilities and follow instead of lead. My bill, H.R. 19, creates a nationwide mandate that all employers use E-Verify over a phase in period of seven years. The American people have loudly declared their support of mandatory employment verification; it's time Congress act." Additionally, given the bi-partisan commitment to employment verification demonstrated at today's hearing, Rep. Calvert calls on HR Initiative (www.hrinitiative.org) to end their campaign of negative advertising, and often exaggerated, claims against E-Verify. ###
04.08.2009	Today Congressman Ken Calvert (R-CA) voted Present on the key amendment to the Democratic Troop Supplemental Funding bill to protest the use of our troops in combat to pass unrelated domestic spending. "The mission for Congress this week was clear: provide our troops in Iraq and Afghanistan with the funding they need to continue their operations," said Rep. Calvert. "Yet the Democratic Leadership chose to bypass the committee process, block Republican amendments and weigh down the Supplemental with unnecessary domestic spending that should be considered under the regular appropriations process." Rep. Calvert is a co-sponsor of a clean troop funding bill, H.R. 6026, introduced by Rep. Jerry Lewis (R-CA) which provides the $178 billion in funds requested for operations in Iraq and Afghanistan. The Democrat bill fails to provide roughly $3.4 billion of the funds requested for operations in Iraq and Afghanistan and instead includes an estimated $72 billion in unrelated domestic spending. The President's Supplemental Funding request has been pending in the House for 14 months. Admiral Mike Mullen, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, said in an interview last week: "We need [the supplemental appropriations bill] very badly before the Memorial Day recess. We stop paying soldiers on the 15th of June and we have precious little flexibility with respect to that." Unrelated funding in the Democrat Supplemental: $11 billion total costs in extended unemployment compensation $9 Billion in funding for the State Department, USAID, and other foreign assistance operations and programs overseas $500 million in increased funding over the President's request for international food aid $5.8 billion in funding for Louisiana levees $200 million in funding for the Bureau of Prisons $200 million in funding to fund shortfalls related to the Census "While Members of Congress are getting ready to break for Memorial Day in a week – a day to remember those who have sacrificed their lives for our country – the Democratic Leadership has chosen to jeopardize the flow of funds to our fighting troops," stated Rep. Calvert. "I am hopeful the Senate will expedite a clean troop supplemental bill that all of us can support." ###
04.08.2009	Today Congressman Ken Calvert (R-CA) denounced the decision by the California Supreme Court to legalize same-sex marriage. "I do not think that an issue as important as gay marriage should be made by nine unelected judges," said Rep. Calvert. "I support the people's right to define ‘marriage' as only between a man and a woman through a constitutional amendment. I hope the court grants a stay of judgment until after November when the people of California will have an opportunity to vote for the constitutional amendment." Congressman Calvert voted in favor of the Defense of Marriage Act (P.L. 104-199) which became law on September 21, 1996 and supported Proposition 22 in 2000 which declared that "Only marriage between a man and a woman is valid or recognized in California." The current proposition for the November general election is still in the qualifying process and has not been issued a Proposition number yet. "I believe that we can practice tolerance while still holding true to cultural values that protect the institution of marriage as a union between only a man and a woman," stated Rep. Calvert. "I look forward to the November election when the people of California will make the ultimate decision about how the state treats marriage." ###
04.08.2009	Yesterday Congressman Ken Calvert (R-CA) voted against the Conference Report on S. Con. Res. 70, the Democratic Concurrent Budget Resolution, and H.R. 6049, the Energy and Job Creation Act of 2008. "The Democratic Leadership seems to have forgotten Economics 101: requiring pay-as-you-go rules on current law, which H.R. 6049 does, will require a tax increase," stated Rep. Calvert. "Increased taxes will restrict spending in the market place which will fuel higher unemployment. This is not a ‘job creation' bill, it's a job ending bill. " H.R. 6049, the Energy and Job Creation Act of 2008, requires Congress pay for extension of current tax law. While the bill includes important tax extensions and tax breaks - such as the research and development credit; the deduction for state and local sales taxes, the standard deduction for real property taxes, and others – it requires Congress pay for the extensions, which would most likely result in a tax hike. The bill also fails to address the Alternative Minimum Tax (AMT) which means that for 2008, middle-class individuals and families will pay an additional $61.5 billion in taxes. "Congress should not be shifting around money by extending some tax breaks while ensuring that future tax hikes will be necessary in order to feed a dangerous spending habit," said Rep. Calvert. "The American people should have certainty in the tax code and that means keeping taxes low and providing a permanent fix to the AMT. Congress needs to kick its spending habit, provide meaningful entitlement reform and start paying down the debt." The Democratic Concurrent Budget Resolution: Raises taxes by at least $683 billion over the next 5 years. These include increases in marginal tax rates; elimination of the 10-percent bracket for lower-income taxpayers; higher taxes on marriage, children, small businesses, and estates; and higher tax rates on investments. The tax hikes occur for two reasons. Required by PAYGO. The budget operates under the Democrats' pay-as-you-go [PAYGO] rule, which requires capturing the full $683 billion in additional revenue from these tax increases. The Trigger. If they waive their PAYGO rule, the budget still contains a "trigger" that requires these tax increases unless surpluses are large enough to offset them. Higher Taxes Feed Higher Spending. The Majority's budget needs these tax increases to support its alarming spending increases: more Than $1 trillion in Discretionary Spending. The conference report increases discretionary spending by $21 above the President's request, pushing it above $1 trillion for 2009. This translates to a spending increase of $241 billion when extended over 5 years. Entitlements Continue on Automatic Pilot. This budget does nothing to address the growing entitlement problem. Medicare and Social Security alone currently face $40 billion in unfunded liabilities, and that figure is growing unchecked every year. (Source: The House Republican Conference) ###
04.08.2009	Tomorrow Congressman Ken Calvert (R-CA) will testify at the Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, Citizenship, Refugees, Border Security, and International Law. Rep. Calvert will testify on his legislation, H.R. 19, which would make employment verification mandatory. He also has legislation, H.R. 5596, that would provide a ten year extension to the current voluntary program. E-Verify is web-based, accurate and timely. Employers can sign up through the website at www.uscis.gov/everify and verify that the name matches the Social Security number given on the I-9 form entirely online. Through E-Verify, participating employers have successfully and instantly verified employment eligibility for 93% of new hires to the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) and the Social Security Administration (SSA) database information. Of the remaining 7% that were not verified instantly, less than 1% of those employees contested the results. Most employees who receive a mismatch notice either choose not to contest it or indicate that they will contest that finding but then fail to follow through. In addition, the mismatch notices received by persons who are not work authorized -- currently, about 5% of all E-Verify queries – are not mismatches that we would want to eliminate. Instead, these mismatches are the result of E-Verify doing what it is intended to do: quickly verifying the status of those who are work authorized and those who are not. This process is done instantly 98% of the time, according to the latest Westat report. There are currently over 68,000 employers representing 265,135 work sites, signed up to use E-Verify and at year to date, over 3.8 million queries were run through the program. On average, more than 1,000 new employers are joining each week. On January 1, 2008, the State of Arizona began requiring all employers in the state to use the E-Verify program. Currently, over 20,000 employers in Arizona participate in the E-Verify program, representing more than 35,000 work sites. In September of 2007, E-Verify's new photo screening tool became a mandatory feature for all new and existing users of the program. The photo tool is the first step in giving employers tools to help detect identity theft in the employment eligibility process. The employers can now check the photo on their new hire's Employment Authorization Document (EAD) or Permanent Resident Card ("green card") against nearly 15 million images stored in the Department of Homeland Security immigration databases. This tool is designed to detect when a photo is superimposed on an authentic immigration identification card or when the document is counterfeit but contains valid information with a different photo. At the end of FY08, the program projects 150,000 employer participants in the E-Verify program. This would result in an estimated 5 million newly hired employees being run through the program that fiscal year. ###
04.08.2009	On Tuesday, June 10, 2008, Congressman Ken Calvert (R-CA) will testify before the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure on his legislation, H.R. 5102, The ON TIME Act. The ON TIME Act would: Target funding to specific transportation improvement projects in areas around the more than 300 points of entry across the United States, including ports, airports and border crossings. The targeted areas will be called National Trade Gateway Corridors (NTGC) and be defined by the Department of Transportation in consultation with the Department of Commerce. Benefit businesses such as freight forwarders, importers, exporters, retailers and businesses related to trade because it targets transportation choke points and provides funds to relieve bottlenecks and ultimately allows for more efficient ways to move goods. Alleviates traffic congestion and air quality issues in communities by increasing trade moving through our nation's busiest trade corridors. Creates a freight fee based on the value of goods moved and dedicates 100% of funds from a port to the local National Trade Gateway Corridors surrounding the port. Projects eligible to receive funding include, but are not limited to, freeway expansion, grade separations, dedicated truck lanes, and publicly-owned intermodal freight transfer facilities. Eligible projects must be located within a National Trade Gateway Corridor in order to receive funds under the ON TIME Act. Under the legislation, each state's transportation agency is required to consult with local governments, transportation agencies and freight stakeholders to rate, prioritize, and select which goods movement projects receive funding. Funding for corridors will come from a .075% fee (capped at $500) on the declared value of the goods. The fee will be paid by the shipper of the goods moving through the point of entry using an existing line item on current customs forms. One-hundred percent of the fees collected will be invested in specific and prioritized transportation improvement projects within the same corridor. For example, if the Port of Los Angeles brings in $200 million worth of revenue in fees, the $200 million will go into transportation projects in the NTGC proceeding from the port of Los Angeles. The funds will be distributed for projects in the corridors on an 80/20 matching basis. Eighty percent of the funds coming from the revenue generated by the ON TIME Act and the twenty percent coming from other sources, such as state and local transportation funds. The 80/20 matching basis shares the burden of these transportation projects between the shippers paying the fee and the citizens who also travel on these roads. ###
04.08.2009	Today Congressman Ken Calvert (R-CA) commended the decision by President Bush to issue an executive order to require all federal contractors to ensure a legal workforce through the mandatory use of E-Verify. "I commend the President for issuing the Executive Order requiring all federal contractors to use E-Verify," said Rep. Calvert. "Many of us in Congress have been urging the President to take this step and I'm pleased that federal contractors will now be required to ensure their workers are authorized to work in the U.S." The Executive Order, which was Amending Executive Order 12989, was signed on Friday and announced today. Congressman Calvert authored the original legislation that created E-Verify. Rep. Calvert currently has two bills in Congress regarding E-Verify: H.R. 19 would make it mandatory for all employers and H.R. 5596 would extend the current program, which is set to expire November 30, 2008, for ten years. E-Verify is web-based, accurate and timely. Employers can sign up through the website at www.dhs.gov/everify and verify that the name matches the Social Security number given on the I-9 form entirely online. Through E-Verify, participating employers have successfully and instantly verified employment eligibility for 94.2% of new hires to the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) and the Social Security Administration (SSA) database information. Of the remaining 5.8% that were not verified instantly, only .5% successfully contest the result. E-Verify is doing what it is intended to do: quickly verifying the status of those who are work authorized and those who are not. This process is done instantly 98% of the time, according to the latest Westat report. There are currently over 68,000 employers representing 265,135 work sites, signed up to use E-Verify and at year to date, over 3.8 million queries were run through the program. On average, more than 1,000 new employers are joining each week. On January 1, 2008, the State of Arizona began requiring all employers in the state to use the E-Verify program. Currently, over 20,000 employers in Arizona participate in the E-Verify program, representing more than 35,000 work sites. ###
04.08.2009	Yesterday Congressman Ken Calvert (R-CA) testified before the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure in support of H.R. 5102, the ON TIME Act, which he introduced on January 24, 2008. "Today's hearing illustrated the strong, bipartisan support that is growing in Congress for addressing our nation's infrastructure shortfalls," said Rep. Calvert. "I was particularly pleased to hear positive feedback regarding my ON TIME Act bill from many members of the Committee, including the Chairman and Ranking Member. I look forward to working with the Committee and other stakeholders to advancing the ON TIME Act and helping to ease the congestion in our nation's trade gateways." The ON TIME ACT: Targets funding to specific transportation improvement projects in areas around the more than 300 points of entry across the United States, including ports, airports and border crossings. The targeted areas will be called National Trade Gateway Corridors (NTGC) and be defined by the Department of Transportation in consultation with the Department of Commerce. The corridors will include routes up to 300 miles from points of entry. Is good for businesses such as freight forwarders, importers, exporters, retailers and any business that benefits from trade because it targets transportation choke points and provides funds to relieve bottlenecks and ultimately allows for more efficient ways to move goods. Is good for communities because it would alleviate traffic congestion and air quality issues specifically created by the increase trade moving through our nation's busiest trade corridors. Creates a freight fee based on the value of goods moved and dedicates 100% of funds from a port to the local National Trade Gateway Corridors surrounding the port. Projects eligible to receive funding include, but are not limited to, freeway expansion, grade separations, dedicated truck lanes, and publicly-owned intermodal freight transfer facilities. Eligible projects must be located within a National Trade Gateway Corridor in order to receive funds under the ON TIME Act. Under the legislation, each state's transportation agency is required to consult with local governments, transportation agencies and freight stakeholders to rate, prioritize, and select which goods movement projects receive funding. Funding for corridors will come from a .075% fee (capped at $500) on the declared value of the goods. The fee will be paid by the shipper of the goods moving through the point of entry using an existing line item on current customs forms. One-hundred percent of the fees collected will be invested in specific and prioritized transportation improvement projects within the same corridor. For example, if the Port of Los Angeles brings in $200 million worth of revenue in fees, the $200 million will go into transportation projects in the NTGC proceeding from the port of Los Angeles. The funds will be distributed to projects in the corridors on an 80/20 matching basis. Eighty percent of the funds coming from the revenue generated by the ON TIME Act and the twenty percent coming from other sources, such as state and local transportation funds. The 80/20 matching basis shares the burden of these transportation projects between the shippers paying the fee and the citizens who also travel on these roads. Rep. Calvert's opening statement is attached. ###
04.08.2009	Today the House of Representatives passed H.R. 2642, the Iraq/Afghanistan Supplemental Appropriations Bill with the support of Congressman Calvert (R-CA). "It is unacceptable that our troops fighting in Iraq and Afghanistan have had to wait this long to get the necessary funding to continue operations," said Rep. Calvert, a member of the House Appropriations Committee. "I am pleased the Democrats finally abandoned their efforts to attach withdrawal language or any other restrictive language that would have tied the hands of our commanders in theater." "I am especially pleased that Republicans were able to attach language regarding G.I. Benefits that will allow the transfer of education benefits from the service member to family members," said Rep. Calvert. Republican victories on the supplemental include: Troop Funding for FY 2008-2009. The agreement ensures that our men and women in uniform will have the resources they need well into the next Administration. NO War Restrictions. The agreement gets our troops the funding they need for success without any politically-motivated restrictions that hamstring our commanders in the field. NO Tax Increases. The agreement includes no tax increases of any kind sought by Democrats. New Resources for G.I. Benefits. The agreement will help our veterans (or their families) get a better education after they return from Iraq and Afghanistan. Unemployment Insurance. The agreement includes the GOP 20-week work requirement, and limits the extension to 13 additional weeks, not the 26 weeks in the original Democrat bill. Cuts Wasteful Pork. The agreement cuts $8 billion in wasteful Washington spending added by the Senate. Planned Parenthood. The agreement eliminates the line item for Planned Parenthood regarding birth control medicines and devices at university and private clinics. Ensures SCHIP Serves Poor Kids First. The agreement eliminates the Senate provision which undermined the Administration's authority to ensure that SCHIP serves the neediest children first. ###
04.08.2009	Today Congressman Ken Calvert (R-CA-44) commended Appropriations Ranking Member Jerry Lewis (R-CA-41) for attempting to force Democrats to allow consideration of the FY2009 Interior and Environment Appropriations bill, so that a vote could be taken on domestic energy exploration. "Democrats refuse to consider the one appropriations bill that could have a positive impact on the outrageous price of gas," said Rep. Calvert. "I commend Ranking Member Jerry Lewis for his leadership today and I will continue to support him as he tries to bring the Interior and Appropriations bill before the full committee." The full Appropriations Committee markup of the Interior and Environment bill was originally scheduled for June 18, 2008, but it was abruptly canceled two hours before it was scheduled to begin. The full Committee markup schedule has now been updated and all markups have been proceeding in their original order, except the Interior and Environment bill, which has been pushed off past the Independence Day Recess. Today, Ranking Member Jerry Lewis offered an amendment that forced the Appropriations Committee to immediately consider the Interior bill; however Democrats on the Committee quickly scuttled that effort by abruptly adjourning the markup before any votes could be taken. At least three amendments intended to increase domestic energy production were set to be considered at the full Committee markup of the Interior and Environment bill. These include: An amendment by Rep. Peterson (R-PA) to open up OCS exploration beyond 50 miles; An amendment by Rep. Granger (R-TX) to open up ANWR to energy exploration; An amendment by Rep. Tiahrt (R-KS) to open up oil shale development in Colorado. "Instead of getting to work on the business of the American people that would help increase our domestic supply of energy the Democrats have launched a campaign of energy obstruction," said Rep. Calvert. "As we approach Independence Day, we should be taking steps to declare our energy independence. While Americans are stuck paying record high prices at the pump, Democrats in Congress refuse to do anything – even hold a markup – that might help bring down prices." ###
04.08.2009	Today Congressman Ken Calvert (R-CA) issued the following statement on the opinion by the U.S. Supreme Court that the Second Amendment is an individual right of all Americans and not reserved only for state militias. The decision overturns the District of Columbia gun ban. "The Second Amendment is rooted in the integral right of the individual to protect himself or herself from a tyrannical government. Today the Supreme Court reaffirmed that right which will now be extended to the residents of the District of Columbia. I commend the five Justices of the Supreme Court who strictly interpreted the U.S. Constitution and returned the right to bear arms to the Nation's Capital." ###
04.08.2009	Congressman Calvert (R-CA) commended the passage of three House resolutions this week that recognized America's space enterprise. "America's accomplishments in space are unparalleled and I was pleased that Congress recognized a few of the important dates in the history of U.S. space exploration," said Rep. Calvert, the former Chairman of the Subcommittee on Space and Aeronautics and a co-sponsor of the three bills. The three resolutions that passed the House this week include: H. Res. 1312 - Commemorating the 25th anniversary of the Space Foundation. The mission of the Space Foundation is to advance space-related endeavors to inspire, enable, and propel humanity. The Foundation has become the leading nonprofit organization advancing the exploration, development, and use of space and space education for the benefit of all humankind. H. Res. 1313 - Celebrating the 25th anniversary of the first American woman in space, Dr. Sally K. Ride, and honoring her contributions to the space program and to science education. Sally Ride is a native of Los Angeles, California, and a physicist by training as well as an accomplished athlete. As part of the eighth class of NASA astronauts, she was selected as a NASA astronaut candidate in 1978, and was one of only six women in the class. On June 18, 1983, Dr. Ride was sent into space aboard the Space Shuttle Challenger as part of the STS-7 crew, making her the first American woman in space. H. Res. 1315 - Commemorating the 50th Anniversary of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration. NASA has conducted numerous successful missions, human and robotic. The most notable mission was the 1969 landing of a man on the moon by the Apollo 11 mission, commanded by Neil A. Armstrong, Lunar Module Pilot Edwin `Buzz' Aldrin, Jr., and Command Module pilot Michael Collins. NASA has also contributed the American way of life through the advancement of communication satellites, the Global Positioning System and scientific research that has led to technologies such as heart defibrillators. "For fifty years NASA has greatly contributed to the American way of life," stated Rep. Calvert. "I congratulate the men and women who, both past and present, made NASA the world's premier space agency. Their commitment, intelligence and perseverance are a testament to American ingenuity. I look forward to another fifty years of NASA and the many wonders that will come from further exploration of the last frontier." ###
04.08.2009	Today Congressman Calvert (R-CA) issued the following statement in response to President Bush's announcement that he would lift an executive ban on offshore drilling in the Outer Continental Shelf (OCS): "I commend President Bush for doing what the Democratic Leadership refuses to do – allow for the domestic development of our own energy resources by lifting the ban on offshore drilling. The biggest concern on my constituents' minds is the high price of gasoline. Hard working American families who are struggling to get by deserve nothing less than a vote in Congress on expanding offshore energy exploration before Congress adjourns for the summer recess in August. "Improvements in technology allow for offshore energy exploration and production that is out of sight, protects coral reefs and sensitive environments, and dramatically reduces the risk of oil spills. It's time the Democrats stop stalling on the issue and allow for domestic exploration of energy resources that will have a significant impact on the speculation bubble and help bring down the price of gas." ###
04.08.2009	Today Rep. Calvert (R-CA), along with 16 of his Californian colleagues, sent a letter (attached) to Speaker Pelosi requesting that energy legislation lift the congressional moratorium on offshore energy exploration for all coastal states. "Americans support all-of-the-above energy solutions that includes expanding offshore energy exploration and yet Speaker Pelosi appears to be limiting California's right to benefit from producing energy off our shores," said Rep. Calvert. "California has proven reserves that are readily available and Californians should always fight for the same rights and benefits as other coastal states." The letter reads: "As fellow members of the California delegation, we have serious concerns about legislation that would either deny our state of rights that are being granted to other coastal states or deny our state a share of potential royalty revenues from energy production off our coast. Furthermore, we fail to understand the logic of policies that appear to restrict opportunities and reduce the incentives for coastal states to produce energy and benefit from associated royalty revenues. "The Outer Continental Shelf (OCS) off the California coast contains significant energy resources that can contribute greatly towards American energy independence. According to the Minerals Management Service's OCS Oil and Gas Assessment in 2006, there are an estimated 9.97 billion barrels of oil and an estimated 15.74 trillion cubic feet of natural gas off of the California coast." Rep. Calvert has introduced legislation, The MORE Act (H.R. 6529), that will allow states to receive 75% of the royalties for oil and natural gas production beyond 25 miles of the coastline and the U.S. Treasury would receive the remaining 25%. If states elect to allow exploration and production within 25 miles of their coastline, then their share of the royalties would increase to 90%. At 25 miles from the coast, no evidence of energy exploration is visible from the coast under any condition. ###
04.08.2009	Today, Rep. Ken Calvert (R-Corona) was pleased to announce that his bill H.R. 1139, the Riverside-Corona Feeder Water Supply Act, and H.R. 2614, were marked up and reported out of the Senate Committee on Energy and Water. H.R. 1139 passed the U.S. House of Representatives under suspension of the rules on June 5, 2007 and H.R. 2614, passed the House on November 13, 2007. "California continues to be in a statewide drought and we must take every step possible to increase our water supplies," stated Rep. Calvert. "The purpose of the Riverside-Corona Feeder water supply project is to capture and store water in wet years in order to increase Western's firm water supplies, provide a cost-effective water supply, and improve water quality." H.R. 1139 authorizes the Secretary of the Interior, in cooperation with the Western Municipal Water District, Riverside County, California, to participate in the planning, design, and construction of the Riverside-Corona Feeder water supply project, which includes 20 groundwater wells, groundwater treatment facilities, water storage and pumping facilities, and 28 miles of pipeline in San Bernardino and Riverside Counties. H.R. 2614, which Congressman Calvert introduced on June 13, 2007, includes two projects. City of Corona Water Recycling and Reuse Project The City of Corona receives 55 percent of its water from imported sources and 45 percent from local groundwater supplies. The reclamation system will enable the City of Corona to provide recycled water to parks, landscape maintenance districts, schools, landscaped freeway frontages and any other project that does not require potable water. It will also reduce the need for increased water imports and construction of additional drinking water infrastructure. The project will consist of 3 reservoirs and 2 pump stations along with retrofitted user irrigation systems. Additionally, 27 miles of pipelines are needed since recycled water is required to be kept completely separate from drinking water and uses a dedicated system of pipelines. The City plans to retrofit approximately 200 sites including schools, public parks and landscape areas, freeway landscaping, golf courses and commercial landscaping. Yucaipa Valley Water Supply Renewal Project The Yucaipa Valley Water District (YVWD) provides treated water to Southern California communities in portions of both Riverside and San Bernardino Counties. Water sources used to meet demands in the Yucaipa Valley include imported supplies from northern California, local surface and ground water supplies, and water reclamation and recycling technologies. As the Yucaipa Valley transitions from an agricultural to a suburban community, YVWD must provide new infrastructure to meet the growing demands for water. In addition, regulatory requirements that control use of recycled water and wastewater discharges are becoming more stringent due to the District's location in the Santa Ana Watershed. YVWD must achieve a status of zero discharge providing the ultimate protection of downstream water resources consistent with the goals of the Clean Water Act. Increasing demands for water supplies in the Valley combined with stringent water quality and wastewater discharge requirements, require innovative and non-traditional solutions in order to effectively solve the Valley's water problems. The Yucaipa Valley Water Supply Renewal Project will maximize the various water resources in the Yucaipa Valley. This section will provide federal assistance for planning, designing, and constructing the new Yucaipa Valley Regional Water Filtration Facility that is part of the Renewal project. The new facility will contain an advanced filtration (reverse osmosis) system and a brine pipeline to remove salinity, contaminants, and organic compounds from the water supply in the Yucaipa Valley. The brine pipeline will extend nearly 20-miles to the existing Santa Ana Regional Interceptor brine pipeline. This project will minimize the amount of water imported from northern California, maximize the use of higher quality water, reduce withdrawals from ground water supplies, and provide a long-term, drought-proof water supply. The full project is expected to reduce demands on the California State Water Project by over 4 billion gallons per year, which is a sufficient quantity of water for 27,000 families. "At a time when water demand continues to grow due to the West's increasing population, traditional water sources have been confronted by a prolonged drought and other environmental challenges," said Rep. Calvert "It is imperative that Southern California continue to reduce its dependence on imported water from the Delta and Colorado River through innovations." ###
04.08.2009	Yesterday Congressman Ken Calvert (R-CA) voted for H.R. 3997, the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 because it was improved to provide repayment to the American taxpayer. The vote failed the House 205-228. "Americans have been put in a situation that we shouldn't be in and my job is to ensure that the vast majority of people who pay their bills and mortgages are protected," said Rep. Calvert. "Ultimately, I know that although the situation we are in is the responsibility of recklessness on Wall Street, it has very real impacts on all Americans; from the business owner who relies on a line of credit to a student who needs college loans. I voted for the bill because there were provisions included that required Wall Street to pay back all of the funds, which I considered vital in order to protect Main Street and the typical taxpayer." "Speaker Pelosi chose to be divisive and partisan rather than put the country first at this difficult time," said Rep. Calvert. "I understand why many of my colleagues voted against the bill but I am hopeful that the bipartisan leadership can come together and quickly turn around and produce another bill that will shore up our financial markets and continue to protect taxpayers and Main Street." Below are liberal provisions Rep. Calvert was pleased to see House Republicans were able to take out of the original plan: No liberal slush funds: Liberals wanted to direct 20 percent of the revenues from the program into a slush fund for ultraliberal allies like ACORN. House Republicans successfully demanded it be dropped. No trial lawyer giveaways: Liberals wanted trial lawyer giveaways that would punish responsible borrowers and help their political allies by allowing bankruptcy judges to unilaterally rewrite mortgage terms. House Republicans successfully demanded it be dropped. No Big Labor paybacks: Liberals wanted to continue their two-years-long Big Labor payback by giving union bosses seats on the boards of participating financial companies. House Republicans successfully demanded it be dropped. Bipartisan oversight and accountability: Liberals wanted to stock a seven member oversight board with five Democrats and only two Republicans. House Republicans successfully demanded the panel be truly bipartisan with an equal number of Democrats and Republicans. The Economic Stabilization Act, which the Congressional Budget Office and the Office of Management and Budget certified would have cost substantially less than $700 billion, includes: Provisions to pay back the taxpayers. The taxpayer, by way of the U.S. Treasury, would be repaid as the assets regain value and are prudently sold by the government back into the private sector. After five years, the Congressional Budget Office would determine what, if any, funds are owed to the taxpayer and would propose a fee on Wall Street companies to pay back the remainder. (A recent Rasmussen Poll shows that "those who understand that taxpayers will eventually get much of the money back support the bailout by a 2-to-1 margin." "Opposition to Bailout Plan Falls Dramatically") Federal insurance program protects taxpayers, forces Wall Street to share the burden: Required the establishment of an insurance guarantee program that in lieu of purchasing assets with taxpayer funds would be available to insure assets at no cost to the taxpayer. Costs would be fully paid for by participating companies (i.e. those receiving the assistance). Assets insured by the program would count against the total funds the Secretary would otherwise have available to make purchases. No golden parachutes for Wall Street: Irresponsible corporate executives at participating institutions would not be rewarded with golden parachutes or severance pay. No more harmful "mark-to-market" accounting rules: At the insistence of House Republicans, the Securities and Exchange Commission would have the authority to suspend "mark-to-market" accounting rules – outdated regulations that artificially undervalue good mortgage assets and have helped exacerbate this economic crisis. Protection for community banks from Wall Street excess: The rescue plan would help local community banks across the country by allowing them to write off losses on Fannie and Freddie mortgage assets they hold. Funding would be split into two phases of congressional approval. The release of the remaining $350 billion would have required a joint resolution of Congress. ###
04.08.2009	Today Congressman Ken Calvert (R-CA) voted for H.R. 1424, the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 with improvements which provide repayment to the American taxpayer. The vote passed the House 263-171. "Americans have been put in a situation that we shouldn't be in and my job is to ensure that the vast majority of people who pay their bills and mortgages are protected," said Rep. Calvert. "Ultimately, I know that although the situation we are in is the responsibility of recklessness on Wall Street, it has very real impacts on all Americans; from the business owner who relies on a line of credit to a student who needs college loans. I voted for the bill because there were provisions included that required Wall Street to pay back all of the funds, which I considered vital in order to protect Main Street and the typical taxpayer." "Although I do not consider the revised bill significantly improved from the bill that failed on Monday, I was pleased by the inclusion of tax relief and temporary increases to the FDIC and credit union insurance caps from $100,000 to $250,000," stated Rep. Calvert. "I would also like to reiterate that the bill requires accountability by the executives who made reckless decisions and the legislation was not a ‘blank check' by any means. The funds would be used to buy assets – not pay off the debt of financial institutions. The taxpayer, by way of the U.S. Treasury, will be repaid as the assets regain value and are prudently sold by the government back into the private sector. After five years, the Congressional Budget Office would determine what, if any, funds are owed to the taxpayer and would propose a fee on Wall Street companies to pay back the remainder." Below are liberal provisions Rep. Calvert was pleased to see House Republicans were able to take out of the original plan: • No liberal slush funds: Liberals wanted to direct 20 percent of the revenues from the program into a slush fund for ultraliberal allies like ACORN. House Republicans successfully demanded it be dropped. • No trial lawyer giveaways: Liberals wanted trial lawyer giveaways that would punish responsible borrowers and help their political allies by allowing bankruptcy judges to unilaterally rewrite mortgage terms. House Republicans successfully demanded it be dropped. • No Big Labor paybacks: Liberals wanted to continue their two-years-long Big Labor payback by giving union bosses seats on the boards of participating financial companies. House Republicans successfully demanded it be dropped. • Bipartisan oversight and accountability: Liberals wanted to stock a seven member oversight board with five Democrats and only two Republicans. House Republicans successfully demanded the panel be truly bipartisan with an equal number of Democrats and Republicans. The Economic Stabilization Act, which the Congressional Budget Office and the Office of Management and Budget certified would have cost substantially less than $700 billion, includes: • Provisions to pay back the taxpayers. The taxpayer, by way of the U.S. Treasury, would be repaid as the assets regain value and are prudently sold by the government back into the private sector. After five years, the Congressional Budget Office would determine what, if any, funds are owed to the taxpayer and would propose a fee on Wall Street companies to pay back the remainder. (A recent Rasmussen Poll shows that "those who understand that taxpayers will eventually get much of the money back support the bailout by a 2-to-1 margin." "Opposition to Bailout Plan Falls Dramatically") • Federal insurance program protects taxpayers, forces Wall Street to share the burden: Required the establishment of an insurance guarantee program that in lieu of purchasing assets with taxpayer funds would be available to insure assets at no cost to the taxpayer. Costs would be fully paid for by participating companies (i.e. those receiving the assistance). Assets insured by the program would count against the total funds the Secretary would otherwise have available to make purchases. • No golden parachutes for Wall Street: Irresponsible corporate executives at participating institutions would not be rewarded with golden parachutes or severance pay. • No more harmful "mark-to-market" accounting rules: At the insistence of House Republicans, the Securities and Exchange Commission would have the authority to suspend "mark-to-market" accounting rules – outdated regulations that artificially undervalue good mortgage assets and have helped exacerbate this economic crisis. • Protection for community banks from Wall Street excess: The rescue plan would help local community banks across the country by allowing them to write off losses on Fannie and Freddie mortgage assets they hold. • Funding would be split into two phases of congressional approval. The release of the remaining $350 billion would have required a joint resolution of Congress. ###
04.07.2009	As a member of Congress, Rep. Ken Calvert (R-Corona) has the privilege of nominating a select group of highly qualified young men and women from the 44th Congressional District of California for admission to the U.S. Service Academies—Air Force, Naval, Military and Merchant Marine. Rep. Calvert announced today the following candidates who have received his nomination: U.S. AIR FORCE ACADEMY Ryan Aceves - Riverside Mercedes Dexter - Riverside Daniel Frymire - Riverside Kristine Kemp - Corona Megan Lewis - Riverside Michael Martin – Coto De Caza Michael Rommel – Coto De Caza Alfonso Sanchez - Riverside Christopher Villanueva - Riverside Scott Yocum - Riverside U.S. NAVAL ACADEMY Andrew Fulcher – Coto De Caza Fletcher Gales – San Clemente Richard Garcia – San Clemente Dillon Keim – San Clemente Megan Lewis - Riverside Ashley Masters – Mira Loma Max Meraz – San Clemente Andrew Paterson - Norco Georgia Riojas - Riverside Christian Turpen – San Clemente U.S. MILITARY ACADEMY AT WEST POINT Nicholas Bayer - Norco Asael Flores - Riverside Richard Garcia – San Clemente Dillon Keim – San Clemente Megan Lewis - Riverside Ashley Masters – Mira Loma Max Meraz – San Clemente Brady Mosk – San Clemente Jason Pancoe – Ladera Ranch U.S. MERCHANT MARINE ACADEMY Nicholas Bayer - Norco Megan Lewis - Riverside "These young men and women who I have nominated to the service academies have character, integrity, motivation and pride, and I was proud to nominate them," stated Rep. Calvert. "They will serve our country well." ###
04.07.2009	Tonight Congressman Ken Calvert (R-CA) will vote against H.R. 7321 - The Democrat Auto Financing Bill. "No one wants to see the Big Three American auto companies fail, they are a proud part of our history," said Rep. Calvert. "However, I believe the bailout will simply delay the inevitable and does not provide a long-term solution to the financial problems of the three companies." The Democrat Auto Financing Bill provides a $14 billion bridge loan to three U.S. auto manufacturers. Each eligible manufacturer is required to submit a long-term restructuring plan to the President's designee no later than March 31, 2009. "I have no confidence that government can run an auto company and although it is not desirable, the best course of action for U.S. automakers is to bring everyone to the table – creditors, suppliers, the UAW and management – to reorganize under Chapter 11," said Rep. Calvert. ###
04.07.2009	Today, Congressman Calvert (R-CA) expressed disappointment that the Secretary of Commerce upheld the decision by the California Coastal Commission (CCC) to disallow the completion of the 241 Foothill South Toll Road. "The Foothill South project can be built in a manner that both protects the environment and reduces traffic congestion and am I frustrated to hear that the Secretary of Commerce disagrees," said Rep. Calvert. "The construction of the Foothill South Toll Road would provide a much needed economic boost by putting thousands of people to work. I encourage the TCA to carefully review the Secretary's decision and explore all of its legal options moving forward." "The California Coastal Commission has a long history of voting to uphold environmentally extreme positions rather than supporting projects based on science and fact," said Rep. Calvert. "I'm disappointed the Secretary of Commerce sided with the California Coastal Commission to block the completion of the project to the detriment of residents and businesses of southern California." "The Department of Commerce's suggestion that the Central Corridor – Avenida La Pata alternative is ‘reasonable and available' totally disregards the adverse impacts it would have on the City of San Clemente by increasing congestion on city streets and destroying 172 homes," said Rep. Calvert. On February 6, 2008 the California Coastal Commission (CCC) objected to the Transportation Corridor Agency's (TCA) Coastal Zone Management Act (CZMA) consistency certification for the Foothill South toll road project. On February 15, 2008, TCA requested that the U.S. Secretary of Commerce override the objection by the CCC. The Secretary of Commerce's decision is subject to judicial review. Calvert added, "I find it bitterly ironic that the same House Democrats who are clamoring for an infrastructure stimulus package previously sent a letter, signed by 27 California Democratic Members of the House, to the Department of Commerce in opposition to the completion of the 241." The Foothill South project is a response to a growing need for an additional north-south highway in south Orange County and to improve mobility along the corridor connecting Orange and San Diego Counties. There is little dispute about the current and future need for increased transportation capacity in south Orange County. Local, state and federal transportation agencies have been contributing to a twenty year process to design and develop the Foothill South project. The project has undergone 20 years of environmental review and has been subject to both the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) and National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA). ###
04.07.2009	Today Rep. Ken Calvert (R-CA) applauded the new guidance issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) that states that an asset is valued and based on an "orderly" transaction between a buyer and seller; it would not include distressed transactions or fire sales. "Mark to market rules have forced businesses and financial institutions to write down the value of their assets to the most conservative levels despite the fact that they have not experienced any actual loss because the asset remains on their books," said Rep. Calvert. "Right now our economy is experiencing enough loss in value. We do not need to manufacture loss by an over-conservative use of asset valuation." On March 10, 2009, Rep. Calvert, along with five other Members of Congress, sent a letter to FASB and the Security and Exchange Commission asking for a rule change on mark to market rules. In part, the letter states: "In these uncertain times, it is important that we work to create as much transparency in the market as possible, while recognizing the value of proper disclosure." The full text of the letter is attached. ###
04.07.2009	Today Ken Calvert issued the following statement in response to an Associated Press story that 28 illegal immigrants found at a plant in Seattle, WA were released and granted authorization to continue working. "I find it unconscionable that while hundreds of thousands of Americans and legal residents are out of work, the Department of Homeland Security is essentially providing amnesty to people found working here illegally. Immigration and Customs Enforcement should adhere to its name and enforce the rule of law which unequivocally states that individuals found in the U.S. illegally should be deported to their home country. The new policy put in by the Obama Administration makes clear that the American people, who are struggling to pay bills and are losing jobs, are simply not a priority." To read the AP article, click here. Rep. Calvert is the original author of the legislation that created E-Verify, the only employment verification tool available to employers. E-Verify currently has over 117,000 employers participating and is 99.6% accurate. ###
04.07.2009	Yesterday Rep. Ken Calvert (R-CA) testified before the House Natural Resources Committee on the California Water Drought. "The current drought is not like other droughts," stated Rep. Calvert at the hearing. "In addition to suffering from a natural dry spell, California is also suffering from a federally-imposed dry spell. In December 2007, a federal judge ordered restrictions on water project operations in the Bay-Delta to help protect a threatened fish species, the delta smelt. Combined with the dry conditions, the impact of the federally-imposed pumping restrictions is extraordinary. In total, the federally imposed water restrictions have resulted in the loss of nearly a third of the water supply that 25 million Californians depend on from the Delta operations." "Madam Chairwoman, if this Committee is going to continue to give federal agencies the authority to take actions that kill jobs and harm our economy for the benefit of species, then the American people deserve clear and undeniable evidence that those actions are in fact benefiting the species." Rep. Calvert's full testimony is attached. As the former Chairman of the House Water and Power Subcommittee, Rep. Calvert has worked to maintain and enhance a reliable water supply in California and our nation. His legislation, H.R. 2828, the Water Supply, Reliability and Environmental Enhancement Act, was signed into law October 25, 2004. This federal reauthorization of the California-Federal Bay Delta Program (CALFED) plays a critical role in developing new water yield and adequate storage. Other Calvert water Legislation includes: City of Corona Water Recycling and Reuse Project, H.R. 567 - Authorizes a reclamation system to enable the City of Corona to provide recycled water to parks, landscape maintenance districts, schools, landscaped freeway frontages and any other project that does not require potable water. Riverside-Corona Feeder Project, H.R. 38 - Authorizes the planning, design, and construction of the Riverside-Corona Feeder water supply project, which includes 20 groundwater wells, groundwater treatment facilities, water storage and pumping facilities, and 28 miles of pipeline in San Bernardino and Riverside Counties. South Orange County Recycled Water Enhancement Act, H.R. 637 - Authorizes two water reclamation projects in south Orange County: San Juan Capistrano Recycled Water System which would provide up to 9 million-gallons-per-day (MGD) of reclaimed water per year and the San Clemente Reclaimed Water Project which would expand San Clemente's reclaimed water infrastructure by doubling its production capacity. ###
03.30.2009	In response to a Wall Street Journal Article ("Housing Push for Hispanics Spawns Wave of Foreclosures," 1-5-09), Rep. Calvert (R-CA) issued the following statement: "First, the national housing initiative known as HOGAR pressured lenders into adopting standards which enabled people to purchase homes that they would not otherwise have been able to afford. As we now know, the result is a lot of people who were not qualified to buy a house are now facing foreclosure and our financial system has experienced a historic collapse. "Now the Congressional Hispanic Caucus Institute (CHCI) and their allies in Congress are using threats to withhold bailout dollars - taxpayer dollars - to pressure lenders into easing the terms of the loans for homeowners. The government should not be in the business of renegotiating loan terms for people that would never have qualified for homeownership if they had honestly stated their income, assets and legal status. The concern I have, and I think the concern a lot of taxpayers have, is that we are getting awfully close to socializing housing." "Liberalism is the root cause of this crisis and liberals are now continuing to expand the reach of government further into our everyday lives. I am concerned that initiatives like HOGAR, and their liberal backers, will resist efforts to tighten lending standards and make much-needed reforms. It is imperative that lenders verify stated income, assets, and residency status to ensure a prospective homeowner is able to meet their financial obligations. This is just common sense, and efforts to put people in homes they can't pay for only brings down their neighbors who have and continue to meet their financial obligations. Housing cannot be run by the government as a quota program; it must be fair for all without government leaning on lenders to favor any group." HOGAR is a Congressional Hispanic Caucus Institute's (CHCI) national housing initiative first launched in September 2003 to ensure that Latinos share equally in the American dream of homeownership. CHCI was established in 1978 by Congressman Edward Roybal, Congressman E. "Kika" de la Garza and Congressman Baltasar Corrada to help increase opportunities for Hispanics to participate in and contribute to the American policy making process. "Furthermore, until we understand exactly how the current Troubled Asset Relief Program funds are being distributed by the Department of the Treasury and expended by financial institutions, I am very reticent to vote for the release of the remaining $350 billion," stated Rep. Calvert. ###
03.30.2009	Rep. Ken Calvert is now accepting applications from high school juniors who are interested in applying for admission to one, or more, of our nation's service academies. The military service academies that require a congressional nomination include: United States Naval Academy located at Annapolis, Maryland United States Military Academy located at West Point, New York United States Air Force Academy located at Colorado Springs, Colorado United States Merchant Marine Academy located at King's Point, New York. The United States Coast Guard Academy located at New London, Connecticut is also accepting applications but does not require a congressional nomination. Interested candidates should contact Rebecca Hartman in Rep. Calvert's District Office at (951) 784-4300 or (949) 888-8498. ###
03.30.2009	Today Rep. Calvert voted for H.R. 1586 which imposes a 90% tax on bonuses received by AIG employees. Rep. Calvert voted against the original $816 billion stimulus bill which included the bonus loophole inserted by Democrats without discussion. "I find it the height of hypocrisy that Democrats are blustering over language that they inserted into the stimulus to provide for bonuses," said Rep. Calvert. "However, AIG should not be using taxpayer dollars to reward employees with one million dollar bonuses and that is why I voted for H.R. 1587. In addition, the American people deserve answers not only from AIG, but from Speaker Pelosi and Senate Majority Leader Reid on how the language, which specifically allowed bonuses, was inserted into the stimulus bill." The following text was inserted in the stimulus bill during conference, where no Republicans were allowed attend: The prohibition required under clause (i) shall not be construed to prohibit any bonus payment required to be paid pursuant to a written employment contract executed on or before February 11, 2009, as such valid employment contracts are determined by the Secretary or the designee of the Secretary. "While I voted to rescind the bonuses, the energy Democrats use for populist ‘outrage' at AIG would perhaps be better used toward self-reflection," said Rep. Calvert. "It was at the Democrat's insistence that lending standards be lowered which played a key role in the financial meltdown. It was Democrat language inserted into the stimulus bill that protected AIG bonuses. The only time Democrats seem capable of reflecting on past actions is when there is an opportunity to blame the Bush Administration." "The institutions that received bailout funds must be held accountable," said Rep. Calvert "At the same time, they must be able to thrive and become profitable so that the American people can get a return on their investment and be paid back." ###
03.30.2009	Today, Rep. Calvert rebuked Speaker Pelosi for bringing S. 22, the Omnibus Public Land Management Act of 2009, to the House Floor under Suspension of the Rules, which does not allow for amendments. The bill failed 282 to 144 under Suspension of the Rules, which requires a two-thirds majority to pass. "Although I supported certain provisions of the bill, in particular the six pages that authorized two water projects in my congressional district, I find it undemocratic that Speaker Pelosi brought it up under the suspension calendar which did not allow a Republican alternative or any Republican or Democratic amendment to the bill," said Rep. Calvert. "I could not in good conscience vote for a bill that is so heavily weighed down by unnecessary waste." The Omnibus Public Land Management Act, which was 1,248 pages, would authorize more than $10 billion in new spending, including an increase in mandatory government spending by $915 million. The bill is comprised of 172 individual bills, 75 of which were never considered in the House. The bill was considered by the House under the Suspension of the Rules, meaning that all Members of Congress were prohibited from offering amendments to the bill. Traditionally, the House considers non-controversial bills under the Suspension of the Rules, such as bills naming post offices or resolutions commending sports teams for winning a national championship. ###
03.30.2009	Last week Rep. Ken Calvert (R-CA) introduced H.R. 1245, the Homebuyer Tax Credit Act which is would stimulate the nation's declining housing market by offering a $15,000 tax credit to individuals who purchase a home in the next year. "We must create demand in the housing market and rather than forcing down the principals of mortgages, Congress should provide monetary incentives for purchasing a home," said Rep. Calvert. The amount of the tax credit would be $15,000 or 10 percent of the purchase price, whichever is less. Purchases must be made within one year of the legislation's enactment, and the tax credit would not have to be repaid. The bill also seeks to prevent misuse by only allowing purchases of a principal residence and by recapturing the credit if the home is sold within two years of purchase. The legislation would sunset the current $8,000 housing tax credit on the date of enactment. During consideration of the economic stimulus bill, the U.S. Senate unanimously approved an amendment by U.S. Senator Johnny Isakson (R-GA) for a similar $15,000 tax credit. Unfortunately, the final stimulus bill continued to limit the tax credit to only first-time homebuyers and increased the credit to $8,000. Economic Benefits The $15,000 homebuyer tax credit will result in nearly 500,000 additional home sales and create 255,000 new jobs in the year ahead, according to research conducted by the National Association of Home Builders (NAHB). In addition to the 255,000 jobs created during the first year, NAHB estimates that the additional half million home sales will generate: • $12.3 billion in wages and salaries, • $9.7 billion in net business income, • $6.6 billion in federal taxes, and • $2.1 billion in state and local taxes. The $15,000 homebuyer tax credit will stimulate housing demand, stabilize home values, slow the rate of foreclosures and shore up mortgage portfolios held by financial institutions, all of which will strengthen confidence generally and generate even more economic activity. ###
03.30.2009	Today Congressman Ken Calvert issued the following statement in response to the USA Today article "Illegal Immigrants Might Get Stimulus Jobs, Expert Says," (03/09/2009): "It is wrong that Pelosi and Reid stripped the E-Verify provisions from the stimulus and as predicted, illegal immigrants will most likely get jobs created by the stimulus bill -- a bill being paid for by hard working Americans and legal residents. "Unemployment is 8.1% nationally and over 12% in parts of my congressional district: it is unconscionable that while Americans continue to suffer, Congress failed to provide assurance that the jobs created by the so-called stimulus will require employers to check the legal work status of employees. "The American people and legal residents must be our priority, especially during tough economic times and I call on Congress to pass both a long-term reauthorization of E-Verify and legislation making use of E-Verify mandatory." Rep. Calvert, the original author of legislation that created E-Verify in 1996, is the lead Republican co-sponsor of H.R. 662, a bipartisan bill to provide a five year reauthorization of E-Verify. A similar bill passed the 110th Congress 407 to 2 but was held up in the Senate. Rep. Calvert is the sponsor of H.R. 19 which would make use of E-Verify mandatory for all employers in the United States. ###
03.30.2009	Today Congressman Ken Calvert (R-CA) issued the following statement regarding the beginning of oral arguments against Prop. 8 in the California Supreme Court: "I believe that marriage should be defined as the union between one man and one woman and that our public policies should foster strong, traditional families. "On November 4, 2008, a majority of Californians voted to define marriage as between a man and woman in our state. There is no higher authority in our government than the will of the people. I understand this cause is an emotional one, but emotion should not be used to trample the voice of the majority. I strongly urge the California Supreme Court not undo such a clear statement of public will." ###
03.30.2009	Today Rep. Ken Calvert (R-CA) issued the following statement regarding President Obama's FY2010 preliminary budget: "The Obama budget is the biggest expansion of federal government programs that I have seen in my lifetime. The President's budget is not an ambitious agenda of new ideas: it is a recycling of past ‘Great Society' programs that do not work and that the American people cannot afford. It is wholly irresponsible to expand entitlement spending by $1 trillion over ten years, spending which is essentially on ‘auto-pilot' and not subject to congressional approval. Equally egregious is that the budget will require an increase in taxes on families and small businesses and it reverses the 2010 repeal of the death tax. "As our economy continues to struggle, the answer to our problems is not more government bureaucracy. The answer lies in the ingenuity and innovative spirit of the American people. Let's give all Americans the freedom and incentive to get our economy back on its feet by lessening the tax burden, truly providing a targeted stimulus, while reigning in entitlement spending for the sake of future generations." ###
03.30.2009	Rep. Calvert (R-CA), the author of legislation that created E-Verify, will be on Lou Dobbs Tonight (7:00pm to 8:00pm) to discuss E-Verify. Previously, Rep. Calvert introduced an amendment to the stimulus bill that would reauthorize E-Verify for an additional four years. The language was the exact same as H.R. 6633 which passed last Congress 407 to 2. The amendment was accepted without objection by the Committee on Appropriations but was stripped from the Conference Report on the stimulus without debate or discussion. The FY2009 Omnibus bill, up for debate in the House on February 25, 2009, includes an extension of E-Verify through the fiscal year 2009. ###
03.30.2009	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (R-CA) was pleased to announce that the South Orange County Recycled Water Enhancement Act, H.R. 637, was approved by the House of Representatives by a vote of 401 to 16. Rep. Calvert introduced H.R. 637 on January 22, 2009. "Local communities throughout our region must take every possible step towards making themselves self-sufficient in terms of their water supply," said Rep. Calvert. "California continues to suffer from the worst drought our state has seen in decades making recycled water projects all that much more valuable. I will continue to work with our local water planning agencies to meet our significant water challenges." The South Orange County Recycled Water Enhancement Act, H.R. 637, authorizes two water reclamation projects in south Orange County. Reclaimed water refers to wastewater that has been treated to a level that makes it suitable for a beneficial reuse, such as landscape irrigation. "The two water reclamation projects authorized in this legislation are part of a larger overall strategy to ‘drought proof' Southern California and ensure the stability of our economy. The more water we can reuse, the less water our community needs to import to meet the growing demand," said Calvert. The first project is the San Juan Capistrano Recycled Water System which would provide up to 9 million-gallons-per-day (MGD) of reclaimed water per year. The project will use water treated at the J.B. Latham Treatment Plant to meet the demand for non-potable water in the City. As a result, the project will enable the City to reduce its need to import water. The second project is the San Clemente Reclaimed Water Project which would expand San Clemente's reclaimed water infrastructure by doubling its production capacity. In 1991, the City completed a state- of–the-art water reclamation plant that produces 2.2 million gallons of reclaimed water per day. The plant was designed so that its capacity could easily be expanded to 4.4 MGD. The legislation authorizes the expansion of the system to utilize the unused capacity of the current reclaimed water facilities and to expand them to 4.4 MGD. "I look forward to working with both California Senators to pass this bill out of the Senate and get it to the President for his signature," stated Rep. Calvert. ###
03.30.2009	Congressman Ken Calvert (R-CA) issued the following statement in response to news that the E-Verify provisions in the stimulus bill were not included in the final package. The two provisions, one to reauthorize the current voluntary E-Verify program which expires March 6, 2009 offered by Rep. Calvert and one requiring any entity receiving stimulus funds to participate in E-Verify offered by Rep. Kingston (R-GA), were unanimously accepted by both Republicans and Democrats in the House Appropriations mark up of the bill. "Tonight, behind closed doors with no input from House Republicans, Speaker Pelosi and Senate Majority Leader Reid crafted the so-called compromise on the stimulus bill. What we now know is that while billions of American taxpayer dollars are going to be spent, there is no assurance that the jobs created will go to American workers. The two amendments that had been accepted by the House Appropriations Committee were stripped without discussion or debate. "The American people have repeatedly voiced their support for employment verification and yet we find that once again special interests win out. The one candle in the darkness of this disastrous bill was the reauthorization and requirements to use E-Verify. Now all we are left is a bill that places illegal immigrant interests above those of hard working American families and leaves the bill at the foot of future generations." ###
03.30.2009	Today, Rep. Ken Calvert (R-CA) joined Rep. Bill Foster (D-IL) to urge Congressional Leadership to include a $15,000 tax credit to individuals who purchase a home in the next year in the Economic Recovery Act. "The housing crisis is ‘ground zero' for the current economic crisis," said Rep. Calvert. "While I do not agree with the stimulus package as it is written now, the homebuyer tax credit is exactly the type of incentives Congress should be giving to people. The tax credit is a targeted approach that provides people with a substantial tax break to buy a home in a down market while preventing others from abusing the system and flipping houses." "Nationwide, the declining housing market is at the core of our economic troubles," said Foster. "By encouraging individuals to pursue responsible homeownership, we can begin to stimulate the housing market and in turn, improve our economy." The tax credit was included in the Senate passed version of the Economic Recovery and Reinvestment Act (H.R. 1), but was not present in the House passed version. Currently, a Conference Committee containing members of both the House and the Senate are working to resolve differences between the bills. ###
03.30.2009	Today, Congressman Ken Calvert (R-CA) and Congressman Jesse Jackson Jr. (D-IL) re-introduced the ON TIME Act (H.R. 947), Our Nation's Trade Infrastructure, Mobility and Efficiency Act. "Anyone stuck behind a rail crossing or crawling along our jammed freeways knows commuters in southern California are severely impacted by the overwhelming volume of goods that pass through the Ports of Los Angeles and Long Beach," stated Rep. Calvert. "The same transportation problems we see in southern California are happening at key trade gateways across the country. This bill serves a dual purpose by expediting the movement of goods to increase the efficiency of trade corridors and by providing transportation funding to those local communities most impacted by trade. I look forward to working with my esteemed colleague, Representative Jackson, to advance this legislation as part of the national highway bill which Congress is expected to consider this year." "I am pleased to join with my distinguished colleague, Representative Ken Calvert, in offering a timely, sensible and viable solution to alleviating congestion at our ports, while also increasing their capacity and efficiency," said Rep. Jackson. "By improving mobility in and out of our seaports, this legislation helps to meet the growing demands of international trade, bolsters our aging infrastructure, and strengthens our nation's economy." The ON TIME ACT: • Targets funding to specific transportation improvement projects in areas around the more than 300 points of entry across the United States, including ports, airports and border crossings. The targeted areas will be called National Trade Gateway Corridors (NTGC) and be defined by the Department of Transportation in consultation with the Department of Commerce. The corridors will include routes up to 300 miles from points of entry. • Is good for businesses such as freight forwarders, importers, exporters, retailers and any business that benefits from trade because it targets transportation choke points and provides funds to relieve bottlenecks and ultimately allows for more efficient ways to move goods. • Is good for communities because it would alleviate traffic congestion and air quality issues specifically created by the increase trade moving through our nation's busiest trade corridors. • Creates a freight fee based on the value of goods moved and dedicates 100% of funds from a port to the local National Trade Gateway Corridors surrounding the port. Projects eligible to receive funding include, but are not limited to, freeway expansion, grade separations, dedicated truck lanes, and publicly-owned intermodal freight transfer facilities. Eligible projects must be located within a National Trade Gateway Corridor in order to receive funds under the ON TIME Act. Under the legislation, each state's transportation agency is required to consult with local governments, transportation agencies and freight stakeholders to rate, prioritize, and select which goods movement projects receive funding. Funding for corridors will come from a .075% fee (capped at $500) on the declared value of the goods. The fee will be paid by the shipper of the goods moving through the point of entry using an existing line item on current customs forms. One-hundred percent of the fees collected will be invested in specific and prioritized transportation improvement projects within the same corridor. For example, if the Port of Los Angeles brings in $200 million worth of revenue in fees, the $200 million will go into transportation projects in the NTGC proceeding from the port of Los Angeles. The funds will be distributed to projects in the corridors on an 80/20 matching basis. Eighty percent of the funds coming from the revenue generated by the ON TIME Act and the twenty percent coming from other sources, such as state and local transportation funds. The 80/20 matching basis shares the burden of these transportation projects between the shippers paying the fee and the citizens who also travel on these roads. The ON TIME Act was introduced in the 110th Congress on 5102 and Rep. Calvert testified before the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee in support of the bill on June 10, 2008. ###
03.30.2009	Today Rep. Ken Calvert (R-CA) issued the following statement in response to the recent crackdown on illegal immigrants in Riverside, California by the Riverside Police Department and U.S. Customs and Border Patrol. "Illegal immigration hurts Americans and legal residents who are out of work in a down economy and it negatively impacts businesses where they loiter. I commend both the Riverside Police Department and the Border Patrol for proactively addressing the issue and deporting individuals who entered the U.S. illegally. "Illegal immigration must be combated on several fronts and the recent apprehensions made by Riverside Police Department and Border Patrol demonstrate that the federal and local governments have important roles to play. I support the right of local law enforcement to enforce immigration laws and have consistently supported the 287 (g) program run by the Department of Homeland Security to train local law officers to screen for legal status. "Illegal immigration remains primarily the responsibility of the federal government and I will continue to support a three-prong approach: a reinforced physical fence along the border, robust interior enforcement and mandatory employment verification. As the original author of E-Verify, I continue to push for mandatory implementation while also working to ensure the voluntary program is reauthorized and available to employers who choose to verify the work status of new employees. If we cut off the job magnet, we will end the incentive for people to come to the U.S. illegally. "Again, I support both the Riverside Police Department and Border Patrol and hope they continue to enforce the rule of law in Riverside, California." ###
03.30.2009	Today Rep. Ken Calvert (R-CA) voted against the Senate Amendment to H.R. 2, a massive expansion of the State Children's Health Insurance Program (SCHIP). The amendment passed the House 290 to 135. "I find it unconscionable that Speaker Pelosi has hijacked a successful program, created by Republicans ten years ago with my support, in an effort to provide benefits to illegal immigrants and bring the U.S. one step closer to a nationalized system of healthcare," said Rep. Calvert. The Senate Amendment to H.R. 2 expands the program to a point that undermines the original purpose of SCHIP - to provide medical insurance for low-income children. The bill would provide benefits to middle-class families, childless adults, and would increase access to taxpayer funded health benefits to illegal immigrants. The bill also provides SCHIP to higher income brackets without the proper safeguards in place to ensure that low income children are not crowded out by wealthier children who have been shifted away from private insurance. Before expanding SCHIP to wealthier families, we should focus on covering low-income children who meet the current eligibility criteria but are not enrolled. The Democrat expansion of SCHIP is also irresponsibly funded by increasing the federal tax on cigarettes which would require an additional 22 million new smokers to fund. The most likely target to attract new smokers would be adolescents and young adults. "I cannot reiterate enough my support for the existing SCHIP program and for decreasing the number of uninsured children in this country," stated Rep. Calvert. "However, I have strong concerns that the Majority Party is on a path to destroy this program and it will be our nation's neediest children who pay the price." The vote today is a political ploy used by Democrats to mask an unsuccessful legislative agenda that places illegal immigrants above low-income children. Rep. Calvert is a co-sponsor of H.R. 464, the More Children, More Choices Act, which would re-authorize SCHIP for five years and ensures mechanisms are in place to prevent illegal immigrants and children from families who can afford private health insurance from crowding out the poorest children that SCHIP was designed to protect. Additionally, H.R 464 would create a refundable, advance tax credit of $1,400 for each child in a family earning between 200% and 300% of the Federal Poverty Level. This tax credit will enable more hardworking American families to purchase private insurance coverage for their children. Congressman Calvert is also cosponsor of H.R. 452, the Healthy Kids One Stop Act. The bill would give states the option to combine or streamline the SCHIP enrollment process with another government agency that already provides a form of assistance to low-income children. The Healthy Kids One Stop Act will help SCHIP reach its intended purpose of covering uninsured low-income children by creating more avenues for efficiently enrolling them. ###
03.30.2009	Today Congressman Ken Calvert (R-CA), along with 14 other California Members of Congress, sent a bipartisan letter to Ms. Nancy Sutley, the new Chairwoman for the White House Council on Environmental Quality encouraging her to "take an active role in helping California achieve the co-equal goals for the Delta." "I welcome the opportunity to work with Ms. Sutley and the Obama Administration to ensure the Delta can continue to be a reliable source of drinking water for the millions of Californians that depend on it," said Rep. Calvert, former Chairman of the House Resources Subcommittee on Water and Power. California continues to experience one of the worst droughts in its history. According to recent news articles: "State officials issued dire warnings Thursday to conserve water following another survey of the Sierra snowpack that indicates California is headed for a third dry year. ‘We may be at the start of the worst California drought in modern history,' said Lester Snow, director of the state Department of Water Resources" (Source: The Press Enterprise 1/30/09). "Eastern Municipal Water District, one of the Inland region's largest water agencies, next week could approve mandatory water-use restrictions limiting when customers water their lawns and how they wash their cars. The mandatory limits would be the agency's first. Western Municipal Water District could follow suit. The two districts cover most of western Riverside County" (Source: The Press Enterprise 1/29/09). Full text of the letter is attached. ###
03.30.2009	Today Congressman Ken Calvert (R-CA) issued the following statement after the election of Michael Steele as the Chairman of the Republican National Committee: "Congratulations to Michael Steele for being elected Chairman of the Republican National Committee. As the former Lieutenant Governor of Maryland, Mr. Steele has proven that Republicans can win in Democratic states. I look forward to him expressing long-held Republican values based on sound economic policies, strong national defense and respect for family with a 21st century communications strategy. Mr. Steele's strong leadership and communication background will lead to our Party's resurgence in future years." ###
03.30.2009	Today Congressman Ken Calvert (R-CA) sent a letter, along with 11 other Members of Congress, requesting a meeting with new Secretary of Housing and Urban Development (HUD), Shaun Donovan. "I have hosted and attended several housing assistance events and spoken with many constituents who are experiencing housing problems," said Rep. Calvert. "I would like the opportunity to share the feedback with the new Secretary to ensure that HUD's efforts are effective and helping people in need." In part, the letter states: "In the last 18 months, the foreclosure crisis has not improved in our districts, and in most places, it has worsened significantly. In 2009 millions of Americans will default on their mortgages, and millions more will see their home equity drop precipitously. That is why it is more imperative than ever that we pursue effective solutions that prevent foreclosures and respond to the dramatic loss of home equity." More than 112,000 Inland Empire properties received a foreclosure filing in 2008, which represents a foreclosure rate of roughly 8% of all housing units. Last year, the region had the third highest foreclosure rate among the nation's 100 largest metropolitan areas (Source: RealtyTrac, U.S. Foreclosure Market Report). ###
03.30.2009	Today Congressman Ken Calvert (R-CA) delivered the following speech on the House floor in opposition to H.R. 1, the Democrat Stimulus Bill: "Mr. Speaker, I rise in opposition to the so-called stimulus bill which seems to only stimulate one sector of our economy – the government. "There is no doubt our country are going through difficult economic times. There are many steps Congress can and should take to help get our economy back on a path of prosperity. "The question before us is what will all of this spending get the American people? Will it truly provide more middle-class jobs or improve infrastructure? The answer, sadly, is no. The strategy under this bill is to throw billions of dollars in every bureaucratic direction, cross our fingers and hope for the best. "Even more disturbing, this bill is forcing the people who are the backbone of our economy – the middle class – onto a troubling kind of public dependency. "Mr. Speaker, let us take the time to truly do what is right for the American people and provide targeted and limited stimulus through tax cuts and spending on ready-to-build infrastructure projects that will put Americans back to work immediately. Let's not exploit this economic crisis to push through legislation that will increase the size and scope of the federal government above and beyond anything our country has ever seen in its 233 years." ###
03.30.2009	Last night Rep. Calvert (R-CA), a member of the House Appropriations Committee, offered an amendment to the economic stimulus bill that would reauthorize E-Verify for four years. The amendment was accepted without objection. "If the stimulus package creates millions of jobs, which the Majority party is claiming, I want to be absolutely sure that those jobs are going to American workers or legal residents, not illegal aliens," said Rep. Calvert. "While I am opposed to the stimulus package as a whole, I felt it was necessary to improve the legislation in the limited ways allowed by the Majority Party. Extending the authorization for E-Verify ensures that employers will continue to have the only tool available to them to check the work authorization status of new employees." Rep. Calvert authored the original legislation that created E-Verify in 1996 and has worked to extend it and make it mandatory. Last Congress, Rep. Calvert worked with the Majority Party to pass a five year reauthorization of E-Verify but the bill stalled in the Senate due to the objections of Senator Menendez (D-NJ). E-Verify expires March 6, 2009, although it is funded through FY2009. Rep. Calvert stated, "It is imperative that this voluntary program continue to operate and it is only fitting that it should be included in a bill that is aimed at stimulating the economy and creating jobs." Another amendment accepted by the committee was introduced by Rep. Jack Kingston (R-GA) which requires businesses that receive funds from the stimulus bill to participate in E-Verify. ###
03.30.2009	Last week Congressman Ken Calvert (R-CA) was named the Ranking Member on the House Select Intelligence Oversight Panel of the House Committee on Appropriations (SIOP). "I've worked with Ken many years and his appointment as Ranking Member of the Select Intelligence Oversight Panel is a reflection of his expertise in matters of defense and national security," said Ranking Member Jerry Lewis (R-CA). "I am honored to be the Ranking Member of the Select Intelligence Oversight Panel and to be a part of such a vital aspect of U.S. national security," said Rep. Calvert. "I look forward to working with Chairman Rush Holt and the other members of the panel to ensure our intelligence community is given the resources they need to protect America while also providing strong oversight." The SIOP was created in the 110th Congress and includes no more than 13 members. Members include chairman and ranking minority member of the Committee on Appropriations and the chairman and ranking minority member of its Subcommittee on Defense. Six additional members of the Committee on Appropriations, and three members of the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence are selected to serve each congress. Text of the legislation (http://appropriations.house.gov/HR35.shtml) that created SIOP states that "the select panel shall review and study on a continuing basis budget requests for and execution of intelligence activities; make recommendations to relevant subcommittees of the Committee on Appropriations; and, on an annual basis, prepare a report to the Defense Subcommittee of the Committee on Appropriations containing budgetary and oversight observations and recommendations for use by such subcommittee in preparation of the classified annex to the bill making appropriations for the Department of Defense." ###
03.30.2009	Congressman Ken Calvert (R-CA) issued the following statement in response to President Bush's commutation of the sentences of Border Patrol agents Ramos and Compean: "Today is a great day for the Ramos and Compean families and for the Border Patrol. For over three years many of us in Congress, and around the country, have pressed President Bush to pardon Ramos and Compean or commute their sentences. The two agents were clearly victims of an over-zealous prosecution and they should never have been imprisoned based on the testimony of a drug smuggler. The U.S. District Attorney's vigorous prosecution of this case did nothing but demoralize our Border Patrol and hinder their ability to stop the flow of illegal aliens, drugs, counterfeit goods and possible terrorists into the U.S. "I commend President Bush for doing the right thing today; I only wish he had done it sooner. My congratulations go out to Ramos and Compean, and their families, and I wish them all the best as they close a difficult chapter of their lives and begin anew." Rep. Calvert has supported the congressional hearings to review the Ramos and Compean case and Border Patrol policies. He also signed onto a bill in the 110th Congress introduced by Rep. Duncan Hunter (R-CA) to provide both Ramos and Compean with a congressional pardon. On July 29, 2008, Rep. Calvert sent two letters, along with several other colleagues, requesting that the President commute the sentences of both Ramos and Compean to time served. ###
03.30.2009	Today, Rep. Ken Calvert (R-Corona) was pleased to announce that the authorization of three Inland Empire water projects was included in the Omnibus Public Land Management Act of 2009, S. 22, which passed the Senate today. The authorization of the projects is the result of a multi-year effort by Rep. Calvert, who originally introduced the legislation authorizing the projects in the House of Representatives. "California continues to be in a statewide drought and we must take every step possible to increase our water supplies," stated Rep. Calvert. "The projects authorized by this bill are exactly they types of projects our region needs to ensure we have a water supply that is reliable, cost-effective, and of the highest quality." Local projects included in the Omnibus Public Land Management Act of 2009, which is expected to be approved by the House in the near future, include: Riverside-Corona Feeder Project The Riverside-Corona Feeder Water Supply Act authorizes the Secretary of the Interior, in cooperation with the Western Municipal Water District, Riverside County, California, to participate in the planning, design, and construction of the Riverside-Corona Feeder water supply project, which includes 20 groundwater wells, groundwater treatment facilities, water storage and pumping facilities, and 28 miles of pipeline in San Bernardino and Riverside Counties. City of Corona Water Recycling and Reuse Project The City of Corona receives 55 percent of its water from imported sources and 45 percent from local groundwater supplies. The reclamation system will enable the City of Corona to provide recycled water to parks, landscape maintenance districts, schools, landscaped freeway frontages and any other project that does not require potable water. It will also reduce the need for increased water imports and construction of additional drinking water infrastructure. The project will consist of 3 reservoirs and 2 pump stations along with retrofitted user irrigation systems. Additionally, 27 miles of pipelines are needed since recycled water is required to be kept completely separate from drinking water and uses a dedicated system of pipelines. The City plans to retrofit approximately 200 sites including schools, public parks and landscape areas, freeway landscaping, golf courses and commercial landscaping. Yucaipa Valley Water Supply Renewal Project The Yucaipa Valley Water District (YVWD) provides treated water to Southern California communities in portions of both Riverside and San Bernardino Counties. Water sources used to meet demands in the Yucaipa Valley include imported supplies from northern California, local surface and ground water supplies, and water reclamation and recycling technologies. As the Yucaipa Valley transitions from an agricultural to a suburban community, YVWD must provide new infrastructure to meet the growing demands for water. In addition, regulatory requirements that control use of recycled water and wastewater discharges are becoming more stringent due to the District's location in the Santa Ana Watershed. YVWD must achieve a status of zero discharge providing the ultimate protection of downstream water resources consistent with the goals of the Clean Water Act. Increasing demands for water supplies in the Valley combined with stringent water quality and wastewater discharge requirements, require innovative and non-traditional solutions in order to effectively solve the Valley's water problems. The Yucaipa Valley Water Supply Renewal Project will maximize the various water resources in the Yucaipa Valley. This section will provide federal assistance for planning, designing, and constructing the new Yucaipa Valley Regional Water Filtration Facility that is part of the Renewal project. The new facility will contain an advanced filtration (reverse osmosis) system and a brine pipeline to remove salinity, contaminants, and organic compounds from the water supply in the Yucaipa Valley. The brine pipeline will extend nearly 20-miles to the existing Santa Ana Regional Interceptor brine pipeline. This project will minimize the amount of water imported from northern California, maximize the use of higher quality water, reduce withdrawals from ground water supplies, and provide a long-term, drought-proof water supply. The full project is expected to reduce demands on the California State Water Project by over 4 billion gallons per year, which is a sufficient quantity of water for 27,000 families. "At a time when water demand continues to grow due to the West's increasing population, traditional water sources have been confronted by a prolonged drought and other environmental challenges," said Rep. Calvert "It is imperative that Southern California continue to reduce its dependence on imported water from the Delta and Colorado River through innovations." ###
03.30.2009	Today Rep. Ken Calvert (R-CA) voted against H.R. 2, a massive expansion of the State Children's Health Insurance Program (SCHIP). The bill passed the House 289 to 139. "I find it unconscionable that Speaker Pelosi has hijacked a successful program, created by Republicans ten years ago with my support, in an effort to provide benefits to illegal immigrants and bring the U.S. one step closer to a nationalized system of healthcare," said Rep. Calvert. H.R. 2 expands the program to a point that undermines the original purpose of SCHIP - to provide medical insurance for low-income children. The bill would provide benefits to middle-class families, childless adults, and would increase access to taxpayer funded health benefits to illegal immigrants. The bill also provides SCHIP to higher income brackets which would shift it away from covering low-income children who are already eligible but not enrolled. The Democrat expansion of SCHIP is also irresponsibly funded by increasing the federal tax on cigarettes which would require an additional 22 million new smokers to fund. The most likely target to attract new smokers would be adolescents and young adults. "I cannot reiterate enough my support for the existing SCHIP program and for decreasing the number of uninsured children in this country," stated Rep. Calvert. "However, I have strong concerns that the Majority Party is on a path to destroy this program and it will be our nation's neediest children who pay the price." Congress already reauthorized and fully funded SCHIP through March 31, 2009 – the vote today is a political ploy used by Democrats to mask an unsuccessful legislative agenda that places illegal immigrants above low-income children. Rep. Calvert is a co-sponsor of H.R. 464, the More Children, More Choices Act, which would re-authorize SCHIP for five years and ensures mechanisms are in place to prevent illegal immigrants and children from families who can afford private health insurance from crowding out the poorest children that SCHIP was designed to protect. Additionally, H.R 464 would create a refundable, advance tax credit of $1,400 for each child in a family earning between 200% and 300% of the Federal Poverty Level. This tax credit will enable more hardworking American families to purchase private insurance coverage for their children. Congressman Calvert will also cosponsor legislation that will be introduced soon, titled the Healthy Kids One Stop Act. The bill would give states the option to combine or streamline the SCHIP enrollment process with another government agency that already provides a form of assistance to low-income children. The Healthy Kids One Stop Act will help SCHIP reach its intended purpose of covering uninsured low-income children by creating more avenues for efficiently enrolling them. ###
03.30.2009	Yesterday Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee Jerry Lewis (R-CA) announced that Congressman Ken Calvert (R-CA) will serve on three subcommittees. "I look forward to continuing my work on the subcommittees on behalf of the 44th Congressional District of California, the State of California and the country," said Rep. Calvert. "I welcome the responsibility to be a good steward for American taxpayer dollars and fulfill the duties for each subcommittee." "I've known and worked with Ken for many years and can testify to his exceptional level of experience and expertise," Ranking Member Rep. Lewis said. "Ken's dedication to safeguarding taxpayer dollars and ensuring the effectiveness and efficiency of government programs make him an excellent fit for his role as a member of the Homeland Security, Energy and Water, and Interior subcommittees. With the many difficult economic and budget issues ahead of us, Ken will have a busy year ahead of him. I know firsthand that he is more than up to the task and will do a terrific job on behalf of his constituents and the American people." Rep. Calvert will serve on the following subcommittees: Subcommittee on Energy and Water "I look forward to working with Congressman Ken Calvert on energy and water issues during the 111th Congress," said Energy and Water Development Subcommittee Ranking-Member Rodney Frelinghuysen (NJ-11). "Ken has served Congress and his constituents with distinction for the past sixteen years. His knowledge and experience will be critical to finding long-term solutions to California's energy and water challenges." Subcommittee on Homeland Security "It is a pleasure to welcome Rep. Ken Calvert to the Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee," said Homeland Security Ranking Member Rep. Harold Rogers (KY-05) "His leadership and experience will serve the Golden State well as he works to secure America's borders, increase our nation's port security and provide necessary funding for first responders and fire prevention programs. I look forward to working with him throughout the 111th Congress as we remain vigilant in thwarting the threat of terrorism and addressing the complex homeland security issues that lay ahead." Rep. Calvert will also serve on the Subcommittee on the Interior with incoming Ranking Member Rep. Mike Simpson (ID-02). ###
03.30.2009	Today Congressman Ken Calvert (R-CA) praised the announcement by the Department of Homeland Security that 100,000 employers are now participating in E-Verify. "E-Verify provides assurance to employers that they are hiring legal workers and it denies U.S. jobs to illegal immigrants," said Rep. Calvert. "If we are truly going to control our borders, it is imperative that we cut off the job magnet. The need for E-Verify is even more pronounced during tough economic times when Americans are losing their jobs." Rep. Calvert was the original author of the bill that created E-Verify in 1996. Over the last 11 years, E-Verify has evolved from a humble five state pilot program to a nationwide voluntary program. The States of Mississippi and Arizona have made E-Verify mandatory for all employers. E-Verify is 99.5% accurate and 94.2% of checks to the system receive an instant "green light" to work. For individuals who receive a tentative non-confirmation, they have eight business days to contact SSA or DHS. DHS has also implemented the Photo Tool program for non-citizens (legal residents authorized to work in the U.S.) which allows employers to check the photo presented on the Employment Authorization Document with the photo in the DHS database. A recent study by the Center on Immigration Studies shows that 1.3 million illegal immigrants have left the U.S. since the summer of 2007, mostly due to increased border and worksite enforcement (Christian Science Monitor, 7/31/08, Tide of illegal immigrants now being reversed). In addition to the government crackdown on illegal immigration, the economic downturn is dramatically slowing immigration to the U.S., according to data from the Census Bureau. (Wall Street Journal, 9/23/08, Immigration Slows in Face of Economic Downturn). On Monday Rep. Calvert introduced H.R. 19 which would make E-Verify mandatory for all employers in the United States. ###
03.27.2009	Rep. Calvert (R-CA) will host a free Homeownership Preservation Workshop to provide information and counseling for homeowners who are in default on their mortgage. The workshop will take place at the Yeager Center at California Baptist University, 8432 Magnolia Avenue, Riverside, from 9:00 a.m. to 3 p.m. on Saturday, January 10, 2009. Sponsored by Congressman Ken Calvert, in cooperation with the Fair Housing Council of Riverside County; the City of Riverside; U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development; NeighborWorks; the Greater Riverside Chambers of Commerce; California Baptist University; and Springboard, the workshop will include non-profit counselors available for one-on-one counseling. Homeowners are encouraged to bring their paperwork if they are in need of counseling. "Helping homeowners find a way to stay in their home is an issue of vital importance in our area," said Congressman Calvert in announcing the January 10th Workshop. "I'm pleased that the local partners have agreed to provide counseling and assistance to those who desperately need it. I urge Riverside County homeowners who are in default to take advantage of the opportunity." RSVPs are recommended and can be submitted to LaDonna Ardary at (951) 683-7100. Walk-ins are also welcome. Spanish translation will be provided. For more information, contact Congressman Calvert's Riverside office at (951)784-4300. ###
