02.05.2019	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17/Rockland-Westchester), Chairwoman of the House Appropriations Committee, released the following statement today after President Trump delivered his State of the Union address: “While I welcome President Trump’s appeal to bipartisanship, his remarks tonight fall on the skeptical ears of millions of Americans. If the president is sincere, he must now follow up with constructive actions and abandon the dangerous, divisive policies of his administration. Solutions on infrastructure, prescription drugs, and paid family leave can command bipartisan support, and the president must also show that he can keep his word and facilitate bipartisan compromise – including by supporting ongoing appropriations negotiations. “President Trump talked tonight about restoring American leadership and protecting American workers. But his actions over the past two years tell a very different story. His administration has failed the middle class, endangered America’s national security, and weakened our standing in the eyes of the global community. “The American people expect government to deliver on their priorities, advance their financial and physical security, and uphold our values as Americans. House Democrats are committed to fulfilling these responsibilities to American families and communities. The president must make a sincere, good-faith effort to support us as we carry out this work.” ###
02.05.2019	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17/Rockland-Westchester), Chairwoman of the House Appropriations Committee, released the following statement on the appointment of Elan Carr as Special Envoy to Monitor and Combat Anti-Semitism at the U.S. Department of State: “After a two-year vacancy, the Trump Administration is long overdue in appointing a Special Envoy to Monitor and Combat Anti-Semitism. As anti-Semitism continues to rise around the globe, it is more important than ever that we have a strong, qualified leader in this role. I am hopeful that Mr. Carr is the right person to spearhead our diplomatic efforts against threats to the world’s Jewish communities and that he will work with Congress to ensure that the U.S. remains a leader in the fight against anti-Semitism.” The Special Envoy position had been vacant since the beginning of the Trump Administration. Congresswoman Lowey, a co-chair of the House Bipartisan Task Force for Combating Anti-Semitism, led multiple efforts to urge the Administration to fill the Special Envoy position as quickly as possible. Additionally, the Omnibus Appropriations bills for Fiscal Years 2017 and 2018 included directives, authored by Lowey, urging the Administration to prioritize the appointment of the position and to provide funding for the efforts of the Special Envoy and his or her Office. ###
01.25.2019	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17/Rockland-Westchester), Chairwoman of the House Appropriations Committee, released the following statement on reports of airport delays caused by the Trump Shutdown, now in its 35th day: “The Trump Shutdown has claimed more victims: some of our nation’s busiest airports. After 35 days, the president and Republicans must end the shutdown, get federal employees like air traffic controllers paid and back to work, and then join Democrats for serious negotiations on border security.” ###
01.24.2019	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17/Rockland-Westchester), Chairwoman of the House Appropriations Committee, today delivered a speech on the House Floor sharing stories about constituents in her district who have been impacted by the Trump Shutdown: “Mr. Speaker, federal workers should not have to struggle to pay their bills just because my colleagues across the aisle and the president refuse to end the Trump Shutdown. “They should not be in a position of having to apply for unemployment while continuing to work without pay—which is exactly what one of my constituents from Westchester County, New York, has been forced to do. “Others in my district – nonprofit employees working reduced hours because of the shutdown – have been forced to rely on food donations to feed their families. “It is inexcusable that Republicans have rejected 11 opportunities to end the Trump Shutdown, pay workers, and reopen government. “I urge them to come to their senses and reopen government without further delay.” Hours before Lowey delivered her remarks, the House passed its tenth bill to reopen the government and end the Trump Shutdown – a Continuing Resolution to reopen the Department of Homeland Security through February 28 and guarantee that Homeland Security employees receive back pay. The ten bills passed by the House also include a package of six conferenced appropriations bills, a CR through February 28, an emergency disaster appropriations bill that included a CR through February 8, four individual bipartisan Senate appropriations bills, a package of six bipartisan Senate appropriations bills, and a CR for Homeland Security through February 8. House Republicans blocked the passage of an 11th bill, a CR through February 1. ###
01.22.2019	WHITE PLAINS, NY – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17/Rockland-Westchester), Chairwoman of the House Appropriations Committee, released the following statement in response to today’s announcement on the Penn Station Access Project: “Today’s announcement marks an important step forward for the Penn Station Access Project, which will provide much-needed relief for my constituents and other Westchester commuters who depend on reliable, efficient transit – the cornerstone of our regional economy. I urge Amtrak to commit to this critical project, and I look forward to continuing to work with our local, state, and federal partners to move Penn Station Access ahead.” ###
01.08.2019	WHITE PLAINS, NY – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17/Rockland-Westchester), Chairwoman of the House Appropriations Committee, was joined today by Westchester County Executive George Latimer and Transportation Security Officers (TSOs) at Westchester County Airport to discuss the impact of the Trump Government Shutdown on the Transportation Security Administration (TSA) and its security agents. “The Trump Shutdown, now in its third week, has forced hundreds of thousands of federal employees, including tens of thousands of TSOs—the very people who ensure our air travel is safe—to work without pay for weeks,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “This is unacceptable and heartless. No American, especially those who live paycheck to paycheck, should be forced to work without pay as bills for groceries, rent or mortgages, and even the cost of gas to get to work pile up.” Since December 22, the first day of the Trump Shutdown, 420,000 frontline federal employees, including law enforcement, public safety personnel, and TSOs, have worked without pay. Another 400,000 federal employees have been furloughed without pay. The roughly 51,000 TSA employees who screen passengers will not receive their paychecks this Friday, because of the Trump Shutdown. This has led to an uptick in employee absences, as workers call out for reasons such as not being able to pay for child care. “In addition to impacting TSOs and their families, a continued shutdown poses an even greater national security risk at our airports,” added Lowey. “Long security lines are a nuisance but pale in comparison to the real issue: the lower TSO staffing drops at our airports, the more security suffers.” “It’s unfortunate that political games are still being played with TSA workers’ livelihoods – same as they were during our last meeting during the holidays,” said County Executive Latimer. “You can’t defer bills – no matter how many stock letters the federal government gives you to send to creditors. These folks are here to make sure our air travel is secure, and even when they don’t get paid – they still come to work on our behalf. Congresswoman Lowey and I want them to know that they are supported, even if other branches of government do not.” “The men and women of TSA go to work every day to help keep our country safe,” said Gabriel Pedreira, Legislative and Political Organizer at American Federation of Government Employees (AFGE) District 2. “The only thing they ask in return is to receive a paycheck for their hard work. It is time for our leaders in Washington to come together and solve this shutdown fiasco. The men and women of TSA are doing their jobs- now it is time for our leaders in Washington to do their jobs and get the government back open again.” Last week, the U.S. House passed a package of bills Congresswoman Lowey introduced to end the Trump Shutdown and fund most agencies through September 30, and the Department of Homeland Security, including TSA, through February. This legislative package would open the government and provide additional time for negotiations on the one bill with the greatest disagreements. Despite having already passed these bills, Senate Republicans refuse to take up this commonsense legislation and reopen the government. Lowey has now introduced four individual appropriations bills, expected to be considered in the House this week, that will immediately reopen key parts of the federal government and stop the harm the Trump Shutdown is inflicting on families, businesses, and communities. “House Democrats have offered repeatedly to end the shutdown, but Republicans keep refusing,” said Lowey. “It is time for the President and Republicans to take yes for an answer, do the people’s business, and reopen the government.” ###
01.03.2019	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17/Rockland-Westchester), Chairwoman of the House Appropriations Committee, and Congressman Peter King (R-NY02/Nassau-Suffolk) today introduced the Securing Access to Lower Taxes by ensuring Deductibility Act of 2019, or SALT Deductibility Act, a bill to fully restore the state and local tax (SALT) deduction, which was significantly curtailed by the federal tax overhaul signed into law in December 2017. “Repealing the SALT deduction was a callous move designed to target New York taxpayers, who are taxed enough as is. That’s why I’m proud to reintroduce my bill,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “Protecting this deduction is more important than ever with the Trump Administration’s continued assault on the middle class. Our bill ensures that New York families see tax relief, not more tax burdens.” “Eliminating deductions for local and state taxes the tax reform plan will have a devastating effect on New York,” said Congressman King. “We give far more to Washington then we get back. For every dollar we give, we get $.79 back. That’s a $48 billion shortfall and hurts our middle class Long Islanders. This legislation is critical.” Prior to enactment of the Republican tax law, New York taxpayers who itemized could deduct their state and local property and income taxes. The SALT deduction was a major source of tax fairness for high-taxed states like New York, where 35 percent of taxpayers deduct an average of more than $22,000 every year. In Congresswoman Lowey’s district, the 17th Congressional District of New York, the rate is even higher, with 45 percent of taxpayers relying on the state and local tax deduction at an average of $26,000. The Republican tax law, however, caps the SALT deduction at $10,000, effectively raising taxes on millions of middle-class Americans who depend on the deduction. The SALT Deductibility Act, first introduced in January 2018, would repeal the limit on the SALT deduction, providing tax relief for the millions of families who rely on the deduction. Congresswoman Lowey has been a leader in the U.S. House for restoring the SALT deduction. In October 2018, she sent a letter urging IRS Commissioner Charles Rettig to amend a proposed regulation that would prohibit New York and other states from providing much-needed relief for taxpayers by circumventing the $10,000 cap on SALT. Lowey has also hosted a number of roundtables and forums on the SALT deduction cap, and urged then-Acting IRS Commissioner David Kautter to allow taxpayers to fully deduct prepaid 2018 state and local property taxes on their 2017 returns. A pdf of the legislation is available here. ###
12.21.2018	WHITE PLAINS, NY – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17/Rockland-Westchester), Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, released the following statement after being elected by the Democratic Caucus to serve as Chairwoman of the House Appropriations Committee in the 116th Congress: “I am honored that my Democratic colleagues have elected me to serve as Chairwoman of the House Appropriations Committee. We are ready and eager to lead the way in meeting the great responsibilities the American people have entrusted to Democrats—to invest responsibly to grow the economy, create jobs, and secure our nation. “I look forward to working with my colleagues on the committee and in Congress to pass federal spending bills that provide adequate funding for health, education, child care, infrastructure, and other investments that improve our communities and help New Yorkers and all Americans. I am also committed to using Congress’s constitutional power of the purse to provide robust, effective oversight of the Trump Administration and to reject funding that runs counter to the values and interests of hardworking families. “The immense responsibility to fund the government, keeping it open and operational, and to spend tax dollars wisely is particularly clear given the looming Trump Shutdown, which will harm American families, businesses, and communities. While Republicans have governed from crisis to crisis of their own making and failed to meet the most basic responsibilities of governing, Democrats will make government work for the people.” Lowey will be the first woman in history to chair the powerful House Appropriations Committee. ###
12.20.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17/Rockland-Westchester), incoming Chairwoman of the House Appropriations Committee, issued the following statement on the resignation of Defense Secretary Jim Mattis – a departure announced just a day after President Trump ordered a full U.S. military withdrawal from Syria: “President Trump has forsaken expert opinions and seems intent on destroying American credibility on the global stage. Secretary Mattis’ departure should serve as a wake-up call for the President to reevaluate his reckless national security policies. I deeply respect Secretary Mattis and thank him for his brave and tireless service to our nation.” ###
12.20.2018	WASHINGTON —Representatives Nita M. Lowey (D-NY-17) and Kay Granger (R-TX-12), incoming Chairwoman and Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee, released the following statement on the acquittal of 43 NGO workers who had been prosecuted by the Egyptian government: “While the Egyptian government should not have targeted NGO workers in the first place, we are pleased that the rule of law eventually prevailed in the Egypt. With a number of challenges in the region, we welcome this step in the right direction, but we continue to be concerned with the state of human rights in Egypt. “The U.S.-Egypt relationship is a deep and historic one built on shared interests and honest communication, and one that we will continue to advance as incoming Chairwoman and Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee. We look forward to working with the Egyptian government to grow our mutual understanding and to advance human rights for all Egyptians.” ###
12.19.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17/Rockland-Westchester), Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee and its Subcommittee on State and Foreign Operations, today issued the following statement in response to reports that President Trump has ordered a full U.S. military withdrawal from Syria: “I am deeply troubled by reports that President Trump has again instructed military leaders to withdraw U.S. troops from Syria, despite indications from national security leaders that the fight against ISIS is not over. ‘Mission complete’ means the enduring defeat of ISIS and supporting successful reconstruction efforts. The void created by our absence will almost certainly be filled by countries like Russia and Iran that do not share our interests or those of our allies in the region. In the absence of a unified strategy on Syria, it is clear Congress must debate and pass a new Authorization of the Use of Military Force to clarify our mission to counter violent extremism in the region and fund stabilization efforts to ensure the country does not descend into chaos.” ###
12.11.2018	WHITE PLAINS, NY – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17/Rockland-Westchester), Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, today announced the awarding of $4,100,000 in federal funding to the County of Westchester to address lead hazards in 240 housing units for low and very low-income families with children, and to perform healthy homes assessments. “Every person, regardless of their economic circumstance, deserves to live in a safe and healthy environment,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “With this federal funding, Westchester can improve the quality of life for families with children by tackling dangerous, potentially life-threatening lead hazards and conducting healthy homes assessments in hundreds of local housing units. As Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, I will continue working in Congress to secure vital resources for Westchester and the larger Lower Hudson Valley.” “Our most important task in government is to ensure the safety of our residents,” said Westchester County Executive George Latimer. “Thanks to this grant from Congresswoman Lowey, Westchester can address lead hazards and perform healthy home assessments in housing around the County. These funds can save lives by providing safer homes for hard-working Westchester families with children.” Westchester has been awarded $3,500,000 in Lead Based Paint Hazard Reduction grant program funding and $600,000 in Healthy Homes Supplemental funding from the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD). The purpose of the Lead Hazard Reduction (LHRD) grant program is to identify and control lead-based paint hazards in eligible privately-owned housing for rental or owner-occupants. ###
12.11.2018	POCANTICO HILLS, NY – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17/Rockland-Westchester), Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, today announced that the non-profit cultural organization Historic Hudson Valley (HHV) has been awarded a $30,000 National Endowment for the Humanities (NEH) grant to share the history of slavery in the north through digital storytelling. “I am pleased the NEH has invested in this important project,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “The legacy of slavery is still felt today, and accurately teaching its history is critically important to improving understanding of issues of race and racism in hopes of creating a more civil and equitable society.” “We are thrilled by Congresswoman Lowey's advocacy for Historic Hudson Valley,” said Waddell W. Stillman, the organization's president. “This vital project will help expose the legacy of slavery in the colonial north, bringing this content to new audiences through the modern medium of a digital graphic novel. We are excited to begin this journey and grateful for the head start these funds provide.” Specifically, Historic Hudson Valley will use this $30,000 federal grant to fund the preliminary stages of the creation of a digital graphic novel tentatively titled Cuffee’s Trial. The novel will depict the trial, and the historical circumstances surrounding the trial, of Cuffee, an enslaved man accused of conspiracy to commit insurrection in colonial New York. Cuffee, who was among the first of 37 men and women to be tried, convicted, and sentenced to death for what would come to be known as the New York Conspiracy, had a direct connection to Philipsburg Manor, HHV’s National Historic Landmark in Sleepy Hollow. The completed novel will become part of HHV’s larger Slavery in the Colonial North initiative. As the highest-ranking Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, Lowey secured nearly $153 million for the NEH in the Fiscal Year 2018 omnibus spending bill, an increase of $3 million over the previous year’s funding level, despite President Trump’s efforts to end the Endowment. In October 2018, Lowey participated in a conversation with NEH Chairman Jon Parrish Peede at Historic Hudson Valley in Pocantico Hills regarding the importance of the humanities in cultivating local community and broad recognition of the region’s historical heritage, and of robust federal investment in the NEH. ###
12.10.2018	HARRISON, NY – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17/Rockland-Westchester), Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee and Co-Chair of the House of Representatives Bipartisan Task Force for Combating Anti-Semitism, today issued the following statement after neo-Nazi posters were discovered on the SUNY Purchase College campus: “I was deeply troubled to learn about the discovery of neo-Nazi posters at SUNY Purchase, especially as Jews across the world came together for the Festival of Lights, a celebration of the triumph of the Jewish people over persecution. “It is with that same resolve and courage in which the Jews prevailed that we today must confront the disturbing rise of anti-Semitism at home and abroad. Only by working together will we root out hatred and bigotry in all its forms.” ###
12.10.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, on International Human Rights Day and the 70th anniversary of the signing of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, Ranking Member Nita Lowey, Democratic Caucus Vice Chair Rep. Katherine Clark, Ranking Member Eliot Engel, Rep. Barbara Lee, and Rep. Lois Frankel introduced the Reproductive Rights are Human Rights Act. The bill would require the U.S. State Department to include reproductive rights in its annual human rights report after the State Department deleted all subsections without warning or justification in 2017. “The U.S. cannot turn its back on the countless women around the world who are deprived of basic reproductive rights,” said Congresswoman Nita Lowey, Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee and its Subcommittee on State and Foreign Operations. “I’m proud to support legislation that would restore reproductive rights to the State Department’s annual human rights report, maintaining U.S. leadership on behalf of the world’s women across administrations.” “Documenting and reporting human rights violations is a major part of eradicating their existence,” said Congresswoman Katherine Clark. “This bill would ensure that our State Department maintains its vital role as an international watchdog and protector of women’s rights no matter the ideology of our White House.” “The Trump Administration’s censorship of key elements of the State Department’s annual human rights report is outrageous,” said Ranking Member Eliot L. Engel. The deletion of reproductive rights was a clear step back from the United States’ obligation to address the full range of human rights violations around the globe. This bill will ensure Congress has a clear and complete picture of the challenges women and girls face. Without this information, we cannot hope to overcome those challenges.” “Regardless of who sits in the Oval Office, the US government should serve as an advocate for women’s fundamental reproductive rights. Protecting and advancing women’s rights should remain front and center in our diplomacy, including documenting and reporting on violations against their human rights,” said Congresswoman Barbara Lee. “If Secretary Pompeo won’t stand up for women around the world, then Congress must. I am proud to support the Reproductive Rights are Human Rights Act, on behalf of women and girls across the globe.” “Women’s rights are human rights,” said Rep. Lois Frankel. “There is no greater right for women than to be in charge of their own bodies.” As required by the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 and the Trade Act of 1974, the Secretary of State reports annually to Congress on the status of human rights in each country receiving U.S. foreign aid, as well as in each United Nations member state. Since 2011, these reports have included detailed information on deprivation of women’s access to reproductive rights. Congress and the private sector rely upon them when considering appropriations requests and making advocacy, planning, and policy decisions. Removing women’s right from the annual report in 2017 was a dramatic and dangerous shift in U.S. efforts to protect the international rights of women and sent a message to abusive governments that the U.S. would no longer hold them account for violations. In October, Congressmembers Lowey, Clark, Lee, Engel, Frankel and 124 of their colleagues sent a letter to Secretary Pompeo calling on him to reverse this policy. “I applaud Representatives Katherine Clark, Eliot Engel, Nita Lowey, Barbara Lee, and Lois Frankel for introducing the Reproductive Rights Are Human Rights Act of 2018 today. This bill will ensure that the U.S. State Department includes comprehensive reporting on reproductive rights in its annual Country Reports on Human Rights Practices. Access to reproductive healthcare has been recognized as a protected human right impacting women’s right to life, health, equality, non-discrimination and freedom from cruel, inhumane and degrading treatment and governments do not get to pick and choose whose rights will be respected,” said Nancy Northup, President and CEO of the Center for Reproductive Rights. “When women’s rights are limited and they are unable to access basic health care like contraception, safe abortion, and maternal health care, their ability to achieve economic, social, and political empowerment is fundamentally hindered. By requiring annual reporting on these critical issues, the House of Representatives is ensuring that the rights of women and girls will no longer be political spoils that can be erased from global discourse.” “This erasure puts real lives in danger,” said NARAL Pro-Choice America President Ilyse Hogue. “Using backdoor tactics to erase all mention of reproductive rights—including abortion, contraception, and maternal mortality—from vital reports and resources in order to push an extreme, ideological agenda is a true testament to just how dangerous and corrupt this administration is. The Trump administration will stop at nothing to systematically dismantle and deny the fundamental freedoms of women in the U.S. and abroad, and this bill is an important step in fighting back against their attempts to deny that reproductive rights are a human right.” “Reproductive health care is health care, and health care is a basic human right. The Trump-Pence administration’s erasure of reproductive rights from the State Department’s human rights report is an attack on women around the world, and the communities that depend on them. We applaud Rep. Clark and other champions of reproductive rights for recognizing that women around the world deserve access to comprehensive health care, which includes reproductive health care, and rely on it to lead healthy, successful lives. We are grateful to have leaders in Congress who stand up for the basic notion that reproductive rights are human rights,” said Dr. Leana Wen, President, Planned Parenthood Federation of America. Human Rights Day is observed every year on December 10th in recognition of the anniversary of the United Nations General Assembly adopting the Universal Declaration of Human Rights in 1948. This year marks the 70th anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, a milestone document that proclaimed the inalienable rights of every human being, regardless of race, color, religion, sex, language, political or other opinion, national or social origin, property, birth or other status. Forty-five organizations have endorsed the Reproductive Rights are Human Rights Act including: 1. Center for Reproductive Rights 2. Advocates for Youth 3. American Psychological Association 4. Athlete Ally 5. Bangladesh Model Youth Parliament 6. CARE USA 7. Center for Biological Diversity 8. Center for Health and Gender Equity (CHANGE) 9. Clearinghouse on Women's Issues 10. Global Justice Institute, Metropolitan Community Churches 11. Guttmacher Institute 12. Human Rights Campaign 13. Human Rights Project at the Urban Justice Center 14. Ibis Reproductive Health 15. International Action Network for Gender Equity & Law 16. International Center for Research on Women (ICRW) 17. International Federation of Business and Professional Women 18. International Women’s Health Coalition 19. Ipas 20. MADRE 21. Milaan Foundation 22. NARAL Pro-Choice America 23. National Council of Jewish Women 24. National Institute for Reproductive Health 25. National Organization for Women 26. National Women's Health Network 27. Oxfam America 28. PAI 29. People For the American Way 30. Planned Parenthood Federation of America 31. Population Connection Action Fund 32. Population Institute 33. Promundo-US 34. Reconstructionist Rabbinical Assembly 35. Robert F. Kennedy Human Rights 36. Sex Workers Project at the Urban Justice Center 37. Too Young To Wed 38. UPIC Health 39. US National Committee for UN Women 40. Women Graduates - USA 41. Women for Afghan Women 42. Women of Color Advancing Peace, Security and Conflict Transformation 43. Woodhull Freedom Foundation 44. ZanaAfrica Foundation 45. Jewish Labor Committee ###
11.20.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17/Rockland-Westchester), Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee and its Subcommittee on State and Foreign Operations, today responded to President Trump’s statement regarding Saudi Arabia and the murder of journalist Jamal Khashoggi: “The President’s bizarre statement today is an abdication of the American values that have guided our foreign policy across administrations. While Saudi Arabia has been an important partner in the fight against Iran’s malign actions, the U.S. must continue to hold our partners and allies accountable when they disregard human rights and the freedom of the press. The world is a dangerous place, but it is made more dangerous by U.S. leadership that lets human rights abuses go unpunished and trusts authoritarian leaders over U.S. foreign policy and national security experts.” ###
11.15.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17/Rockland-Westchester), Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, issued the following statement on the Food and Drug Administration’s (FDA) decision to pursue restrictions on sales of flavored e-cigarettes: “I am encouraged by the FDA’s proposal to ban flavored cigars and menthol in cigarettes, and I urge the agency to move quickly to implement these rules. This action could significantly prevent more young people from getting hooked on nicotine and would save lives. “But sadly, the FDA’s effort will not fully stem the growing epidemic of teenage e-cigarette use. I remain concerned that the agency has refused to follow through on its threat to ban flavored e-cigarettes. We know that these devices are marketed to children, with flavors like Fruit Loops and Gummy Bears, and that without an outright ban, young people will continue to access them. “Despite the proposed rules announced today, the window of opportunity for younger generations to get hooked on nicotine remains open. I urge the FDA to recognize that flavored e-cigarettes have no place in the market and to use their regulatory authority to pursue a full ban.” Congresswoman Lowey has been a leader in the U.S. House for regulating e-cigarettes and other vaping devices. During an April 17, 2018, Appropriations hearing, Lowey challenged Commissioner Gottlieb on the agency’s approach to e-cigarettes, particularly JUULs, warning that delaying action will put youth at unnecessary risk. She has also hosted multiple roundtables in Rockland and Westchester with students, local officials, community leaders, medical experts, and advocates on the dangers of youth smoking and has commended the Rockland and Westchester County Legislatures for banning the sale of cigarette products to those under 21 years of age. ###
11.14.2018	WASHINGTON—Representative Nita M. Lowey, Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee and its Subcommittee on State and Foreign Operations; Rep. Eliot L. Engel, Ranking Member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee; Rep. Barbara Lee; Rep. Jan Schakowsky; and Rep. Lois Frankel today denounced new proposed policies at the State Department that would censor discussion of women’s health. In a letter to Secretary of State Mike Pompeo, the Members expressed outrage at new reports that the Administration is considering banning American diplomats from using terms including “sexual and reproductive health.” “We urge you to reject any policy that censors American diplomats, undermines global health, and threatens the tremendous progress that has been shepherded by U.S. global health assistance,” the Members wrote. Full text of the letter can be found here and below. Dear Secretary Pompeo, We write to express our grave concerns regarding reports that the Department of State is considering barring United States diplomats from using the terms “sexual and reproductive health” and “comprehensive sexuality education,” while also adopting new and regressive positions concerning the health and wellbeing of women and families. We strongly object to such censorship and, if these reports are true, urge you to reject such proposals. To suppress such language is to signal to the world that the U.S. deems ideology more important than facts in determining America’s foreign policy priorities. That is particularly alarming with respect to global health, as U.S. leadership and global health assistance have helped save millions of lives and protect Americans from infectious threats. Failure to promote evidence-based programming and policies in unambiguous language will threaten the progress that has been made. A prohibition of the phrase “sexual and reproductive health,” for example, would add significantly to the obstacles that many already face in accessing essential health services, including contraception and testing and treatment for HIV. It would further isolate the U.S. from other donor governments and hinder our ability to leverage investments from others to extend the reach and impact of our global health programs. Such a step would also jeopardize the efficient and effective use of American taxpayer dollars and, most importantly, the health and wellbeing of those served by U.S. foreign assistance – especially women and girls. Prohibiting the terms “sexual and reproductive health” and “comprehensive sexuality education” would also contradict well-established science and standards of medical care. “Sexual and reproductive health” is clearly defined by the World Health Organization, which has long set standards of care for providers worldwide with the input of United Nations member states. Similarly, the 2016 Lancet Commission on Adolescent Health and Wellbeing referred to comprehensive sexuality education as “essential knowledge for health,”[1] while the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists’ Committee on Adolescent Health Care found that “[studies] have demonstrated that comprehensive sexuality education programs reduce the rates of sexual activity, sexual risk behaviors…sexually transmitted infections, and adolescent pregnancy.”[2] To reject these findings is to reject the expertise and consensus of respected health care authorities. We urge you to reject any policy that censors American diplomats, undermines global health, and threatens the tremendous progress that has been shepherded by U.S. global health assistance. We look forward to your response. Sincerely, ###
11.14.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Representatives Nita Lowey (D-NY), Chris Smith (R-NJ), Eliot Engel (D-NY), Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL), Ted Deutch (D-FL), Kay Granger (R-TX), Marc Veasey (D-TX), and Peter Roskam (R-IL), the Co-Chairs of the House of Representatives Bipartisan Task Force for Combating Anti-Semitism, applauded the passage of H.Res.1138, a House resolution introduced by the Task Force Co-Chairs and Rep. Mike Doyle (D-PA), to condemn the anti-Semitic attack on the Tree of Life synagogue building on October 27, 2018. The Task Force issued the following statement upon passage of the resolution: “We are glad to see this resolution pass the House unanimously, which reaffirms the House’s commitment to fighting anti-Semitism in all its forms here at home and around the world. Just yesterday, the FBI released its 2017 hate crime statistics, showing a 37 percent increase in anti-Semitic incidents in the U.S. from 2016. We will carry the memory of those lost in the Tree of Life synagogue building attack, the deadliest anti-Semitic incident in U.S. history, and work to ensure that all Americans are free to worship in peace and security.” ###
11.13.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17/Rockland-Westchester), Ranking Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee and its Subcommittee on State and Foreign Operations, issued the following statement regarding the recent rocket attacks on Israel: “Since Monday afternoon, Hamas has indiscriminately fired approximately 400 rockets and mortars at Israel in response to a targeted anti-terror raid. This escalation, the largest increase in violence since 2014, is unconscionable, and I condemn Hamas’ actions, which threaten civilians on both sides. I hope that a long-term conflict can be avoided, and a ceasefire will be reached soon.” ###
11.13.2018	VALHALLA, NY – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17/Rockland-Westchester), Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, today announced $246,000 in federal funding for New York Medical College to conduct research with the goal of developing a new cure for the tick-borne disease babesiosis. “I’m very pleased to have helped secure this vital federal funding for New York Medical College, a leading biomedical research institution advancing groundbreaking research,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “This grant will enable NYMC to tackle an emerging public health threat in our region and help keep our communities safe.” “The emerging tick-borne disease Babesia microti, found in the U.S. and prevalent in the Hudson Valley, poses a significant health threat in this region,” said Dr. Dana Mordue, Associate Professor of Microbiology and Immunology and Project Director. “The parasite, which infects red blood cells, has become an important cause of transfusion-transmitted infection. Toward this end, the grant provides funds for collaborative translational research between a physician and a basic scientist, to perform necessary pre-clinical studies aimed at developing a potential novel cure for babesiosis—particularly for the most vulnerable immune suppressed patients.” The funding was awarded through the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases’ (NIAID) Allergy, Immunology, and Transplantation Research program. NIAID, one of the 27 institutes and centers that comprise the National Institutes of Health (NIH), is mandated with responding to emerging public health threats. As the highest-ranking Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, Congresswoman Lowey was instrumental in securing a $2 billion increase in federal funding for NIH in the Fiscal Year 2019 spending bill for the Department of Health and Human Services enacted earlier this fall. In addition, earlier this year, she secured a $3 billion increase for NIH as part of the Omnibus Appropriations Act of 2018. The $3 billion, or 8.8%, increase from the FY2017 enacted level is the largest increase in NIH funding in 15 years. ###
11.09.2018	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY), along with Congressional Pro-Choice Caucus Co-Chairs Diana DeGette (D-CO) and Barbara Lee (D-CA), condemned the Trump Administration’s latest attempts to push through anti-choice actions that will further limit women’s access to abortion and birth control. On Wednesday, the Department of Health and Human Services finalized two rules that would allow employers to opt out of the Affordable Care Act’s birth control mandate. In addition, the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services issued a rule that would result in burdensome regulations designed to push abortion coverage out of reach for at least 1.3 million women. “One day after voters resoundingly showed their support for women and protecting access to health care, this latest attack by the Trump administration is particularly tone-deaf and vindictive,” the lawmakers said. “Women have made it clear that they will not stand for shameless efforts to roll back their hard-fought and constitutionally-protected reproductive rights. In the 116th Congress, the Democratic majority will work to block this extreme, ideological, and overwhelmingly unpopular agenda.” The changes to health care coverage for birth control and abortion coverage will make it more difficult – and, in some cases, impossible – for women to access contraception or make decisions about their own reproductive health. When these changes were first proposed in October 2017, Lowey, DeGette, former Pro-Choice Caucus Co-Chair Louise Slaughter, and Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi led more than 180 of their colleagues in a letter to Trump administration officials opposing the rules, warning that these changes would restrict access to birth control for millions of women covered under the Affordable Care Act. Federal courts in Pennsylvania and California blocked the interim rules last year, but the Trump administration has continued to work to make them permanent. ###
11.08.2018	NEW CITY, NY – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17/Rockland-Westchester) today presented a posthumous Purple Heart Certificate and Medal to the New City family of World War I veteran Francesco Bastone at a ceremony in her New City office. “As the nation prepares to mark Veterans Day and the 100th anniversary of the end of World War I, it is my honor to pay tribute to a hero of the Great War,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “The Purple Heart Certificate and Medal are a testament to Mr. Bastone’s distinguished service to our country, and I know the Bastone family will be enormously proud and inspired every time they look at them and think about his service and sacrifice. Francesco Bastone enlisted in the U.S. Army in April 1918 and was honorably discharged in June 1919. He served as a Private in the American Expeditionary Force on the Western Front, in the 326th Infantry. He fought in the Meuse-Argonne Offensive, which lasted from September 26, 1918 until the Armistice on November 11, 1918. The Offensive was the deadliest in American history, with an estimated 26,277 killed and more than 95,000 wounded. Mr. Bastone was among those injured in a mustard gas attack in October 1918, and was hospitalized for more than five months afterward. His injury was most likely the cause of his fatal fibrosis and tuberculosis and is what entitles him to this posthumous award. Lowey was joined at the ceremony by Mr. Bastone’s 92-year-old son, four grandchildren, and a granddaughter-in-law. Veterans or family members who believe they or a loved one are eligible for service medals should contact Lowey’s White Plains District Office (914-428-1707) or New City District Office (845-639-3485). ###
11.08.2018	WASHINGTON—Representatives Nita Lowey (D-NY), Chris Smith (R-NJ), Eliot Engel (D-NY), Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL), Ted Deutch (D-FL), Kay Granger (R-TX), Marc Veasey (D-TX), and Peter Roskam (R-IL), the Co-Chairs of the House of Representatives Bipartisan Task Force for Combating Anti-Semitism, joined Representative Mike Doyle (D-PA) in introducing a resolution Tuesday to condemn the anti-Semitic attack on the Tree of Life synagogue building on October 27, 2018. The Task Force issued the following statement upon introducing the resolution: “We are proud to join Representative Doyle in introducing this resolution, which condemns the anti-Semitic attack on the Tree of Life synagogue building; honors the victims, the injured, and their families; applauds law enforcement and first responders; and reaffirms US commitment to defeating anti-Semitism in all its forms. This heinous attack, which took the lives of 11 innocent people, simply because they were Jewish, was a horrible reminder that this age-old bigotry is alive in the 21st century. We hope our colleagues will join us in swiftly passing this resolution and standing in solidarity with Jewish communities around the world.” ###
10.31.2018	NEW CITY, NY – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17/Rockland-Westchester) on Tuesday introduced legislation (H.R. 7108) to designate the Department of Veterans Affairs community clinic in New City as the “Jerry Donnellan VA Community Clinic.” Mr. Donnellan, a Vietnam veteran and long-time advocate for veterans in Rockland, passed away in March of this year at the age of 71. The introduction of Congresswoman Lowey’s legislation comes just days after the VA Hudson Valley Health Care System dedicated a bench in front of the New City clinic in honor of Mr. Donnellan. “Jerry Donnellan was, without a doubt, one of Rockland County’s most ardent supporters of veterans and their families,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “His distinguished legacy lives on in the VA Community Clinic in New City that he helped to start, and one of the best ways to honor that legacy is to dedicate this facility in his name. It is my privilege to introduce this legislation, and I am committed to ensuring that the New City clinic permanently bears Mr. Donnellan’s name.” In July 1968, Gerald T. “Jerry” Donnellan of Valley Cottage, New York, was drafted into the Army and served with the 196th Light Infantry in Vietnam, attaining the rank of Sergeant. While in Vietnam, Donnellan was ambushed and sustained a compound fracture in his right arm and lost his right leg below the knee. The text of the bill is available below and here as a pdf. A BILL To designate the Department of Veterans Affairs community clinic in New City, New York, as the “Jerry Donnellan VA Community Clinic”. Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, SECTION 1. Findings. Congress makes the following findings: (1) In July 1968, Gerald T. “Jerry” Donnellan of Valley Cottage, New York, was drafted into the Army and served with the 196th Light Infantry in Vietnam, attaining the rank of Sergeant. (2) While in Vietnam, Donnellan was ambushed and sustained a compound fracture in his right arm and lost his right leg below the knee. (3) In 1986, Donnellan began to work in the Veterans Agency Office of Rockland County, New York. In 1992, he was appointed Commissioner of Veterans Affairs and held that position until January 2018 when he retired from the county’s Veterans Service Agency after more than 30 years of service to veterans and their families. (4) During his tenure as Veterans Director, Donnellan created the local Chapter 333 of the Vietnam Veterans of America, opened the first Rockland County Veterans Homeless Shelter, created the Camp Shanks Museum, helped begin the modern tradition of Memorial Day watchfires to remember the fallen as General George Washington once did, and established the Rockland County Buffalo Soldiers’ Award to recognize the contributions of African-American veterans. (5) Donnellan was instrumental in opening the first Department of Veterans Affairs community clinic in Rockland County. Recognizing the need for a local health center, he worked with the Department of Veterans Affairs to secure a site and get it approved. Serving more than 18,000 veterans in 2017, the New City VA health clinic is an important resource to help meet the needs of veterans in the community. (6) Donnellan received numerous medals for his service, including three Purple Hearts and the Rockland County Legislature’s Distinguished Service Award. (7) Besides being the founder and first President of Vietnam Veterans of America, Chapter 333, Donnellan was a member and a veteran service officer for the Military Order of the Purple Heart, Chapter 120, a member of the Disabled American Veterans, Chapter 98, a member of the Rockland County Marine Corps League, and a member of the American Legion, Post 310. (8) Donnellan worked and volunteered for many non-profit organizations, such as the United Way, the Salvation Army, Dominican College, and for one of his alma maters through the Rockland Community College Foundation. SEC. 2. Designation of Jerry Donnellan VA COMMUNITY Clinic. (a) Designation.—The Department of Veterans Affairs community clinic in New City, New York, shall after the date of the enactment of this Act be known as the “Jerry Donnellan VA Community Clinic”. (b) References.—Any reference in any law, regulation, map, document, paper, or other record of the United States to the health care center referred to in subsection (a) shall be deemed to be a reference to the Jerry Donnellan VA Community Clinic. ###
10.30.2018	WHITE PLAINS, NY – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17/Rockland-Westchester), Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, issued the following statement on President Trump’s plan to terminate birthright citizenship through executive order: “For more than a century, crossing Republican and Democratic administrations, it has been widely accepted that the 14th Amendment to the U.S. Constitution grants birthright citizenship. “More than 30 countries provide birthright citizenship, contrary to the president’s claim that the U.S. is the only country to do so—a patently false assertion underpinning his argument for ending this long-standing policy. “The president’s plan, announced just days before the 2018 midterm election, is a deliberate attempt to fan the flames of division and will only further polarize the nation at a time of desperate need for healing.” ###
10.29.2018	WASHINGTON—Representatives Nita Lowey (D-NY), Chris Smith (R-NJ), Eliot Engel (D-NY), Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL), Ted Deutch (D-FL), Kay Granger (R-TX), Marc Veasey (D-TX), and Peter Roskam (R-IL), the Co-Chairs of the House of Representatives Bipartisan Taskforce for Combating Anti-Semitism, issued the following statement in reaction to the Saturday attack on the Tree of Life Synagogue in Pittsburgh: "Saturday's attack, the deadliest assault on the Jewish community in US history, took the lives of 11 innocent individuals, who were murdered simply for being Jewish. We have watched in horror for years as anti-Semitic rhetoric and actions have proliferated, both here at home and abroad, and this painful incident confirms our worst fears. We, members of Congress across the US political spectrum, stand united in our opposition to anti-Semitism and to stamping out this corrosive scourge. May the memory of those lost be a blessing. We will carry these individuals, the wounded, and their families in our hearts as we continue this work." ###
10.29.2018	WHITE PLAINS, NY – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17/Rockland-Westchester), Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, issued the following statement regarding reports today that the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) is considering new labeling requirements for sesame over allergy concerns: “I am pleased that the FDA is considering new labeling requirements for sesame, one of the most prevalent allergens in the United States. “For years, I have pushed the FDA to add sesame to the list of major food allergens. Just like other major allergens, sesame can trigger life-threatening reactions. Its absence from food ingredient labels places consumers—especially children—with the allergy at serious risk. “Requiring sesame under federal law to be listed on food allergen labeling would mitigate these risks, making it easier for sesame-allergic consumers to identify and avoid foods that could cause a reaction. I urge the FDA to swiftly move forward with these new disclosure requirements to protect public health and put necessary information in the hands of consumers.” Eight major allergens are required to have a label displaying their inclusion on a list of ingredients on food packaging. Sesame is not included on the list of major allergens even though sesame allergies are estimated to afflict more than 300,000 people in the United States, making it the 9th most commonly diagnosed allergy in the country. According to the Center for Science in the Public Interest, sesame is also the 6th or 7th most severe of the major allergens, posing potentially deadly risks for many sesame-allergic people who are accidently exposed. Congresswoman Lowey has been the leading champion of legislation to support the food-allergic community. In April 2018, she secured passage of an amendment to study allergic reactions aboard flights as part of H.R. 4, the FAA Reauthorization Act, which passed the U.S. House. Among other accomplishments, Lowey authored the Food Allergen Labeling and Consumer Protection Act, enacted in 2004 and first introduced in 1999, which requires labeling of the eight main food allergens in plain language on food packaging. ###
10.27.2018	WHITE PLAINS, NY – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17/Rockland-Westchester) today issued the following statement on the deadly mass shooting at Tree of Life Synagogue in Pittsburgh: “This morning’s hate-filled attack on Tree of Life Synagogue in Pittsburgh is an attack on us all. My prayers are with the victims, their families, and this vibrant community. The right of people to practice their religion in peace and without fear is a founding principle of our nation. Unfortunately, anti-Semitism and hate filled rhetoric and attacks have become all too common. We must confront hate wherever we find it to put a stop to this scourge of violence. We have a right to attend our houses of worship, our schools, and our movie theaters free from fear of gun violence. Congress must enact meaningful reform to strengthen and expand our gun laws. I will continue monitoring this national tragedy as more details come in.” ###
10.26.2018	TARRYTOWN, NY – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17/Rockland-Westchester) today attended Regeneron’s second annual “Day for Doing Good,” a global, company-wide day of service. Lowey visited Regeneron’s headquarters in Tarrytown where she met with middle school girls from underserved school districts after they participated in STEM (science, technology, engineering, math) activities related to women pioneers in science and math, and delivered brief remarks on the importance of increasing access to STEM education for women and girls. “In 2015, women filled 47 percent of all US jobs, but held only 24 percent of STEM jobs,” said Lowey. “The deficit of women in STEM is not just a women’s issue, it’s an economic issue that could be detrimental to our country’s ability to compete on a global scale. As the Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee, I’m working to address this issue and support young women who dream of being great scientists, mathematicians, and engineers in our district and across the country.” Lowey continued: “Young women are the future of science, technology, engineering, and math. You are the next technological innovators and scientists. I look forward to seeing your contributions and reading about your successes for years to come.” Lowey added: “I am proud of the work more than 1,700 Regeneron colleagues will do today in more than 60 community service projects. By teaching students about STEM and business, packing meals for more than 30,000 hungry people, and providing companionship to 500 area seniors and youth, your generous work will improve our community and make real difference in the lives of others.” As the highest-ranking Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, Lowey secured historic investments to support STEM in the FY19 Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education (LHHS) spending bill enacted last month, including computer science education, $130 million in STEM resources for teachers, and $60 million for a new STEM and Computer Science competition. ###
10.24.2018	WHITE PLAINS, NY – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17/Rockland-Westchester) today issued the following statement after the discovery of explosive devices sent to former President Barack Obama, former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton, and philanthropist George Soros: “We condemn these attempted attacks and are grateful that the packages were successfully intercepted. My staff and I have been in contact with local elected officials, law enforcement, and the FBI, and we will closely follow the investigation.” ###
10.22.2018	NEW CITY, NY – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17/Rockland-Westchester), Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, today announced that Big Brothers Big Sisters (BBBS) of Rockland County has been awarded $450,000 in federal funding to provide mentoring services for youth impacted by opioids. “The funding announced today will go a long way toward keeping Rockland County youth safe and healthy, strengthening mentoring services for those impacted by opioids and helping protect a new generation from opioid addiction,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “I will continue to secure these vital federal resources to keep our communities safe.” The funding was awarded through the Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention’s (OJJDP) Mentoring Opportunities for Youth Initiative, Category 4 (Project Sites and Mentoring Strategies for Youth Impacted by Opioids), which supports youth mentoring organizations that have a demonstrated partnership with a public or private substance abuse treatment agency. OJJDP is an office within the U.S. Department of Justice’s (DOJ) Office of Justice Programs (OJP). BBBS will use this funding in collaboration with Wellcore, their service-providing partner, and other community allies, to target approximately 5,000 Rockland County youth ages 17 and younger who are not only using or at high risk for using opioids but also those who are seriously impacted by parents or family members with opioid addictions. Securing robust funding to respond to the opioid crisis has been a priority of Congresswoman Lowey’s. In 2017, Lowey announced $25,260,676 in federal funds from the Department of Health and Human Services to New York State to combat opioid addiction through the State Targeted Response to the Opioid Crisis Grants program administered by the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA). The funding was the first of two rounds provided for in the 21st Century Cures Act, which Congresswoman Lowey voted for and helped pass the U.S. House. ###
10.22.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17/Rockland-Westchester), Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee and its Subcommittee on State and Foreign Operations, today issued the following statement in response to President Trump’s threat to cut off foreign aid to Guatemala, Honduras, and El Salvador over a migrant caravan: “Migrant families are fleeing extreme violence and political oppression, and are trying to seek asylum in the United States. The president’s threat to cut off foreign aid in response to this growing humanitarian crisis is not only cruel and inhumane, it ignores that Congress, not the president, is entrusted by the Constitution with the power of the purse. Congress provides assistance to Central American countries to make those countries safer and more stable, addressing the root causes of why people want to leave in the first place. Cutting funding would make the problem worse, not better. Congress must reject the Administration’s dangerous agenda and policies and immediately work to pass comprehensive reform of our nation’s broken immigration laws to keep families together and protect our economy.” ###
10.17.2018	From left: Waddell Stillman, President of Historic Hudson Valley; Congresswoman Nita Lowey; Jon Parrish Peede, National Endowment for the Humanities (NEH) chairman; and Sara Ogger, Executive Director, Humanities New York. POCANTICO HILLS, NY – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17/Rockland-Westchester) today participated in a conversation with National Endowment for the Humanities (NEH) Chairman Jon Parrish Peede regarding the importance of the humanities in cultivating local community and broad recognition of the region’s historical heritage, and of robust federal investment in the NEH. The event, which took place at the non-profit cultural organization Historic Hudson Valley, began with brief presentations from recipients of grants from the NEH and Humanities New York (HNY), and featured a showcase of archival materials from Historic Hudson Valley’s collections. “Preserving our shared histories and culture is crucial for future generations,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “As Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, I secured nearly $153 million for the National Endowment for the Humanities in the Fiscal Year 2018 omnibus spending bill, an increase of $3 million over the previous year’s funding level, despite the President’s efforts to end the Endowment. I will continue working to protect federal investments in critical cultural and arts programs that benefit residents of the Lower Hudson Valley.” Since 2013, NEH has awarded more than a dozen grants in the 17th Congressional District of New York, totaling $1,134,399. Humanities New York has supported an additional 186 events in the district, for a total of $139,495, impacting 14,358 people. ###
10.16.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Last week, Congresswoman Nita Lowey (NY-17) and Congressman Jeff Fortenberry (NE-1) introduced the Palestinian Partnership Fund Act of 2018 (HR7060). This legislation would help create the conditions on the ground necessary for an eventual end to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. The bill would establish a Palestinian Partnership Fund to facilitate and finance joint economic ventures and people-to-people exchanges between Israelis and Palestinians. Additionally, the legislation would instruct the Administration to make every effort to seek additional contributions for the Fund from Middle Eastern and European countries and the rest of the international community. Senators Chris Coons (D-DE), Lindsey Graham (R-SC), Tim Kaine (D-VA), and Cory Gardner (R-CO) introduced companion legislation (S.3549) in the Senate. “I have always believed that a two-state solution is the only framework that would lead to two states for two peoples,” Lowey said. “But this dream will only be realized through efforts on the ground to stimulate economic development and community ties between Israelis and Palestinians. This legislation would be a critical step in the reconciliation process necessary for there to one day be a democratic, Jewish State of Israel and a democratic, Palestinian State living side-by-side in peace, security, and mutual recognition.” “We often hear about the ‘the road map for peace in the Middle East,’” Fortenberry said. “The challenge is laying the proper foundation for the road. Building on previous U.S. efforts at reconciliation, this bipartisan bill is a genuine attempt by the United States to regenerate our historic role in finding creative and imaginative pathways to secure a sustainable peace. This starts by recreating new and better economic and interpersonal linkages for prosperity and interconnectedness between the region’s peoples.” Several organizations support the Palestinian Partnership Fund, including the Alliance for Middle East Peace, the American Jewish Committee, and the Jewish Council for Public Affairs. Congressman Fortenberry serves on the House Appropriations Subcommittee on State and Foreign Operations. Congresswoman Lowey is a Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on State and Foreign Operations and the Full Committee on Appropriations. The full text of the bill is available here. ###
10.10.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17/Rockland-Westchester), Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee and its Subcommittee on State and Foreign Operations, issued the following statement on missing journalist and U.S. resident Jamal Khashoggi: “I am deeply concerned by the disappearance of journalist and U.S. resident Jamal Khashoggi at Saudi Arabia’s consulate in Turkey. While nothing has been confirmed, allegations of Khashoggi’s murder within the consulate are disturbing and require a full investigation. The Administration must demand answers from the Saudis on this incident and brief Congress on their findings.” ###
10.05.2018	WHITE PLAINS, NY – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17/Rockland-Westchester), Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, sent a letter urging IRS Commissioner Charles Rettig to amend a proposed regulation that would prohibit New York and other states from providing much-needed relief for taxpayers by circumventing the $10,000 cap on the state and local tax (SALT) deduction imposed by the new tax law. “The SALT deduction was established to ensure that Americans are not taxed twice on the same income, which is exactly what will happen as a result of the cap,” Congresswoman Lowey wrote in the letter. “My constituents and taxpayers all over New York State simply cannot be squeezed any further, which is why I applauded efforts by the State to enact opportunities for charitable contributions to the state and local governments. This is consistent with federal law and established precedent and the state should be permitted to deliver necessary relief to New York taxpayers.” Lowey concluded: “For the foregoing reasons, I believe the IRS needs to amend this proposed regulation before it is finalized to ensure that the federal government does not place additional burdens on taxpayers from donor states like New York that contribute far more to the federal coffers than they take.” Prior to enactment of the new federal tax law, New York taxpayers who itemized could deduct their state and local property and income taxes. The SALT deduction was a major source of tax fairness for high-taxed states like New York, where 35 percent of taxpayers deduct an average of more than $22,000 every year. In Congresswoman Lowey’s district, the 17th Congressional District of New York, the rate is even higher, with 45 percent of taxpayers relying on the state and local tax deduction at an average of $26,000. By capping the SALT deduction at $10,000, the new tax law effectively raises taxes on millions of middle-class Americans who depend on the deduction. Congresswoman Lowey has been a leader in the U.S. House for restoring the SALT deduction. In January, she and Congressman Peter King (R-NY02) introduced the Securing Access to Lower Taxes by Ensuring Deductibility Act, or SALT Deductibility Act, which would restore the SALT deduction in its entirety. Lowey has also hosted a number of roundtables and forums on the SALT deduction cap, and urged then-Acting IRS Commissioner David Kautter to allow taxpayers to fully deduct prepaid 2018 state and local property taxes on their 2017 returns. The full text of the letter is available here and below. October 5, 2018 Charles P. Rettig Commissioner Internal Revenue Service 1111 Constitution Avenue N.W. Washington, D.C. 20224 CC:PA:LPD:PR (REG-112176-18) Dear Commissioner Rettig, I write with grave concern regarding REG-112176-18, published in the Federal Register on August 27, 2018. The proposed regulation is designed to thwart efforts of states like New York to help taxpayers shoulder the burden of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (P.L. 115-97). According to the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (TCJA) will add $1.9 trillion to the deficit over the next 10 years, delivering enormous windfalls to corporations while leaving the nation less prepared to address fiscal challenges. Included in this skewed tax plan is the $10,000 cap on state and local tax deductions, a limitation that in effect raises taxes on homeowners in New York and other high-taxed states in order to finance the corporate tax reduction. Over the past year, I have sponsored several roundtable discussions and forums on the misguided $10,000 cap and heard from hundreds of impacted constituents. They have good reason for concern: in New York, 35 percent of taxpayers deduct an average of more than $22,000 every year. In my district those numbers are even higher, with 45 percent of my constituents taking an average deduction of more than $26,000. Capping the state and local tax deduction will cost New York families $14.3 billion every year. By way of comparison, in 2015 alone New Yorkers contributed $48 billion more in taxes to the federal government than the state received in federal assistance. New York is already seeing the negative effects of the cap, as home sales in Westchester fell by 18 percent in the second quarter of 2018. The SALT deduction was established to ensure that Americans are not taxed twice on the same income, which is exactly what will happen as a result of the cap. My constituents and taxpayers all over New York State simply cannot be squeezed any further, which is why I applauded efforts by the State to enact opportunities for charitable contributions to the state and local governments. This is consistent with federal law and established precedent and the state should be permitted to deliver necessary relief to New York taxpayers. For the foregoing reasons, I believe the IRS needs to amend this proposed regulation before it is finalized to ensure that the federal government does not place additional burdens on taxpayers from donor states like New York that contribute far more to the federal coffers than they take. Sincerely, Nita M. Lowey CC: Internal Revenue Service CC:PA:LPD:PR (REG-112176-18) Room 5203 P.O. Box 7604 Ben Franklin Station Washington, D.C. 20044 ###
10.05.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17/Rockland-Westchester), Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, issued the following statement after a federal judge issued a preliminary injunction against the Trump Administration’s efforts to end Temporary Protected Status (TPS) for approximately 300,000 immigrants from Haiti, Sudan, Nicaragua, and El Salvador: “TPS holders have lived in the United States for years, raising families, contributing to the economy, and building lives here. The Administration’s plan to end TPS displays a remarkable lack of human decency and forces upon recipients the heart-wrenching, impossible choice of uprooting their families or facing deportation. I applaud this judicial decision to suspend the Administration’s callous, misguided plan, and I urge the Administration to end its efforts to target TPS holders. It is inhumane to force these families who have built lives in the U.S. to suddenly leave for an uncertain, and potentially dangerous future.” ###
10.04.2018	ORANGEBURG, NY – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17/Rockland-Westchester), Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, today announced $300,338 in federal funding to combat opioid abuse in Orangetown. “The opioid epidemic is impacting families and communities here in New York and across the country and necessitates swift action,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “With this $300,338 in federal funding, the Town of Orangetown can save lives of those struggling with opioid use by connecting them with the treatment and support services they need.” “This over $300,000 grant will have an immediate and powerful impact in the fight against the opioid epidemic here in Orangetown,” said Chris Day, Town of Orangetown Supervisor. “The efforts of Orangetown-based Wellcore and our Police Department in securing this grant were key and will continue to be extremely important in implementing it going forward. Having this financial support from the Federal government will empower our local government to save lives and reduce the impact of drugs in our community.” The Town of Orangetown has been awarded a $300,338 federal Comprehensive Opioid Abuse Site-based Program grant, which aims to reduce opioid abuse and overdose fatalities and to mitigate the impacts on crime victims. The program supports the implementation, enhancement, and proactive use of prescription drug monitoring programs to support clinical decision making and prevent the abuse and diversion of controlled substances. These grants are administered by the U.S. Department of Justice’s (DOJ) Office of Justice Programs. The Orangetown Police Department will use this federal funding to implement the Law-Enforcement Opiate Overdose Prevention (LOOP) Initiative. Any resident who encounters the police and requests help will immediately be screened into the LOOP Initiative and referred to treatment. Securing robust funding to respond to the opioid crisis has been a priority of Congresswoman Lowey’s. In 2017, Lowey announced $25,260,676 in federal funds from the Department of Health and Human Services to New York State to combat opioid addiction through the State Targeted Response to the Opioid Crisis Grants program administered by the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA). The funding was the first of two rounds provided for in the 21st Century Cures Act, which Congresswoman Lowey voted for and helped pass the U.S. House. ###
10.03.2018	SOUTH NYACK, NY – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17/Rockland-Westchester) today visited Riverview Nursery School in South Nyack to announce historic federal investments for child care and early childhood learning in the Fiscal Year 2019 Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education (LHHS) funding bill, which was signed into law last week as part of a “minibus” spending package. During the visit, Lowey toured the nursery school and participated in a roundtable discussion on the federal funding increases and the advantages of investments in early childhood education. Joining Lowey at the roundtable were child care and education leaders from Rockland and Westchester, including: Jane Brown, Executive Director, Child Care Resources of Rockland; Kathleen Halas, Executive Director, Child Care Council of Westchester, Inc.; Ouida Foster Toutebon, Executive Director, Head Start of Rockland; Dr. James Montesano, Superintendent of Schools, Nyack Public Schools; Andrea Bogin, Director, Campus Fun and Learn Center at Rockland Community College; Vickie Frelow, child development expert and board member, Child Care Resources of Rockland; and Jan Lepori, Director, Riverview Nursery School. “Too many families lack access to affordable child care, which only adds to the economic burdens facing families that also include student loans, rent or mortgage payments, and other skyrocketing costs in our high cost-of-living area,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “Quality and affordable child care should not be a luxury. That is why I am pleased to announce that as the top Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, I have secured historic investments in child care and early childhood learning. These investments are just the start. I know that the work is not done until every child in our community has access to child care and early learning. I will continue working in the House to strengthen investments that will put our children on the path to success.” “Since their brains are developing so rapidly (85% in the first five years of life), children need our help NOW – they cannot wait until the deficit has been recovered, roads have been repaired, bridges have been built, tunnels have been dug, walls have been debated, elections have been won, the war against terrorism is over or global warming has been eradicated,” said Jane Brown, Executive Director, Child Care Resources of Rockland. “We thank our friends like Congresswoman Nita Lowey for thinking of children first and fighting for the federal funding that is so needed to ensure our children have a bright future.” “There is accumulating evidence regarding children who attend Pre-K are more likely to have better reading skills by third grade, versus those who just attend Kindergarten,” said Dr. James Montesano, Superintendent of Schools, Nyack Public Schools. “Isn’t it sensible, not to mention financially prudent, to invest in the very natural way all children develop rather than spending endless dollars in remediation efforts?” “High quality early learning experiences are the key to just about everything – for children, parents, employers, our entire economy,” said Kathleen Halas, Executive Director, Child Care Council of Westchester, Inc. “There is no better way to invest in our people and our nation.” “Head Start of Rockland, Inc. is thankful for the positive recognition given to the importance of early childhood education,” said Ouida Foster Toutebon, Executive Director, Head Start of Rockland. “At Head Start we continue to change the lives of young children and their parents through school readiness, providing comprehensive services through education, health and family engagement.” "Decades of research have clearly demonstrated that high quality, developmentally appropriate early childhood programs produce both short and long-term positive effects on children’s cognitive and social development,” said Andrea Bogin, Director, Campus Fun and Learn Center at Rockland Community College. “High quality childcare can predict academic success, adjustment to school, along with reduced behavioral problems. Federal support for families, as well as our early childhood programs, is imperative in order to make this investment in the future. It has a two-generation approach by allowing our low-income working families the opportunity to create a positive cycle of change for themselves and their children, while giving the next generation the best start for their future.” Specifically, the FY19 LHHS spending bill—which funds the Departments of Health and Human Services and Department of Education for fiscal year 2019—provides: $5.3 billion in discretionary Child Care and Development Block Grant funding, an increase of $50 million from last year’s record increases; $10.1 billion for Head Start and Early Head Start, an increase of $200 million. $250 million for Preschool Development Grants, which help states create and improve preschool accessibility; and $50 million for the Child Care Access Means Parents in School program (CCAMPIS), which currently assists students at Rockland Community College and Westchester Community College by providing affordable child care on campus while parents attend class. The historic investments in child care and early childhood learning in the FY19 LHHS spending bill are a strong repudiation of President Trump’s budget proposal, which called for steep cuts to domestic agencies and programs and the elimination of CCAMPIS. ###
10.03.2018	NEW CITY, NY – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17/Rockland-Westchester), Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, today announced that the Center for Safety & Change in New City has been awarded a total of $999,872 in federal funding through the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) to bolster support services for victims of trafficking and exploitation in Rockland County. “The exploitation of women, men, and children for profit is a severe violation of human rights, and we must do everything in our power to identify and combat it,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “I’m pleased that the Center for Safety & Change will use these federal funds to enhance and expand critical services for survivors so that they may achieve safety and stability. As Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, I will continue fighting to secure resources that protect our region from atrocities like trafficking and exploitation while supporting survivors in our communities.” "The funding from both of these grants will enable Center for Safety & Change, Inc. (“the Center”) to formally partner with the Rockland County Pride Center and the International Organization for Adolescents (“IOFA”) as well as several other local partner organizations in order to expand and enhance services for all victims of sex and labor trafficking in Rockland County," said Elizabeth Santiago, Executive Director at Center for Safety & Change. "Our goal is to ensure that there is the appropriate outreach and education, mentoring, counseling, advocacy, and supportive services provided to human trafficking victims including but not limited to Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Queer and Transgender, gender non-conforming identified youth in order to achieve safety and have the opportunity to heal from their trauma." A breakdown of the federal funding for the Center for Safety & Change is below: $549,966 through DOJ’s FY 2018 Comprehensive Services for All Forms of Victims of Human Trafficking Program. This funding will support the expansion and enhancement of services for victims of sex and labor trafficking in Rockland County. The Center for Safety & Change and its collaborative partners, including the International Organization for Adolescents (IOFA), will expand opportunities for trafficking victims to achieve safety and stability and heal from their trauma by developing and implementing a Comprehensive Service Model through the addition of Anti-Trafficking Program staff and through new and existing community partnerships; developing trafficking response protocols; increasing training and public awareness efforts; and conducting thorough data collection, action research, and evaluation. $449,906 through DOJ’s FY 2018 Specialized Services and Mentoring for Child and Youth Victims of Sex Trafficking program. This funding will enhance the capacity of the Center for Safety & Change to respond to the needs of child victims of commercial sexual exploitation/domestic sex trafficking. The Center for Safety & Change will partner with the Rockland County Pride Center (RCPC) to identify child and youth victims of sex trafficking and other forms of sexual exploitation in Rockland County and ensure that they have the supportive services necessary to achieve safety and stability. The Center and RCPC will provide multilingual and multicultural services to children and youth up to age 17 who are at risk or are victims of commercial sexual exploitation and/or sex trafficking in Rockland County. ###
10.03.2018	VALHALLA, NY – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17/Rockland-Westchester), Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, today announced the awarding of $545,445 in federal funding to Westchester Community College to expand educational opportunities for Hispanic and at-risk students. The federal grant was awarded through the U.S. Department of Education’s Developing Hispanic-Serving Institutions (DHSI) Program. “Expanding opportunities for students, especially at-risk students, to obtain a higher education and develop the skills to find good-paying jobs is critical to the success of our economy,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “This grant will help more Westchester Community College students succeed academically and prepare for the workforce. I’m pleased the Department of Education awarded this funding to support WCC as it continues to serve and enhance opportunities for its students.” “This provides much needed resources to transform the student experience to meet the real needs of today’s learners. With this tremendous award for Caminos al Exito (Pathways to Success), we are able to scale effective high-impact, evidence-based practices to support at-risk students, expand academic support, modernize our approach to counseling and advising, and get students to the credentials they need for the future,” said Dr. Belinda S. Miles, President, Westchester Community College. The DHSI Program provides grants to assist Hispanic-Serving Institutions to expand educational opportunities for, and improve the attainment of, Hispanic students. As Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, Lowey was instrumental in securing $124.4 million for the DHSI Program in the recently-passed FY19 Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education (LHHS) funding bill, an increase of more than $1.2 million over the previous year. ###
10.02.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17/Rockland-Westchester), Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee and its Subcommittee on State and Foreign Operations, issued the following statement in response to news reports that the Trump Administration has begun denying visas to same-sex domestic partners of foreign diplomats and U.N. employees and requiring those already in the U.S. to marry by the end of the year or leave the country: “The Administration’s decision is arbitrary and dangerous, with the majority of countries not allowing same-sex couples to legally marry and 71 countries criminalizing same-sex relationships. LGBT couples working in the United States deserve the same treatment as their opposite-sex couple counterparts. This new policy will put people’s lives at risk and force families apart. I urge the Administration to reverse its decision.” ###
10.02.2018	VALHALLA, NY – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17/Rockland-Westchester), Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, today announced that the National Institutes of Health’s (NIH) National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke has awarded a $428,052 federal grant to New York Medical College for research into sleep and sleep disorders. “New York Medical College is a leading biomedical research institution, and these federal funds will help advance its groundbreaking research,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “I will continue my work as Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee to secure greater funding for medical research institutions, so that they can help Americans live longer, healthier lives.” “My research is focused on understanding brain mechanisms of sleep and sleep disorders,” said Dr. Christopher Leonard, Interim Chair and Professor of Physiology at NYMC. “This work will help reveal how the loss of critical neuropeptides produces the sleep disorder narcolepsy and how they regulate appetite, stress, motivation and mood. Understanding these mechanisms is an important step toward developing new therapies to improve these vital brain functions. I thank Congresswoman Lowey for her unwavering leadership in support of biomedical research and its quest to improve our health by developing new knowledge and therapies.” As the highest-ranking Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, Congresswoman Lowey was instrumental in securing a $3 billion increase in federal funding for NIH as part of the Omnibus Appropriations Act of 2018. The $3 billion, or 8.8%, increase from the FY2017 enacted level is the largest increase in NIH funding in 15 years. ###
09.27.2018	WHITE PLAINS, NY – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17/Rockland-Westchester), Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, today announced that My Sisters’ Place in White Plains has been awarded $425,000 in federal funding through the Training and Services to End Violence Against Women with Disabilities Grant Program to provide services for women with disabilities who are victims of violence and abuse. “At a time when countless women are bravely coming forward to share their stories of abuse, it is essential that we provide the resources necessary for local communities to assist survivors and ensure their well-being,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “I look forward to seeing the positive impact of this funding, and, as the Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, I will continue to advocate for more of these resources for our communities.” “We are thrilled to have an opportunity to expand our services and education to Deaf survivors of domestic violence and their families,” said Karen Cheeks-Lomax, Esq., Chief Executive Officer, My Sisters’ Place. “This marks a new era for My Sisters’ Place, the Deaf community in New York, and our community partners, the New York School for the Deaf and New York-Presbyterian Westchester Division’s Deaf and Hard of Hearing Program. This funding will support the development of fully-accessible services, and comprehensive education, training, and outreach.” “At a time when survivors are speaking out and bravely sharing their stories, we want to embrace the Deaf community’s experiences and address their needs as well, and with this grant we will finally have the chance to do so,” said Brintha Jeyalingam, MSW, Director of Community Education & Prevention, My Sisters’ Place. My Sisters’ Place will implement this federal grant in partnership with New York School for the Deaf and New York-Presbyterian Westchester Division’s Deaf and Hard of Hearing Program. The planning and development phase of the project, during which collaborative teams will assess needs and develop a strategic plan, is expected to be completed by December 30, 2019. The implementation phase, during which needs-based initiatives will be implemented, is expected to be completed by September 30, 2021. The Training and Services to End Violence Against Women with Disabilities Grant Program is administered by the U.S. Department of Justice’s (DOJ) Office on Violence Against Women (OVW) and seeks to establish and strengthen collaborative relationships and increase organizational capacity to provide accessible, safe, and effective services to individuals with disabilities and deaf individuals who are victims of sexual assault, domestic violence, dating violence, and stalking. ###
09.27.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17/Rockland-Westchester), Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee and its Subcommittee on State and Foreign Operations, issued the following statement after cosponsoring H.Con.Res. 138, a privileged resolution to end unauthorized U.S. military participation in the conflict in Yemen: “Yemen is a horrific humanitarian crisis, with millions of people facing near famine conditions and a child dying every ten minutes. I continue to recognize the legitimate security concerns of the Saudi-led Coalition regarding the presence of Iranian-backed Houthis in the region, but the US government must be focused on advancing a long term, political solution to this conflict and preventing undue civilian suffering. While the concurrent war powers resolution introduced yesterday will not alleviate the current humanitarian disaster occurring in Yemen, nor will it stop current US military support for the Coalition, it will send a clear message and would prevent the Administration from sending American troops to engage in the civil war in Yemen, which is why I am announcing my support for this legislation.” In July, Congresswoman Lowey led a letter with Minority Whip Steny Hoyer, House Foreign Affairs Committee Ranking Member Eliot Engel, House Intelligence Committee Ranking Member Adam Schiff, and House Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Middle East and North Africa Subcommittee Ranking Member Ted Deutch to the Ambassadors of Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates expressing concern for the humanitarian impact of the Coalition's planned military assault on the Yemen city of Hudaydah. ###
09.21.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17/Rockland-Westchester), Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee and its Subcommittee on State and Foreign Operations, issued the following statement following the release of the U.S. Government Strategy on International Basic Education for Fiscal Years 2019-2023: “I applaud USAID and the other agencies responsible for drafting the first-of-its-kind government-wide strategy on global basic education, which will foster better coordination and collaboration across all agencies leading this work. Simply put, education is the greatest force multiplier in foreign aid, and the Strategy will be a critical tool to ensuring that all children – boys and girls, students with disabilities, and those from other marginalized communities – have access to a quality and inclusive education.” The Strategy is a requirement of the Reinforcing Education Accountability in Development (READ) Act, a bill led by Congresswoman Lowey that she first introduced in 2004 with then-Senator Hillary Clinton. The goal of the Strategy is to achieve a world where education systems in partner countries enable all individuals to acquire the education and skills needed to be productive members of society. To accomplish this goal, the U.S. Government has two principal objectives: Improve learning outcomes; and Expand access to quality basic education for all, particularly marginalized and vulnerable populations. ###
09.20.2018	WHITE PLAINS, NY – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17/Rockland-Westchester), Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, today announced a total of $5,292,242 in federal Department of Homeland Security (DHS) Homeland Security Grant Program (HSGP) grants for emergency preparedness and counterterrorism efforts in Westchester and Rockland Counties. “As New Yorkers know, threats of terrorism and natural disasters are all too real, and we need to have the resources necessary to protect our communities in the event of a crisis,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “As Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, I will continue to ensure that our state receives these necessary federal funds.” “Protecting Westchester residents is our most important job in Government, and these funds will assist us on that vital mission,” said Westchester County Executive George Latimer. “Emergency preparedness is a major tenet of our Departments of Public Safety and Emergency Services, and this grant will help us get the equipment and training we need to help keep Westchester safe. All of Westchester thanks Congresswoman Lowey for her efforts to secure these resources.” “Here in Rockland County we work with every level of government to maximize the funding we receive. Ensuring the safety and security of county residents and visitors is our top priority,” said Rockland County Executive Ed Day. “I thank Congresswoman Lowey for her advocacy on behalf of the people of Rockland.” Westchester County will receive a $1,419,588 State Homeland Security Program (SHSP) grant, a $2,649,658 Urban Areas Security Initiative (UASI) grant, and a $357,464 Emergency Management Performance Grant (EMPG). Rockland County will receive a $744,784 SHSP grant and a $120,748 EMPG. The State Homeland Security Program provides funding to prevent, protect against, respond to, and recover from acts of terrorism and other catastrophes. The Urban Areas Security Initiative focuses on enhancing regional preparedness in major metropolitan areas. The Emergency Management Performance Grant provides funding to states to assist state, local, territorial, and tribal governments in preparing for all hazards. ###
09.18.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17/Rockland-Westchester), Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee and its Subcommittee on State and Foreign Operations, today issued the following statement: “I am deeply disturbed by the Administration’s decision to set the Fiscal Year 2019 refugee cap at 30,000, the lowest level since the U.S. refugee resettlement program began in 1980. Even worse, the Trump Administration has only admitted 20,825 refugees this year, despite a 45,000 cap. With the world facing the worst refugee crisis since WWII, the Administration’s abdication of U.S. moral principles and international leadership will almost certainly lead to the loss of innocent lives.” ###
09.13.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17/Rockland-Westchester), Ranking Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee and its Subcommittee on State and Foreign Operations, applauded U.S. House passage of the Special Envoy to Monitor and Combat Anti-Semitism Act of 2018 (H.R. 1911), bipartisan legislation to require the prompt appointment of the Special Envoy position by the Administration and to elevate the position to the rank of ambassador. Lowey is an original cosponsor of the legislation. “Today, the House sent a clear signal to the Administration that the U.S. must remain a leader in the fight against anti-Semitism,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “As anti-Semitism continues to rise around the globe, it is more important than ever that we have a strong, qualified leader in this role.” The Special Envoy to Monitor and Combat Anti-Semitism at the U.S. Department of State is tasked with spearheading the country’s important diplomatic efforts in the fight against anti-Semitism. The position has been vacant since the beginning of the Trump Administration. Since early 2017, Congresswoman Lowey has led multiple efforts to urge the Administration to fill the Special Envoy position as quickly as possible. Additionally, the Omnibus Appropriations bills for Fiscal Years 2017 and 2018 included directives, authored by Lowey – a co-chair of the House Bipartisan Taskforce for Combating Anti-Semitism – urging the Administration to prioritize the appointment of the position and to provide funding for the efforts of the Special Envoy and his or her Office. ###
09.12.2018	HAVERSTRAW, NY – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17/Rockland-Westchester), Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, today announced the awarding of $182,975 to the Village of Haverstraw Fire Department for firefighter recruitment. The grant was awarded through the Department of Homeland Security’s Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency Response (SAFER) program. “I am thrilled the Village Fire Department will benefit from this $182,975 federal grant, which will help ensure we have the personnel necessary to keep our community safe,” said Lowey. “As the highest-ranking Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, which oversees federal funding allocations, I will continue to secure these vital resources for our emergency personnel so that they are prepared when emergencies strike.” “The Village of Haverstraw and the Haverstraw Fire Department are excited to receive this SAFER grant of nearly $183,000 from the Department of Homeland Security,” said Village of Haverstraw Mayor Mike Kohut. “Recruitment and Retention are perhaps the hardest and most pressing issues facing today’s volunteer fire service, both locally and nationally. With this award, the Haverstraw Fire Department can tailor a firefighter training program that suits the needs of our new and existing members, and allows them to learn in a setting that is conducive to their individual needs. If successful, we feel we can increase and bolster our membership with well trained, next generation firefighters eager to protect the people of the Village of Haverstraw and our mutual aid partners. Both the Village and the Haverstraw Fire Department are thankful to the Federal Government and Congresswoman Lowey for supporting our efforts at building a stronger department.” The SAFER program is a federal funding initiative designed to strengthen the nation’s ability to respond to fire and fire-related hazards and improve the nation’s overall level of preparedness. The program provides funding directly to fire departments and volunteer firefighter organizations to help them increase or maintain the number of trained, “front line” firefighters available in their communities. ###
09.12.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17/Rockland-Westchester), Ranking Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, issued the following statement in response to the Food and Drug Administration’s (FDA) announcement on enforcement actions on sale of e-cigarettes to youth, including that it is considering pulling flavored e-cigarette products from the market: “It is a welcome sign that the FDA has acknowledged what parents, teachers, the public health community, and elected officials, myself included, have been warning about for years—that e-cigarette use among teens has reached an epidemic. But the agency should not delay in removing these products from the market. We have known for some time that many companies and sellers actively -- and successfully -- market products toward children, with flavors like Fruit Loops, Gummy Bears, and Swedish Fish, which mask the dangerous, addictive chemicals in e-cigarettes and other vaping devices. FDA must close the window of opportunity for young people to get hooked on nicotine, staving off the next public health emergency in the process. I thank Commissioner Gottlieb for his announcement today, and urge him to keep his foot on the gas to protect public health.” Congresswoman Lowey has been a leader in the U.S. House for regulating e-cigarettes and other vaping devices. During an April 17, 2018, Appropriations hearing, Lowey challenged Commissioner Gottlieb on the agency’s approach to e-cigarettes, particularly JUULs, warning that delaying action will put youth at unnecessary risk. She has also hosted multiple roundtables in Rockland and Westchester with students, local officials, community leaders, medical experts, and advocates on the dangers of youth smoking and has commended the Rockland and Westchester County Legislatures for banning the sale of cigarette products to those under 21 years of age. ###
09.12.2018	PORT CHESTER, NY – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17/Rockland-Westchester), Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, today announced that the Port Chester Housing Authority (PCHA) has been awarded $1.16 million in federal grants from the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD). The PCHA will use its $1 million Lead-Based Paint Capital Fund grant for lead-based paint removal in PCHA buildings that house families and seniors. The PCHA will use its $160,000 Capital Fund Emergency Safety and Security grant to purchase security equipment, including cameras. “Every person, regardless of their economic circumstance, deserves to live in a safe and healthy environment,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “The federal funding announced today will enable the Port Chester Housing Authority to eliminate lead-based paint hazards, which are particularly dangerous to children, and to make necessary security upgrades to protect residents.” As the Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, Lowey secured $42.7 billion for HUD in Fiscal Year 2018, a $3.9 billion increase over the Fiscal Year 2017 enacted level. That includes $2.75 billion for the Public Housing Capital Fund, which encompasses the Lead-Based Paint Capital Fund and the Capital Fund Emergency Safety and Security grant program, an $808.5 million increase over the FY17 enacted level. “We welcome these grants from the federal government that demonstrate a partnership based on protecting the health and safety of the residents of the Port Chester Housing Authority,” said Port Chester Housing Authority Chairman Gary Stracuzzi. “We thank Congresswoman Lowey for her efforts to help secure the federal funds.” The purpose of the Lead-Based Paint Capital Fund Program is to help Public Housing Agencies (PHAs) identify and eliminate lead-based paint hazards in public housing. The Public Housing Capital Fund Emergency Safety and Security grant program provides funding for necessary safety and security measures to address crime and drug-related activity in public housing. ###
09.07.2018	SPRING VALLEY, NY – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17/Rockland-Westchester), Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, today announced the awarding of $91,500 to the Village of Spring Valley Fire Department for firefighter recruitment. The grant was awarded through the Department of Homeland Security’s Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency Response (SAFER) program. “I am thrilled the Spring Valley Fire Department will benefit from this federal grant, which will help ensure we have the personnel necessary to keep our community safe,” said Lowey. “As the highest-ranking Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, which oversees federal funding allocations, I will continue to secure these vital resources for our emergency personnel.” The SAFER program is a federal funding initiative designed to strengthen the nation’s ability to respond to fire and fire-related hazards and improve the nation’s overall level of preparedness. The program provides funding directly to fire departments and volunteer firefighter organizations to help them increase or maintain the number of trained, “front line” firefighters available in their communities. ###
09.06.2018	WHITE PLAINS, NY – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17/Rockland-Westchester), Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, today announced the awarding of $209,355 to Westchester County to reduce the current backlog of cases to be analyzed for DNA. The grant was awarded through the Department of Justice’s (DOJ) National Institute of Justice’s (NIJ) DNA Capacity Enhancement and Backlog Reduction Program. “This critical federal funding will ensure Westchester County has the resources to reduce its DNA backlog and increase its capacity to handle future cases, improving public safety in the process,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “As the highest-ranking Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, I will continue to bring these essential resources to the Lower Hudson Valley.” “Westchester County is pleased to receive a federal grant award from the US Department of Justice for our Labs and Research Department for important DNA analysis,” said Westchester County Executive George Latimer. “We are actively working to reduce the remaining casework backlog and upgrade our equipment to improve efficiency going forward. This funding will assist Westchester County’s actions to improve its services and work more effectively to resolve pending cases. We appreciate the efforts of Congresswoman Nita Lowey to help secure this important federal funding.” Westchester County estimated that by the end of 2018, there will be approximately 305 backlogged forensic DNA cases. Between 2010 and 2017, the average annual increase of cases received was 9 percent. In order to reduce the current backlog, the county will use this federal funding to cover equipment purchases, overtime, and travel expenses. The DNA Capacity Enhancement and Backlog Reduction Program assists eligible states and units of local government to process, record, screen and analyze forensic DNA and/or DNA database samples, and to increase the capacity of public forensic DNA and DNA database laboratories to process more DNA samples, helping to reduce the number of forensic DNA and DNA database samples awaiting analysis. ###
09.04.2018	VALHALLA, NY – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17/Rockland-Westchester), Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, today announced that the National Institutes of Health’s (NIH) National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute (NHLBI) has awarded a $502,883 federal grant to New York Medical College for heart and vascular diseases research. “New York Medical College is a leading biomedical research institution, and these federal funds will help advance its groundbreaking research,” said Congresswoman Lowey. This funding will support research that improves our understanding of the link between obesity and cardiovascular disease, increasing the likelihood of improved health outcomes of those struggling with obesity. I will continue my work as Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee to secure greater funding for medical research institutions, so that they can help Americans live longer, healthier lives.” The NIH grant will enable New York Medical College researchers to better understand and, ideally, prevent obesity-driven cardiovascular diseases. “Obesity has earned the name ‘the silent disease’ because its adverse effects are insidious in the development of cardiovascular disease including hypertension, heart failure, and stroke as well as diabetes,” said Dr. Nader G. Abraham, Professor of Medicine and Pharmacology at New York Medical College. “The goal of this study is to understand how obesity contributes to increases in blood pressure, cardiovascular disease and insulin resistance with the aim of identifying genetic and molecular mechanisms that can control the detrimental outcomes of obesity. Not all obese subjects are at high risk of developing cardiovascular diseases. The most prominent factor that contributes to obesity driven cardiovascular diseases is the size and characteristics of the fat cells. The larger the size of the fat cells the more chances to develop high blood pressure and cardiovascular diseases. Our studies will examine the characteristics of the fat cells and will use conventional and target specific drugs to improve the function of the fat cells and consequently ameliorate and prevent the development of obesity driven hypertension and cardiovascular diseases.” As the highest-ranking Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, Congresswoman Lowey was instrumental in securing a $3 billion increase in federal funding for NIH as part of the Omnibus Appropriations Act of 2018. The $3 billion, or 8.8%, increase from the FY2017 enacted level is the largest increase in NIH funding in 15 years. ###
08.31.2018	WHITE PLAINS, NY – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17/Rockland-Westchester), Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, released a new letter to United States Postal Service (USPS) Deputy Postmaster General Ron Stroman urging him to provide prompt answers regarding scheduling changes and problems at the Westchester Processing and Distribution Center, as well as details about recent mail thefts in West Nyack, White Plains, Tallman, Ossining, and Tarrytown. Congresswoman Lowey has been in frequent contact with USPS to resolve issues facing residents and to put pressure on the Postal Service to address its ongoing failures. Earlier in August, following a June meeting with Stroman and other high-level postal officials, Lowey sent a letter to the Deputy Postmaster General pressing for additional answers on security enhancements and missing passport applications in Tappan. In May, she joined fellow New York congressional delegation members in sending a letter to United States Postmaster General Megan Brennan calling for the Postal Service to address theft of mail across the Hudson Valley. A pdf of the new letter can be found here. Full text of the letter is below. August 30, 2018 Mr. Ronald A. Stroman Deputy Postmaster General 475 L’Enfant Plaza SW Washington, DC 20260-0050 Dear Mr. Stroman, Since my letter of August 15, I have been made aware by union officials that mail carriers in the Westchester Postal District were told to come in up to 90 minutes later beginning Saturday, August 25, because of problems at the Westchester Processing and Distribution Center. This will of course make mail delivery even later than it already is. Further, I have learned there have been more mail thefts in West Nyack, White Plains, Tallman, Ossining, and Tarrytown. I have also been told that mail containing checks has been stolen from collection boxes inside the post offices themselves. I have been in touch with the Westchester County District Attorney about these unacceptable occurrences. It has been suggested to me that the distribution problems relate to staffing issues because, although the Postal Service is recruiting carriers, it is losing as many as 50 percent of new hires because of working conditions. These include 12-hour days, 16 to 19 days without days off, and a shifting of routes that require carriers to cover areas far from their homes, often with little notice. I would like to know more about the scheduling changes and problems at the Distribution Center. In addition, please tell me how many thefts have been reported in the past two months, and whether customers have been informed by the USPS so that they can monitor their bank accounts and take additional steps to verify that mail has been received. Thank you for your attention to these important matters. I look forward to your response to my letters in the next few days. Sincerely, Nita M. Lowey Member of Congress cc: Megan Brennan United States Postmaster General 475 L’Enfant Plaza, SW Washington, DC 20260 Guy Cottrell Chief Postal Inspector 475 L’Enfant Plaza, SW Washington, DC 20260 Dave Williams Chief Operating Officer 475 L’Enfant Plaza, SW Washington, DC 20260 ###
08.30.2018	WHITE PLAINS, NY – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17/Rockland-Westchester), Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, today announced that 13 local organizations will receive a total of $1,625,000 in new and continuation federal grants for youth anti-substance abuse initiatives through the Office of National Drug Control Policy (ONDCP) Drug-Free Communities (DFC) Program. “Our children deserve the opportunity to grow, learn, and thrive in communities free of harmful substances,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “These Drug Free Communities grants will help prevent youth alcohol and drug abuse, which is particularly important at a time when the opioid crisis is impacting communities across the nation. As Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, I will continue fighting to ensure this important program receives the federal funding it deserves.” In New York’s 17th Congressional District, new grantees include: Mount Kisco Partners in Prevention Coalition ($125,000) OCADA, Inc. ($125,000) Blind Brook Community Coalition ($125,000) North Rockland Coalition – Drug Awareness Prevention ($125,000) Continuation grantees include: Village of Croton on Hudson, Croton Community Coalition ($125,000) Wellcore, Inc., South Orangetown Community Awareness of Substance Abuse ($125,000) Village of Irvington, Irvington Community Advisory Board ($125,000) City of Peekskill, Peekskill Agencies Together (P.A.T.) ($125,000) Village of Dobbs Ferry, Dobbs Ferry Youth Services Council ($125,000) Village of Pleasantville, Pleasantville STRONG (Safe Teens, Real Opportunities, New Goals) ($125,000) Town of Orangetown, Suffern United Coalition Against Substance Abuse ($125,000) Town of New Castle, Coalition for Youth, Chappaqua ($125,000) Big Brothers-Big Sisters of Rockland County, PEER Coalition ($125,000) “The need for substance abuse prevention has never been greater and Congresswoman Lowey's continued commitment to assuring funding for substance abuse prevention continues to help Westchester and Rockland communities implement effective prevention strategies,” said Ellen Morehouse, Executive Director of Tarrytown-based Student Assistance Services Corporation, which works closely with the Westchester Coalition for Drug and Alcohol Free Youth in providing technical assistance for community substance abuse prevention coalitions. “Mount Kisco is grateful for Congresswoman Lowey and her continued leadership on this issue,” said Mount Kisco Mayor Gina D. Picinich. “That this grant has been awarded to Mount Kisco six years after the first Drug Free Community grant was issued, recognizes both the success of the Village’s efforts, as well as the continued risks of substance abuse in our community. This funding enables Partners in Prevention to continue their work engaging students and teachers across the Bedford Central School District, as well as working with the adult and senior population, recreation and youth leaders, the medical and mental health community, law enforcement personnel, and the business community to promote positive and healthy choices.” Dr. Jonathan Ross, superintendent of the Blind Brook-Rye Union Free School District, said the awarding of the new grant was “good news” because the federal government not local taxpayers pays for the coalition’s educational and awareness programs. “I am very pleased because we could not run these programs ourselves. We have had a drug free communities grant for the past five years that has helped us expand programs for our students including workshops and speakers,” said Ross. “We are thrilled and deeply grateful to have been awarded the DFC Continuation Grant for our Nyack School District community,” said Lisa Retallack, OCADA Project Coordinator. “OCADA - Our Community Against Drug Abuse - will now be able to deepen our work in sharing information, raising awareness and providing support without judgment toward the ultimate goal of making change that has a positive impact in our youth and decreases substance abuse. In years 6-8 of our coalition, our focus will be on building consensus in understanding how anxiety and depression coincide with substance abuse, how alcohol and marijuana impact the healthy development of the teenage brain, and how parents can play a more intentional role in prevention. Particular emphasis will be placed on coalition sustainability, and shifting a cultural mindset of leniency and misconceptions regarding marijuana and alcohol addiction and abuse as a proactive measure to the national opioid crisis.” "We are extremely grateful and excited to be awarded the Drug-Free Communities Grant," said Dr. Kris Felicello, Assistant Superintendent for Educational Services in North Rockland Central School District. "North Rockland is looking forward to collaborating with our community partners in an effort to raise awareness and establish preventative measures that will help keep our students drug free. Thank you to Congresswoman Lowey for her continued support of the North Rockland Central School District." The DFC Program is designed to support communities as they mobilize individuals and organizations to prevent youth substance use, based on the premise that local problems need local solutions. ###
08.30.2018	WHITE PLAINS, NY – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17/Rockland-Westchester) today presented three overdue service medals to the family of Anthony Giaccio, a deceased Navy veteran of World War II, at a ceremony in White Plains. Among those who joined Congresswoman Lowey for the ceremony were Mr. Giaccio’s son Anthony P. Giaccio of Hawthorne, the village administrator of Sleepy Hollow, and grandchildren of the deceased veteran. “These medals are a testament to Mr. Giaccio’s distinguished service to our country, and I’m deeply honored to be able to present them to the Giaccio family and to pay tribute to Mr. Giaccio,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “Even after his passing, Mr. Giaccio’s legacy lives on, and I know his family will be enormously proud and inspired every time they look at these medals and think about his service and sacrifice.” Congresswoman Lowey presented Mr. Giaccio’s family with the Asiatic Pacific Campaign Medal, the Honorable Discharge Button (Navy), and the Honorable Service Lapel Pin. Mr. Giaccio had previously been issued two other medals: the World War II Victory Medal and the American Campaign Medal. Mr. Giaccio served on active duty from March 31, 1943, until his honorable discharge on November 19, 1945. He was a Gunner’s Mate, Third Class, who served aboard the USS Adopt (AM-137) in the Pacific Theater. The Adopt was a minesweeper and escort vessel, which after operations off California, Hawaii, and Alaska, was transferred in July 1945 to the Soviet Navy under Lend-Lease. Mr. Giaccio died in August, 1992. His family was going through his effects earlier this year and contacted Congresswoman Lowey to obtain any medals for which he might be eligible. Veterans or family members who believe they or a loved one are eligible for service medals should contact Lowey’s White Plains District Office (914-428-1707) or New City District Office (845-639-3485). ###
08.30.2018	PLEASANTVILLE, NY – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17/Rockland-Westchester) and Pace University President Marvin Krislov were joined today by college and graduate school students and administrators at a roundtable discussion on college affordability and accessibility, including the Promoting Real Opportunity, Success, and Prosperity through Education Reform (PROSPER) Act, dangerous Republican legislation to reauthorize the Higher Education Act. “As colleges open for the fall semester, it’s as important as ever that we redouble our efforts to tackle the rising costs of higher education and the crushing burdens of student debt,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “Making college affordable so that every young person can have the training to pursue their dreams used to be a bipartisan belief in Washington, and yet, House Republicans are currently pushing a partisan, mean-spirited bill that would cut $15 billion from federal student aid while increasing the cost of a college education. This bill is, quite simply, an assault on the financing of higher education as we know it. Rest assured I am fighting to prevent this bill from becoming law and will continue working to protect federal investments in higher education.” AUDIO of Congresswoman Lowey’s remarks is available here. “At Pace University, we pride ourselves on providing access to a quality education for ambitious, hardworking students regardless of economic background,” said Pace President Marvin Krislov. “Federal financial aid is a key part of the funding mix for our students, and we’re deeply appreciative of Congresswoman Nita Lowey for convening this important conversation and for her continued commitment to a robust system of federal financial aid.” “Supplemental Educational Opportunity Grants, Pell Grants, subsidized undergraduate loans, and income-contingent repayment plans make college more affordable and more accessible to millions of community college students nationwide. Current proposals in the Higher Education Reauthorization bill would cut federal student aid, thereby shrinking the talent pipeline into high-demand jobs that stimulate economic growth,” said Dr. Belinda S. Miles, President of Westchester Community College. “I always wanted to be a nurse and I am very excited to be graduating next year,” said Emerald Rodriguez, a senior in Pace University’s College of Health Professions. “Having access to federal financial aid programs on top of the financial aid package I received at Pace made it possible. I just hope future students have the opportunity to access these programs to pursue their dreams just as I have.” “As a recent college student, and the mother of two sons who are currently in college, I do not believe it is a good idea to increase loan rates,” said Shelly Connor, a recent graduate of both Westchester Community College and New York University. “Limiting the amount of loans, and eliminating loan forgiveness, would make education less accessible for many students, especially those attending community college.” The PROSPER Act would increase the cost of a higher education by consolidating many currently available federal student loans into a more expensive loan for students. Proposed changes in the PROSPER Act include: Elimination of in-school interest subsidy for middle-and-low-income students A new annual limit on loans for graduate students ($28,500 per year, aggregate limit of $150,000) and for parents ($12,500 per year, total of $56,250 per child) Elimination of loan forgiveness Restrictions on income-based-repayment and elimination of Public Service Loan Forgiveness The PROSPER Act would particularly hurt students with exceptional financial need. Forty years ago, the maximum Pell Grant covered about three-fourths of the cost of a four-year public university. Today, the maximum award only covers 29 percent of the cost, forcing students to take on additional debt. Participants in the roundtable included: Dr. Belinda Miles, President of Westchester Community College, and financial aid and enrollment administrators from Westchester Community College, Dominican College, Purchase College, Manhattanville College, Mercy College, and New York Medical College. ###
08.28.2018	DOBBS FERRY, NY – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17/Rockland-Westchester) today announced that Mercy College in Dobbs Ferry, NY, has been awarded a $200,000 federal grant from the National Institutes of Health (NIH) to study adolescents with lupus. “Lupus is a devastating disease that carries extra health risks for adolescents,” said Congresswoman Nita Lowey. “This funding will support Mercy College’s critical research that improves our understanding of lupus in adolescents and that stands to enhance the lives of those living with this disease. As Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, I will continue to secure these types of federal resources to directly benefit the Lower Hudson Valley.” “We are very proud of the outstanding and remarkable achievement of our three faculty who were awarded this prestigious and competitive grant from the National Institute on Disability Independent Living, and Rehabilitation Research (NIDILRR),” said Dr. Joan Toglia, dean and professor of the School of Health and Natural Sciences at Mercy College. “In addition to fulfilling an important knowledge gap in the care of adolescents with lupus, this grant also represents a significant advancement for faculty research at Mercy College.” Dean Toglia said the three faculty members awarded the grant (Kathy Kenney-Riley, Shari Berkowitz, and Kim Rapoza) have been mentored from experienced researchers since October, 2014, as part of Mercy College's participation with the Langston University Rehabilitation Research and Training Center (LU-RRTC), which was funded by the National Institute on Disability, Independent Living, and Rehabilitation Research (NIDILRR) to build research capacity and infrastructure in rehabilitation research within minority serving institutions. As the highest-ranking Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, Congresswoman Lowey was instrumental in securing a $3 billion increase in federal funding for NIH as part of the Omnibus Appropriations Act of 2018. The $3 billion, or 8.8%, increase from the FY2017 enacted level is the largest increase in NIH funding in 15 years. Lowey was also instrumental in securing an estimated $115 million in lupus research for FY 2018, an increase of $25 million from FY 2015. ###
08.28.2018	WHITE PLAINS, NY – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17/Rockland-Westchester) today announced a total of $400,000 in federal funding to protect nonprofits in Rockland and Westchester Counties. The awards are: $100,000 for JCC Rockland in West Nyack, $150,000 for JCC on the Hudson in Tarrytown, and $150,000 for JCC of Mid-Westchester in Scarsdale. The funding for JCC Rockland was awarded as part of a new homeland security grant program secured by Lowey in the Fiscal Year 2018 spending bill to provide critical security funding for nonprofit organizations located outside of designated Urban Areas Security Initiative (UASI) jurisdictions that are determined to be at high risk of a terrorist attack. The funding for JCC on the Hudson and JCC of Mid-Westchester was awarded as part of the UASI Program’s Nonprofit Security Grant Program (NPSG) for which Lowey secured $50 million in Fiscal Year 2018, an increase of $25 million from the prior year. “As the senior Democrat in the House Appropriations Committee, I fought tooth and nail to create this new investment in critical homeland security funding so that nonprofit organizations have the resources to protect against acts of hate and terror,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “This new funding for Rockland, in addition to continued investments in Westchester County, will improve the safety of our community. Together, these grants are a major victory to protect residents and community organizations in Rockland and Westchester.” David Kirschtel, chief executive officer of JCC Rockland, said: “JCC Rockland leadership and the community are greatly appreciative to Congresswoman Nita Lowey for the critical security funding that was approved through the Nonprofit Security Grant Program. Until this year, Rockland County non profits like the JCC were not eligible as Rockland County is not located in a designated Urban Area by the Department of Homeland Security. Thanks to Congresswoman Lowey’s commitment, she was able to establish additional federal funding for communities like Rockland. Without her efforts, we would not have been able to receive this critical funding to help secure our building.” Rabbi Andrew Ergas, executive director of JCC on the Hudson, said: “Given the rise of antisemitism and acts of hate in our area and a general amplification of troubling, violent voices throughout the country, coupled with the importance of federal funding to help community facilities such as ours to protect children and adults in an appropriate and strategic manner, we cannot thank Congresswoman Lowey enough for her voice and vigilance in regard to these import concerns and her support in helping direct these critical funds to the Shames JCC and the broader community we serve.” Karen Kolodny, executive director of JCC of Mid Westchester, said: “In today's world, JCC MidWestchester, along with other public facilities, find ourselves in need of increased security infrastructure. We are grateful to Congresswoman Lowey for her perseverance in getting our community much needed funding for this purpose.” As Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, Congresswoman Lowey instrumental in securing this funding along with other funding critical for Fiscal Year 2018 to enhance regional preparedness and security capabilities including: $700 million for firefighter equipment and staffing grants, a $10 million increase from the FY2017 enacted level; $249.2 million for Pre-disaster Mitigation grants, a $149.2 million increase from the FY2017 enacted level; $507 million for the State Homeland Security Grant Program, a $40 million increase from the FY2017 enacted level; and $120 million for the Emergency Food and Shelter Program. Congresswoman Lowey can help constituents of New York’s 17th Congressional District who need assistance with the federal government. Constituents experiencing issues with federal agencies should contact Lowey’s White Plains District Office (914-428-1707), New City District Office (845-639-3485), or visit her website for more information. ###
08.28.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17/Rockland-Westchester), Ranking Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee and its Subcommittee on State and Foreign Operations, issued the following statement regarding the Trump Administration’s reported decision to cut $200 million in aid to the West Bank and Gaza: “The Trump Administration’s reported decision to cut more than $200 million in humanitarian aid for the West Bank and Gaza will end food assistance, health services, education programs, youth development, and more that directly benefit the Palestinian people. While Hamas is to blame for the ongoing suffering of innocent civilians in Gaza, the Administration’s decision risks worsening an already unstable region. “I am a life-long believer that the two-state solution is the only means to ensure Israel’s long-term security and to enable Palestinian aspirations for their own state. But two states for two peoples will only be possible if both sides are at the negotiating table. However, if the Administration’s decision is part of an ill-conceived plan to pressure Palestinians into negotiations, I urge the Administration to reconsider this approach.” ###
08.27.2018	BUCHANAN, NY – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17/Rockland-Westchester) today toured Continental Building Products’ Buchanan plant to observe its clean energy efforts and to make the case for aggressive federal investment in renewable energy. Working with Manhattan-based EnterSolar, Continental Building Products – a construction manufacturing company headquartered in Virginia – is in the process of installing more than 250,000 square feet of solar cells on the roof of their Buchanan plant. The solar array project, expected to be completed in the fall, will be the state’s largest. While at the plant, which employs 110 people and is next door to Indian Point, Lowey was briefed on the solar panels being installed on the roof, as well as the products made at the plant, including drywall that is 99 percent recycled material. “Continental Building Products’ cutting-edge facility in Buchanan is a terrific example of how sustainable building will protect the environment, increase energy efficiency, and save homeowners money,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “It was a pleasure to tour this facility and to experience firsthand its work to promote sustainability and the new energy economy. In Congress, I will continue leading the fight for federal investments in clean and renewable energy sources.” As the highest-ranking Democrat on the Appropriations Committee, Lowey secured $2.078 billion in the FY2018 Omnibus for the Office of Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy, including $55 million for concentrating solar power research and development. ###
08.27.2018	MONTROSE, NY – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17/Rockland-Westchester) today joined in the grand opening of the Montrose VA facility’s new indoor pool. The pool facility, which had been closed for nearly 17 years due to disrepair and safety concerns, will provide year-round recreational and therapy options for VA patients. “Just as veterans were called to serve our country, we are called to ensure that they receive the services and care they have earned and deserve, including help with recovery from injuries sustained during their service,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “I am thrilled that after nearly three years since breaking ground on the new facility, and after nearly 17 years since the pool closed, local veterans will have access to state-of-the-art recreational and therapeutic options to help them heal. I will continue fighting in Congress to do everything I can to honor and serve veterans and their families.” The original, regular temperature indoor pool at the Montrose VA facility was converted to a therapy pool in 1999. However, the pool closed in 2002 for major upgrades and repairs. Lowey voted in July 2014 for the Veterans Access, Choice and Accountability Act, which provided a surge of funding for veterans’ health care initiatives, and worked as the Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee to ensure robust funding for VA construction accounts. In her role on the committee, Lowey helped secure $6 million in federal funding to upgrade the Montrose VA pool facility and to reconstruct damaged parts of the pool building. “High-quality, Veteran-centered care is the daily focus at VA Hudson Valley and it is a privilege to serve those who have served. We are excited that our Veterans will get to enjoy the benefits of this therapeutic pool and we are grateful to Congresswoman Nita Lowey for her support of this project and for her efforts on behalf of Veterans,” said VA Hudson Valley Health Care System Director Margaret B. Caplan. Congresswoman Lowey can help constituents of New York’s 17th Congressional District who need assistance with the federal government. Veterans experiencing issues with federal agencies, including the Department of Veterans Affairs, should contact Lowey’s White Plains District Office (914-428-1707), New City District Office (845-639-3485), or visit her website for more information. ###
08.27.2018	WHITE PLAINS, NY – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17/Rockland-Westchester) today announced that the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (USACE) has extended the public comment period on proposals to construct storm surge barriers in New York Harbor an additional 30 days to September 20, 2018, and is working to establish additional opportunities for communication with the public. The USACE’s decision follows a letter Lowey sent to the agency urging an extension of the public comment period and additional public meetings throughout the Hudson Valley. “I’m pleased the Army Corps of Engineers has responded to our request and extended the public comment period an additional 30 days to give the public more time to learn about and weigh in on the storm-surge barrier proposals,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “As I’ve said before, a project of this significance must be fully understood by all who would be affected, and we must not rush into construction and permanent change to the nature of the river until we have public approval to proceed.” In its response to Lowey, the USACE announced its intention to circulate a draft report later this year to provide an opportunity for public and agency consideration and comment. ###
08.26.2018	WHITE PLAINS, NY – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17/Rockland-Westchester) released the following statement on the passing of Senator John McCain: “Above all else, John McCain was a patriot, and our nation is a better place thanks to his lifelong service, first as a naval hero and then as a principled member of the House of Representatives and U.S. Senate. It was my distinct honor to serve with him in the Congress, where he led with integrity and respect, always speaking out for what he believed in and striving to work with his colleagues in a bipartisan way. My thoughts and prayers are with the McCain family during this difficult time.” ###
08.24.2018	WHITE PLAINS, NY – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17/Westchester-Rockland) today announced a $883,373 grant to the City of White Plains from the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development’s CDBG Program. “This funding will provide White Plains with vital investments, including housing rehabilitation, development of public facilities and infrastructure, and expanded economic opportunities,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “I am thrilled this federal investment will directly benefit my constituents in White Plains.” As the Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee, Lowey secured $3.365 billion for CDBG in Fiscal Year 2018, an increase of $305 million from the prior year. White Plains Mayor Tom Roach said, “"CDBG funding has been an important source of community investment funding for the city, helping homeowners make critical home repairs and helping community organizations provide much-needed services. Thank you to Mrs. Lowey for working to ensure that this funding stream remains available to the City of White Plains." Congresswoman Lowey can help constituents of New York’s 17th Congressional District who need assistance with the federal government. Constituents experiencing issues with federal agencies, including the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development, should contact Lowey’s White Plains District Office (914-428-1707), New City District Office (845-639-3485), or visit her website for more information. ###
08.21.2018	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17/Rockland-Westchester), Ranking Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee and its Subcommittee on State and Foreign Operations, issued the following statement on the deportation of Jakiw Palij, a Nazi prison guard who has lived in Queens, NY since 2001: “Jakiw Palij oversaw untold atrocities against innocent men, women, and children at the Nazi Trawniki camp. His presence in New York has served as a painful reminder and insult to those who fought in World War II or lost loved ones in the Holocaust. Today’s news of Palij’s deportation is a win for justice and an affirmation of the United States’ opposition to hate. I appreciate U.S. government officials’ long-time work on this important issue and the German government’s willingness to accept the deportation.” Last year, Ranking Member Lowey and Rep. Joe Crowley (D-NY14) secured an amendment to the Fiscal Year 2018 Appropriations bill to urge the State Department to speedily deport Jakiw Palij. ###
08.10.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17/Rockland-Westchester), Ranking Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee and its Subcommittee on State and Foreign Operations, today issued the following statement on Hamas’s rocket fire on Israeli civilian areas: “I strongly condemn the recent rocket attacks from Hamas on Israel. They are a sobering reminder that Israel has every right to defend itself against attacks on innocent Israeli civilians, and that the United States must continue to stand in solidarity with Israel and support its right to self-defense. The situation in Gaza is extremely concerning, and we must work alongside the international community to alleviate the humanitarian crisis in the region. Hamas is taking advantage of and hurting Palestinians and Israelis alike, and their latest attacks will only prolong the conflict.” ###
08.01.2018	WHITE PLAINS, NY – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17/Rockland-Westchester), Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, has called on the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (USACE) to extend the public comment period on proposals to construct storm surge barriers in New York Harbor from 30 to 90 days, and to hold additional public meetings throughout the entire Hudson Valley. “It is clear to me that a project of this significance must be fully understood by all who would be affected. The opportunity for study and comment has been unnecessarily brief. While I understand that recent storms have prompted a call for urgent action, we must not rush into construction and permanent change to the nature of the river until we have public approval to proceed,” Lowey wrote in a letter to Lt. Gen. Todd T. Semonite, Chief of Engineers and Commanding General of USACE, and Bryce W. Wisemiller, Project Manager at USACE - New York District. Lowey continued: “My constituents, and the millions more who live and work along these waters, have only in recent weeks learned about the proposals. Questions include potential dangers in each proposal, and the extent to which long-term environmental studies by well-regarded environmental groups have been taken into account. We must assure that the Corps and municipalities work together to stem the hazards of climate change and to manage public resources.” A pdf of the full letter can be found here. ###
08.01.2018	WHITE PLAINS, NY – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17/Rockland-Westchester) today announced that the White Plains Fire Department has been awarded a $336,430 federal Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) to provide rescue training for personnel in the fire department’s Rescue Company. “New York’s first responders put their lives on the line to protect our communities, and we must ensure that they have the training to perform their critical public service while ensuring their own safety,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “Not only will this federal funding enhance rescue training in White Plains, it will help our first responders save lives during emergencies. As the highest ranking Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, which oversees federal funding allocations, I will continue to secure these vital resources for our emergency personnel.” “I'd like to thank Congresswoman Nita Lowey for her tireless advocacy for White Plains,” said White Plains Mayor Tom Roach. “This grant funding will enable the White Plains Fire Department to provide enhanced rescue training to its personnel, an important component of their work that encompasses rescue in many different types of situations.” The Rescue Company is staffed 24/7 and responds to emergencies including fires, building collapses, trench collapses, and vehicle accidents. The City of White Plains is required to provide a 10 percent match of the federal grant, for a total of $370,073 for the White Plains Fire Department. The AFG Program is administered by the Department of Homeland Security’s Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) and seeks to enhance the safety of the public and firefighters by providing direct financial assistance to fire departments to obtain resources to equip and train emergency personnel, support community resilience, and protect the public. This latest FEMA grant brings the total received by the White Plains Fire Department up to almost $4 million. That includes a Staffing for Adequate Fire & Emergency Response (SAFER) grant of $1.9 million in 2010, which enabled the City to rehire nine firefighters, and a federal grant of $330,000 in 2016 to upgrade safety packs for firefighters. ###
07.26.2018	Click here to watch Lowey’s remarks on her amendment to protect TPS recipients. WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17/Rockland-Westchester), Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, on Wednesday offered an amendment during the Fiscal Year 2019 Homeland Security appropriations bill markup that would have prevented the Trump Administration from ending relief for the nearly 440,000 Temporary Protected Status (TPS) recipients living in the United States. The Appropriations Committee rejected Lowey’s amendment on a vote of 21 to 25, with all committee Democrats voting in favor of the amendment. “For those who have met strict qualifications and are able to live, work, and travel in the United States, TPS has been a lifeline. And our country has benefitted greatly from their contributions,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “Recipients have made decades of investments in our communities, contributing to our economy, paying taxes, and raising families. In fact, TPS holders are parents to roughly 275,000 American children. Unfortunately, due to the Trump Administration’s misguided and political decision to end TPS, these individuals face the heart-wrenching decision to either uproot their families or face deportation to unstable countries.” Lowey’s amendment would have prevented any funding in the Homeland Security appropriations bill from being used to arrest, detain, place into removal proceedings, remove or deny work authorization to holders of TPS. “We have a moral obligation to maintain TPS for people who have lived and worked in our communities for decades, and who have no safe home to return to,” added Lowey. “Their children go to school alongside ours, they own homes in our neighborhoods, contribute to our economy, own small businesses and are paying taxes. It is inhumane to force these families who have built lives in the U.S. to suddenly leave for an uncertain, and potentially dangerous future.” Over the past year, the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) has terminated TPS for several countries, including Haiti, Nicaragua, and El Salvador, despite warnings from the department’s own intelligence analysts that ending the program would cause illegal immigration to spike. ###
07.25.2018	WHITE PLAINS, NY – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17/Rockland-Westchester), Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, issued the below statement following reports that Metro-North will miss the year-end deadline to install Positive Train Control (PTC): “MTA has had 10 years and ample resources to complete PTC installation. Further delays in fully implementing this lifesaving technology are a failure to ensure passenger safety. I am tired of hearing excuses. The MTA needs to give us answers.” Earlier this month, Congresswoman Lowey wrote to Federal Railroad Administration (FRA) Administrator Ronald Batory and MTA Chair Joseph Lhota raising her concerns that MTA and New Jersey Transit (NJT), which serves her constituents in Rockland, may miss the year-end deadline for PTC installation. Lowey called on the FRA to provide a plan to address railroads that have not made sufficient progress on installation, and requested that MTA provide its schedule for PTC implementation work from now until the end of the year along with its contingency plan in case the deadline is not met. Additionally, in May, Lowey released a letter to NJ Transit calling for a reversal of its announced cuts to the Pascack Valley Line schedule, which NJ Transit blamed on the need to meet the PTC deadline. Lowey, a strong advocate for improved rail safety, secured $250 million for PTC in the Fiscal Year 2018 omnibus spending bill. The federal government has provided more than $2 billion in grants and loans to passenger railroads to implement PTC since 2008, when the Rail Safety Improvement Act, which required implementation of PTC on all passenger railroads, was signed into law. She also wrote to then-acting National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB) Chairman Robert L. Sumwalt urging him to do everything in his power to push for the prompt implementation of PTC. When rail entities ran the risk of missing the original December 31, 2015, deadline for implementation, Congress extended the PTC deadline by three years to December 31, 2018, providing ample time and resources to support installation of this life-saving technology. Full text of Lowey’s letter to FRA is here. Full text of Lowey’s letter to MTA is here. ###
07.19.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17/Rockland-Westchester), Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, called on the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) and the New York State Department of Public Service (NYSDPS), respectively, to consider the New York State Division of Homeland Security and Emergency Services’ full AIM Pipeline Risk Analysis Report during further examination of the Algonquin pipelines and to provide her with the full report, which has not been made public. The letters come on the heels of New York State’s release of an executive summary of the full AIM Pipeline Risk Analysis Report. The summary, released June 22, 2018, identified areas of potential concern regarding proximity of the Algonquin Incremental Market (AIM) pipeline to the critical infrastructure at Indian Point Energy Center in Buchanan, New York. “New York State’s executive summary of the report released June 22, 2018, identified areas of potential concern that should be used to inform FERC regulatory activities to make the AIM project safer for the remainder of Indian Point’s operating life and through decommissioning,” wrote Lowey in the letter to FERC Chairman Kevin J. McIntyre. “I urge FERC to consider New York State’s analysis as it further investigates and considers actions to mitigate potential risks posed by the Algonquin pipelines. The health and safety of my constituents depend on it.” “As the Member of Congress who represents Buchanan, the community that hosts IPEC, I hope to have access to the full report to determine whether federal agencies should take further steps to minimize risks and protect public safety,” Congresswoman Lowey wrote in the letter to NYSDPS CEO John B. Rhodes. “In a June 22, 2018 letter to FERC Chairman Kevin J. McIntryre, you outlined recommendations for additional risk reduction and asked further questions regarding previous safety and risk assessments of dangers posed by the pipelines’ proximity to IPEC. I hope to review the complete report to better understand these recommendations and questions and take possible actions at the federal level to ensure the strictest safety standards and most updated information is used as FERC makes regulatory decisions about the AIM pipelines and IPEC, while the nuclear plant is still in operation and throughout the decommissioning process.” As Lowey notes in the letters, the AIM Project generally replaced an existing 26-inch natural gas pipeline with a new 42-inch pipeline on a route from northern Rockland County under the Hudson River and through northern Westchester County. However, the portion of the pipelines that pass near safety-critical infrastructure at Indian Point still has the old 26-inch and 30-inch pipelines in addition to the new 42-inch pipeline. FERC approved the project, despite the many letters it received throughout the approval process from Lowey and other elected officials. Full text of the letter to FERC is here. ###
06.29.2018	DOBBS FERRY, NY – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17/Rockland-Westchester) was in Dobbs Ferry today for a congressional tour of Children’s Village—one of four facilities in Westchester County holding immigrant children separated from their families at the border by the Trump Administration. Following the tour, Congresswoman Lowey issued the following statement: “I have been gravely concerned that 327 of the separated children have been flown roughly 2,000 miles from their families to shelters here in New York, including Children’s Village. Shelters like Children’s Village provide vital services for vulnerable children, but the Trump Administration’s decision to put 2,000 miles between children and their families will make it much harder for families to be reunited quickly. Worse, the Administration has presented no realistic plan to reunite families, and has shown no urgency in addressing this crisis. “In Congress, I am doing all I can to prevent the Trump Administration’s cruel policies and reunite families. As the Ranking Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, I am working to ensure that the Department of Health and Human Services is meeting the health needs of these children and has the direction and resources to send children from shelters to the care of a loved one, which is in the best interest of the child as well as the taxpayers. “This past week, the Appropriations Committee was supposed to debate a bill that would fund HHS, including the Office of Refugee Resettlement, which manages the care and potential reunification of children. At the bill’s markup, a number of amendments were to be offered that would have forced the Administration to release a plan to address family reunification, and provide reports on the care of children, their contact with parents, and more. Unfortunately, rather than debate these amendments in public, House Republican Leadership decided to cancel the markup, for the second time in a week, to avoid this debate. “The Trump Administration’s abdication of leadership and lack of urgency proves they have no plan to address this crisis of their own making, and House Republicans are letting them off the hook. “Intentionally traumatizing children by using them as bargaining chips for a wasteful border wall is a shameful chapter in our nation’s history. And make no mistake: there will be lasting consequences of the Administration’s cruelty– for these children, for their families, and for the reputation of our nation. It is imperative that these misdeeds are rectified without delay so children and their family members can begin to heal from the Administration’s unconscionable policies.” Joining Congresswoman Lowey were Reps. Eliot Engel (NY-16), Gregory W. Meeks (NY-05), Grace Meng (NY-06), and Lisa Blunt Rochester (DE-AL). ###
06.27.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17/Rockland-Westchester), Ranking Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, issued the following statement today after voting against the “compromise" immigration bill, which failed, 301-121: “A ‘compromise’ bill that fails by such an embarrassingly large margin is hardly a compromise. “After their previous anti-immigrant bill failed last week, House Republicans should have rejected the Administration’s toxic agenda and policies, and engaged with Democrats on real, comprehensive immigration reform. Instead, the majority doubled down on their cruel policies of holding Dreamers hostage for the president’s border wall, while leaving many behind altogether; cutting legal immigration and eliminating legal family immigration; and doing nothing to solve the issue of family separation or to permit the indefinite detention of immigrant children. “I hope that moving forward enough pressure can be brought to bear on House Republicans to end this anti-immigrant crusade and enact immigration reform that upholds our national character.” ###
06.21.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17/Rockland-Westchester), Ranking Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, today urged Health and Human Services Secretary Alex Azar and Homeland Security Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen to respond to unanswered questions regarding the Administration’s family separation policy. Following President Trump’s new Executive Order on June 20, 2018 – which keeps families together at the U.S.-Mexico border but opens the door to long-term child detention – the Administration did not detail a plan for reuniting family members and the more than 2,300 separated children, some of whom have reportedly been flown roughly 2,000 miles from their families to shelters in Westchester, New York. In a letter to Azar and Nielsen, Lowey pressed for answers about the numbers, ages, and genders of children detained in Westchester and New York State; whether these children have access to physical and mental health services; the details and timeline of the Administration’s reunification plan; the status of the facilities where children are being held; and whether children have been in contact with family members. The text of the letter can be found here and below: June 21, 2018 Dear Secretary Azar and Secretary Nielsen: The Trump Administration’s decision to tear children away from their family members at the U.S.-Mexico border is a cruel and shameful policy that will stain the fabric of our nation for generations. Even after the President signed his Executive Order on June 20, 2018, opening the door to long-term child detention, the Administration has yet to detail a plan on how to reunite children with a family member. I have been gravely concerned by reports that some of the separated children have been flown roughly 2,000 miles from their families to shelters in Westchester, New York, including but not limited to The Children’s Village in Dobbs Ferry, Abbot House in Irvington, Rising Ground in Yonkers, and Lincoln Hall Boy’s Haven in Lincolndale, a hamlet in Somers. I am requesting an immediate and formal response to the questions below. Since the Administration’s so-called “Zero-Tolerance” policy began in April, how many children separated from a family member are being held in shelters, detention facilities, or in foster care in New York? How many of these children have been detained in Westchester County and in which facilities do they reside? What are the ages of the children? What are the genders of the children? Are these facilities required to provide physical and mental health services to the children, and are they currently meeting this requirement? What is the Administration’s plan to reunite children with a family member? What is the timeline of the Administration’s plan to reunite children with a family member? Are family members of detained children in New York aware of the location of the children? Has contact information for the children been provided to a family member? If so, have detained family members been permitted to use a phone in order to speak with their separated children, and have other family members in the United States or abroad had an opportunity to speak with the children? Are the facilities listed above near, at, or above capacity? The Administration’s cruel actions have already caused lasting trauma from which many children may never fully recover. It is imperative that these misdeeds are rectified without delay so children and their family members can begin to heal from these unconscionable policies. I await your response, Nita M. Lowey Member of Congress ###
06.21.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17/Rockland-Westchester), Ranking Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, issued the following statement today after voting against the anti-immigrant Goodlatte bill, which was rejected, 193-231: “Instead of providing a plan to reform our immigration system in a way that lives up to our values and reflects the needs of our nation, House Republicans are pushing radical, divisive proposals that are an extension of President Trump’s extreme anti-immigrant agenda. The Goodlatte bill offers inadequate protections for Dreamers, leaving many behind altogether; cuts legal immigration and eliminates legal family immigration; and does nothing to solve the issue of family separation. It is also unconscionable that this bill would allow the indefinite detention of immigrant children. “It is time for House Republicans to get serious, reject the Administration’s toxic agenda and policies, and engage with Democrats on real, comprehensive immigration reform. We will not accept anti-immigrant legislation that betrays our core values.” ###
06.21.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17/Rockland-Westchester), Ranking Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, issued the following statement regarding President Trump’s Executive Order on family separation: “Family separation is a crisis of the President’s own making. The Trump administration deliberately abused children by tearing them from their families and imprisoning many of them in cages. The President’s Executive Order is just as heartless and shameful as his “Zero Tolerance” policy, as it further opens the door to long-term child detention. The order does nothing to change the fact that the administration is using children as bargaining chips for the President’s repugnant anti-immigrant agenda.” ###
06.19.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17/Rockland-Westchester), Ranking Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee and the Subcommittee on State and Foreign Operations, issued the following statement in light of reports that the Trump Administration plans to withdraw from the United Nations Human Rights Council on Tuesday: “The Administration’s decision to withdraw from the United Nations Human Rights Council would be another isolationist maneuver in its foreign policy strategy that is weakening U.S. global leadership. It is inescapable that UNHRC has consistently and unfairly targeted Israel, which has allowed other human rights violations to avoid scrutiny. Yet, I have always believed it is better to stay at a negotiating table than to walk away. By leaving UNHRC, we will not improve its behavior, rather the U.S. will lose its ability to influence the foreign body’s agenda and retreat from its role as a world leader on human rights.” ###
06.18.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17/Rockland-Westchester) issued the following statement regarding the Trump Administration’s family separation, or “Zero Tolerance,” policy: “The Trump Administration’s immoral and illegal policy of separating and detaining immigrant children is tantamount to child abuse. Using the lives of thousands of young children as bargaining chips for the President’s boondoggle border wall and a crackdown on legal immigration is shameful and runs counter to our national character and to the values of decent people everywhere. History will condemn the Administration for this unjustifiable and cruel policy, as it will House Republicans if they fail to act.” ###
06.14.2018	WASHINGTON—Representative Nita Lowey, Ranking Member of the House Committee on Appropriations; Representative Eliot L. Engel, Ranking Member of the House Committee on Foreign Affairs; Democratic Whip Steny Hoyer; and Ted Deutch, Ranking Member of the Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on the Middle East and North Africa, today released the following statement: “We are closely monitoring the military offensive at Hodeida, Yemen and are alarmed at the humanitarian situation on the ground. With 350,000 civilians caught in the crossfire, we are specifically concerned that an assault on the city of Hodeida will exacerbate the already horrendous conditions facing the people of Yemen. We urge all parties to the conflict to exercise abundant caution to minimize civilian casualties and to reconsider execution of this assault. “We recognize the legitimate security concerns of the Saudi and Emirati-led coalition. The Iranian-backed Houthis continue to threaten stability and security in the Gulf. There is no military solution to this conflict: the parties must return to the negotiating table, as a political solution is the only path forward. We strongly support UN Special Envoy Martin Griffiths and his plan to bring an end to the violence. “In the meantime, we urge the Administration to work with our allies to pursue a political agreement and, in the immediate term, mitigate the suffering of the Yemeni people. At a minimum, humanitarian and commercial access must continue at the Port of Hodeida. It is also essential that contingency plans be in place with ample prepositioned humanitarian supplies. We look forward to learning more about our allies’ plans to maintain access for humanitarian and commercial goods through Hodeida.” # # #
06.12.2018	VALHALLA, NY – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17/Rockland-Westchester) today visited Westchester Community College’s Virginia Marx Children’s Center to announce $211,361 in federal funding to sustain access to the school’s campus-based child care for low-income students. Lowey also toured the Center and spoke with several WCC student-parents whose children are enrolled at the Center. Lowey was joined by Dr. Belinda S. Miles, President of Westchester Community College; Susan Zucker, Director of the Virginia Marx Children’s Center; Jennifer Gruenberg, the daughter of Virginia Marx; and Kathy Halas, Executive Director of the Child Care Council of Westchester. “Hard-working parents should not be forced to choose between their education and childcare,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “For our economy to succeed, it is imperative that every American have access to an education and the skills to find good-paying jobs. That is why I am so pleased to announce this new federal investment of more than $210,000 per year for WCC’s child care initiative. Make no mistake about it, these funds will make a difference for many area residents working to earn college degrees or certificates. Parents will have the ability to attend class and enter the workforce more quickly and with less debt, which will increase their earnings and stimulate our local economy. This funding is a real win for our communities.” “It is a special treasure to be able to support our students and their young children at the same time,” said Dr. Belinda S. Miles, President of Westchester Community College. “This is a unique place where our students come to achieve their academic and career goals while their children take part in an accredited curriculum supporting early childhood development, a distinction among child care centers, We are especially grateful for Congresswoman Lowey’s strong advocacy on behalf of Westchester Community College students and the award-winning Virginia Marx Children’s Center.” The $211,361 awarded to WCC comes in the form of a Child Care Access Means Parents in School Program (CCAMPIS) grant, administered by the U.S. Department of Education. This program enables low-income parents to pursue a postsecondary education by providing them access to campus-based child care programs. Specifically, under the grant, approximately 35 Pell-eligible student-parents at WCC will receive subsidies for child care worth as much as $5,754 annually. The exact award will be calculated on a sliding scale based on income. According to the Institute for Women’s Policy Research, parents with access to child care on campus are nearly three times more likely to graduate or pursue additional degrees within three years of enrollment. As Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, Congresswoman Lowey was instrumental in securing a historic increase in the CCAMPIS Program of $35 million, or 233 percent, in the most recent federal spending bill. This increase could provide affordable child care for an additional 7,600 parents enrolled in school nationwide. President Trump’s FY 2019 budget, on the other hand, would have eliminated the program. ###
06.08.2018	Congresswoman Nita Lowey meets with USPS officials regarding systemic service failures in the Hudson Valley. From left: Chief Operating Officer and Executive Vice President Dave Williams; Deputy Postmaster General Ron Stroman; Rep. Lowey; and Guy Cottrell, Chief Postal Inspector for the U.S. Postal Inspection Service. WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17/Rockland-Westchester) on Thursday met with Deputy Postmaster General Ron Stroman; Chief Operating Officer and Executive Vice President Dave Williams; and Guy Cottrell, Chief Postal Inspector for the U.S. Postal Inspection Service regarding the systemic U. S. Postal Service failures in the Hudson Valley. Lowey reiterated the long list of complaints her office has received from constituents including lost packages, mail theft, refusal to deliver mail for arbitrary reasons, and widespread delivery errors. Williams said that shortly before Christmas, the Postal Service sent a service team into Westchester, where it saw operational problems at local offices including service issues and mishandling of forwarded mail. Stroman said part of the problem is a training issue, and that some personnel changes were made based on the review. Williams said a lot of retraining took place after the review and they have seen marked improvement. Lowey also pressed the issues of mail theft and the 20 lost passport applications in Tappan. Stroman and Williams said that the Postal Service is still trying to determine the cause and is actively trying to locate the lost applications. Regarding mail theft, Cottrell told Lowey that arrests are being made and that the Postal Service is looking into ways to harden equipment to protect against theft. “We had a productive discussion on the Postal Service’s persistent missteps and failures in the Hudson Valley, notably recent incidents of mail theft and the loss of 20 passport applications from the Tappan Post Office,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “I made it clear that improvements to date are insufficient given the scope of problems, and that we will continue to hold the Postal Service accountable for improving service for all constituents, and remedying the harm it has caused throughout the Hudson Valley.” Congresswoman Lowey has been in frequent contact with USPS to resolve issues facing residents and to put pressure on the Postal Service to address its ongoing failures. She recently joined fellow New York congressional delegation members in sending a letter to United States Postmaster General Megan Brennan calling for the Postal Service to address theft of mail across the Hudson Valley. ###
06.05.2018	WHITE PLAINS, NY – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17/Rockland-Westchester) issued the following statement after the Westchester County Board of Legislators voted 16-1 to raise the age to purchase tobacco and vaping products to 21: “I applaud Westchester for raising the age to buy tobacco and vaping products. We’ve long known the dangers of smoking, and now we’re starting to see the next public health emergency in the form of e-cigarette use among young people. Recognizing that vaping devices are addictive gateways to tobacco products, I will continue to call on the FDA to take adequate measures to protect our communities, especially our children, from these dangerous products.” Congresswoman Lowey has been a leader in the U.S. House for regulating e-cigarettes and other vaping devices. During an April 17 Appropriations hearing, Lowey challenged FDA Commissioner Scott Gottlieb on the agency’s approach to e-cigarettes, particularly JUULs, warning that delaying action will put youth at unnecessary risk. She has also hosted multiple roundtables with students, local officials, community leaders, medical experts, and advocates on the dangers of youth smoking. ###
06.05.2018	NEW CITY, NY – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17/Rockland-Westchester), Ranking Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, today announced that BRiDGES, a nonprofit in New City that advocates for and serves people with disabilities, has been awarded $314,215 in federal funding to expand and increase recovery services for individuals with substance use disorders and/or co-occurring mental illness who are re-entering society after prison. The funding was awarded through the Center for Substance Abuse Treatment (CSAT), a division of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services’ (HHS) Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA). President Trump’s Fiscal Year 2019 budget would cut SAMHSA by $668 million at a time when the federal government should be investing more, not less, in mental health and substance abuse prevention and treatment. Congresswoman Lowey fought to increase funding for these vital services, and was proud to secure a $1.4 billion increase for SAMHSA in the most recent spending bill. “Empowering individuals to successfully transition out of incarceration decreases the likelihood of recidivism and breaks cycles of crime,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “By supporting formerly incarcerated individuals with substance use disorders or mental illness in Rockland, we can increase their odds of living productive, positive lives while making our communities safer at the same time. As Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, I will continue to bring these essential resources to the Lower Hudson Valley.” “I was absolutely thrilled when Congresswoman Lowey’s office called to tell us we received the SAMHSA grant,” said Lorraine Greenwell, BRiDGES Interim Executive Director. “This award helps further our collaborative effort with BRiDGES to assist those returning to the community from incarceration and, by providing this assistance to success, we make the community safer for all,” said Rockland District Attorney Thomas Zugibe, whose office co-chairs the county’s Re-Entry Task Force. CSAT provides federal grants to support community-based substance abuse treatment and recovery support services nationwide. ###
06.01.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17/Rockland-Westchester), Ranking Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee and the Subcommittee on State and Foreign Operations, issued the following statement regarding U.S. ambassador to Israel David Friedman’s comment to The Times of Israel that “Republicans support Israel more than Democrats”: “The U.S. Ambassador to Israel should know how dangerous it is to make support for Israel a partisan issue. The unbreakable U.S.-Israel relationship is fundamentally grounded in bipartisanship, with both parties sharing a longstanding commitment to Israel’s security and legitimacy. Instead of attempting to create further political divides in Washington, the Ambassador should focus his energy on representing the diplomatic priorities of the U.S.”
05.30.2018	TAPPAN, NY – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17/Rockland-Westchester) today demanded that the United States Postal Service (USPS) explain and remedy the causes of the loss of 20 passport applications in Tappan, responding to a complaint from a constituent that was subsequently confirmed by the Connecticut Passport Agency and the Postal Service. “The loss of these passport applications points to further failures from the Postal Service, which over the past year have threatened the livelihoods and financial security of thousands of Hudson Valley residents by mishandling sensitive mail,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “The inability or unwillingness of the Postal Service to acknowledge the scope of its problems and to implement meaningful changes is unacceptable, and further erodes customer confidence in mail delivery. It’s time the Postal Service is held accountable.” A Rockland County resident informed Congresswoman Lowey’s office that the Connecticut Passport Agency in Stamford, CT, told him that his daughter’s passport application was among 20 applications lost in the mail following an April 20 passport event at the Tappan Post Office. After the matter was brought to the attention of Lowey’s office, the congresswoman’s staff contacted the Connecticut Passport Agency and federal postal officials to inquire into the causes of the lost applications and plans for assisting affected individuals. The Connecticut Passport Agency confirmed to Lowey’s office that it never received the applications and informed the office that it is making emergency appointments for every case, immediately issuing passports, and reimbursing applicants. Constituents who may have been affected should contact their local postmaster or Congresswoman Lowey’s office for assistance to ensure their passport applications are processed. “We apologize to those 20 customers who entrusted their passport applications to our care,” said U.S. Postal Service – Westchester District Manager, Richard R. Conte. “Last year the U.S. Postal Service handled 6.5 million applications and this isolated incident is not an example of the service we wish to provide. Ongoing, extraordinary efforts are being made to identify the cause and locate the missing passport applications which were contained in 3 of 13 packages mailed on this date as a result of this customer program. We remain committed to resolving this service anomaly.” Congresswoman Lowey has been in frequent contact with USPS to resolve issues facing residents and to put pressure on the Postal Service to address its ongoing failures, most recently joining fellow New York congressional delegation members in sending a letter to United States Postmaster General Megan Brennan calling for the Postal Service to address theft of mail across the Hudson Valley. ###
05.25.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17/Rockland-Westchester) and other Congressional pro-choice leaders on Thursday introduced a resolution condemning the Trump administration’s new proposed gag rule on Title X-funded health care facilities and expressing opposition to “efforts seeking to limit access to and full information on reproductive health care options in contradiction with congressional intent for the family planning program under Title X.” The proposed rule would ban health care providers supported with Title X funds from referring or counseling patients on their full range of reproductive options, including abortion care, unless patients explicitly request abortion information. It adds onerous physical separation requirements, in addition to current financial separation requirements that have been in place for years, for family planning providers who choose to make referrals for abortion services or provide abortions. In addition, the proposed rule undermines patient choice by no longer requiring Title X programs to offer the full range of effective birth control methods. The resolution was authored by Congressional Pro-Choice Caucus co-chairs Diana DeGette (D-CO) and Barbara Lee (D-CA), together with House Democratic Caucus Chairman Joe Crowley (D-NY) and congresswomen Nita Lowey (D-NY) and Judy Chu (D-CA). It notes that Title X-funded programs serve four million people each year, many of whom would otherwise be unable to access this health care, and that “since its creation nearly half a century ago, the family planning program under Title X of the Public Health Service Act has provided family planning and related preventive health care services to those most in need, and the program has enjoyed broad bipartisan support.” The centers provide preventive health care services including breast exams, Pap tests, HIV testing, contraception, and treatment for reproductive issues, as well as family planning services. The measure points out that Title X “helps ensure that every person, regardless of where they live, how much money they make, their background, or whether or not they have health insurance, has access to basic, preventive reproductive health care, such as birth control, cancer screenings, STD testing and treatment, and well-woman exams,” and that it “serves a racially and ethnically diverse patient base: at least 1/3 of patients are people of color and 13% have limited proficiency in English.” It ends by stating that the House support for efforts to: (1) recognize that patients’ health always come first, including that patients may rely on their medical providers to get medically accurate and evidence based information about their full range of health care options, including information about access to safe and legal abortion, (2) promote trust among patients and health care providers by protecting providers’ ability to give complete medical advice and information, in order to ensure no harm to patient health, (3) enhance patient quality of care, and access to confidential and safe care for all patients, (4) promote the health care safety net and recognize that any nationwide gag rule represents a radical departure from how health care has operated in the United States, which fundamentally erodes patients’ right to informed consent, and (5) oppose measures seeking to limit access to and full information on reproductive healthcare options in contradiction with congressional intent for Title X. A Senate companion to the House resolution was also introduced Thursday. The full text of the House resolution: Expressing the sense of the Congress in support of protecting patients’ access to medically appropriate, evidence-based healthcare and information, and the ethical and professional obligations of healthcare professionals to provide that care and information. Whereas since its creation nearly half a century ago, the family planning program under title X of the Public Health Service Act has provided family planning and related preventive healthcare services to those most in need, and the program has enjoyed broad bipartisan support; Whereas the title X program was created to assist in making comprehensive voluntary family planning services readily available to all persons desiring such services and to enable public and nonprofit private entities to plan and develop comprehensive programs that provide these family planning services; Whereas the title X family planning program serves 4 million people each year, many of whom would otherwise be unable to access this healthcare; Whereas the title X family planning program helps ensure that every person, regardless of where they live, how much money they make, their background, or whether or not they have health insurance, has access to basic, preventive reproductive healthcare, such as birth control, cancer screenings, STD testing and treatment, and well-woman exams; Whereas title X serves a racially and ethnically diverse patient base: at least 1/3 of patients are people of color and 13 percent have limited proficiency in English; Whereas for decades, people receiving services supported by the title X program have been given the full range of in- formation they need to make fully informed decisions about their own pregnancy options, including access to safe and legal abortion; Whereas efforts to stigmatize abortion care and providers of abortion care undermine patients’ ability to make fully informed healthcare decisions; Whereas the American Medical Association states in its Code of Medical Ethics that providers should ‘‘present relevant information accurately and sensitively, in keeping with the patient’s preferences’’ and that ‘‘withholding information without the patient’s knowledge or consent is ethically unacceptable’’; Whereas the seminal 1982 Report of the President’s Commission for the Study of Ethical Problems in Medicine and in Biomedical and Behavioral Research states that ‘‘a physician is obliged to mention all alternative treatments, including those he or she does not provide or favor, so long as they are supported by respectable medical opinion’’; Whereas any policy that denies patients seeking care from title X-supported providers full and accurate information on and referral for healthcare services including abortion care violates basic medical ethics by forcing providers to withhold healthcare information from patients, and by denying patients’ basic right to informed consent; Whereas healthcare providers participating in the title X family planning program must not have limitations on pro- viding full and accurate information in order to communicate freely and exercise the provider’s medical judgment to provide the safest and most beneficial medical treatment to the individual patient; and Whereas any policy that seeks to prevent healthcare providers participating in the title X family planning program from providing full and accurate information and referral for healthcare services threatens patient health, discourages honest conversation, and undermines the vital relation- ship between providers and patients, who rely upon their providers for complete and accurate information: Now, therefore, be it Resolved, That the House of Representatives— (1) recognizes that patients’ health should always come first, including that patients be able to rely on their medical providers to get medically accurate and evidence-based information about their full range of healthcare options, including information about access to safe and legal abortion; (2) urges the development and maintenance of trust between patients and healthcare providers by protecting providers’ ability to give complete medical advice and information, in order to ensure no harm to patient health; (3) encourages efforts to enhance patient quality of care and access to confidential and safe care for all patients; (4) supports efforts to promote the healthcare safety net; (5) recognizes that any nationwide gag rule prohibiting information flow between patient and provider represents a radical departure from how healthcare has operated in the United States, which fundamentally erodes patients’ right to informed consent, and providers’ ability to provide appropriate and adequate healthcare and information; and (6) opposes efforts seeking to limit access to and full information on reproductive healthcare options in contradiction with congressional intent for the family planning program under title X of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 300 et seq.). ###
05.24.2018	WASHINGTON—Today, Representatives Nita Lowey (D-NY), Eliot Engel (D-NY), Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL), Ted Deutch (D-FL), Kay Granger (R-TX), and Marc Veasey (D-TX), co-chairs of the House Bipartisan Taskforce for Combating Anti-Semitism, were joined by 113 bipartisan Taskforce members in sending a letter to Secretary of State Mike Pompeo urging him to quickly fill the position of the Special Envoy to Monitor and Combat Anti-Semitism. “Without a Special Envoy, the United States lacks the focus of a person solely dedicated to spearheading our important diplomatic efforts in the fight against anti-Semitism. Appointing this important position will make clear to foreign governments that combating anti-Semitism remains an American priority and that the U.S. maintains its traditional leadership in the fight.” A copy of the letter can be accessed here. Text of the letter is included below: Dear Secretary Pompeo, As you begin your tenure as Secretary of State, we write to you today as Members of the Bipartisan Taskforce for Combating Anti-Semitism gravely concerned about the issue of rising global anti-Semitism. We urge you to fill the position of Special Envoy to Monitor and Combat Anti-Semitism at the U.S. Department of State. Prioritizing this important role would bolster the United States’ ability to monitor and combat anti-Semitism abroad and send a strong message to the international community that the U.S. remains committed to fighting the scourge of anti-Semitism. In addition to the vacancy of the Special Envoy, there have also been no staff assigned to the Office to Monitor and Combat Anti-Semitism since May 2017. Without a Special Envoy, the United States lacks the focus of a person solely dedicated to spearheading our important diplomatic efforts in the fight against anti-Semitism. Appointing this important position will make clear to foreign governments that combating anti-Semitism remains an American priority and that the U.S. maintains its traditional leadership in the fight. Anti-Semitic views, rhetoric, and threats to the safety and security of Jewish communities are on the rise around the globe. Violent anti-Semitic extremist groups, now closely connected through the internet, are borrowing and refining strategies and tactics from each other. In Europe, anti-Semitic sentiments and violence have skyrocketed, including murders, physical harassment of Jews, demonization of Israel and its supporters, and Holocaust distortion. According to the Kantor Center for the Study of Contemporary European Jewry at Tel Aviv University, “Europe’s largest Jewish communities are experiencing a normalization and mainstreaming of anti-Semitism not seen since the Second World War.” As history has repeatedly shown, anti-Semitism is often the “canary in the coal mine” that preludes the rise of other forms of bigotry and prejudice. In 2004, Congress passed the Global Anti-Semitism Review Act with strong bipartisan support. This legislation - through provisions authored by Taskforce Co-Chair Rep. Chris Smith - created the Special Envoy and its office, which are tasked to monitor worldwide anti-Semitism trends; document incidents; consult with domestic and international non-governmental organizations; coordinate efforts with partners in the European Union, the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe, the United Nations, and elsewhere; and support endangered Jewish communities around the world. Since early 2017, bipartisan members of the House and Senate have called on the Administration to fill this position as quickly as possible. Additionally, the Omnibus Appropriations bills for Fiscal Years 2017 and 2018 included directives, authored by Task Force Co-Chair Rep. Nita Lowey, urging the Administration to prioritize the appointment of this position and to provide funding for the efforts of the Special Envoy’s office. Yet, despite these bipartisan, bicameral efforts, the position and office remain vacant. You are assuming the Secretary of State role during a time of many great challenges to international stability and U.S. national security. Nonetheless, we urge you to prioritize the swift appointment of a Special Envoy to Monitor and Combat Anti-Semitism and to provide the necessary resources for this critical work. This appointment would demonstrate the commitment of the United States to Jewish communities around the world and to the fight against the persistent evil of anti-Semitism. We look forward to working with you to make this a reality. Respectfully, ###
05.22.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee Congresswoman Nita Lowey (NY-17), Senator Chuck Schumer (NY), Senator Kirsten Gillibrand (NY), and Congressmen Eliot Engel (NY-16) and Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) today sent a letter to United States Postmaster General Megan Brennan calling for the Postal Service to address theft of mail across the Hudson Valley. In the letter, the Members highlighted incidents of stolen mail that resulted in financial fraud and identity theft. From missing payments to emptied bank accounts after thieves “wash” checks pulled from collection boxes, mail theft threatens the livelihood of constituents. “These thefts occur daily, rapidly and significantly decreasing the reliability of the Postal Service,” the Members wrote. “These widespread incidents cost our constituents large sums of money and much time to remedy, not to mention the confidence and peace of mind that the Postal Service prides itself on providing.” The delegation was alerted to these alarming thefts by Westchester County District Attorney Anthony Scarpino last week. “We know from our constituents and from media reports that similar thefts have occurred in Rockland County, Bronx County, and elsewhere across our region of New York. The Postal Service must implement new technology to secure collection boxes and significantly increase the number of Postal Inspectors to prevent and investigate this epidemic of theft,” the Members concluded. Full text of the letter is below and here. Service problems with the Postal Service in the Hudson Valley have proven to be widespread and systemic in recent months and years. Members of the delegation have also called on the Postal Service to address constituent complaints regarding delivery reliability and develop a comprehensive plan to end the unacceptable, potentially life-threatening mail delivery issues that plague the area. May 22, 2018 The Hon. Megan J. Brennan Postmaster General United States Postal Service 475 L’Enfant Plaza SW Washington, DC 20260-3500 Dear Postmaster General Brennan: Over the past year, we Members of Congress representing the Hudson Valley have been in contact with the United States Postal Service (USPS) regarding a range of problems our constituents face with the Postal Service. We write today to call on the Postal Service to implement a broad, aggressive program to combat robberies and theft of mail across the Hudson Valley. We ask that this plan include an increase in the number of Postal Inspectors and investments in new technology to secure collection boxes. Mail theft threatens the livelihood of our constituents and impacts our most vulnerable populations. These thefts occur daily, rapidly and significantly decreasing the reliability of the Postal Service. Thieves are not only “fishing” mail out of collection boxes, but are stealing the entire mailbox or using keys acquired from postal employees. Thieves use stolen mail to commit financial fraud and identity theft. Our constituents have been accused of missing payments, and some of their bank accounts have been emptied after thieves “wash” checks pulled from mailboxes. These widespread incidents cost our constituents large sums of money and much time to remedy, not to mention the confidence and peace of mind that the Postal Service prides itself on providing. As outlined in the attached letter, Westchester County District Attorney Anthony Scarpino is working with Postal Inspectors and local law enforcement officers. However, he reports that the Postal Service has only six full-time Postal Inspectors to cover the Bronx and the counties in the Hudson Valley. We know from our constituents and from media reports that similar thefts have occurred in Rockland County, Bronx County, and elsewhere across our region of New York. The Postal Service must implement new technology to secure collection boxes and significantly increase the number of Postal Inspectors to prevent and investigate this epidemic of theft. Thank you for your prompt attention to this important matter. We look forward to reviewing your plan. Sincerely, _______________________ Nita M. Lowey Member of Congress _______________________ Charles E. Schumer United States Senator _______________________ Kirsten Gillibrand United States Senator _______________________ Eliot L. Engel Member of Congress _______________________ Sean Patrick Maloney Member of Congress Enclosure cc: Mr. Ronald A. Stroman Deputy Postmaster General 475 L’Enfant Plaza SW Washington, DC 20260-0050 ###
05.18.2018	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-NY), Ranking Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, along with Congressional Pro-Choice Caucus Co-Chairs Congresswoman Barbara Lee (D-CA) and Congresswoman Diana DeGette (D-CO), House Democratic Caucus Chairman Joe Crowley (D-NY), Congresswoman Julia Brownley (D-CA), Congresswoman Judy Chu (D-CA), Congresswoman Katherine Clark (D-MA), Congresswoman Suzan DelBene (D-WA), Congressman Jerry Nadler (D-NY), Congresswoman Jan Schakowsky (D-IL), and Congresswoman Jackie Speier (D-CA), released the following statement after reports that the Department of Health and Human Services today will announce President Trump’s proposed rule to gut Title X funding: “Today’s proposed rule confirms yet again that this Administration will stop at nothing to undermine women’s health. Anti-reproductive health extremists in the White House and at the Department of Health and Human Services have teamed up with Congressional Republicans and anti-abortion organizations to craft this policy. Not only are they doubling down on their crusade to penalize and defund Planned Parenthood, they are proposing a ‘gag rule’ on providers from referring for or even talking about abortion. “Make no mistake, this proposed rule has one purpose: to limit women’s access to care. “We are sick and tired of Republicans’ relentless attacks on every aspect of people’s private lives. This proposed rule demonstrates a callous disregard for the wellbeing of American women and families. From pushing an ideological abstinence-only agenda and denying low-income families access to contraceptives, to completely ignoring the rule of law and precedents established under Roe v. Wade - it’s clear that this Administration does not value Americans’ rights to accurate health information, comprehensive healthcare, or if and when one chooses to have a family.” The domestic gag rule is expected to limit Title X funding for organizations who provide comprehensive, legal family planning services, counseling, and/or referrals despite the current prohibition on using federal funding for abortion services. President Trump’s domestic global gag rule is expected to prevent doctors at organizations accepting Title X funds from telling women about the full scope of options available, interfering with their health care and the doctor-patient relationship. Title X is the only federal program that provides funding to support family planning and essential preventive health care services. Republicans have aggressively targeted Title X for cuts in recent years and have unacceptably aimed to cut off all Title X funding to Planned Parenthood, which provides basic, preventive care to millions of American women and men each year. ###
05.14.2018	Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D- Rockland/Westchester) was joined by (l-r) County Executive Ed Day (R) along with Metro-North Railroad Commuter Council Chair Randolph Glucksman and Vice Chair Orrin Getz at the Pearl River train station to call for reversal of NJ Transit schedule cuts for Rockland commuters. Pearl River, NY – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17/Rockland-Westchester) and Rockland County Executive Ed Day (R-Rockland) today held a press conference at the Pearl River train station to call on New Jersey Transit to reverse the recently announced cutbacks in commuter rail schedules for Rockland County. They were joined by Randolph Glucksman, chair of the Metro-North Railroad Commuter Council, and Orrin Getz, vice chair of the MNRCC and Rockland resident. “Our community is already underserved, and NJ Transit’s decision to further reduce express trains will hurt Rockland commuters,” said Lowey, who released a letter to NJ Transit calling for a reversal of their recently announced cuts to the Pascack Valley Line schedule. “It’s a false choice for NJ Transit to claim cutbacks in trains on the Pascack Valley line are necessary to ensure they meet the Positive Train Control deadline. With robust federal support for PTC to prevent train crashes, upgrades should not come at the expense of the quality of life for commuters who rely on rail service.” “I ask that NJ Transit reconsider the cancellation of our express trains or at the very least prioritize our service to get the trains on the Pascack Valley Line back in service as quickly as possible,” said Day. “It is time for Metro-North, the MTA and NJ Transit to fundamentally change their relationship with Rockland County because the current sad state of affairs has gone on for far too long. It is time for the commuters of Rockland County to get the level of service they deserve.” The proposed cutbacks are the latest in a series of service reductions to Rockland County residents, who have already been impacted by other express train cancellations and service disruptions caused by tropical storms Irene and Sandy. A 2012 study found that Rockland pays $42 million more to the Metropolitan Transportation Authority (MTA) than it gets back in service, which is provided by NJ Transit through MTA. ”The cancellation of the second Metro-North weekday morning express train on the Pascack Valley Line adds at least 18 extra minutes to the trip from Nanuet into New York City,” said Getz. “It decreases the reliability of the service, which is contributing to a decline in ridership. The cancellation of the Metro-North express trains on the Pascack Valley Line only makes the situation even worse. Also, the cancellation of the Friday only mid-afternoon Train #9653 promotes a hardship on Rockland’s Orthodox Jewish population who use this train to be home for the start of the Jewish Sabbath. The only alternative is taking the local bus from the Port Authority Bus Terminal, which is a very slow ride home. “The Pascack Valley Line is greatly underserved and offers its riders the fewest daily trains of any of the rail lines in Northern and Central New Jersey, which is why cutting our two express trains is a devastating blow to Rockland County,” said Glucksman. “Unfortunately, in the intervening years, NJ Transit’s poor finances have caused two trains to be removed from the schedule, and now we stand to lose two more. This cannot be allowed to happen. On behalf of the riders that I represent, the Pascack Valley Line cannot sustain another service reduction. Positive Train Control (PTC) is a critical safety technology that can prevent train accidents and derailments caused by excessive speed, conflicting train movements, or human error. The National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB) estimates that PTC could have prevented dozens of accidents, including fatal ones like the 2013 Spuyten Duyvil crash, which killed four people and injured 60. PTC also could have mitigated the 2017 Metro-North train derailment in Rye, NY, where five of the train’s 12 cars came off the tracks during rush hour. While PTC installation is essential, Lowey, a strong advocate for improved rail safety, says it should not come at a cost to commuters in the form of reduced train schedules, lower quality of life, and less time with family. She secured $250 million for PTC in the Fiscal Year 2018 omnibus spending bill. The federal government has provided more than $2 billion in grants and loans to passenger railroads to implement PTC since 2008, when the Rail Safety Improvement Act, which required implementation of PTC on all passenger railroads, was signed into law. She also wrote to then-acting National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB) Chairman Robert L. Sumwalt urging him to do everything in his power to push for the prompt implementation of PTC. When rail entities ran the risk of missing the original December 31, 2015, deadline for implementation, Congress extended the PTC deadline by three years to December 31, 2018, providing ample time and resources to support installation of this life-saving technology. Full text of the letter to NJ Transit follows. May 14, 2018 Mr. Kevin S. Corbett Executive Director NJ TRANSIT Corporation One Penn Plaza East Newark, NJ 07105 Dear Mr. Corbett: I am writing in opposition to NJ Transit’s decision to temporarily cancel Metro-North express trains 1618 and 1639 as well as the regular operation of Friday-only outbound train 9653. This decision will significantly lower the quality of service on the already underserved Pascack Valley Line. The reduction in service affects many of my Rockland constituents who rely on the Pascack Valley line as their means of travel to and from New York City. According to the Metro-North Railroad Commuter Council (MNRCC), this decision will reduce morning peak service by more than 11 percent and evening peak service by more than 12 percent. It also will halve the number of express trains from two to one in each peak period and eliminate a late afternoon Friday train that is essential for riders whose religious practice requires that Friday travel is completed by sunset. These cutbacks are only the latest in a series of service reductions to Rockland County residents, who have already been disproportionately impacted by other express train cancellations and service disruptions caused by tropical storms Irene and Sandy. Because Rockland County lies within Metropolitan Transportation Authority (MTA) territory, its residents pay taxes to the MTA, which pays NJ Transit to provide train service to and from the county. A 2012 study found that Rockland pays $42 million more to the MTA than it gets back in service, a number that will only rise as taxes remain the same but service is reduced. NJ Transit claims the cutbacks in trains on the Pascack Valley line are necessary to expedite its installation of Positive Train Control (PTC) technology, but this is a false choice. When the Rail Safety Improvement Act of 2008 was signed into law, railroads had seven years to prepare for the December 31, 2015 deadline. When virtually no progress had been made by mid-2015, Congress extended the PTC deadline by three years to December 31, 2018. The federal government has provided about $2 billion in loans and grants for commuter lines to implement PTC. I strongly believe that NJ Transit and Metro-North must install PTC technology by the upcoming deadline, but this cannot come at the expense of serving customers. NJ Transit’s decision to once again cut services to Rockland County with no alternative for riders, such as reduced fares or replacement bus service, is unacceptable. I urge you to reconsider these cuts to service or propose reasonable accommodations to riders for the months that these express trains will not run. Thank you for your attention to this matter. Sincerely, Nita M. Lowey Member of Congress # # #
05.14.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17/Rockland-Westchester), Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, today issued the following statement after the opening of the U.S. Embassy in Jerusalem: “Today marks the opening of the U.S. Embassy in Jerusalem, the eternal capital of the State of Israel and the Jewish people. With the Israeli government located in Jerusalem, the move of the Embassy is a logical step that is in line with existing U.S. law. In my role as Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on State and Foreign Operations, I will continue Congressional oversight over the construction of the permanent Embassy to ensure the prioritization of U.S. security concerns. With the ongoing conflict on the Israeli-Gaza border today, our goal of two states for two peoples – the Jewish State of Israel and a Palestinian state – living side-by-side in peace, security, and mutual recognition is as important as ever. I look forward to the Administration’s plan to bring both sides of this conflict to the table in order to negotiate a peaceful future for all.”
05.10.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today the House passed H. Res. 835, a resolution introduced by Reps. Nita Lowey (D-NY), Virginia Foxx (R-NC), Albio Sires (D-NJ), and Michael McCaul (R-TX). The resolution calls for all nations to enter into robust diplomatic relations with Israel upon its 70th year of statehood. It also highlights Israel’s recent advances in diplomacy and affirms the importance of diplomatic recognition of the nation in multilateral fora globally. Statement by Representative Lowey: “In just 70 years, Israel has overcome seemingly impossible odds to become a light unto the nations. Despite these achievements, Israel is continually treated unfairly at the United Nations and other international fora. With the passage of H.Res. 835, the House of Representatives is sending a strong message of support for the ironclad U.S.-Israel relationship, the expansion of Israel’s diplomatic relations, and a negotiated two-state solution to the Middle East conflict.” U.S. Representative Nita Lowey represents New York’s 17th Congressional District and is the ranking member of the House Appropriations Committee and its State and Foreign Operations Subcommittee. Statement by Representative Foxx: “May 14, 2018 marks the 70th anniversary of the State of Israel; it also marks the beginning of a longstanding friendship between the U.S. and our strategic ally. I’m pleased to support the passage of H. Res. 835 today, which sends a united message from the House of Representatives to the UN and the world that respect for Israel’s national sovereignty and broad recognition of its statehood is a priority for U.S. national security and achieving peace in the Middle East. As Israel furthers its diplomatic reach, the U.S. will continue to support its trade partner, fellow member state in international organizations, ally and friend.” U.S. Rep. Virginia Foxx represents North Carolina’s 5th Congressional District and is the chairwoman of the House Committee on Education and the Workforce. Statement by Representative Sires: “I would like to thank my colleagues Rep. Foxx, Rep. McCaul, and Rep. Lowey for their work and commitment to getting this important and timely House resolution passed. Israel is a key strategic ally to the United States and continues to play an important and stabilizing role in the region and abroad. This bipartisan resolution marks an incredible milestone for the state of Israel, and I hope that our two countries can continue to work together for generations to come. I applaud my colleagues in the House for unanimously passing this resolution and look forward to continued prosperity and security for the state of Israel.” Rep. Sires is a member of the House Committee on Foreign Affairs and sits on the Subcommittee on Europe, Eurasia, and Emerging Threats. Statement by Representative McCaul: “Yesterday’s egregious attacks against Israel by Iran exemplifies why we must remain steadfast in our support for our Israeli partners. Since its independence in 1948, Israel has thrived in a turbulent region surrounded by few who recognize its existence as a state and enemies who issue threats of annihilation on a regular basis. With the passage of this resolution in the House, there should be no confusion amongst the international community as to where our relationship stands now and where it will be in the future. As we approach the 70th anniversary of Israel as a state, we must reflect on our strong bilateral relationship, and continue working together to advance our common interests internationally.” U.S. Representative Michael McCaul represents Texas’ 10th Congressional District is Chairman of the House Committee on Homeland Security and a senior member of the House Committee on Foreign Affairs. ###
05.08.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17/Rockland-Westchester), Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, issued the following statement after President Trump announced he is withdrawing the United States from the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA): “I voted against the Iran nuclear deal and continue to believe there are ways to improve it. Yet, absent compelling evidence from the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) and the intelligence community that Iran has failed to comply with the agreement, President Trump’s decision to withdraw the U.S. from the JCPOA is reckless and damages the United States’ reputation as a dependable partner and international leader. “In these polarized times, Republicans and Democrats have consistently agreed that Iran must never have a nuclear weapon. But politicians on both sides of the aisle also agree that Iran’s malevolent, non-nuclear activities, such as support for terrorist groups and its ballistic missile program, are deeply destabilizing to the region. Given that France, Germany, and the UK announced their intentions to stay in the JCPOA, the Administration should have developed a comprehensive strategy to vigorously enforce the deal and to combat Iran’s malicious efforts. Instead, at a critical time, the President is giving up our leverage on Iran and allowing it to further provoke chaos in the Middle East. “Diplomacy is a delicate art that depends on trustworthiness and unity among allies. With negotiations set to begin with North Korea, President Trump’s decision today undermines our credibility, divides our closest global partners, and threatens international security in the Middle East and beyond.” ###
05.03.2018	Congresswoman Lowey congratulates Dobbs Ferry resident and The Masters School junior Vincent Alban for winning this year's Congressional Arts Competition WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (Westchester/Rockland), the Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, announced that Vincent Alban, a junior at The Masters School in Dobbs Ferry, NY, is the winner of the 2018 Congressional Art Competition for New York’s 17th Congressional District. Vincent’s photograph, “Rough Road,” was judged to be first of 15 entries. “I congratulate Vincent on winning this year’s Congressional Art Competition,” said Lowey. “New York’s 17th Congressional District will be well represented in Washington, DC, by his outstanding artwork on display in the United States Capitol, where millions of visitors may see it.” Brianna Martinez, a Harrison resident and a junior at Harrison High School, came in second place for her photograph entitled “Fenced In;” Jenna Assumma, a Dobbs Ferry Resident and senior at Dobbs Ferry High School, came in third for her “Crash Landing” collage; and Peter Zuidema, a Pearl River resident and a senior at Pearl River High School, received an honorable mention for his mixed media piece, “Spaceman.” “Our region is fortunate to be home to so many excellent young artists,” said Lowey. “I’m proud of Brianna, Jenna, Peter and all of the participants in this year’s Congressional Art Competition. Their artistic talents are excellent contributions to the Lower Hudson Valley’s cultural identity.” The Congressional Art Competition is a nationwide high school visual art competition to recognize and encourage artistic talent in the nation and in each congressional district. Each spring, students submit entries to their representative’s office, and panels of district artists select the winning entries. Winners are recognized both in their district and at an annual awards ceremony in June in Washington, DC. The winning works are displayed for one year at the U.S. Capitol. The awards ceremony was held at Westchester Community College on Monday, April 23, 2018. The three judges who chose the winners were Melissa Hall, Fine Arts Gallery Director at Westchester Community College in Valhalla; Jessica Cioffoletti, Associate Director of Arts in Education at ArtsWestchester; and Jessy Mendez, Program Manager of Arts in Education at ArtsWestchester. In addition to promoting arts through the annual Congressional Art Competition, Congresswoman Lowey has been stalwart in her defense of the National Endowment for the Arts (NEA) and served on the prestigious National Council for the Arts in recognition of her leadership. ###
05.02.2018	Rep. Lowey meets with families, substance abuse prevention and treatment providers. and medical personnel on the opioid epidemic in Westchester and Rockland counties. Tarrytown, NY – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17/Rockland-Westchester) today hosted a roundtable at Student Assistance Services Corp. with affected families and substance abuse prevention and treatment providers and advocates to discuss the impact of the opioid crisis in Westchester and Rockland counties and the $3.2 billion increase in the fiscal year 2018 federal spending bill to support prevention and treatment efforts. “The opioid epidemic is a national emergency that demands a robust national response,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “The $3.2 billion increase in federal funding will bolster medical treatment and prevention efforts, providing much-needed assistance to families and communities struggling with addiction. While this funding increase is a major victory, Congress must make robust, continued investments in life-saving programs to bring the opioid crisis to an end.” As the top Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, Lowey successfully fought to secure a $3.2 billion increase for programs to respond to the opioid crisis in the FY18 federal spending bill: $1 billion for a new State Opioid Response Grant program within the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration, as well as a $25 million increase focused on prevention and a $160 million increase to the Mental Health Block Grant; $100 million for Certified Community Behavioral Health Clinics, of which New York is one of few states already eligible for funding; $350 million for the CDC’s initiatives on overdose prevention and improving state prescription drug monitoring programs, part of an overall $475 million CDC opioid investment; $330 million for the Veterans Administration for inpatient and outpatient treatment, because no veteran should ever be told there is no treatment available, and $49 million for implementation of VA opioid safety initiatives; $500 million increase at NIH designated for combating opioid addiction; $105 million increase to support training for treatment under the National Health Service Corps; $30 million for Prescription Drug Monitoring programs; $94 million increase for the Food and Drug Administration to increase inspections for illicit drugs; $447 million for Department of Justice grants for heroin enforcement task forces, drug courts, prescription drug monitoring, and overdose prevention medicines, such as Naloxone; and $100 million for to help children whose parents misuse drugs. Lowey’s roundtable discussion included a number of local experts and affected families who made the following statements about the opioid crisis and efforts to increase prevention and treatment: Ruth Bowles, executive director, Rockland Council on Alcohol and other Drug Dependence, Inc.: “Addiction is a critical public health issue. The lives of individuals, families and communities have been afflicted by the worst drug epidemic in America’s history. The public needs education that addiction is a chronic, recurring brain disorder that can affect anyone, at any time. The goal of prevention is to reduce the prevalence of a disease or condition. Addiction is life-long disease, that is difficult to treat and difficult to sustain without specific medical interventions. Therefore, prevention of substance use disorders will be of utmost importance in averting a new generation from developing the horrific disease. “ Ross Fishman, Ph.D., president of Innovative Health Systems Inc. of White Plains: "Addressing the opioid crisis requires a change in our culture and environment through massive education and prevention efforts; greater access to affordable, comprehensive treatment; and openness to the use of promising alternative medications and longer-term harm reduction therapies. Unfortunately, opioid users and most treatment providers are held hostage by a pharmaceutical-medical-governmental complex that enables easy access to these and other addictive substances, aided by a profit-driven segment of the addiction treatment industry that renders inadequate treatment. A further complication is that insurance companies are charging more for the medications used to treat opioid dependence than for the medications that perpetuate it." Ilan D. Gilbert, Town Supervisor, Town of Yorktown: “While opioid abuse is a nationwide epidemic, every one of us has been directly or tangentially affected by the opioid and drug abuse crisis. Much has been done but so much more is needed. Specifically, a global approach that encompasses, but is not limited to: Prevention, Law Enforcement, Treatment, Mental Health and Recovery.” Ellen Morehouse, executive director of Tarrytown-based Student Assistance Services Corp.: "Prevention is a key ingredient in turning the tide on the opioid crises. Along with reducing access has to opioids, increasing public awareness of their addictive potential, and increasing awareness of treatment options; there has to be increased focus on preventing youth marijuana and alcohol use - the two drugs that often begin the progression to opioid addiction. I appreciate Congresswoman Lowey's continued commitment to addressing the substance abuse crisis and securing funding for prevention and treatment." America’s opioid crisis has reached epidemic levels. According to the New York State Department of Health, opioid overdose caused the deaths of 1990 New Yorkers outside of New York City in 2016, including 124 in Westchester County and 37 in Rockland County. Deaths from opioid overdoses increased roughly 20 percent between 2015 and 2016. The epidemic takes the lives of 116 Americans every day. More people die from opioids than from car accidents or guns. Securing robust funding to respond to the opioid crisis has been a priority of Congresswoman Lowey’s. In 2017, Lowey announced $25,260,676 in federal funds from the Department of Health and Human Services to New York State to combat opioid addiction through the State Targeted Response to the Opioid Crisis Grants program administered by the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA). The funding was the first of two rounds provided for in the 21st Century Cures Act, which Congresswoman Lowey voted for and helped pass the U.S. House. ###
04.30.2018	Congresswoman Lowey was joined by (l to r) Thomas Morley, Director of the Rockland Regional New York State Small Business Development Center, and Bella Vita Authentic Italian Deli owner Michael Giordano and employee Antonio Leto to kick of National Small Business Week and announce legislation to help small businesses with credit card protections. CONGERS, NY – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17/Rockland-Westchester), Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, kicked off National Small Business week at Bella Vita Authentic Italian Deli in Congers to discuss her legislation, which would extend personal credit card protections to small businesses, and funding she recently helped secure for the Small Business Administration to support small businesses, which account for 99% of New York businesses. “Small businesses are the foundation of our economy,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “To mark National Small Business week, I have introduced the Small Business Credit Card Act to provide small business owners the same consumer protections as individual credit card holders, like eliminating unfair fees and deceptive billing practices. It’s a key step for New York’s small businesses that is, quite frankly, only fair.” Michael Giordano, Bella Vita Authentic Italian Deli & Catering owner, said, “We all know that small businesses are the backbone of America. It is what has made and continues to make this country great. Credit card companies must give ample and proper notice to any changes to interest rates so businesses can adjust accordingly and not be blindsided by higher interest fees. The higher interest fees could otherwise be used toward growing a business.” There are more than 2 million small businesses in New York, which is 7.2 percent of the national total. A total of 3.9 million people, or 50.6 percent, of all New York employees are small business employees. According to the National Small Businesses Association, 27 percent of small businesses say they cannot access adequate financing and are being pushed into using credit cards to meet capital needs but only 31 percent say those credit cards meet their capital needs. In comparison, in 1993 only 16 percent of small businesses used credit cards as a source of financing. The average interest rate charged on small business credit cards is 14.16 percent. The Small Business Credit Card Act would: prevent credit card companies from arbitrarily raising interest rates on small businesses without proper notice; prohibit interest rate increases on existing balances; prohibit interest charges on debt paid on time; and require any payment over the minimum apply to the balance with the highest interest rate. “One-in-three small-business owners look to credit cards as a critical source of financing, yet these cards typically are not protected against the most unfair and deceptive credit card practices,” National Small Business Association President and CEO Todd McCracken said recently of Lowey’s bill. “I applaud Congresswoman Lowey for her continued advocacy on this issue and look forward to working with her to ensure small businesses have access to fair, affordable financing.” Thomas Morley, Director of the Rockland Regional New York State Small Business Development Center, spoke about the value of the legislation to local businesses. He said, “Many small businesses have come to rely on credit cards for purchasing supplies and inventory in their businesses. Sadly some financial institutions choose to have capricious policies harmful to small businesses. Congresswoman Lowey, long a champion for small business, has proposed regulations essential to the protection of the businesses that are the economic fabric of our communities. Small business must use credit to survive, Congresswoman Lowey's proposal will directly help their survival." As the top Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, Lowey successfully fought to secure a $2 million increase for Entrepreneurial Development Programs, like Small Business Development Centers and Women’s Business Centers, and a $1.5 billion increase in lending authority for 7(a) loans in the recently passed spending bill for fiscal year 2018, which funds the federal government through September. ###
04.27.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17/Rockland-Westchester), Ranking Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, secured passage of an amendment to study allergic reactions aboard flights as part of H.R. 4, the FAA Reauthorization Act, which passed in the U.S. House of Representatives today. “Too many travelers have faced terrifying allergic reactions in flight,” said Lowey. “And yet, there is no definitive information on their frequency or the medical response on planes. This is particularly important for young travelers, who may not have a diagnosed allergy until the reaction occurs. My amendment would require FAA to conduct a study to help put more information in the hands of travelers.” According to the World Allergy Organization Journal, allergic emergencies are responsible for 2.2% of all medical problems in flight and resulted in 4.5% of aircraft diversions. This concern is especially prevalent for the estimated 15 million Americans who suffer from food allergies, 5.9 million of whom are children. Many travelers experience an allergic reaction on board an aircraft, and yet there is no central process for identifying how many reactions occur, universal reporting of reactions, or ensuring that medicine to prevent anaphylactic shock is on board planes. This has led to confusion for travelers during medical emergencies that require quick response and can have dangerous consequences. The Lowey amendment would require the FAA to conduct a study on the prevalence of allergic reactions on board flights, airlines’ reporting of reactions to the FAA, and the frequency of first aid inventory checks to ensure medicine to prevent anaphylactic shock on aircraft. It passed by voice vote as an amendment to H.R. 4. Lowey has been the leading champion of legislation to support the food allergic community. Among other accomplishments, she authored the Food Allergen Labeling and Consumer Protection Act, enacted in 2004, which requires labeling of the eight main food allergens in plain language on food packaging. ###
04.26.2018	Back Row (L-R): Alan Moskin (Service Academy Review Board Member), John Nonna (Service Academy Review Board Chair), Bill Pereira (Service Academy Review Board Member), Steve Ronco (Service Academy Review Board Member), Bob Coloumbe (Service Academy Review Board Member). Middle Row (L-R): Brian Flaherty, Congresswoman Nita Lowey, Mark Rigano, Nestor Levin, Ryan Maguire, Matt Cooper, Sean Doherty, Kelcie Bogardus. Front Row (L-R): Jack Welsome, Michal Koslowski, Chris Hecht, Eugene Om. White Plains, NY -- Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), the senior Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, on Monday honored at her annual Service Academy Recognition Ceremony the 29 students from Westchester and Rockland counties she nominated last December for admission to our nation’s service academies – U.S. Air Force Academy, U.S. Merchant Marine Academy, the U.S. Military Academy (West Point), and the U.S. Naval Academy. “These distinguished young Americans have answered the call to duty,” said Lowey. “I commend their accomplishments and look forward to their continued success in service to our nation. It’s an honor to work with local veterans, who have made great sacrifices to our nation, to nominate such impressive young men and women to the service academies.” The nominees come from many communities in the 17th Congressional District, including 13 nominees from Rockland and 16 from Westchester. As of today, 11 students have been accepted by an academy for admission this summer. The ceremony took place at Westchester Community College. Lowey thanked local veterans who attended the April 23 ceremony for their service to our country, and noted her work in Congress on behalf of veterans, including her support for the largest funding increase in the history of the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) and for expanded access to educational opportunities and health care for all veterans. Rockland County Nominees: Chestnut Ridge Sean Guerrero, Paramus Catholic High School, nominated to the United States Air Force Academy Nanuet Benjamin Chun, Nanuet Senior High School, nominated to the United States Military Academy Renato Cocucci, Don Bosco Prep School, Manhattan College, nominated to the United States Military Academy Eugene Om, Nanuet High School, nominated to the United States Naval Academy New City Sean Doherty, Bergen Catholic High School, nominated to the United States Naval Academy and the United States Air Force Academy Benjamin Lockey, Clarkstown High School South, Texas A&M University, nominated to the United States Military Academy Jack Welsome, Clarkstown High School North, nominated to the United States Military Academy Pearl River Brian Flaherty, Pearl River High School, nominated to the United States Military Academy John Gormley, North Rockland High School, nominated to the United States Air Force Academy Suffern Thomas Alvarado, Suffern High School, nominated to the United States Naval Academy Thiells Kelcie Bogardus, North Rockland High School, RCC, University at Buffalo, nominated to the United States Air Force Academy Valley Cottage Zaim Radoncic, Bergen Catholic High School, nominated to the United States Naval Academy West Nyack Joshua Henriques, Fork Union Military Academy, nominated to the United States Air Force Academy Westchester County Nominees: Briarcliff Manor Patrick Walker, Hackley School, nominated to the United States Naval Academy Chappaqua Matthew Jabloner, Horace Greeley High School, Marion Military Institute, nominated to the United States Military Academy Cortlandt Manor Matthew Sillcocks, Walter Panas High School, Embry-Riddle Aeronautical University, nominated to United States Air Force Academy Elmsford Christopher Hecht, Archbishop Stepinac High School, nominated to the United States Air Force Academy and the United States Merchant Marine Academy Hartsdale Matthew Cooper, Loyola School NYC, nominated to the United States Merchant Marine Academy Jefferson Valley Alexander Piedra, Lakeland High School, Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University, nominated to the United States Air Force Academy Ossining Emma San Martin, Ossining High School, nominated to the United States Military Academy Nicholas San Martin, Ossining High School, nominated to the United States Military Academy Yoo Shin Tanai, Ossining High School, nominated to the United States Military Academy Purchase Mark Rigano, Harrison High School, nominated to the United States Naval Academy and the United States Merchant Marine Academy Rye Brook Alexander Golden, Blind Brook High School, nominated to the United States Naval Academy Nestor Levin, Blind Brook High School, nominated to the United States Air Force Academy Tarrytown Michal Kozlowski, Regis High School, nominated to the United States Military Academy West Harrison Ryan Maguire, Harrison High School, nominated to the United States Naval Academy White Plains Edwin Edjeani, White Plains High School, nominated to the United States Merchant Marine Academy Yorktown Heights Macey Drezek, Yorktown High School, nominated to the United States Naval Academy ###
04.24.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17/Rockland-Westchester), Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, just one day after holding a local roundtable on the dangers of e-cigarettes and vaping to teens and one week after questioning the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) Commissioner Scott Gottlieb on the topic in a hearing, reacted to the announcement on the FDA’s Youth Tobacco Prevention Plan to combat youth access to e-cigarettes, including JUUL. “While I am encouraged by FDA’s additional steps to address youth access to, and use of, e-cigarettes such as JUUL, FDA should not be congratulated for simply doing its job to help prevent the next public health emergency,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “By raising awareness of the dangers of e-cigarettes and putting retailers on notice, FDA can prevent more young people from getting hooked on nicotine. Yet, FDA’s decision to delay review of e-cigarettes, which pose a serious threat of nicotine addiction for youth, until 2022 has opened the flood gates for e-cigarettes to enter the market, and lack of enforcement action to remove products that target youth fails to protect public health.” E-cigarette use among teens has risen tenfold in the past decade, to 16 percent of teens in 2015, despite warnings that these devices are not safe for youth. In addition, many tobacco companies and vape shops actively market products toward children, with flavors like Fruit Loops, Gummy Bears, and Swedish Fish, that mask the dangerous, addictive chemicals in e-cigarettes and other vaping devices. On Monday, Lowey hosted a roundtable in West Nyack, NY, to congratulate Rockland County for raising the tobacco purchase age to 21, and to raise awareness about the alarming increase in e-cigarette use among teens and her efforts at the federal level to regulate e-cigarettes and other vaping devices. During an April 17 Appropriations hearing, Lowey challenged FDA Commissioner Scott Gottlieb on the agency’s approach to e-cigarettes, warning that delaying action will put youth at unnecessary risk. In particular, Lowey challenged Gottlieb to remove from the market JUUL devices, which are among the most popular e-cigarettes available, resemble a flash drive, can be charged in the USB port of a computer, offer kid-friendly flavors like cool mint and fruit medley, and deliver nicotine at a higher level than most e-cigarettes. While Gottlieb promised “vigorous enforcement steps,” today’s actions do not meet the Congresswoman’s request to remove these products from the market. ###
04.23.2018	WEST NYACK, NY – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17/Rockland-Westchester) today hosted a roundtable discussion at Rockland BOCES in West Nyack about the alarming increase in e-cigarette use among teens and about her efforts at the federal level to regulate e-cigarettes and other vaping devices. Lowey was joined at the roundtable by Rockland County Legislator Aney Paul; Denise Hogan, Program Manager at POW’R Against Tobacco; Chris Sherwin, Vice President for State Advocacy at Campaign for Tobacco Free Kids; and local school officials and students. “E-cigarette use among young people is becoming the next public health emergency,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “The numbers prove it is all too easy for children to get their hands on e-cigarettes and vaping chemicals, including in vape shops and online. We know these devices are addictive gateways to tobacco products. And yet, the FDA is not doing enough to protect our communities, especially our children, from these dangerous products. That needs to change.” E-cigarette use among teens has risen tenfold in the past decade, to 16 percent of teens in 2015, despite warnings that these devices are not safe for youth. In addition, many tobacco companies and vape shops actively market products toward children, with flavors like Fruit Loops, Gummy Bears, and Swedish Fish that mask the dangerous, addictive chemicals in e-cigarettes and other vaping devices. While the U.S. Food and Drug Administration has announced that it will use its authority to lower the levels of nicotine in cigarettes, the agency has also announced that it will delay deadlines for reviewing ingredients in e-cigarettes by up to five years. During an April 17 Appropriations hearing, Lowey challenged FDA Commissioner Scott Gottlieb on the agency’s approach to e-cigarettes, warning that delaying action will put youth at unnecessary risk. In particular, Lowey challenged Gottlieb to remove from the market JUUL devices, which are among the most popular e-cigarettes available, resemble a flash drive, can be charged in the USB port of a computer, offer kid-friendly flavors like cool mint and fruit medley, and deliver nicotine at a higher level than most e-cigarettes. While Gottlieb promised “vigorous enforcement steps” on e-cigarettes from the FDA, he did not commit to a timeline. “We know that if a person doesn’t use tobacco products until they are 21 or older, there is very little chance that they will ever use them,” said Rockland County Legislator Aney Paul said. “The statements made by participants at today’s roundtable hosted by Congresswoman Nita Lowey only underline the need for further action. Today, too many young people see vaping as a glamorous or cool behavior when, in fact, it poses myriad health questions and continues to expose users to nicotine. By working together, I am confident we will be able to meet the challenges and I thank Congresswoman Lowey for pursuing this issue on the federal level.” “The rapid rise in teen use of Juul e-cigarettes threatens to addict a new generation and undermine the enormous progress we’ve made in reducing youth tobacco use. The appeal of Juul to kids is clear – it’s high-tech and easy to hide, comes in sweet flavors and delivers a strong dose of nicotine. We’re grateful for Congresswoman Lowey’s leadership in fighting to protect kids from all tobacco products and pushing the FDA to act now to address youth use of Juul and similar tobacco products,” said Chris Sherwin, Vice President of State Advocacy for the Campaign for Tobacco-Free Kids. “Tobacco 21 will protect our youth from a lifetime of addiction and illness. We know 96% of smokers began smoking before the age of 21, with most starting before the age of 16. If our youth reaches the age of 21 before smoking, chances of them ever doing so drops to only 2%. Our youth are our future and we need to do everything we can to give them a tobacco free life,” said Denise Hogan, Program Manager at POW’R Against Tobacco. The roundtable discussion came on the heels of a new law in Rockland County that raises the age to purchase tobacco to 21. Lowey, who has cosponsored legislation at the federal level to increase the purchase age for tobacco products to 21 nationwide – H.R. 4273, the Tobacco to 21 Act – applauded the county legislature’s decision. “I am honored to be here to commend Rockland County for raising the age for the purchase of tobacco products to 21,” said Lowey. “In particular, I’d like to recognize Rockland County Legislator Aney Paul for her work to pass this bill, which will improve the public health of our young people. I’d also like to recognize Chris Sherwin, Vice President of State Advocacy for the Campaign for Tobacco Free Kids, for traveling here today. Thanks to your work, fewer young people will get hooked on tobacco and nicotine.” ###
04.19.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17/Rockland-Westchester), Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, issued the following statement regarding a federal appeals court ruling against President Trump’s policy punishing so-called sanctuary cities: “A federal appeals court has delivered a sharp rebuke of President Trump’s attempt to circumvent Congress and punish local jurisdictions by withholding federal funds. Holding public-safety funding hostage to an extreme anti-immigrant agenda is wrong, and will only undermine the critical work local law enforcement do every day to keep families and communities safe and secure. If President Trump is serious about protecting the American people, this policy is not the way to do it.” ###
04.19.2018	WASHINGTON – Reps. Nita Lowey (D-NY), Virginia Foxx (R-NC), Albio Sires (D-NJ), and Michael McCaul (R-TX) yesterday introduced H. Res. 835, a resolution supporting robust bilateral relations with the State of Israel globally and fairness in its treatment in multilateral fora upon seventy years of statehood. The resolution highlights Israel’s recent advances in diplomacy, urges support for its bid for the United Nations Security Council and affirms the diplomatic recognition that America’s strategic ally deserves. Statement by Representative Lowey: “As Israel celebrates the 70th anniversary of its founding, this resolution will act as a powerful reminder that the unbreakable U.S.-Israel relationship must be fundamentally grounded in bipartisanship and support for a negotiated two-state solution to the Middle East conflict.” Rep. Lowey is ranking member of the House Appropriations Committee and its Subcommittee on State and Foreign Operations. Statement by Representative Foxx: “May 14, 2018 marks the 70th anniversary of Israel’s independence and birth of the State of Israel; it also marks the beginning of a longstanding friendship between the U.S. and our strategic ally. I am proud to introduce this House resolution with my colleagues to honor this occasion and express Congress’ support for Israel’s bilateral relations and equitable treatment in international organizations. Respect for Israel’s national sovereignty and broad recognition of its statehood is crucial for advancing peace in the Middle East and is vital to U.S. national security. This resolution sends a clear message to the UN and the world that the U.S. will continue to stand by Israel as a trade partner, equal member state in all multilateral fora, ally and friend.” Statement by Representative Sires: “I am pleased to introduce this timely House resolution with my colleagues to mark the 70th anniversary of the founding of the State of Israel, which has been a continued friend and ally to the United States. Israel has remained a stalwart of democracy and a beacon of hope for Jewish immigrants all over the world, and embraces the values, and freedoms that are the cornerstone of a vibrant democratic society. As the Middle East struggles with protracted conflicts and growing challenges, Israel continues to be an essential international partner and plays a critical role in promoting stability in the region and abroad. This resolution will reaffirm Congress’ steadfast commitment to Israel and our continued support for our ally, friend, and partner on the international stage.” Rep. Sires is a member of the House Committee on Foreign Affairs and sits on the Subcommittee on Europe, Eurasia, and Emerging Threats. Statement by Representative McCaul: “Since its creation in 1948, Israel has thrived in a region surrounded by few who recognize its existence as a state and enemies who issue threats of annihilation on a regular basis. The United States, through decades-long aid and assistance, has been instrumental in Israel’s success. I am proud to introduce this resolution with my colleagues in support of a continued robust bilateral relationship that sends a clear message to the world that the United States stands in lockstep with our strongest ally in a turbulent region.” Rep. McCaul is Chairman of the House Committee on Homeland Security and a senior member of the House Committee on Foreign Affairs. ###
04.17.2018	DOBBS FERRY, NY – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17/Rockland-Westchester) hosted a press call today, Tax Day, to highlight the devastating consequences of the GOP tax law for the Lower Hudson Valley, especially the gutting of the state and local tax (SALT) deduction. Lowey was joined on the call by Westchester County Executive George Latimer, Westchester County Legislator MaryJane Shimsky, Dobbs Ferry Mayor Bob McLoughlin, and Dobbs Ferry Budget Committee Chair Paul Sterne. “Capping state and local tax deductions at $10,000 is shameful, particularly when you consider the high tax burden in New York, and the fact that New York families already send more to the federal government than they get back in federal investments,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “Simply put, this tax scam places a target on the backs of New York taxpayers, including many of my constituents. The bottom line is that capping the SALT deduction may force some to leave New York State, leading to higher taxes on those who remain or a significant reduction in vital local services like first responders and health care. The GOP tax scam is bringing sweeping changes that New Yorkers must be prepared for. With Tax Day today, it’s important that our constituents know that we are fighting back.” Prior to enactment of the federal tax law in December 2017, New York taxpayers who itemized could deduct their state and local property and income taxes. The SALT deduction was a major source of tax fairness for high-taxed states like New York, where 35 percent of taxpayers deduct an average of more than $22,000 every year. In Congresswoman Lowey’s district, the 17th Congressional District of New York, the rate is even higher, with 45 percent of taxpayers relying on the state and local tax deduction at an average of $26,000. The new law, however, caps the SALT deduction at $10,000, effectively raising taxes on millions of middle-class Americans who depend on the deduction. “I am proud to stand with Congresswoman Lowey and my colleagues in Government, discussing ways to protect our Nation’s middle class, and counties like Westchester,” said Westchester County Executive George Latimer. “We must do all we can to help Westchester taxpayers weather the dramatic reduction of the State and Local Tax (SALT) deduction. The SALT policy will greatly harm the hard working taxpayers who live in Westchester; we must make every effort to protect taxpayers from restructuring the State tax code to preserving federal deductibility to working on the federal level to repeal the cap on SALT. All options must be on the table.” In response to the SALT deduction cap, Congresswoman Lowey and Congressman Peter King (R-NY02/Nassau-Suffolk) introduced bipartisan legislation, the SALT Deductibility Act, to restore the deduction in its entirety. Lowey also sent a letter to Acting IRS Commissioner David Kautter urging the agency to allow taxpayers to fully deduct prepaid 2018 state and local property taxes on their 2017 returns. The IRS has warned that not all prepayments of 2018 property taxes would be deductible on 2017 returns, leaving many with uncertainty over whether they will receive tax relief or an additional tax bill. ###
04.14.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17/Rockland-Westchester), Ranking Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee and the Subcommittee on State and Foreign Operations, issued the following statement regarding U.S.-led missile strikes against Syria: “These strikes, carried out in coordination with our allies, were a measured and appropriate response to the Assad regime’s inhuman use of chemical weapons on Syrian civilians. I remain concerned that the Administration lacks a long-term strategy for Syria. It is clear that a new AUMF is necessary to provide our armed forces with a clear and focused mission and adequate resources to protect U.S. interests, provide regional stability, and help Syrians rebuild.” ###
04.13.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17/Rockland-Westchester), Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, cosponsored legislation to shield Special Counsel Robert Mueller from President Trump. The Special Counsel Independence and Integrity Act (H.R. 5476) would enable Special Counsels, including Mueller, to appeal their firings to a panel of judges and potentially be reinstated. “President Trump’s threats to fire Special Counsel Mueller and Deputy Attorney General Rosenstein are a threat to the rule of law and edge us closer to a constitutional crisis,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “This legislation is a necessary response to the president’s aggressions and a critical fail-safe against presidential interference in the Special Counsel’s investigation. Congress should pass this legislation without delay.” The Special Counsel Independence and Integrity Act would: Codify existing Department of Justice regulations to ensure the Special Counsel can only be fired for good cause by the senior most Department of Justice official not recused from the matter, and the reason must be provided in writing; Prevent the President from using the Vacancies Act to install an Acting Attorney General who will fire the special counsel at the President’s bidding; Provide the Special Counsel 10 days to seek expedited judicial review of the removal to determine whether the firing was for good cause. If the three judge panel determines the firing violated the good-cause requirement, the removal will not take effect; and Preserve the staffing, documents, and materials of the investigation while the appeal is pending. Lowey has been a strong defender of the Special Counsel’s investigation into Russian election interference and President Trump’s alleged Russian ties. In February, she joined Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi, Senate Democratic Leader Chuck Schumer, and Senate Appropriations Committee Vice Chairman Patrick Leahy in sending a letter to Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell and House Speaker Paul Ryan urging Congress to provide $300 million for the FBI to stop Russian election interference. As Ranking Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, she fought to secure in the FY18 omnibus spending bill $307 million above the Administration’s request for the FBI to fight Russian cyberattacks and $380 million, a 100 percent increase, for election technology grants for states to secure their election systems through the Election Assistance Commission (EAC). New York’s share of this vital election assistance funding is estimated to be $21.8 million. ###
04.11.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17/Rockland-Westchester) released the following statement marking Yom HaShoah, Holocaust Remembrance Day: “On Holocaust Remembrance Day, we stop to honor the six million innocent Jewish men, women, and children who perished in the systematic genocide against Jews during the Holocaust – the darkest chapter in our history. We must never forget to remember their stories and the somber lessons of their deaths: we cannot stay silent in the face of others’ suffering or efforts to impinge on the civil rights of minority communities. “Sadly, this year’s Yom HaShoah feels more important than ever in light of rising anti-Semitism and Holocaust denial around the world, including here in the United States. Holocaust denial or distortion creates a society that is not only susceptible to anti-Semitism, but also other forms of racism, hatred, and oppression. “The best way for us to uphold our solemn promise of 'never again' is to teach younger generations about the Holocaust. This is why I am proud to be an original cosponsor of the Never Again Education Act, legislation introduced this week by Representative Carolyn Maloney (NY-12) that would create a program at the Department of Education to help more middle and high school students learn about the Holocaust. Through efforts like this, we will ensure future generations are committed to fighting all forms of hatred, bigotry, and intolerance.” Lowey is a co-chair and founder of the U.S. House's Bipartisan Taskforce for Combating Anti-Semitism.
04.11.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17/Rockland-Westchester), Ranking Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, today issued the following statement regarding the Republican balanced budget amendment scheduled for a Thursday vote in the U.S. House: “Republicans blew a nearly $2 trillion hole in the debt with a tax law that overwhelmingly benefits the very-highest income Americans and corporations at the expense of the middle class and disproportionately hurts New York. Now, with the hollowness of their so-called fiscal responsibility fully exposed, the Republican majority is trying to save face by holding an empty vote on a measure that has no chance of becoming law. “Let me be clear: This is a dangerous pretext by the majority to enact deep and devastating cuts to domestic safety nets like Medicare, Medicaid, and Social Security in order to pay for their massive tax giveaways. If enacted, this measure would upend the health and financial security of the many millions of Americans who depend on these programs and would further dampen the nation’s fiscal outlook. “Further, the majority’s amendment would undermine discretionary investments critical to our security and prosperity. Congress has a responsibility to invest in priorities to strengthen families and communities, create jobs, and grow the economy, as we successfully did with the bipartisan Omnibus appropriations bill recently enacted. A Constitutional amendment would inhibit Congress’s ability to meet evolving and urgent challenges. “Adding nearly $2 trillion to the national debt with a massive tax giveaway to corporations and the very wealthiest, then turning around and targeting investments in the priorities of American families under the guise of fiscal responsibility, is the height of hypocrisy.” ###
04.10.2018	WHITE PLAINS, NY – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17/Rockland-Westchester) today announced the 2018 Congressional Art Competition for New York’s 17th Congressional District. The Congressional Art Competition is a nationwide high school visual art competition to recognize and encourage artistic talent in the nation and in each congressional district. Each spring, students submit entries to their representative’s office, and panels of district artists select the winning entries. Winners are recognized both in their districts and at an annual awards ceremony in June in Washington, DC. The winning works are displayed for one year in the U.S. Capitol. “New York’s 17th Congressional District is fortunate to be home to so many excellent young artists, whose talents make important contributions to the Lower Hudson Valley’s identity,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “I always look forward to this competition because it’s a chance to recognize the creativity and talent of our young people, and to showcase their work to countless visitors in the U.S. Capitol every year.” All entries must be submitted to either Congresswoman Lowey’s White Plains or New City office by Tuesday, April 17, 2018. Students may submit their two-dimensional artwork and release form by mail or in person on weekdays between the hours of 9 AM and 6 PM. The competition is open to high school students only. The judged competition will take place in late April or early May. In addition to having their work displayed in the U.S. Capitol, the first place winner will also be invited to attend a reception in Washington, DC, and to meet with Congresswoman Lowey and other nationwide winners. For information and guidelines about the competition, visit Congresswoman Lowey’s website HERE. Students, parents, and teachers can also contact the congresswoman’s District Representative Yma Oria at Yma.Oria@mail.house.gov (preferred) or (914) 428-1707. ###
04.10.2018	OSSINING, NY – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17/Rockland-Westchester) today held a press conference at Ossining Children’s Center to announce a significant increase in federal funding for child care and early learning services as part of the Omnibus Appropriations Act of 2018, which funds the federal government through September. Lowey was joined by representatives of the Ossining Children’s Center, the Child Care Council of Westchester, and Child Care Resources of Rockland, and by Ossining Village Mayor Victoria Gearity and Ossining Town Supervisor Dana Levenberg. “For families with young children in the Lower Hudson Valley, especially those who are low-income or middle-class, finding quality, affordable child care can be a major stress and a severe financial burden,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “Every child should have the opportunity to grow and learn in a safe, supportive environment. We know that children who have high-quality child care and are enrolled in early childhood services such as preschool and Head Start have better outcomes as adults, including higher graduation rates and earnings. That is why I am pleased to announce that, as the top Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, I secured historic investments in child care and early childhood learning in the recently enacted federal spending bill for fiscal year 2018.” According to the Economic Policy Institute, Westchester is the third-costliest area to raise a family in the United States, edging out New York City, largely because of high child care costs. Monthly child care costs range from $1,114 for a single-child family to $3,220 for a family with four children. The investments Lowey successfully fought to increase in the federal spending bill, which will help better meet the needs of children and families across the Lower Hudson Valley, include: An increase of $2.4 billion, the largest increase in history, for the Child Care and Development Block Grant, a federal program that provides grants to states to help families access child care. New York is expected to receive an estimated $106.7 million in additional funds and provide child care for an estimated 11,811 more children; An increase of $610 million for Head Start, a comprehensive child development program for low-income families; An increase of $12.9 million for Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (IDEA) Preschool Grants to support special education for young children with disabilities; and An increase of $20 million for afterschool programs. Additionally, the federal spending bill protected funding for Preschool Development Grants, which help states create and improve preschool accessibility, and increased funding for the Child Care Access Means Parents in School (CCAMPIS) Program by $35 million. In October 2017, Lowey announced a CCAMPIS continuation grant of nearly $82,000 to sustain access to campus-based childcare for low-income students at Rockland Community College, State University of New York. “In 2015, Westchester County lowered the income eligibility ceiling for subsidized day care. The increase Congresswoman Lowey has secured will be invaluable in returning the ceiling to its original level. This will provide access to child care to new deserving families,” said Howard Milbert, Executive Director of Ossining Children’s Center. “We very much appreciate Congresswoman Lowey’s dedication to the child care industry and know how hard she fights for more funds and better policies to ensure our children receive what they deserve. This increase in funding in the Child Care Development Fund will provide more families with access to quality child care, help teachers in early childhood to receive the support they need, and support children in their development,” said Elaine Trotta, Director of Program Standards and Support Services at Child Care Resources of Rockland. “New York’s share of the $2.4 billion increase in the Federal child care subsidy will improve safety conditions and the learning environment in child care facilities; improve the financial viability of child care businesses; enable more parents to return to work; and, of course, enable more children to enroll in a quality early childhood education for the first time. This historic increase in child care funding would never have happened without our Congresswoman, Nita Lowey,” said Jeff Samuelson, Child Care Council of Westchester Board of Directors member. The historic investments in child care and early childhood learning in the Omnibus Appropriations Act of 2018 are a strong repudiation of President Trump’s budget proposal, which called for steep cuts to domestic agencies and programs. “These investments are just the start,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “Our work is not done until every child in our community has access to child care and early learning. I will continue working in the House to strengthen investments that will put our children on the path to success.” ###
04.05.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17/Rockland-Westchester), Ranking Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, today released the following statement: “Scott Pruitt’s short tenure as Administrator of the EPA has been marred by a series of scandals and marked by a retreat from American environmental leadership. He has failed to carry out the mission of the EPA and has, in fact, undermined the critical work of the agency at every turn. Most egregiously, he has violated and exploited the public’s trust for his own benefit. I opposed Scott Pruitt’s nomination and confirmation, and now I call on him to resign. He should be replaced by a leader who will work to protect our environment, combat climate change, and restore America’s leadership in building a sustainable future.” ###
04.05.2018	WHITE PLAINS, NY – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17/Rockland-Westchester) today held a press conference at Burke Rehabilitation Hospital to announce a substantial increase in federal funding for the National Institutes of Health (NIH) as part of the Omnibus Appropriations Act of 2018, which funds the federal government through September. The $3 billion, or 8.8%, increase from the FY2017 enacted level is the largest increase in NIH funding in 15 years. Lowey was joined at the event by representatives from the Burke Medical Research Institute and the Hudson Valley Chapter of the Alzheimer’s Association. “Investments in cutting-edge medical research will improve health outcomes, ease suffering, and provide thousands – even millions – of Americans with longer, healthier, and more productive lives, while also benefitting the economy,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “The $3 billion increase for the NIH is an example of the progress we’re making in funding the pursuit of cures for diseases such as Alzheimer’s, cancer, Parkinson’s, and ALS. I was proud to lead House Democrats in securing these funds and will fight for even more next year.” As Ranking Member, the highest ranking Democrat, on the House Appropriations Committee, Congresswoman Lowey was instrumental in securing this $3 billion increase in NIH funding, which will support groundbreaking medical research across the Lower Hudson Valley. Additionally, the funding boost will bring NIH’s investment in Alzheimer’s research to $1.82 billion, a $414 million increase from the FY2017 enacted level, and the BRAIN Initiative to $400 million, a $140 million increase from the FY2017 enacted level. “Research on Alzheimer’s disease has been grossly underfunded. The additional funds which Representative Lowey has encouraged Congress to allocate has, and will continue to make a difference in our fight against this terrible disease,” said Dr. Gary E. Gibson, Professor of Neuroscience at Weill Cornell Medicine and Director of the Laboratory for Mitochondrial Biology and Metabolic Dysfunction in Neurodegeneration at the Burke Medical Research Institute. “The Alzheimer’s Association is extremely grateful for Congress’s investment in research that will ultimately put an end to Alzheimer’s disease, which impacts over 5 million individuals and their families, nation-wide. Because of this federal commitment, and the leadership of Congresswoman Lowey, ground-breaking research is moving forward, and we look forward to the day when Alzheimer’s is just a memory, instead of a thief that steals memories,” said David Sobel, President and CEO of the Alzheimer's Association Hudson Valley Chapter. “I am so proud of the work being done right here in Westchester County thanks to NIH dollars. The recent NIH funding boost will enrich our communities and, most importantly, shepherd needed progress in the fights against diseases, like Alzheimer’s, that have touched so many of our lives. As a longtime supporter of medical research and increased NIH funding, I am pleased that pioneering research continues to be a priority for Congress,” said Congressman Eliot Engel. In 2017, NIH provided $2.386 billion in grants to researchers in New York, including at Burke Medical Research Institute; supported nearly 30,000 jobs; and stimulated $5.9 billion in economic activity in the state. Securing robust funding for NIH has been a leading priority of Congresswoman Lowey. During her tenure on the House Appropriations Committee, NIH funding has nearly tripled, providing the resources needed to advance cutting-edge research and improve the health and well-being of millions of Americans. ###
04.04.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17/Rockland-Westchester), Ranking Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee and the Subcommittee on State and Foreign Operations, today released the following statement: “I am concerned by President Trump’s abrupt announcement that he is instructing military leaders to prepare to withdraw U.S. troops from Syria. Given recent statements from Secretary of Defense Jim Mattis and CENTCOM Commander General Joseph Votel about the importance of U.S. troops in Syria to ensure the total destruction of ISIS and to support successful reconstruction efforts, it appears the Administration does not have a unified strategy on Syria. The void created by our absence will almost certainly be filled by countries like Russia and Iran that do not share our interests or those of our allies in the region. As we move forward, the U.S. must, at a minimum, continue to support stabilization efforts to help the Syrian people rebuild after this tragic conflict.” ###
04.03.2018	Westchester, NY — Westchester Congress Members Nita Lowey (NY-17), Eliot Engel (NY-16), and Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) announced today that Westchester County has been awarded a $3.6 million federal grant from the United States Department of Transportation’s Federal Transit Administration for new vehicles under the Bus and Bus Facilities Competitive Grant Program. The Bus & Bus Facilities Infrastructure Investment Program (49 U.S.C. 5339) makes federal resources available to states and direct recipients to replace, rehabilitate and purchase buses and related equipment. “Thousands of Westchester residents depend on a reliable public transportation system in their daily lives,” said Congresswoman Nita Lowey (NY-17). “This $3.6 million federal grant will enable the county to purchase new buses, ensuring that residents have continued access to safe and efficient public transportation. As the Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, which oversees federal funding allocations, I will continue to make sure that the Lower Hudson Valley has the resources to serve residents, support economic growth, and prosper.” “This federal money will help repair and replace aging buses that are currently on the roads of Westchester County,” said Congressman Eliot Engel (NY-16). “The idea is to improve public service by helping to ensure that transit riders have access to the safest, most reliable and most efficient modes of transportation possible. I am pleased that these funds have been awarded to Westchester and I am confident that they will be put to good use.” “I hear how valuable the Bee-Line service is from folks in Westchester all the time, so I’m glad we could secure this federal investment to put even more buses on the street,” said Congressman Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18). “Buses in Westchester serve millions of people every year, and give residents more choices on how to get around – investing in systems that are already popular and working well is common sense.” “I applaud our federal delegation for working hard to get Westchester County this much needed money to replace our aging bus fleet. It is imperative that Westchester County residents have safe and reliable busses that they can depend on to get them to work, school and around the County,” said Westchester County Executive George Latimer. ###
03.27.2018	WHITE PLAINS, NY – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17/Rockland-Westchester), on the heels of the past weekend’s nationwide gun safety events, today met in White Plains with students and teachers from Westchester and Rockland counties about gun violence prevention and meaningful reform to strengthen and expand gun laws. “Today was about hearing from our youth – it’s their turn to guide the conversation,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “The bottom line is this: the right of students to go to school free from fear is more important than someone else’s right to own weapons of war. While our hearts are always with the victims of these tragedies and their families, our thoughts and prayers just aren’t enough anymore. It’s about moving forward with action.” Lowey is a member of the congressional Gun Violence Prevention Task Force and has been a leader in fighting to prevent gun violence, including working to strengthen background checks, close the terror gap loophole, and ban assault weapons and bump stocks. As Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, Lowey was instrumental in securing a number of critical gun-safety related items in the Omnibus Appropriations Act of 2018: The Fix NICS Act makes modest improvements to our background check system. It enforces current law by ensuring states and federal agencies are reporting the appropriate records to the National Instant Criminal Background Check System (NICS). The STOP School Violence Act reauthorizes and amends the 2001 Secure Our Schools program through the DOJ’s Bureau of Justice Assistance, providing local law enforcement, school personnel and students with the tools they need to proactively prevent a threat. Language clarifying that the CDC is able to perform research into the causes of gun violence. Language that provides the proper oversight to ensure the Department of Defense reports records into the NICS background checks system. The Department of Defense failed to properly report the Sutherland Springs shooter, enabling the shooter to kill 26 people in a Texas church last November. $75 million for the National Instant Criminal Background Check System, an increase of $2 million from the FY17 level. Additional language provides states and tribal governments with technical assistance and training to improve the application process and ensure more grantees receive funding assistance to upload records to NICS. $1.3 billion for the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives (ATF), which is $35 million above the FY17 enacted level. Fully funds the National Violent Death Reporting System (NVDRS) at $23.5 million. NVDRS is a data system run by the CDC that provides state and local communities with information about violent deaths across the country. This $7.5 million increase from FY17 will allow the system to include data from all 50 states and the District of Columbia. $59.5 million for violence intervention and prevention programs within the Department of Justice. Last Congress, Lowey introduced the NICS Community Protection Act, which would close the Charleston loophole by providing 14 businesses days rather than three for a background check to be completed by the FBI’s National Instant Criminal Background Check System (NICS). As Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, Lowey has repeatedly offered an amendment in the committee to provide funding for the CDC to conduct gun violence prevention research. ###
03.26.2018	YORKTOWN HEIGHTS, NY – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17/Rockland-Westchester) and New York Lieutenant Governor Kathy Hochul were joined by high school winners of the 2018 Westchester Science & Engineering Fair (WESEF) and their respective science teachers, school officials, and local scientists at a roundtable discussion on Science, Technology, Engineering and Math (STEM) education. The roundtable focused on encouraging women and girls to enter STEM fields and on supporting female students pursuing STEM degrees. “The deficit of women in STEM is not just a women’s issue, it’s an economic issue that threatens our country’s ability to compete on a global scale,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “I’m proud to have secured historic investments to support STEM, computer science education, and resources for teachers in the fiscal year 2018 spending bill to help ensure that young women in our district and across the country have the support and resources they need to fulfill their dreams of becoming scientists, mathematicians, engineers, and tech entrepreneurs. Of course, addressing the disparities in STEM will take more than money alone. Our roundtable discussion offered a tremendous opportunity to hear from future STEM leaders about ways to encourage and support girls from the day they show interest in mathematics or science to the day they choose to dedicate their lives to careers in STEM.” “One of my missions as Lieutenant Governor has been to point the spotlight on the underrepresentation of women in the science and engineering workforce,” said Lieutenant Governor Kathy Hochul. “I’m passionate about encouraging girls to enter these fields of study, and that is why I’m happy to join Rep. Nita Lowey in a discussion about girls in STEM. New York is aggressively working to close that gender gap among students as well as our existing workforce. We must continue to expose women and girls to nontraditional careers, including those in high-tech and coding, and continue to invest in educational opportunities and programs to ensure all students have the skills they need for good paying jobs of the future.” “The main goal of the Westchester/Putnam Science & Engineering Fair is to support the efforts of the science research students from every high school in our two-county area and provide a venue for hundreds of students to present their multi-year, STEM education based research projects to local professionals,” said Michael Blueglass, Director of the Yorktown High School Science Research Program and President of the Westchester Science and Engineering Fair (WESEF). “The involvement in experiential, ‘hands on’ learning over an extended period of time has helped thousands of students to build the skills necessary to succeed in college and beyond.” As the Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, Lowey was instrumental in securing billions in historic investments in the Omnibus Appropriations Act of 2018 enacted last week to support STEM and computer science education and resources for teachers, including: $1.1 billion for Student Support and Academic Enrichment Grants, an increase of $700 million from the FY2017 enacted level, to provide flexibility to states to expand school-based services and pre-K through 12 computer science education programs that address the achievement gap for minorities, girls, and disadvantaged youth; $1.21 billion for 21st Century Community Learning Centers, an increase of $20 million from the FY2017 enacted level, to support afterschool enrichment including STEM activities; $120 million for Education Innovation and Research, an increase of $20 million from the FY2017 enacted level, for innovating STEM education projects, including computer science education, and of which $50 million is allocated for a new STEM and computer science competition; $1.2 billion for Career and Technical Education, an increase of $75 million from the FY2017 enacted level, to support high-tech and vocational training; and $7.767 billion for the National Science Foundation, including $902 million for Education and Human Resources, of which $62.5 million is allocated to Advancing Informal STEM Learning and $51.88 million for STEM + Computing (STEM+C) Partnerships. ###
03.26.2018	WHITE PLAINS, NY – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17/Rockland-Westchester) today sent a letter to United States Postmaster General Megan Brennan calling for the Postal Service to develop a comprehensive plan to address systemic and potentially life-threatening postal service failures and to hold a town hall meeting in Westchester County before June 1, 2018. In the letter, Congresswoman Lowey notified Postmaster General Brennan of 80 cases sent to Lowey’s District Offices and passed along to Deputy Postmaster General Ron Stroman over the past six months that indicate a wide range of structural issues including significant breaks in delivery; packages left in inappropriate locations, such as in streets or in bushes; and loss of tracked mail containing medication, tax statements, and official records and documents. “Despite repeated attempts to address Postal Service issues at the district level, and multiple communications with Deputy Postmaster General Ron Stroman since my meeting with him in Washington last September, the volume of postal service complaints to my office has not decreased,” wrote Congresswoman Lowey. “The volume and consistency of complaints across New York’s 17th Congressional District and the rest of Westchester require systemic attention rather than case-by-case fixes,” Lowey continued. “The mail delivery problems facing many of my constituents and other Lower Hudson Valley residents are serious and widespread, and the continued failure of the postal service to remedy these issues and implement structural fixes is unacceptable. I look forward to your prompt attention to this request and to reviewing your plan to address the issues facing the Lower Hudson Valley. I know your trip to Westchester to listen to people directly affected by USPS shortcomings will be worthwhile.” Full text of the letter is below and here as a pdf. March 26, 2018 The Honorable Megan Brennan United States Postmaster General 475 L’Enfant Plaza, SW Washington, DC 20260 Dear Postmaster General Brennan: I am writing to request that you develop a comprehensive plan and hold a town hall meeting in Westchester County, NY, before June 1 to discuss the unacceptable, potentially life-threatening mail delivery issues that plague the Lower Hudson Valley. Despite repeated attempts to address Postal Service issues at the district level, and multiple communications with Deputy Postmaster General Ron Stroman since my meeting with him in Washington last September, the volume of postal service complaints to my office has not decreased. Westchester District Manager Richard Conte and his team in the Westchester Postal District held a briefing for elected officials on March 9, 2018, in White Plains, NY. This listening session highlighted some of the corrective actions taken at specific Post Offices in the Lower Hudson Valley, including Hartsdale, Monsey, White Plains, and Ossining in my district, but the problems that exist are not specific to these offices. The volume and consistency of complaints across New York’s 17th Congressional District and the rest of Westchester require systemic attention rather than case-by-case fixes. Over the past six months, more than 80 cases sent to my District Offices and passed along to Deputy Postmaster Stroman indicate a wide range of structural issues. These cases highlight such problems as: several days in a row of no mail delivery, sometimes followed by bundles of mail; significant differences in delivery reliability when substitute carriers are on routes; mail delivered well into the night, as late as 10 p.m.; packages left in inappropriate locations, such as in streets or in bushes; mail with medication, tax statements, official records and documents lost, despite the presence of tracking numbers on some mail; The mail delivery problems facing many of my constituents and other Lower Hudson Valley residents are serious and widespread, and the continued failure of the postal service to remedy these issues and implement structural fixes is unacceptable. I look forward to your prompt attention to this request and to reviewing your plan to address the issues facing the Lower Hudson Valley. I know your trip to Westchester to listen to people directly affected by USPS shortcomings will be worthwhile. Sincerely, Nita M. Lowey Member of Congress ###
03.23.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17/Rockland-Westchester), Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, today announced that the Omnibus Appropriations Act of 2018, the spending bill that funds the federal government through September 2018, includes $10 million in federal funding for the creation of a new homeland security grant program to support nonprofit organizations that are located outside of designated Urban Areas Security Initiative (UASI) jurisdictions and are determined to be at high risk of a terrorist attack. “I fought tooth and nail to secure this new program funding,” said Congresswoman Lowey, “because as New Yorkers know, threats of terrorism are all too real, and we need to have the resources necessary to protect our communities in the event of a crisis. This is a major victory, especially at a time of rising anti-Semitism and other hate crimes in New York and across the country.” As Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, Congresswoman Lowey was instrumental in securing this $10 million in funding along with other funding critical to enhancing regional preparedness and security capabilities, including: $700 million for firefighter equipment and staffing grants, a $10 million increase from the FY2017 enacted level; $249.2 million for Predisaster Mitigation grants, a $149.2 million increase from the FY2017 enacted level; $507 million for the State Homeland Security Grant Program, a $40 million increase from the FY2017 enacted level; and $120 million for the Emergency Food and Shelter Program. In her role as the top Democratic appropriator, Congresswoman Lowey also led Democrats in securing investments in important Democratic priorities including child care; transportation infrastructure; medical research, opioid abuse, prevention, and treatment; and much more. To learn more about the priorities Lowey was instrumental in securing in the omnibus, click here. ###
03.16.2018	WHITE PLAINS, NY – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17/Rockland-Westchester) released the following statement on the passing of Congresswoman Louise Slaughter: “Today, our state grieves the loss of a great New Yorker and my close colleague and friend, Louise Slaughter. “Louise was a force, one of the funniest, smartest, nicest, and most passionate people I have been blessed to know. Louise and I, still just junior congresswomen at the time, charged up the steps of the U.S. Senate to demand that Anita Hill be allowed to testify against Clarence Thomas. Louise never lost that fighting spirit, fearlessness, and commitment to justice, equality, and women’s rights. She broke barriers, becoming the first woman to chair the House Rules Committee, and set a strong example of public service and principled leadership as dean of the New York congressional delegation. As a leading champion of women’s empowerment, she proudly represented Seneca Falls, the site of the first women’s rights convention. “It was an honor to charge alongside Louise, up the steps of the Senate that fall day years ago, and during the many battles we fought together for Americans’ health care, women’s rights, opportunity for working men and women, and so much more. New York, the Congress, and our country have suffered an immeasurable loss. I pray Congresswoman Slaughter’s family and the legions of staff who served with her find comfort knowing her great legacy and many accomplishments have improved the lives of so many Americans.” ###
03.14.2018	WHITE PLAINS, NY – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17/Rockland-Westchester) released the following statement on the passing of longtime Westchester leader Judge Samuel G. Fredman: “I am deeply saddened to learn of the passing of Judge Samuel G. Fredman. “Sam Fredman was not afraid to speak his mind, always guided by the principles of justice and fairness for all. Throughout his more than six decades of public service, he distinguished himself as a leading attorney, judge, State Supreme Court Justice and arbitrator. Sam also generously shared his wisdom and talent with many community, professional, religious and political organizations, including the SUNY-Purchase Council, Westchester Jewish Council, and Westchester County Democratic Committee. A U.S. Army Air Force veteran who saw action in the South Pacific and Japan during World War II, Sam continued throughout his long career and into retirement to demonstrate to all that he was a member of ‘The Greatest Generation.’ “Westchester has lost a dynamic leader, skilled jurist, wise counselor and dedicated mentor to dozens of organizations and individuals. “And I have lost a dear friend and trusted advisor, the first to support my entry into elected office 30 years ago.” ###
03.14.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Representatives Nita Lowey (D-NY), Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL), Eliot Engel (D-NY), Ted Deutch (D-FL), and Marc Veasey (D-TX) released the following statement today on President Vladimir Putin’s recent comments that the “Jews” could be responsible for Russia’s interference in the United States election: “President Putin’s statement is indefensible and perpetuates some of the worst anti-Semitic stereotypes that have led to discrimination and violence in Eastern Europe for hundreds of years. Again and again, the Trump Administration has let President Putin off the hook for his attack on American democracy. Now, as Putin blames Jews for this attack, the White House’s silence also betrays our country’s long tradition as a leader in the struggle against anti-Semitism. We urge President Trump to condemn Putin’s remarks in the strongest of terms and affirm that the United States will not stand for anti-Semitism, domestically or abroad. To head this response, the Administration must also prioritize the appointment of the State Department’s Special Envoy to Monitor and Combat Anti-Semitism.” ###
03.13.2018	WHITE PLAINS, NY – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17/Rockland-Westchester), Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, today sent a letter to John McAvoy, chairman and CEO of Con Edison, demanding the company take steps to ensure permanent solutions to the recurring preparedness, personnel, and communication problems in its storm response efforts, most recently with winter storms Riley and Quinn. The letter noted that Con Edison’s delays in making repairs and restoring power following the recent winter storms caused significant physical and economic losses to families and businesses throughout Westchester County, and also called on Con Edison leadership to meet with municipal officials to hear and learn from them what went wrong and what needs to be fixed. “Now that power has been restored to most if not all of Con Edison customers in Westchester who were affected by winter storms Riley and Quinn, I write to urge your company to take steps to ensure that serious problems in preparedness, personnel, and communication do not happen again,” wrote Congresswoman Lowey. “While these back-to-back storms were severe, Con Edison’s delays in responding to the havoc caused significant physical and economic losses to families and businesses throughout the county. It is unacceptable that thousands of residents were without electricity or heat, many for more than a week, and that some schools and many businesses were forced to remain closed. “I fully support the State’s investigation into the lack of preparedness, poor communication, and weak infrastructural support that was on display in the aftermath of these storms. However, Con Edison should take proactive steps now to review the failures in response to these two winter storms, including meetings between you, your leadership team and municipal and other elected officials from across Westchester, as we demand answers and again seek permanent solutions to these recurring problems in Con Edison’s storm response efforts,” Congresswoman Lowey concluded. The letter is available below and here as a pdf. March 13, 2018 Mr. John McAvoy Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Consolidated Edison, Inc. 4 Irving Place New York, NY 10003 Dear Mr. McAvoy, Now that power has been restored to most if not all of Con Edison customers in Westchester who were affected by winter storms Riley and Quinn, I write to urge your company to take steps to ensure that serious problems in preparedness, personnel, and communication do not happen again. While these back-to-back storms were severe, Con Edison’s delays in responding to the havoc caused significant physical and economic losses to families and businesses throughout the county. It is unacceptable that thousands of residents were without electricity or heat, many for more than a week, and that some schools and many businesses were forced to remain closed. As one of the first steps, I urge you and your leadership team to meet in Westchester with leaders of all municipalities in the county to hear and learn from them what went wrong and what needs to be corrected. Those municipal officials on the front lines and in the impacted neighborhoods and Main Streets heard from their constituents, then spent hours on sometimes twice daily conference calls with Con Edison regional management officials begging for utility crews to come to their communities. Though she and some of her colleagues in local government testified to the Moreland Commission following Superstorm Sandy, Cortlandt Town Supervisor Linda Puglisi has said repeatedly over the last 10 days that in her 27 years of service, Con Edison has never learned from the mistakes of past storms. From Saturday, March 3 through Monday, March 12, my office received calls and emails from more than 70 constituents regarding the recent winter storms. These included people with medical conditions who could not live in their homes without electric medical appliances, school officials whose buildings were closed for days on end, and people without nearby family or other resources who were forced to remain in their cold, dark homes. While most of the power has been restored, these residents and business owners are understandably frustrated. The most common complaints I heard from constituents centered on the effectiveness of Con Edison’s response. I heard stories of workers sitting in trucks waiting for directions from Con Edison supervisors, and situations where trucks arrived at sites where repairs had already been completed. Constituents were appalled at the breakdown of communication within Con Edison, and many believed the power outages may have been shortened if resources had been used more efficiently. Additionally, Con Edison did not work effectively with municipalities; municipal crews were ready to clear debris and trees, but Con Edison would not direct crews to remove the live wires or sent the wrong crews. Municipal officials said their Con Edison liaisons, though dedicated and eager to help, were not supported by your management. The lack of coordination, both within your company and with the various municipal and governmental officials, is deeply concerning. Equally concerning was Con Edison’s communication – or lack thereof – with constituents. Automated calls would frequently state power had been restored when it had not. Con Edison would tell residents a timeline for restoration, which would frequently be moved back and sometimes be eliminated entirely. Constituents reported lost work tickets and confusing interactions with customer service personnel when they had to, once again, report their outages. Further, Con Edison failed to prioritize people who lost power in the first storm, meaning that some customers went without power for as many as 10 days. That is unacceptable. As you know, storm damage does not only apply to the immediate damage a weather event can cause but also to the lasting financial impact of the events and responses. Many constituents reported damage to their appliances or equipment, lost food, and flooding in their basements or ground floors, all of which carry significant financial burdens. Those without family or friends in the area were forced to bear the additional costs of prolonged hotel stays. Schools not being able to open for several days meant not only that student instructional time was lost, but that families without child care services perhaps could not work during that time. Constituents who work from home were often unable to do so, foregoing days of wages. I fully support the State’s investigation into the lack of preparedness, poor communication, and weak infrastructural support that was on display in the aftermath of these storms. However, Con Edison should take proactive steps now to review the failures in response to these two winter storms, including meetings between you, your leadership team and municipal and other elected officials from across Westchester, as we demand answers and again seek permanent solutions to these recurring problems in Con Edison’s storm response efforts. Sincerely, Nita M. Lowey Member of Congress ###
03.11.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17/Rockland-Westchester) released the following statement after Russian President Vladimir Putin blamed Jews for interference in the 2016 U.S. election: “With anti-Semitism rising both domestically and around the world, Putin's outrageous comment will fan the flames of bigotry and hatred. President Trump must condemn Putin, whose statement echos stereotypes that have led to discrimination and violence for hundreds of years. If he fails to do so, President Trump either agrees with Putin or lacks the backbone to stand up to him.” ###
03.08.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17/Rockland-Westchester), in honor of Women’s History Month, released her first-ever Spotify playlist this International Women’s Day, March 8. From classics like Carole King’s “I Feel the Earth Move” and Aretha Franklin’s “Respect,” to modern hits from Andra Day and Demi Lovato, the Congresswoman’s playlist is comprised of some of her favorite songs and music that empowers and inspires. “No matter the genre or decade, women artists have used the power of their music to give voice to their experiences, to motivate and inspire, to stir the social conscience, and to fight for the dignity and equality we all deserve,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “In many cases, their songs have become a soundtrack of resistance and strength, a vehicle to empower and challenge the status quo, and an important reminder: we fight back.” Additions to Congresswoman Lowey’s playlist will come throughout the month. Lowey is the Ranking Member on the powerful House Appropriations Committee. She is the first woman of either party to hold the position. Congresswoman Lowey’s Women’s History Month Playlist I Feel The Earth Move – Carole King Think – Aretha Franklin Rise Up – Andra Day Quiet – MILCK Come See About Me – The Supremes Skylark – Bette Midler Carey – Joni Mitchell Love on Top – Beyoncé Nick Of Time – Bonnie Raitt Sinnerman – Nina Simone So Far Away – Carole King Strength Of A Woman – Mary J. Blige Praying – Kesha Sorry Not Sorry – Demi Lovato Talkin’ Bout A Revolution – Tracy Chapman Blank Space – Taylor Swift Because the Night – Patti Smith You’re So Vain – Carly Simon Sunrise – Norah Jones Both Sides Now – Joni Mitchell I Never Loved a Man [The Way I Love You] – Aretha Franklin Me and Bobby McGee – Janis Joplin You’re No Good – Linda Ronstadt I Am Woman – Helen Reddy Run the World (Girls) – Beyoncé Million Reasons – Lady Gaga In My Life – Judy Collins Doubt – Mary J. Blige What About Us – P!nk Woman’s World – Cher I Wanna Dance with Somebody (Who Loves Me) – Whitney Houston Piece of My Heart – Janis Joplin All Too Well – Taylor Swift Confident – Demi Lovato Aretha Franklin – Respect This Is Me – Keala Settle Reflection – Lea Salonga Man! I Feel Like A Woman! – Shania Twain Next to Me – Emeli Sandé Big Yellow Taxi – Joni Mitchell Tightrope - feat. Big Boi – Janelle Monáe Express Yourself – Madonna I’m Coming Out – Diana Ross ###
03.06.2018	WHITE PLAINS, NY – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17/Rockland-Westchester) today issued the following statement on the ongoing power outages in Westchester: “There is no disagreement that Winter Storm Riley caused widespread damage to utility infrastructure, leading to severe power outages across Westchester. My staff and I have been in close contact with constituents who have lost power and remain without it, power companies, and elected officials, and continued outages are absolutely unacceptable. I fully support Governor Cuomo’s directive for the NYS Department of Public Service to investigate the response to the power outages caused by the storm. I will continue pushing to restore power and to ensure that power companies are prepared for the coming storm so my constituents are not without electricity for days on end.” ###
03.05.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17/Rockland-Westchester), Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, today sent a letter to President Trump urging him to nominate a highly-qualified individual to serve as Administrator of the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration. The NHTSA has been without a permanent leader for more than a year, undermining the agency’s life-saving work to reduce traffic fatalities. “It is unacceptable that NHTSA has been without a permanent leader for 408 days and counting,” Lowey wrote in the letter. “Too many Americans have lost family members and loved ones due to preventable crashes, and NHTSA’s work to eliminate risky behaviors on our roads and regulate vehicle equipment has proven critical to reducing traffic fatalities. … I am concerned that the vital work NHTSA has already done to reduce traffic fatalities is in jeopardy without a permanent leader at the agency’s helm.” Lowey concluded: “No more Americans should know the grief of losing a loved one due to a preventable traffic crash. You owe it to the families of each victim to nominate a qualified NHTSA Administrator so this agency can continue its life-saving work.” In 2016, 37,461 people were killed in crashes on U.S. roadways, an increase of 5.6% from 2015. A strong public safety advocate, Congresswoman Lowey is a supporter of the Driver Alcohol Detection System for Safety Program administered by NHTSA. This non-invasive technology has the potential to eliminate drunk driving by preventing vehicles from operating if the driver’s blood alcohol content (BAC) is above the legal limit. Lowey is also a strong supporter of minimum penalties for repeat drunk drivers and mandated ignition interlock devices to prevent repeat offenders from getting behind the wheel impaired. Full text of the letter can be found here as a pdf and below. March 5, 2018 Donald J. Trump President of the United States 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue NW Washington, DC 20500 Dear President Trump, I write to urge you to nominate a highly-qualified individual to serve as Administrator of the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration. It is unacceptable that NHTSA has been without a permanent leader for 408 days and counting. There were 37,461 people killed in crashes on U.S. roadways during 2016, an increase of 5.6% from 2015. Even more concerning is that 10,497 of these deaths resulted from alcohol-impaired-driving crashes. Too many Americans have lost family members and loved ones due to preventable crashes, and NHTSA’s work to eliminate risky behaviors on our roads and regulate vehicle equipment has proven critical to reducing traffic fatalities. I am a strong supporter of the Driver Alcohol Detection System for Safety Program that NHTSA administers, as this non-invasive technology has the potential to eliminate drunk driving by preventing vehicles from operating if the driver’s BAC is above the legal limit. I am concerned that the vital work NHTSA has already done to reduce traffic fatalities is in jeopardy without a permanent leader at the agency’s helm. No more Americans should know the grief of losing a loved one due to a preventable traffic crash. You owe it to the families of each victim to nominate a qualified NHTSA Administrator so this agency can continue its life-saving work. Sincerely, Nita M. Lowey Member of Congress ###
03.01.2018	AUDIO WHITE PLAINS, NY – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17/Rockland-Westchester) was today joined by Lower Hudson Valley elected officials and residents to demand long-term solutions to the systemic issues plaguing the post office branches in Westchester and Rockland counties, including lost checks, missing bills, and undelivered medications. Joining Congresswoman Lowey were Village of Ossining Mayor Victoria Gearity; Greenburgh Town Supervisor Paul Feiner; Cynthia Ferguson, an Ossining resident who has been subjected to significant breaks in delivery and late and missing mail, including bills; and Els van den Bosch, a Port Chester resident who had to pay a replacement fee for her green card that was lost in the mail. “When the Postal Service is not working efficiently, families and businesses can face serious consequences,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “Unfortunately, that’s the case for too many area residents. During the past five months, I’ve received dozens of postal service complaints which indicate a wide range of structural problems. The shortcomings in our local postal service are not merely inconveniences; they are threatening the livelihood and well-being of some of our highest need constituents. It is unacceptable that New Yorkers would have to worry about missing a bill, not receiving a payment, or not having access to important documents or medication they need. I am committed to working with the community and the entire Postal Service team to find long-term solutions and rebuild trust in an institution that plays a pivotal role in this nation.” “Delivery failures directly impact the lives of people in our community,” said Mayor Gearity. “It is troubling that even after months of attempts, the postal service our residents rely on is still not fixed. We are grateful to Congresswoman Lowey for her efforts to address this ongoing issue.” “I am very pleased that Congresswoman Lowey is giving this her priority attention,” said Supervisor Feiner. “The lack of reliable and dependable mail service is a crisis for our residents. I have received hundreds of complaints from residents and many of these complaints are very serious. Not receiving medication. Not getting checks they expect or bills. Mail being sent to the wrong addresses. No mail deliveries for days at a time. We need to find a solution to the problem. I hope that the Postmaster General of the United States will consider our invitation to visit Westchester, to meet with postal customers and local postal employees. We need results.” At the press conference, Congresswoman Lowey described the pervasiveness of mail service problems in Rockland and Westchester which affect communities throughout the 17th Congressional district, and highlighted a number of cases her office has received in recent months, including: A constituent from White Plains, who relies on the mail for her heart medication, only received her medication when her husband personally waited for the carrier and asked him to check a spot in the delivery vehicle the carrier had overlooked. A constituent from Nyack had her address changed without her consent. A credit card was opened in her name, and she was the victim of identity theft. A constituent from White Plains had to fight multiple battles because his nebulizer medication was lost in the mail. He and other seniors in his building consistently face missing mail and poor service. Congresswoman Lowey has been in frequent contact with USPS to resolve issues facing residents and to put pressure on the postal service to address these ongoing failures. In September 2017, Lowey met with United States Postal Service Deputy Postmaster General Ron Stroman to discuss the postal issues in Westchester and Rockland, bringing to his attention dozens of specific cases and demanding action. At the meeting, Lowey asked for a report detailing the steps the Post Office has taken to fix these issues, and later sent a letter to Stroman to follow up on the report, which was vague and did not include a detailed plan. Since then, the Postal Office has yet to address every case brought to their attention by Lowey. This week, Lowey sent a letter to Stroman describing the “wide range of structural issues” that continue to plague local mail delivery and urging him to use his upcoming briefing session in White Plains not just as an opportunity to hear concerns, but as a platform “to announce solutions to the challenges we have repeatedly brought to your attention over the past five months.” Lowey will continue to bring cases directly to the Post Office officials in Washington, because the Westchester District Postal Service does not have an efficient way to work directly with Lower Hudson Valley residents. ###
02.28.2018	WHITE PLAINS, NY – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17/Rockland-Westchester), Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee and a co-chair of the House Bipartisan Taskforce for Combating Anti-Semitism, issued the following statement on the release of an Anti-Defamation League (ADL) report showing a 91 percent increase in anti-Semitic incidents in New York between 2016 and 2017: “This surge in anti-Semitic incidents is deplorable and unacceptable, and must be rooted out of our society, along with all other forms of bigotry, xenophobia, and hate. Anti-Semitic vandalism, threats, and violence do not reflect the values of the vast majority of New Yorkers, who must stand together and speak out to uphold tolerance and acceptance, and to reverse this trend of harassment and intimidation.” According to the ADL, there were 18 incidents of Anti-Semitism in Westchester in 2017 and 12 incidents in Rockland. Nationally, the ADL stated that the number of reported anti-Semitic incidents in the U.S. surged 57 percent during the same time period. ###
02.23.2018	WHITE PLAINS, NY – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17/Rockland-Westchester), on the heels of the deadly Parkland school shooting that left at least 17 people dead, joined Lower Hudson Valley students and local law enforcement for a roundtable discussion on gun violence and prevention. Lowey heard directly from participants about the need for commonsense gun safety reform and discussed her efforts to prevent gun violence. Joining Congresswoman Lowey at the roundtable were Frank Williams, Executive Director of the City of White Plains Youth Bureau; Det. Gilberto Lopez, School Resource Officer for the White Plains Police Department; Det. Morgan Cole-Hatchard from the Pleasantville Police Department; New Castle’s Community Resource Officer Michelle Mazzocchi; and more than a dozen high school students. Lowey invited these students to participate in the roundtable after several reached out to her expressing their fear of gun violence in their communities, particularly in their schools, as well as their frustration with congressional inaction on gun violence. “The bottom line is that students have a right to go to school free from fear, not having to worry about anything other than expanding their horizons and minds,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “These mass shootings, including the tragedy in Parkland, Florida, continue to shake all of us to the core, and students are left fearful for their safety. That’s unacceptable, and congressional Republicans must join Democrats in commonsense reforms to reduce gun violence, keep guns out of the hands of dangerous people, and improve public safety. The students I spoke with today demand action, and it’s past time that the Republican-controlled Congress take meaningful steps to end this nation’s gun crisis.” According to data from the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), on average 96 Americans, including seven children and teens, are killed with guns every day, while nearly 13,000 are the victims of gun homicides every year. According to The American Journal of Medicine, among high-income nations, 91 percent of children 14 and under who were killed by a firearm lived in the United States. The U.S. has the highest rate of gun ownership in the world as well as a significantly higher gun homicide rate than other advanced countries. “Violence has once again visited our community,” said Frank Williams, Executive Director of the City of White Plains Youth Bureau. “In Parkland, Florida, fourteen youth and three teachers died at the hands of another. As a nation, we are better than this. We must all work together to end this plague. We must listen to our youth and empower them to help us rid this evil. Today in White Plains, we heard the voices of our youth and we will work to end this violence.” Lowey is a member of the congressional Gun Violence Prevention Task Force and has been a leader in fighting to prevent gun violence, including working to strengthen background checks, close the terror gap loophole, and ban assault weapons and bump stocks. Last Congress, Lowey introduced the NICS Community Protection Act, which would close the Charleston loophole by providing 14 businesses days rather than three for a background check to be completed by the FBI’s National Instant Criminal Background Check System (NICS). This week, Lowey sent a letter to House Speaker Paul Ryan urging him to allow a vote to lift the ban on federal gun violence research. As Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, Lowey has repeatedly offered an amendment in the committee to provide funding for the CDC to conduct gun violence prevention research. ###
02.16.2018	HAVERSTRAW, NY – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17/Rockland-Westchester) was joined today by health experts and medical professionals at Hudson River Healthcare (HRHCare) in Haverstraw to speak out against the deadly cuts to vital public health investments in President Trump’s budget proposal, and to send a message that as Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee she is committed to securing necessary federal funding and resources to protect public health. Joining Congresswoman Lowey at the press conference were Anne Kauffman Nolon, President and CEO of HRHCare; Dr. Sophia McIntyre, Chief Medical Officer of HRHCare; and Dr. Sherlita Amler, Westchester Commissioner of Health. “The President’s budget request is an embarrassment,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “It neglects the ongoing public health needs of this country and leaves us more vulnerable to illness and disease. It is unfathomable, at a time when 4,000 Americans are dying of flu-related illnesses each week, that the Trump Administration would attempt to weaken our ability to confront this epidemic by proposing to cut the CDC by hundreds of millions of dollars, including a cut for immunizations. The Administration needs to get its act together. With 1 in 10 American deaths currently flu-related, we cannot waste a day or turn our backs on investments that protect public health.” The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) is the lead federal agency tasked with preparing for and preventing epidemics like the flu, by working with state and local partners and health providers to get the best information out to the public and to support immunizations to keep Americans safe. President Trump’s Fiscal Year 2019 budget request, released on Monday, would cut the CDC by $729 million—a cut of more than 10% of its current funding level. It would also cut immunization programs by nearly $90 million, reducing access to vaccines that could prevent serious illness, such as the flu, or death. The president’s proposed cuts to these vital public health investments come as flu cases in New York reach record numbers. According to the New York State Department of Health, as of February 10, 14,354 people have been hospitalized with the flu in New York this season, and there have been five pediatric flu deaths. Westchester County had 1,172 confirmed cases of the flu in the week ending February 3 (120 cases per 100,000 residents), while Rockland County had 144 cases for the week (44 cases per 100,000 residents). “We are pleased to have this opportunity to highlight the importance of preserving critical public health functions related to disease surveillance, prevention, and treatment,” said Hudson River Healthcare President and CEO Anne Kauffman Nolon, MPH. “At Hudson River Healthcare, we have built strong partnerships with the Rockland County Department of Health, and similar departments across the Hudson Valley and Long Island, to ensure that our patients receive the highest-quality care, as well as the resources they need to prevent diseases in the first place. In this epidemically bad flu season, these partnerships are even more critical, and the federal cuts to public health programs that are being considered will deeply harm our communities.” As Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, Congresswoman Lowey was instrumental in securing $7.163 billion in federal funding for the CDC in the Fiscal Year 2017 omnibus spending bill. “The President has the power to propose a budget, but the Constitution gives Congress the power to allocate federal resources,” added Congresswoman Lowey. “As the senior Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, I will fight these budget cuts and ensure that the CDC has the resources to fully combat threats to public health. American lives are literally at stake.” ###
02.14.2018	WHITE PLAINS, NY – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17/Rockland-Westchester), Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, released the following statement on the passing of Lois Bronz, the first African American and first woman elected chair of the Westchester County legislature: “Lois Bronz was a dedicated, courageous, and kind-hearted leader. I had the privilege of working with Lois for many years, and I was always impressed with her dedication and commitment to caring for the most vulnerable in our communities. Lois tore down barriers, becoming the first African-American woman elected to the Westchester County Board of Legislators, which she would go on to chair, another first. We are fortunate that she did. Lois opened the door for other women and African Americans to serve our communities, and she was indispensable in advancing justice, equality, and opportunity in Westchester. May her memory be a blessing.” ###
02.12.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17/Rockland-Westchester), Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, today detailed the devastating consequences President Trump’s 2019 budget request would have on the economic growth, wellbeing, and safety of hardworking families in the Lower Hudson Valley. “The president has the power to propose a budget, but Congress has the power to dispose of that request—and this request, just like his last one, is dead on arrival,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “Nonetheless, this proposal is a troubling statement of the president’s disdain for the physical and financial security of middle-class New York families. From cuts to health and education to infrastructure and homeland security, the president’s request guts programs and support services on which hardworking families rely. As Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, I am committed to negotiating a responsible, bipartisan spending package that invests in American families and communities.” Here’s a snapshot of the detrimental proposals in President Trump’s Fiscal Year 2019 budget proposal: Makes it harder for students to afford and complete a higher education. Eliminates GEAR UP investments that help 6,000 low-income and at-risk New Yorkers have the support services to reach a higher education. Makes college more expensive by eliminating in-school interest subsidies, eliminating Public Service Loan Forgiveness, and eliminating the Supplemental Educational Opportunity Grants program, which helped 844 students at Rockland and Westchester Community Colleges obtain $398,391 in the 2015-2016 school year. Does not provide an annual increase for Pell Grants, diminishing the value of a Pell Grant and increasing the burden on student debt. Undermines our commitment to public education. Puts an additional burden on local taxpayers by not increasing federal funding for K-12 education or for IDEA special education. Eliminates afterschool activities for 89,354 New York students. Turns America’s back on vulnerable New Yorkers, including seniors and low-income families. Eliminates the Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP), which provided $366.7 million to help more than 1 million vulnerable New York households—including seniors, people with disabilities, and low-income families—afford heating and cooling. Cuts Medicare by $554 billion, and increases out-of-pocket costs of prescription drugs for some seniors. Cuts $214 billion in food and nutrition assistance for low-income families and seniors. Eliminates the Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) program, which funds a wide range of unique community development needs such as affordable housing, infrastructure investments, and economic development. In 2016, New York State received nearly $300 million in CDBG grants, of which $824,518 went to White Plains and $2,197,424 went to Rockland County. Cuts the Legal Services Corporation, which was created to ensure that all Americans have access to a lawyer for civil legal issues regardless of their ability to pay. New York has seven LSCs including Legal Services of the Hudson Valley in White Plains, which received $1,752,426 in FY16 and served 15,910 people in 2015, including more than 6,000 children. Pursues destructive health care policies. Cuts the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) by approximately 10%, including a cut to Immunization and Respiratory Diseases, at a time when 4,000 Americans are dying from the flu every week. Eliminates $451 million in health professional training programs while the nation faces a nursing shortage and an opioid epidemic. Jeopardizes homeland security by gutting programs that protect against terrorist attacks and natural disasters. Cuts $118 million from the State Homeland Security Grant Program (SHSGP), including roughly $19 million from New York State, endangering state and local planning, organizing, equipment, and training to prevent and protect our communities against acts of terrorism. Cuts the Urban Areas Security Initiative (UASI) by $156 million, with more than $44 million in cuts for the New York metro area, which could jeopardize critical homeland security and counter terrorism funding and put a greater burden on New York taxpayers. Includes $18 billion over 18 months for the president’s boondoggle border wall that will not adequately protect our nation’s borders. Cuts the Flood Hazard Mapping and Risk Analysis Program (RiskMAP) by $78 million, undermining an essential program used to identify flood hazards, assess flood risk, and partner with states and communities to provide accurate flood hazard and risk data. Undermines economic growth and job creation. Cuts $251 million from the Economic Development Administration, which provides federal grants to communities to support locally-developed economic plans. Eliminates TIGER grants, making it more difficult to fund major local infrastructure programs. TIGER has helped fund critical infrastructure projects in the Lower Hudson Valley region. Puts the health, safety, and well-being of New Yorkers at risk. Cuts $2 billion from EPA budget, threatening programs that keep our air and water clean. Cuts $65 million for safety and operations at the Federal Railroad Administration (FRA), despite a number of recent fatal train accidents. Slashes $621 million in National Network grants from the FRA, jeopardizing safety improvements of passenger and freight rail infrastructure. Eliminates investments in energy research. Eliminates funding for the Advanced Research Projects Agency-Energy (ARPA-E), which supports cutting-edge energy research that stands to benefit the U.S. economy. ###
02.12.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17/Rockland-Westchester), Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, released the following statement on President Trump’s infrastructure initiative: “The president’s long-overdue plan falls far short of fixing the nation’s crumbling infrastructure and erodes the federal government’s longstanding commitment to our national infrastructure needs. Providing a fraction of needed federal investment, paid for with cuts to other federal programs, and shifting the funding burden to states is not a serious or responsible way to rebuild U.S. infrastructure. Projects of regional and national importance that depend on federal funding, like the Gateway tunnel project, would be put at risk. The president’s proposal doesn’t even mention investments critical to addressing local needs like assistance for Positive Train Control implementation, safe transport of crude oil, and grade crossing improvements. Instead of relying on private sector investment to fill funding gaps—which would ultimately lead to higher fees and taxes on middle-class taxpayers—the Administration should create a dedicated, permanent revenue stream to repair, rebuild, and modernize our infrastructure. Democrats and Republicans agree that we have a unique opportunity to bring our infrastructure into the 21st Century. The president’s patchwork proposal is insufficient to meet that goal.” ###
02.08.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17), Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, led a group of U.S. House members in urging the Administration to fully fund the request of Amtrak’s National Network of partners—including funding for infrastructure to facilitate host railroad Positive Train Control (PTC)—in the President’s Fiscal Year 2019 budget. In a letter to the Office of Management and Budget Director Mick Mulvaney, the members made the case that private railroads in the National Network—which own the vast majority of the track on which Amtrak operates—must meet Amtrak’s strict safety standards to ensure that passengers are protected by PTC and other safety technologies. The members pointed out that two recent fatal Amtrak crashes occurred on host railroad tracks owned and operated by a private company. “As you work with President Trump to finalize the Administration’s Fiscal Year 2019 budget request, we urge you to fully fund Amtrak’s National Network request, including funds for infrastructure to facilitate host railroad Positive Train Control. Without this funding, passengers and commerce traveling by rail will continue to be at risk,” the House members wrote in the letter. Full text of the letter is available here and below. The letter was also signed by Reps. David Price (D-NC04), Katherine Clark (D-MA05), Mike Quigley (D-IL05), and Pete Aguilar (D-CA31). Lowey has been a strong advocate for improved rail safety. Last year, Lowey offered an amendment to the FY2018 Transportation, Housing and Urban Development Appropriations Bill to provide $199 million for the implementation of Positive Train Control. She also wrote to then-acting National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB) Chairman Robert L. Sumwalt urging him to do everything in his power to push for the prompt implementation of PTC. February 7, 2018 The Honorable Mick Mulvaney Director The White House Office of Management and Budget 725 17th Street NW Washington, DC 20503 Director Mulvaney: We are extremely concerned by the news of two recent fatal Amtrak crashes. It is clear more must be done to invest in safety improvements to our nation’s rail infrastructure. The train crashes in Crozet, VA and Cayce, SC killed three people and injured more than 100 passengers. Years of starving Amtrak’s budget certainly has not helped improve rail safety in this country, but it is important to note that both of these crashes occurred on host railroad tracks that are owned and managed by a private company. Amtrak owns 730 miles of tracks along its Northeast Corridor and Chicago to Detroit lines. The rest of its 21,300 miles of routes are operated on track owned by its National Network of partners. These private railroads must meet Amtrak’s strict safety standards to ensure all of its passengers are protected by Positive Train Control (PTC) and other current safety technologies. As you work with President Trump to finalize the Administration’s Fiscal Year 2019 budget request, we urge you to fully fund Amtrak’s National Network request, including funds for infrastructure to facilitate host railroad Positive Train Control. Without this funding, passengers and commerce traveling by rail will continue to be at risk. Sincerely, ###
02.07.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17/Rockland-Westchester), Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, issued the following statement in response to the State Department’s release of a six-month review of the expanded Global Gag Rule’s impact: “The Global Gag Rule increases unwanted pregnancies and abortions and hurts the very women we are supposed to be helping. “It is unconscionable that the Administration never conducted an analysis of this disastrous policy prior to implementation. The review released today highlights the confusion this policy has caused and was done in too short a time frame, making the results superficial and useless. “This Administration’s expansion and implementation of the Global Gag Rule will harm health care services for men, women, and children around the globe and leaving an indelible stain on our legacy of global health leadership.” The expanded Global Gag Rule forces all international groups receiving U.S. global health assistance to choose between receiving U.S. funding or providing comprehensive health care services to their patients. Congresswoman Lowey is the sponsor of the Global Health, Empowerment, and Rights (HER) Act, which would permanently repeal the Global Gag Rule. ###
02.06.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17/Rockland-Westchester), Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, issued the following statement after the President of Poland signed legislation that would criminalize the attribution of Nazi crimes to the Polish state: “President Duda’s signature on this legislation will likely have a chilling effect on dialogue and scholarship on the Holocaust in Poland. It must be repeated: Poland suffered greatly under German occupation, and more Poles took life-saving efforts to save Jews than those in any other country. While the term “Polish death camps” is inaccurate and painful, it is similarly inaccurate and painful to ignore the anti-Semitic acts and violence, including murder, by individual Poles during this period. I urge the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal to carefully review this legislation and consider its impact on Poland’s legacy.” Last week, Representative Lowey and the other co-chairs of the House Bipartisan Task Force for Combating Anti-Semitism sent a letter to President Duda to urge him to reject this legislation. ###
02.02.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17/Rockland-Westchester), Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, issued the following statement in response to the release of the declassified Nunes memo: “Over the objections of the intelligence community, House Republicans - with the support of President Trump - recklessly and dangerously released a highly misleading, purely partisan memo that distorts classified information in an obvious attempt to discredit the accelerating Russia investigation. President Trump has repeatedly tried to impede and undercut this investigation into Russian election sabotage and his own Russian ties, and the release of this memo is a glaring testimony of the willingness of congressional Republicans to aid the president in obstructing justice. “President Trump has shown a complete lack of respect for the constitution and a willingness to abuse the powers of his office. Congressman Devin Nunes, who, along with the Republican staff of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, prepared and altered the memo before sending it to the White House, has done the same. He should immediately be removed as chairman of the House Intelligence Committee.” ###
01.31.2018	(Washington) Representatives Nita Lowey (D-NY), Chris Smith (R-NJ), Eliot Engel (D-NY), Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL), Ted Deutch (D-FL), Kay Granger (R-TX), Marc Veasey (D-TX), and Peter Roskam (R-IL), the co-Chairs of the Bipartisan Task Force for Combating Anti-Semitism, delivered a letter to Polish President Andrzej Duda urging him to reject legislation passed by the Sejm that that would criminalize references to Polish complicity in Nazi war crimes against Jews during the occupation of Poland during World War II. "Free speech and open debate are the lifeblood of all democratic countries, especially relating to issues that are the most difficult to reconcile. With rising anti-Semitism throughout Europe, the region is strengthened by Poland’s leadership on Holocaust research, such as the work of the Museum of the History of Polish Jews. Passing this legislation is inconsistent with this admirable legacy." A copy of the letter can be accessed here. Text of the letter is included below. Dear President Duda, As Co-Chairs of the Bipartisan Taskforce for Combating Anti-Semitism, we are alarmed by legislation recently passed by the Sejm and awaiting consideration by the Senate that would criminalize references to Polish complicity in Nazi war crimes against Jews during the occupation of Poland during World War II. We are deeply concerned that this legislation could have a chilling effect on dialogue, scholarship, and accountability in Poland about the Holocaust, should this legislation become law. Additionally, it is highly troubling that this law was passed on International Holocaust Remembrance Day, a day on which the world speaks openly about the horrors of the Holocaust to ensure such atrocities never happens again. As we all know, Poland suffered terribly under the brutal occupation by Nazi Germany from 1939 to 1945. In this time, Poland’s population was devastated through the murder of almost two million non-Jewish and three million Jewish Poles. Thousands of Polish citizens risked their lives to save Jews during this period, and more than 6,600 have been rightfully recognized as “Righteous Among the Nations” by Yad Vashem. But, we must acknowledge the numerous documented instances of Poles aiding the Nazis, directly and indirectly, in the murder of innocent Jews. To criminalize anyone who acknowledges this reality would be an injustice. A focus on education, not criminalization, about inaccurate and harmful speech would be more beneficial in resolving this critical issue. Free speech and open debate are the lifeblood of all democratic countries, especially relating to issues that are the most difficult to reconcile. With rising anti-Semitism throughout Europe, the region is strengthened by Poland’s leadership on Holocaust research, such as the work of the Museum of the History of Polish Jews. Passing this legislation is inconsistent with this admirable legacy. Therefore, we hope that you will speak out against this bill and veto it should it come to your desk. We look forward to engaging with you on this important issue and look forward to your response. Sincerely, ###
01.30.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17/Rockland-Westchester), Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, released the following statement in response to President Trump’s first State of the Union address: “Amid the accelerating Russia investigation and impasse over the federal budget, President Trump tonight delivered his first State of the Union address. “These speeches have traditionally offered the president of the United States an opportunity to present a positive vision for America, reach beyond their own party and ideology, and inspire the American people to harness the spirit of this great nation in pursuit of lasting, positive change. I believe President Trump’s speech missed the mark. “While more measured in tone than we are accustomed to, President Trump’s speech was out of step with the character of our country and the priorities of the majority of the American people. “The president spoke about national security, yet he continues to double down on his boondoggle border wall. Not only are there better ways to secure the border, there are better ways to spend $20 billion that would support the health of our families, the education of our children, and the growth of our economy. “The president spoke about the successes of his Administration, yet even with unified control of government, Republicans have failed to chart a course to keep the government open, governing instead by short-term measures that do immeasurable damage to our military and to every other aspect of the federal government. It’s time for the president to get serious and show us a real path forward to fund both the defense of our nation and the investments at home that make this the greatest nation on Earth. “The president spoke about immigration reform, yet his immigration proposal is a cruel and poisonous attempt to appease the anti-immigration hardliners in his party and to extract concessions while holding hostage the fate of millions of Dreamers who have made their lives in the United States. Protecting these young men and women from deportation is a moral obligation, and the president hasn’t kept his word to support bipartisan immigration reform that protects them. There were lots of Dreamers in the audience tonight who deserve this protection now, including my guest, Hugo Alexander Acosta Mazariego, a Dreamer from Pearl River, New York. “The American people want Congress and the Administration to work together, Democrats and Republicans, to responsibly fund the government and to find common-sense solutions to the short- and long-term challenges our country faces, from funding community health centers to fighting the opioid epidemic to revitalizing our infrastructure. Tonight, President Trump failed to reassure the American people that he is willing to meet these responsibilities in a responsible, bipartisan way.” ###
01.25.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17/Rockland-Westchester), Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, today announced that Dreamer and Pearl River resident Hugo Alexander Acosta Mazariego will be her guest at next week’s State of the Union Address. “I want to be clear: Dreamers are Americans,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “They contribute to our economy, our communities, and our strength and stability as a nation. Hugo is no exception. When I read Hugo’s letter to my office, I was inspired by his life’s story, his courage to speak out, and his love for the United States. And I know he will inspire and energize other young Americans facing an uncertain future. I am proud to have him as my guest at the State of the Union Address, and I look forward to continuing to fight for the safety and security of Hugo and the 800,000 other Dreamers this Administration is holding captive with the threat of deportation.” “Life in El Salvador, where I was born, was dangerous and brutal, which is why my father moved us to America in 2005,” said Acosta Mazariego. “I am grateful every day for all the opportunities presented to me here. I feel it is so important to continue achieving, setting goals, and giving back to my community. It would break my heart to lose my home and my life here in New York.” Acosta Mazariego came to the United States from El Salvador in 2005 at the age of 15 and attended school in Ramapo, New York. He currently resides in Pearl River with his wife and works as a technology specialist at Apple. Lowey invited Acosta Mazariego to join her at the State of the Union after receiving a letter from him requesting a meeting to discuss the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program, an Obama-era program that protects certain young undocumented immigrants—known as Dreamers—from deportation. In September 2017, President Trump announced his plan to end the program, putting 800,000 Dreamers at risk of deportation. Acosta Mazariego’s DACA status expires in November. ###
01.25.2018	WHITE PLAINS, NY – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17/Rockland-Westchester), Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, today presented five overdue service medals to Mario DiFelice, a resident and former Deputy Mayor of Sleepy Hollow and a Navy veteran of the Korean War, at a ceremony in her White Plains office. “I have known Mr. DiFelice for years, and his dedication to his country and to our community is unparalleled,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “I’m honored to present Mr. DiFelice with these medals for his service in the U.S. Navy, and I’m so glad that his family could be here to see this moment. Our nation owes Mr. DiFelice an enormous debt of gratitude.” Congresswoman Lowey presented Mr. DiFelice with the Navy “E” Ribbon, Navy Good Conduct Medal, Navy Occupation Service Medal (with Europe Clasp), National Defense Service Medal, and the Honorable Discharge Button. Mr. DiFelice contacted Congresswoman Lowey’s office in August 2017 for assistance in obtaining his service medals. The congresswoman’s office contacted the National Personnel Records Center to acquire Mr. DiFelice’s documents for the Navy to determine the medals to which he was entitled. The NPRC forwarded the documents to the Navy at the end of November, and informed us what medals Mr. DiFelice earned. The congresswoman’s office received the medals from the Navy in December 2017. Mr. DiFelice served in the Navy from July 2, 1948 to July 19, 1951 in Fighter Squadrons 173 and 174, on board the carriers USS Midway (CV-41), USS Coral Sea (CV-43), and USS Franklin D. Roosevelt (CV-42). In addition to serving his community as Deputy Mayor of Sleepy Hollow from 2003 to 2008, Mr. DiFelice served as a Sleepy Hollow Trustee from 1996 to 2003 and as Director of the James F. Galgano Sleepy Hollow Senior Center. Mr. DiFelice was joined at the ceremony by members of his family, including his wife, Elinor; his daughter, Michelle DiFelice; his son-in-law, Albert Feliz; his granddaughter, Demi Carrero; and his cousin-in-law, Marilyn Helwig. ###
01.18.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17/Rockland-Westchester), Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, cosponsored a resolution to censure President Trump over his disparaging remarks about “shithole countries” during a January 11, 2018, meeting on American immigration policy. The resolution currently has nearly 150 Democratic co-sponsors. “The president’s words were vulgar and racist,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “They were also a horrifying reminder of the divisiveness that still plagues our country and that is routinely stoked by the president and the administration. I condemn the president’s comments in the strongest terms.” Specifically, the resolution censures President Trump for: Questioning whether Haitians needed to be included in an immigration compromise. “Haitians, why do we need more Haitians? Take them out,” President Trump said. Referring to African countries as “shitholes” or “shithouses.” Suggesting that instead of accepting immigrants from predominately black Haiti and African countries, the United States should instead allow more immigration from predominately white countries like Norway. Congresswoman Lowey has been an outspoken advocate for immigrants’ rights. Lowey urged the Trump Administration to reconsider its “unconscionable” and “misguided” decision to end Temporary Protected Status (TPS) for Haitians living in the U.S. and condemned the Administration’s decision to end TPS for approximately 200,000 Salvadorans in the U.S. as a “lack of human decency.” She also continues to fight to provide DREAMers a path to citizenship. Click here for a pdf of the resolution. ###
01.12.2018	VIDEO of the Facebook Live broadcast is available on Rep. Lowey’s Facebook Page WHITE PLAINS, NY – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17/Rockland-Westchester), Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, today hosted a Facebook Live “teach in” to discuss the devastating impacts of the Republican tax bill and her latest efforts to protect New York taxpayers, including bipartisan legislation to restore the state and local tax (SALT) deduction. During the broadcast, Congresswoman Lowey announced a letter she sent this week urging the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) to allow taxpayers to fully deduct prepaid 2018 state and local property taxes on their 2017 returns. “Today’s ‘teach in’ offered a fantastic opportunity to discuss the fundamental unfairness of the GOP tax bill to middle-class families, especially those in high-taxed states like New York,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “From effectively eliminating the state and local tax deduction to reducing the mortgage interest deduction, the bill unfairly burdens middle-class New York taxpayers, who already send more money to the federal government than New York gets back in federal investments. I will keep fighting to protect New York taxpayers and ensure they are not unfairly penalized.” Congresswoman Lowey’s letter follows an IRS advisory issued in December 2017 that permits the deduction of prepaid state and local property taxes only in limited circumstances, the primary consideration being whether the real property taxes were “assessed” before 2018. At least 17,000 taxpayers in New York’s 17th Congressional district paid some portion of their 2018 local taxes in advance, seeking to secure full deduction in their 2017 taxes, because 2018 will be the first federal tax year SALT deductions are limited to only $10,000. For example, Clarkstown collected 2018 advance payments from an estimated 5,000 families and individuals out of 27,000 residential taxpayers, while North Castle assisted 1,000 residents, 25 percent of their total residential property owners, in paying taxes in advance. In the letter, the congresswoman urged Acting IRS Commissioner David Kautter to “prioritize assistance for taxpayers” and to “allow families to rightfully take this deduction in 2017 tax filings.” Lowey was joined by Barry Kramer, President of the Hudson Gateway Association of REALTORS; White Plains Mayor Tom Roach; and North Castle Supervisor Mike Schiliro, who discussed the implications of the tax law on homeowners, property values, taxpayers who rushed to pay their 2018 local and state taxes before December 31st, and potential reductions in municipal services. During the Facebook Live broadcast, Congresswoman Lowey also discussed bipartisan legislation she and Congressman Peter King (R-NY02/Nassau-Suffolk) introduced this week to fully reinstate the SALT deduction, which the federal tax overhaul signed into law last month limited to only $10,000 annually. This deduction was a major source of tax fairness for high-taxed states like New York, where 35 percent of taxpayers deduct an average of more than $22,000 every year. In Congresswoman Lowey’s district, the rate is even higher, with 45 percent of taxpayers taking an average state and local tax deduction of more than $26,000. The Lowey-King bill would provide tax relief for the millions of families who rely on the SALT deduction. ###
01.12.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17/Rockland-Westchester), Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, issued the following statement on the eighth anniversary of the earthquake that struck Haiti on January 12, 2010. Lowey delivered remarks at a vigil at St. Joseph Catholic Church in Spring Valley to commemorate the anniversary. “As each year passes, we must always pause on this date to remember the more than 200,000 victims of this devastating earthquake. Sharing close people-to-people ties, the U.S. and Haiti have consistently stood shoulder-to-shoulder. I am proud of our efforts to help our island neighbor recover and rebuild. “As Ranking Member of the State and Foreign Operations Appropriations Subcommittee, I am deeply committed to continuing U.S. support for Haiti’s reconstruction. Much progress has been made in the last eight years, and we look forward to further growth of Haiti’s democratic process and rule of law. “Finally, I must address President Trump’s disgusting remarks yesterday about Haiti and Temporary Protected Status (TPS), which are a horrifying reminder of the divisiveness that still plagues our country and that is routinely stoked by the president and the administration. It is clear this administration is completely out of touch with the importance of TPS to our community, and I condemn his comments in the strongest terms. “Despite Haiti’s progress, much work is left to restore Haiti’s economy, end the ongoing cholera epidemic, and strengthen its democratic governance. President Trump’s misguided decision in November to end TPS for Haitians living in the U.S. is unconscionable. I urge the administration to reconsider its decision, which will ultimately hurt Haiti’s development and rip families apart. I will do everything I can to ensure that as we address immigration priorities in the coming weeks and months, we preserve TPS for communities who have lawfully relied on it for decades.”
01.10.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17/Rockland-Westchester), Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, issued the following statement on the Administration’s decision to end Temporary Protected Status (TPS) for approximately 200,000 Salvadorans in the U.S.: “The President’s decision is not just poor policy; it displays a lack of human decency. Similar to TPS holders from Haiti and Nicaragua, many Salvadorans in the TPS program have lived here for more than a decade and now face a heart-wrenching choice of uprooting their families or facing deportation. I urge the President to restore TPS status for the nearly quarter-million men, women, and children from El Salvador, Haiti, and Nicaragua who have built a life in the U.S.” In 2017, the Administration ended TPS status for more than 45,000 Haitians and approximately 2,500 Nicaraguans. Signed into law under President George Bush in 1990, the program provides temporary lawful status and work authorization to individuals in the U.S. from countries affected by strife. There is no limit on the number of times a country’s TPS designation can be renewed. The determination is made by the homeland security secretary every six, 12, or 18 months. Salvadorans will have until September 2019 before their permission to reside in the U.S. is revoked.
01.09.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17/Rockland-Westchester), Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, and Congressman Peter King (R-NY02/Nassau-Suffolk) today announced legislation to restore the state and local tax (SALT) deduction, which was significantly curtailed by the federal tax overhaul signed into law last month. “Millions of taxpayers in high-taxed states like New York depend on the state and local tax deduction to help pay their expenses and care for their families,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “By effectively eliminating this deduction, the new federal tax law unfairly punishes families living in states that send more money to the federal government than we get back in federal investments. This is unacceptable, and our bill is a necessary step to providing tax relief—not more burdens—for New York families. The legislation restores the state and local income tax deduction in its entirety, setting aside partisan politics to find a real solution on tax fairness for our constituents.” Prior to enactment of the new federal tax law, New York taxpayers who itemized could deduct their state and local property and income taxes. The SALT deduction was a major source of tax fairness for high-taxed states like New York, where 35 percent of taxpayers deduct an average of more than $22,000 every year. In Congresswoman Lowey’s district, the 17th Congressional District of New York, the rate is even higher, with 45 percent of taxpayers relying on the state and local tax deduction at an average of $26,000. The new law, however, caps the SALT deduction at $10,000, effectively raising taxes on millions of middle-class Americans who depend on the deduction. The Securing Access to Lower Taxes by Ensuring Deductibility Act, or SALT Deductibility Act, would repeal the limit on the SALT deduction, providing tax relief for the millions of families who rely on the deduction. ###
12.18.2017	WHITE PLAINS, NY – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17/Rockland-Westchester), Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, today joined medical professionals and child advocates at White Plains Hospital to demand that the Republican-led Congress immediately reauthorize the Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP), which expired on September 30. Joining Congresswoman Lowey at White Plains Hospital were Susan Fox, President and CEO of White Plains Hospital; Dr. Steven Safyer, President and CEO of Montefiore Medicine; Cora Greenberg, Executive Director of Westchester Children’s Association; Kathy Halas, Executive Director of Child Care Council of Westchester; Marcelle Nesci, a pediatric nurse practitioner at White Plains Hospital; Heather Miller, Executive Director of the Thomas H. Slater Center; Amy Wolfson, Chief External Relations Officer at Open Door Family Medical Center; Dr. Heather Brumberg, President of American Academy of Pediatrics NYS Chapter 3; Dr. Shetal Shah, Vice President of American Academy of Pediatrics NYS Chapter 2; and Karen Fink, clinic director for Family Services of Westchester. “CHIP has historically been bipartisan. But rather than extend CHIP, Republican leadership wasted time in the days leading up to CHIP expiring to push yet another partisan health bill that couldn’t pass,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “After that failure, Republican leadership has focused solely on passing a tax scam that will take money out of the pockets of hardworking New Yorkers, and give massive tax cuts to corporations, all while adding more than $1 trillion to the deficit. It is unfathomable that congressional Republicans would go home for the holidays while we are weeks away from families getting letters in the mail saying their children’s health coverage is about to lapse, risking the health of thousands of children, some with serious medical conditions. Republican leadership needs to stop playing partisan games and reauthorize CHIP now.” CHIP is a vital partnership between the federal government and states that expands access to health coverage for 9 million children and pregnant mothers in families that earn too much for Medicaid, but not enough to afford other health coverage. Three hundred fifty thousand New Yorkers are covered by CHIP. The program provides families with incomes up to 400 percent of the federal poverty level, such as a family of three with an income of about $82,000, access to routine checkups, immunizations, prescription drugs, dental and vision coverage, and more. As states begin to exhaust their federal CHIP funding, leaving millions of children at risk of losing health coverage, congressional Republicans are plowing ahead with a $1.5 trillion tax bill instead of reauthorizing the program. Sixteen states will exhaust CHIP funding by the end of January, and three-quarters of states, including New York, will exhaust all funds by the end of March. Three hundred fifty thousand New York children are at risk of losing health coverage unless Congress reauthorizes the program. “Since CHIP was created in 1997, thousands of Westchester’s children have benefitted from comprehensive health care,” said Cora Greenberg, Executive Director of Westchester Children’s Association. “Today, 87,000, or nearly 37% of Westchester’s children and teens are insured through Medicaid and CHIP, providing well-baby visits, immunizations, regular check-ups and screenings, and life-saving medical treatments. If we lose CHIP, these children, their families and our county as a whole will face higher medical costs, suffer preventable diseases, and generally undo the incredible progress we’ve made in better health for all.” “It’s inconceivable to me that the elected leaders of our country would deny children access to basic health care,” said Steven M. Safyer, M.D., President and CEO of Montefiore Medicine. “It is Montefiore’s mission as one of the largest providers of health services to children in the counties we serve, to provide the best, most comprehensive health care. We take pride in nurturing the next generation of Americans. Fifty five thousand children in the Bronx, Westchester, Rockland, and Orange Counties are depending on us and on our leaders in Washington. There should be no debate here. We are grateful that Congresswoman Lowey is taking a leadership role in this fight and bringing us all together in a united front to urge Congress to extend CHIP funding before it’s too late.” Congresswoman Lowey has been a leading voice in Congress for CHIP. In October, Lowey toured Open Door Family Medical Center in Port Chester—a Federally Qualified Health Center serving Westchester County—and spoke with patients, staffers, local elected officials, and leaders of community organizations about the need for immediate reauthorization of federal funding for community health centers and CHIP. ###
12.13.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Representatives Nita Lowey (D-NY), David Price (D-NC), Robin Kelly (D-IL), Mike Quigley (D-IL), Stephanie Murphy (D-FL), and Rosa DeLauro (D-CT), today sent a letter to House leadership urging them to oppose language in the final FY18 appropriations package that would restrict the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) from conducting gun violence research. “Although Members of Congress may disagree about how best to respond to the high incidence of gun violence, we should all be able to agree that our response should be informed by sound scientific evidence,” the 121 signatories wrote. “Instead of continuing with the status quo, let’s allow the research community to investigate evidence-based solutions that could help prevent gun violence while still protecting the rights of law-abiding gun owners.” In addition to protecting public health and safety through prevention of disease, the CDC also conducts research to prevent injury or illness such as drowning, intimate partner violence, opioid addiction, and motor vehicle injuries. However, since 1996, language referred to as the “Dickey Amendment” has been included in annual appropriations bills that fund the CDC, which places a chilling effect on the CDC’s ability to conduct high-quality, peer-reviewed research about gun violence prevention. “This is a matter of life and death,” said Congresswoman Nita Lowey (NY-17), Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee. “Tens of thousands of Americans lose their lives to gun violence every year, yet for decades annual appropriations bills have weakened our ability to figure out how we can prevent these tragedies. Restricting research because of concerns about the outcome is cowardly and wrong. It’s time we thaw the freeze on gun violence research and equip policymakers with the information to confront this public health crisis.” “Despite the frequency of gun violence in the U.S., we know that the violent tragedies so many families and communities across the nation are experiencing are not inevitable,” said Congressman Price, Vice Chair of the House Democrats Gun Violence Prevention Task Force. “Allowing the CDC to conduct research into gun violence, just as it does with other preventable causes of injury and death, will give citizens and lawmakers the tools they need to understand and confront the horrible epidemic of gun violence that is devastating our country.” “For decades, the Dickey Amendment has silenced lifesaving research and suppressed the policy dialogue around common sense laws that can save American lives,” said Congresswoman Kelly, Vice Chair of the House Democrats Gun Violence Prevention Task Force. “It’s time to let the science and research speak for itself so policymakers can enact the best policies to protect American families.” “There is absolutely no reason to restrict the CDC from studying the rampant gun violence epidemic that devastates communities across the country, including in my hometown of Chicago,” said Congressman Quigley, member of the Gun Violence Prevention Task Force. “Conducting research about this issue is an easy—and obvious—first step to equip us with a deeper understanding of the actions we can take and policies we can enact to save lives. I’m proud to join my colleagues in urging Republican leadership to break with the status quo, encourage scientific research, and elevate the debate on gun violence prevention.” “Gun-related incidents claim the lives of too many people and tear apart too many families. In deciding how best to confront this challenge, we should encourage evidence-based research into the causes of gun incidents and find commonsense, bipartisan ways to reduce gun deaths and injuries,” said Congresswoman Murphy. “Keeping our families safe from senseless gun violence while upholding the Second Amendment rights of law-abiding Americans should not be mutually exclusive goals. It is past time that Congress have an honest, fact-based discussion about commonsense gun reform.” “In the five years since the Sandy Hook Elementary School shooting, there have been 500,000 victims and survivors of gun violence in the United States, “ said Congresswoman DeLauro. “We must honor their lives with action and prevent further gun violence. The CDC should be able to study this issue just as they would any other public health crisis—it is logical and morally responsible.” The full text of the letter can be found here. ###
12.13.2017	VALHALLA, NY – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17/Rockland-Westchester), Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, today announced that New York Medical College in Valhalla has been awarded $586,314 in federal funding to advance heart and vascular disease research. The funding was awarded through the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services’ National Heart, Lung, And Blood Institute (NHLBI). “Advances in scientific research hold tremendous potential to help the millions of people struggling with heart and metabolic problems,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “This funding will support New York Medical College’s cutting-edge research and innovation that may save lives. As Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee, I will continue working to bring these essential resources to the Lower Hudson Valley.” “I am truly excited to embark on these studies,” said Dr. Michal Laniado Schwartzman, Professor and Chair of the Department of Pharmacology at New York Medical College School of Medicine. “This new discovery opens a new front in this area of research as it identifies a novel and unique therapeutic target for the treatment of cardiovascular and metabolic diseases including heart failure, stroke and diabetes.” NHLBI provides funding to support the development of innovative technologies to diagnose, prevent, and treat heart and vascular diseases. ###
12.11.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17/Rockland-Westchester), Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, sent a letter urging U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) Secretary Elaine Chao to reverse her department’s decision not to require airlines and ticket agencies to disclose baggage fees upfront. “I am writing to express my serious concerns about your department’s announcement to withdraw the proposed rulemaking on Transparency of Airline Ancillary Service Fees,” wrote Congresswoman Lowey. “This important rulemaking would have required airlines and ticket agents to be transparent with regard to fees for checked and carry-on baggage. Too many consumers are surprised to learn that they have purchased a plane ticket but will need to pay additional fees for checked and carry-on luggage. These surprise fees may be financially burdensome for American consumers and can be categorized as a bait-and-switch for consumers when these additional fees are not made clear.” “Especially as Americans prepare to travel for the holidays when budgets are often tight, it is clear that all the costs associated with travel should be available during booking,” concluded Congresswoman Lowey. “I respectfully urge you to reverse your decision and continue to make airfare more transparent for all consumers.” Last week, DOT announced that it is withdrawing an Obama-era proposal requiring upfront disclosure of baggage fees from airlines and ticket agencies, along with another proposal to require airlines to disclose their revenue from ancillary fees, claiming the proposed rules have “limited public benefit.” Click here for a pdf of the letter. ###
12.06.2017	Click here for video of Lowey’s remarks. WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17/Rockland-Westchester), Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, today joined Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi, House Democrats, and MomsRising Advocates at a press conference in Washington, DC, on the negative impact of the Republican tax plan on children and families. “The GOP tax scam showers gifts on corporations at the expense of children and families,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “With this tax scam, Republicans are once again taking steps that would result in 13 million fewer Americans having health insurance, premiums on millions of families would increase by as much as 10 percent, and more children would be uninsured, preventing them from receiving the routine care critical to healthy development. “This bill would explode the deficit, which Republicans will use as an excuse to slash investments like Medicaid and school meals, and discretionary investments like Head Start, child care, and early childhood education,” Congresswoman Lowey continued. “Republicans are pushing a tax bill that will cost $1 trillion-plus but have refused to fund the Children’s Health Insurance Program, which costs $14 billion—about 1 percent of the tax proposal’s cost. The tax scam will harm every facet of our country, and would be catastrophic for investments in our future. Republicans should abandon conferencing this dangerous bill and put it in the garbage where it belongs.” Congresswoman Lowey has been a leading voice in Congress against the Republican tax plan. In November, she joined caregivers, Realtors, and other Hudson Valley taxpayers at a press conference in White Plains to discuss the devastating impact of the House Republican tax plan on middle-class Hudson Valley residents. ###
12.06.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17/Rockland-Westchester), Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, today issued the following statement after President Trump recognized Jerusalem as the capital of Israel and instructed the State Department to develop a plan on how best to move the U.S. Embassy to that city: “Jerusalem is the eternal capital of the State of Israel and the Jewish people. I was proud to vote for the Jerusalem Embassy Act, which demonstrated Congress’ unified position that Jerusalem should be recognized as the capital of Israel, and today’s announcement is consistent with existing U.S. law. “We must remain focused on the goal of two states for two peoples – the Jewish state of Israel and a Palestinian state – living side-by-side in peace, security, and mutual recognition. The Administration must focus its efforts on bringing both sides to the table, as only the parties themselves can agree to end this conflict.” ###
11.20.2017	BUCHANAN, NY – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17/Rockland-Westchester), Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, today held a press conference at Buchanan Village Hall to announce steps she is taking, including three pieces of federal legislation she has introduced, to address serious economic and environmental concerns about the pending closure of the Indian Point Energy Center. Lowey was joined at the press conference by Village of Buchanan Mayor Theresa Knickerbocker, Town of Cortlandt Supervisor Linda Puglisi, and Hendrick Hudson School District Superintendent Joseph Hochreiter, as well as other local stakeholders. “Since 2002, I have advocated for shutting down Indian Point because of its security and safety risks for all of us in the New York metro area. I applauded Governor Cuomo’s agreement with Entergy to close Indian Point’s two nuclear reactors in 2020 and 2021. We must act now to ensure on-site safety after the closure of Indian Point and to mitigate against economic hardship on our communities,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “The legislation I have announced today would help facilitate the continued safety and security of the Indian Point site and would establish a new source of funding for the community so we can maintain steady jobs and support the tax base after the plant closes. I look forward to working with my colleagues in Congress and my partners in the Village of Buchanan, the Town of Cortlandt, and the State of New York to responsibly close Indian Point in a way that protects our communities and workforce.” Congresswoman Lowey today announced three bills, introduced in the U.S. House last week, to assist state and local stakeholders in addressing problems surrounding the pending closure of Indian Point: Removing Nuclear Waste from our Communities Act (H.R. 4442): One of the primary obstacles to redeveloping the Indian Point property will be the dry casks that will remain on-site in the absence of a central repository. This bill would expedite the process to remove spent fuel rods from the plant site by allowing the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) to license interim storage facilities elsewhere in the country and to prioritize the removal of nuclear waste from sites in densely populated areas like the Lower Hudson Valley. Safe and Secure Decommissioning Act (H.R. 4441): This bill would maintain the NRC’s emergency response and security requirements until all of the spent fuel on the site is moved into dry cask storage, which is the safest temporary way to store nuclear waste. This would ensure that spent fuel rods stored on-site at the closed facility remain safe and secure until a permanent repository for nuclear waste is operational. Redistribution of Fines to our Communities Act (H.R. 4440): Communities will need all the funds they can get to help offset lower revenue when the plant closes. As part of DOE’s enforcement program, it collects fines levied on plant owners for safety violations. This bill would redistribute safety-related fines to support the local tax base with replaced revenues from the closed nuclear plant, mitigating the economic impacts of plant closure and aiding our communities with economic development. “The Village of Buchanan faces a double hit with the closure of Indian Point,” said Village of Buchanan Mayor Theresa Knickerbocker. “First, the loss of approximately 50 percent of our revenue, and, second, the indefinite storage of the spent fuel rods, which means that portion of the property will not be developed until they are removed. Also, the concern with the safety and security of the rods. We are grateful for Congresswoman Lowey’s support, for the introduction of this legislation, and for also co- sponsoring the STRANDED Act.” “We have many challenges with Indian Point closing in 2020 and 2021,” said Town of Cortlandt Supervisor Linda Puglisi. “We will need assistance from the Federal government and from the State. I am particularly appreciative for the safety, security, financial and support for the workers at Indian Point in the Congresswoman’s proposals.” “The revenue loss given the closure of Indian Point is catastrophic to our school district,” said Hendrick Hudson School District Superintendent Joseph Hochreiter. “Indian Point accounts for 30 percent of our district’s revenue, not including more than half a million dollars in grants and other resources they have provided our district in the last handful of years. I applaud the efforts of Congresswoman Lowey in taking action and engaging the federal government in understanding the financial impact Indian Point’s closing will have on our residents and students. We are lucky and fortunate to be represented in Washington with a representative that is an advocate for our community and students.” In addition to the three bills announced today, Congresswoman Lowey is working with her colleagues in Congress whose communities have also dealt with the shuttering of nuclear plants. She has cosponsored the STRANDED Act, which requires the Department of Energy to compensate communities for storing nuclear waste. Congresswoman Lowey is also working with the Economic Development Agency to help facilitate its assistance for localities as they prepare for Indian Point’s closure and plan for future economic growth. ###
11.17.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17), Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, Congresswoman Carolyn Maloney (D-NY12), Congressman Peter King (R-NY02), and Congressman Jerrold Nadler (D-NY10), today sent a letter to U.S. Secretary of Labor Alexander Acosta urging the Department of Labor (DOL) to reverse its determination that no causal relationship exists between chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) and the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks. DOL’s determination leaves 9/11 volunteers, survivors, and other personnel who suffer from CLL without access to the full benefits they have earned. DOL’s decision also conflicts with the determinations of medical experts and other government offices. In their letter, Lowey, Maloney, King, and Nadler point to the case of Special Agent Terence Opiola, a member of the 9/11 rescue and recovery team at Ground Zero whose application for disability was denied by DOL because of the Department’s stance on CLL. “As Members of Congress who were original sponsors and cosponsors of the James Zadroga 9/11 Health and Compensation Act, we write to raise our concerns regarding the Department of Labor (DOL) decision to deny the existence of a causal relationship between chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) and 9/11 related illnesses,” wrote the Members of Congress. “Our immediate concern relates to the application for disability for Special Agent Terence Opiola, which was denied by DOL in a July 19, 2017 letter stating that the application ‘has been denied because the fifth basic element, causal relationship, has not been met.’” “We are concerned by the Department’s determination that no causal relationship exists between LCC and 9/11, particularly as DOL’s decision conflicts with the determinations of medical experts and other government offices,” the Members continued. “Without this determination by DOL, Mr. Opiola and other personnel who were present at Ground Zero on the days following 9/11 will not have access to the full benefits they have earned. As a result, the Department appears to be failing its obligation to Mr. Opiola and other 9/11 responders who have medically diagnosed conditions due to their service. Taking into consideration the substantial medical and other scientific evidence supporting cancer, including CLL, we ask that the DOL review and reconsider not only Mr. Opiola’s application, but also those of any other similarly situated 9/11 federal responders.” A pdf version of the full letter can be found here. ###
11.16.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17/Rockland-Westchester), Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, issued the following statement after House Republicans passed their tax reform bill 227 to 205 along mostly party lines: “The Republican tax plan is a scam, and four Republican members of the New York congressional delegation are in on it. In voting to pass this bill, the vast majority of House Republicans approved a tax increase for millions of middle-class New Yorkers. This bill is a disaster for New York, and I will do everything I can to stop it.” ###
11.15.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17/Rockland-Westchester), Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, issued the following statement after applications for the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program were rejected due to the United States Postal Service’s failure to deliver the paperwork on time: “It is beyond unacceptable that dozens of young immigrants, who submitted their DACA renewal forms weeks before they were due, are now at risk of deportation for the sole reason that the Postal Service failed to do its job. The Postal Service needs to get its act together. We continue to see more and more evidence of deep and systemic failure. The Postal Service is literally holding people’s lives in their hands, and those people deserve far better. “In light of the Postal Service’s delivery failures, the United States Citizenship and Immigration Services should honor applications postmarked by the October 5th deadline. DACA recipients did the right thing, and they should not be punished for something beyond their control.” According to a November 10th New York Times report, the applications of at least 33 DACA recipients in the New York region arrived late due to unusually long delays by the USPS. At least two constituents of New York’s 17th Congressional District informed Congresswoman Lowey’s office that their DACA applications were rejected because of USPS errors. ###
11.14.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17/Rockland-Westchester), Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, issued the following statement following reports that Senate Republicans will include in their tax reform bill the repeal of the Affordable Care Act’s individual mandate: “Don’t be fooled. Repeal of the individual mandate in the Senate tax plan is a one-two punch to the middle class. Not only would millions of Americans be priced out of health coverage, the Republican tax scam will hike taxes for 38 million middle-class Americans.” ###
11.13.2017	WHITE PLAINS, NY – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17/Rockland-Westchester), Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, today joined caregivers, Realtors, and other Hudson Valley taxpayers at a press conference in White Plains to discuss the devastating impact of the House Republican tax plan on middle-class Hudson Valley residents. New York leaders who joined Congresswoman Lowey at the press conference included Dorothy Botsoe, President of the Hudson Gateway Association of REALTORS (HGAR); Barry Kramer, President Elect of HGAR; and Frank Schnecker, Ossining Board of Education member and Vice President of the Westchester Putnam School Boards Association. “The numbers are in, and we know that what the Republicans promised would be a middle-class tax cut is actually a tax scam that would raise taxes on millions of middle-class Americans,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “Democrats are ready and willing to work together to provide tax relief for the middle class, but we can’t do that by squeezing New York families residing in some of the highest cost of living areas in the nation. As the House prepares to vote on the Republican tax bill this week, I have a message for my colleagues: A vote for this tax scam is a vote to increase taxes on middle-class New York families.” The Republican tax plan, which is scheduled for a vote in the U.S. House this week, would raise taxes on millions of middle-class Americans, including Hudson Valley taxpayers, by eliminating and slashing key deductions: Slashes the state and local tax deduction. In New York, 35 percent of taxpayers deduct an average of more than $22,000 every year. In New York’s 17th Congressional District, 45 percent take an average state and local tax deduction of more than $26,000. Eliminating the deduction would increase New York taxpayers’ liability by an estimated $17.5 billion. The House Republican bill would allow only deduction of up to $10,000 in local property taxes, while the Senate version of the bill would outright eliminate the full deduction. Eliminates the medical expense deduction. This deduction helps prevent medical bills from crushing millions of American families with debt. Eliminating this deduction would hurt seniors, sick people, and families facing infertility. According to the Joint Committee on Taxation, most taxpayers who claim the medical expense deduction have incomes below $100,000, and more than half of those who claim it are 65 and older. A Center for American Progress report indicates more than 27,000 people in New York’s 17th Congressional district deducted a total of more than $288 million in medical expenses from their 2014 tax returns. Cuts the current mortgage interest deduction in half. The House Republican bill caps the mortgage interest deduction at $500,000—half of the current $1 million cap. This would hurt thousands of New York households, especially in New York’s 17th Congressional District, where 43.3 percent of homes are valued at over $500,000. “The tax reform proposal currently in the House and Senate would decrease home values, increase property and income taxes and put home ownership out of reach for many Americans in New York and the rest of the country,” said Dorothy Botsoe, President of the Hudson Gateway Association of REALTORS. “If these tax proposals are enacted people would not itemize on their taxes and not take advantage of the deductions that home ownership offers. This plan would also blow a hole in state and local budgets and force a fiscal crisis on the state of New York. We urge New Yorkers to oppose this.” “The proposed changes to the federal tax code are a direct attack on local public education funding. If New Yorkers are no longer able to fully deduct their state and local taxes from their IRS federal filings, it will leave a huge hole in their wallets,” said Frank Schnecker, Ossining Board of Education member and Vice President of the Westchester Putnam School Boards Association. “The Westchester Putnam School Boards Association is concerned about the impact this will have on our taxpayers, and on the ability of our school districts to raise the revenue needed to support an appropriate, well-rounded education for every student...especially given our regional reliance on local property tax. Under the proposed reduction in deductibility, there will be undue pressure to cut school district expenditures, and this will ultimately starve our schools of needed resources. At a time when student need is increasing and there is clear understanding of the short and long term benefits of addressing students’ mental health and other issues, we need more, not less, federal support for public school districts.” “Given the trajectory of Alzheimer’s, the day will come when we will be spending far more on medical costs than we’ll be bringing in from our pensions and Social Security payments,” said Ellen Belinsky, a Spring Valley resident whose husband, Irwin, has Alzheimer’s. “Losing the medical tax deduction would present a major hardship, which would be exacerbated by the loss of state and local tax deductions. Even now, before reaching the long-term-care stage, our medical deductions allow us to pay for our medications, make charitable contributions, enjoy the company of friends at restaurants, visit out of state family members, eat organic fruit and vegetables. What will we give up first if we lose the deduction—will we have to give up everything?” Despite Republican claims this bill would help the middle class, the numbers don’t add up: Next year, nine percent of middle-class filers, those earning between $49,000 and $86,000, would pay more in taxes. By 2027, 31 percent of those filers would pay more in taxes. By 2027, even the poorest 40 percent of the country would experience an average tax increase. More than 45 percent of households would pay more than they currently pay in 2027 under the plan, including nearly half of households making between around $225,000 and $300,000. ###
11.06.2017	WHITE PLAINS, NY – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17/Rockland-Westchester), Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, made the following statement: “This spike in incidents of anti-Semitism is deeply troubling and does not represent the values of our great state. Anti-Semitic vandalism, threats, and violence are deplorable and unacceptable, and must be rooted out of our society, along with all other forms of bigotry and hate. Tolerant and decent Americans, including the vast majority of New Yorkers, must band together to send a message that this hate is not welcome.” ###
11.02.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17), Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, issued the following statement on the House Republican tax plan released today: “Slashing the state and local tax deduction is a nonstarter. I support efforts to make the tax code fairer and to put more money in the pockets of hardworking Americans, but this proposal would have the opposite effect for many of my constituents. I hope Republicans invite Democrats into the tax reform process and begin working with us on reforms that will grow the economy, create jobs, and improve the financial security of New Yorkers. This bill falls far short of these goals and of the Republicans’ own promise to help working families.” ###
11.02.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17), Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, last night celebrated the recent enactment of the Reinforcing Education Accountability in Development (READ) Act, bipartisan legislation she introduced to expand access to education for the world’s most vulnerable children. Congresswoman Lowey’s remarks as prepared for delivery, during the READ Act event on Capitol Hill: “I am incredibly excited to be here tonight with so many friends to celebrate the almost 15 year fight to pass the READ Act – we did it! “Before I begin, I want to thank the organizations who planned tonight’s event for their years of grassroots advocacy, such as RESULTS, The Basic Education Coalition, The Global Campaign, ONE, Global Citizen, Save the Children, and many more. “Let’s give them a round of applause! “I also want to thank the Representatives who joined us here tonight, especially Rep. Reichert, our lead cosponsor for a number of years; Chairman Royce, who helped advance this legislation out of the House Foreign Affairs Committee; our Senate sponsors, Senators Durbin and Rubio; and Administrator Green, who I look forward to working with on basic education. “I first introduced READ, originally the Education for All Act, in 2004 because I believe that education is the single, greatest force multiplier in foreign aid. “When we discuss effective and efficient international development, we often focus on efforts that stretch our dollars furthest. I can think of few activities that give the U.S. taxpayer a better bargain than education, particularly when we ensure girls have equal access to the classroom. “But educating children isn’t just smart foreign policy, it’s a moral imperative. “Failing to educate a child is a grave injustice – she is not only robbed of economic opportunities, she is deprived of her voice and her future place in the world. “After all these years, I am ecstatic the READ Act will result in: A comprehensive, integrated strategy at USAID to improve educational opportunities and address key barriers for the world’s most vulnerable children; a Senior Coordinator position at USAID responsible for the development, implementation, and interagency coordination of our basic education efforts; and increased U.S. engagement with key partner countries, donors, civil society, the private sector, and multilateral global education initiatives, such as the Global Partnership for Education. “This has been a labor of love for many members of my staff, some of whom are here tonight. I want to thank Beth Tritter, Ann Vaughan, Talia Dubovi, Marin Stein, and Liz Leibowitz for all your efforts to get this legislation across the finish line. “But, as we celebrate, we must not forget that much work remains to help the estimated 263 million children and youth who are out of school around the world. Many are girls, those with disabilities, or children in areas plagued by crisis and conflict. “And we can’t stop at getting them into school. Millions of children who have spent time in a classroom still can’t read, write, or do basic math. We must do better. “As we look towards the future, we must be more committed than ever to removing barriers for the globe’s most vulnerable children. The READ Act will be the first step, but we will need all of you, as well as our experts at USAID who we are grateful for every day, to make this a reality. “I will close with a quote from, an inspirational young woman I’ve had the honor of getting to know in recent years. Through her passionate advocacy, she demonstrates the tremendous, life-changing power of education. “As she so eloquently stated: “Let us pick up our books and our pens. They are our most powerful weapons. One child, one teacher, one book, and one pen can change the world.” “Once again, I am thrilled to be here with you tonight and am grateful for your advocacy and passion. Thank you.” ###
10.26.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17) and Congresswoman Rosa DeLauro (CT-03) today released the following statement in response to President Trump’s declaration that the opioid crisis is a public health emergency. “As the top Democrats on the House Appropriations Committee and its Subcommittee on Labor, Health, and Education, we are concerned that President Trump’s announcement today is a weak half-measure and insufficient to meet the scale of the opioid emergency. We have a moral duty to address this crisis and save as many lives as possible.” “While the steps outlined by the President may be helpful in some instances, without robust and dedicated funding, health care providers, treatment facilities, and others working on this multi-faceted crisis will be hamstrung in their efforts to protect American communities from the scourge of opioid addiction. Further, mere shifting of already insufficient resources threatens to hamper critical investments in other forms of health research and treatment.” “To that end, in his next disaster supplemental request, President Trump should request emergency funding through the Public Health Emergency Fund. This Fund was established to address exactly this sort of crisis yet it has not been funded. Congresswoman DeLauro introduced the Public Health Emergency Fund Act (H.R. 3579) in July, which would provide $5 billion to the Fund.” “Existing mandatory funding for Opioid State Grants, provided through the CURES Act, expires at the end of fiscal year 2018. This mandatory funding should be expanded and extended. Emergency funding should also supplement existing efforts at NIH, CDC, and SAMHSA, as well as programs authorized through the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act (CARA).” “If we are to defeat this crisis, weak half-measures will not suffice. We must act aggressively and responsibly to help those who are currently addicted and protect others from this deadly affliction.” Congresswoman Lowey is the Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee. Congresswoman DeLauro is the Ranking Member on the Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education Appropriations Subcommittee. ###
10.26.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17/Rockland-Westchester), Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, today joined Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi and fellow members of the Congressional Pro-Choice Caucus on Capitol Hill to call on President Trump to reverse his recent moves to limit women’s access to birth control. ”Republicans are taking aim at the most basic aspect of women’s health care,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “Since the enactment of contraceptive coverage, more than 62 million American women have saved more than $1 billion each year. It has given women access to contraception regardless of their economic status, as well as the power to determine when to start a family and how best to space pregnancies. By not standing up against this mean-spirited and dangerous rule, Congressional Republicans are complicit in denying contraceptive coverage for millions of women throughout the country.” On October 6, the Trump Administration announced two interim final rules that would grant broad exemptions on the Affordable Care Act’s (ACA) contraception mandate to employers who oppose providing contraceptive coverage on religious or self-defined moral grounds. If implemented, the rules could rip away contraception coverage from millions of women who have access to birth control without out-of-pocket costs under the ACA, forcing women to pay the full cost of their birth control or go without it. Congresswoman Lowey has been a leader in the U.S. House on protecting women’s health services and access to contraception. Lowey is a cosponsor of the recently-introduced Protect Access to Birth Control Act, which would void the president’s recent rules, thereby securing the right to birth control coverage as guaranteed by the ACA. This morning, Congresswoman Lowey co-led a letter signed by 189 Members of Congress to Treasury Secretary Steve Mnuchin, Labor Secretary Alexander Acosta, and Acting Health and Human Services Secretary Eric Hargan calling on the Administration to rescind the rules and restore policies that facilitate access to affordable contraception for millions of women. Contraception has been proven to improve women’s health and save women’s lives while reducing unintended pregnancies and abortions. In addition to helping women with safe family planning, contraception is also used to treat conditions such as endometriosis and polycystic ovary syndrome. ###
10.20.2017	AUDIO | PHOTOS PORT CHESTER, NY – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17/Rockland-Westchester), Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, today visited Open Door Family Medical Center in Port Chester—a Federally Qualified Health Center serving Westchester County. Congresswoman Lowey toured the health center and spoke with patients, staffers, local elected officials, and leaders of community organizations about the need for reauthorization of federal funding for community health centers. Joining Lowey at Open Door Port Chester were Open Door President and CEO Lindsay Farrell, Port Chester Mayor Richard Falanka, Port Chester–Rye Union Free School District Superintendent of Schools Edward Kliszus, representatives of community-based organizations, and patients and employees of Open Door. “By allowing authorization to lapse, Congressional Republicans have created uncertainty for centers such as Open Door that are worried about whether they will continue to receive federal investments to provide health care to low-income Americans,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “We know the harm this could cause. Here at Open Door, $4.2 million out of the institution’s $6 million federal grant is on the chopping block, which could result in fewer patients served and fewer medical professionals to meet the needs of our community.” Federal funding for Federally Qualified Health Centers lapsed on October 1, 2017, after the Republican-controlled Congress failed to reauthorize the program. Without reauthorization, as many as 16,000 residents of New York’s 17th Congressional District could lose access to care. In her remarks, Congresswoman Lowey called for an immediate extension for community health centers, as well as for the Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP), which also expired on October 1. At Open Door, 3,300 children who are covered through New York’s CHIP program could lose their health coverage as a result of CHIP’s expiration. “It is unfathomable that Republican leadership has allowed these historically bipartisan investments in public health to lapse,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “Congress must work on a bipartisan extension for community health centers and CHIP without delay.” “Open Door and community health centers across the country have demonstrated that it’s possible to provide high quality healthcare in a cost-effective setting,” said Lindsay Farrell, President & CEO of Open Door Family Medical Centers. “This is particularly important to low-income people and those without health insurance. We’re grateful to Congresswoman Lowey for supporting renewed federal funding, and we’re confident that on this healthcare issue bipartisan support truly exists. Time is of the essence, however, and we urge Congress to act quickly.” “Any time we can receive federal money for a program, it is a good thing for the Village of Port Chester,” said Port Chester Mayor Richard Falanka. “Open Door is an important part of our community.” “With the advent of Open Door Medical Centers over a decade ago, we have realized remarkable improvements in student attendance and academic growth; this is directly related to our children having easy access to medical care in our buildings,” said Port Chester–Rye Union Free School District Superintendent of Schools Edward Kliszus. “Currently, the majority of our students utilize Open Door medical services and with the addition of dental services in recent years, we have essentially removed another barrier to learning and daily school attendance.” Ahead of the lapse in funding for community health centers and CHIP, Lowey called on Congress to stay in session until the programs were reauthorized. Lowey is also a cosponsor of H.R. 3770, the bipartisan Community Health Investment, Modernization, and Excellence Act, which would extend authorization for community health centers and increase funding annually for five years. Open Door has six Family Medical Centers, six school-based units, and two mobile units in Westchester and Putnam Counties and serves 55,000 patients every year. ###
10.17.2017	HAVERSTRAW, NY – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17/Rockland-Westchester), Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, was joined today by local officials and community groups at the Haverstraw Firehouse to discuss her recent visit to Puerto Rico and to provide an update on relief and recovery efforts. “The damage that I witnessed in Puerto Rico was significant and sobering, as were the firsthand accounts that I heard from victims and the representatives of the people of Puerto Rico,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “We have to remember that Puerto Ricans are American citizens, and we must remain committed to ensuring they have the resources necessary to recover and rebuild, now and over the long-term. The process will be long and complex, but I will continue to stand with Puerto Rico and to push for investments critical for a full recovery.” At the event, Congresswoman Lowey applauded Puerto Rico donation drives throughout Rockland County, including at the Haverstraw Firehouse, where community members have dropped off water, diapers, batteries, and other items. Joining Congresswoman Lowey were Haverstraw Town Supervisor Howard Phillips, Deputy Supervisor and Councilman Isidro “Papo” Cancel, Councilman Hector Soto, North Rockland Central School District (NRCSD) Assistant Superintendent for Educational Services Kris Felicello, NRCSD Executive Director of K-6 Curriculum & ELL Services Miguelina Lopez, and community groups involved with local relief efforts. “Puerto Rico is our family, our brothers and sisters, and there has been an outpouring of support from the people of Rockland County. I would like to commend Congresswoman Lowey for her efforts to prioritize aid for Puerto Rico,” said Supervisor Phillips. “Without the help of all the volunteers and sponsors, the collection efforts would not have been possible. It was a total team effort from beginning to end,” said Deputy Supervisor and Councilman Cancel. “Eighty-five percent of the island is still without water and electricity. People are suffering, and we need to help them,” said Councilman Soto. “The people of Rockland, and particularly Haverstraw, have stepped up to help our fellow citizens in Puerto Rico. It’s something we can all be proud of, but we must continue our efforts until full services are restored to the island and they can once again operate on their own. I want to thank Congresswoman Lowey for all her efforts at keeping aid to Puerto Rico on track,” said Village of Haverstraw Mayor Michael Kohut. “With so many local ties to Puerto Rico, the North Rockland community stands united in helping those still struggling in the wake of Hurricanes Maria and Irma,” said North Rockland Central School District Superintendent Ileana Eckert. “Residents of Haverstraw and Stony Point have already shown great compassion for the Puerto Rican people. As Puerto Rico rebuilds, the North Rockland Central School District remains committed to doing everything we can to help the families impacted by the storms - including thousands of schoolchildren left without the materials to learn.” Last Friday, in her capacity Appropriations Ranking Member, Congresswoman Lowey traveled with a bipartisan congressional delegation to Puerto Rico. In addition to Lowey, the delegation on the trip included House Speaker Paul Ryan (R-WI), Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), House Appropriations Committee Chairman Rodney Frelinghuysen (R-NJ), and Puerto Rico Resident Commissioner Jenniffer González-Colón (R). In Puerto Rico, the delegation received a briefing at the Joint Field Office from Coast Guard and FEMA officials, and took an aerial tour of storm-affected areas. The delegation also met with and received an update on the situation from Governor Ricardo Rosselló and hosted a group discussion with local mayors and residents on how the hurricane has affected their lives. Congresswoman Lowey provided assurances that Democrats are working in a bipartisan way on behalf of Puerto Ricans. Last week, the U.S. House passed a $36.5 billion emergency funding bill for disaster relief in U.S. communities affected by recent wildfires and hurricanes, including Puerto Rico. In addition to this down payment on recovery, Congresswoman Lowey has called for vital medium- and long-term investments such as: Restoration of ports, highways, transit systems, and airports; Repair of coastlines and water infrastructure, and upgrade of the electrical grid; Health care needs, including Medicaid, community health centers, and preventing spread of infectious disease and environmental hazards; and Education needs, including rebuilding schools and helping displaced students. The situation in Puerto Rico remains dire. As of Monday, just 37 percent of customers had drinking water, and only 15 percent of customers had electricity. Twenty-three of Puerto Rico’s 67 hospitals were reliant on generator power. AUDIO of Congresswoman Lowey’s remarks is available here. PHOTOS of the event are available on Congresswoman Lowey’s Flickr page. ###
10.13.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17/Rockland-Westchester), Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, issued the following statement after President Trump announced his intention not to certify Iran’s compliance with the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA), the nuclear deal with Iran: “While there has been much debate over the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA), it must now be rigorously enforced. In the absence of credible information from the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) and the intelligence community indicating Iran’s failure to uphold the agreement, I disagree with President Trump’s decertification of Iran’s compliance with the JCPOA. “Let me be clear – Iran engages in behavior that is deeply destabilizing to the region. The Administration should adopt an aggressive, comprehensive strategy focused on vigorous enforcement of the deal and steps to combat Iran’s activities beyond the scope of the JCPOA, such as its ballistic missile program and conventional-arms transfers. It is paramount that we ensure Iran never acquires a nuclear weapon while working to rein in its dangerous non-nuclear activities. “We must continue to stand with our allies and partners in the international community. Abruptly leaving the JCPOA risks our country’s credibility and could isolate us at a time when we need international partnerships more than ever to combat Iran’s destructive actions as well as increasing incitement from North Korea. I agree with Defense Secretary Mattis that staying in the deal is vital to U.S. national security, and we must maintain the JCPOA as long as the IAEA and U.S. military and defense leaders verify Iran’s compliance.” ###
10.12.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17/Rockland-Westchester), Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, delivered remarks on the floor of the U.S. House this afternoon urging Congress to pass the $36.5 billion emergency funding bill for disaster relief and criticizing President Trump’s threat to abandon the recovery effort in Puerto Rico. “From a hurricane that damaged large swaths of Florida, storms that annihilated Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands, and wildfires burning in the West, Americans deserve certainty the federal government will stand by them in their time of need,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “This is particularly important after the President threatened to abandon Puerto Rico in his latest Twitter tantrum this morning. Congress cannot turn its back on recovery, no matter how reckless the President’s outbursts may be as Americans are suffering and simply trying to survive.” In her remarks, Congresswoman Lowey stressed the need for medium- and long-term investments that played critical roles in rebuilding from previous disasters like Hurricane Sandy. Many of these Democratic priorities were not included in the legislation, including grants to help community rebuilding efforts like housing; restoration of critical infrastructure; and repair and modernization of Puerto Rico’s electrical grid. On Friday, Congresswoman Lowey, in her capacity as Ranking Member on the Appropriations Committee, will travel as part of a congressional delegation to Puerto Rico to see the devastation firsthand and to meet with local officials and emergency personnel. In addition to Lowey, the delegation on the trip will include House Speaker Paul Ryan (R-WI), Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), House Appropriations Committee Chairman Rodney Frelinghuysen (R-NJ), and Puerto Rico Resident Commissioner Jenniffer González-Colón (R). Included in the $36.5 billion emergency supplemental legislation that the House will vote on today is: $18.67 billion for the Disaster Relief Fund (DRF), $4.9 billion of which will help stabilize Puerto Rican and local governments’ finances in storm-affected areas; $16 billion for cancellation of debt incurred by the National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP); $1.27 billion for disaster nutrition assistance in Puerto Rico through the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP); and $576.5 million for wildland fire suppression. ###
10.06.2017	SUFFERN, NY – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17/Rockland-Westchester), Rockland Community College (RCC) President Michael A. Baston, and Andrea Bogin, Director of RCC’S Theresa Morahan Simmons Center for Children and Families, today joined student-parents and children to announce $81,983 in federal funding to sustain access to campus-based childcare for low-income students at Rockland Community College, State University of New York. “The success of our economy is directly tied to the ability of Americans to pursue a quality education and develop the skills they need to secure well-paying jobs,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “That is why I am so pleased to announce continued federal investments in RCC’s child care initiative. This federal investment will allow parents to attend class, complete their studies, and enter the workforce more quickly and with less debt, which increases their earnings and stimulates our local economy. As the Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, I will continue fighting to protect child care from budget cuts and to ensure the hardworking parents who benefit from this investment are not forced to choose between their education and childcare.” “We are very appreciative to receive a renewal of the grant that subsidizes child care for children of our students. Thanks to these funds, our students who have children in daycare can advance their education and their careers knowing that their children are receiving high-quality care right on our campus. Without this funding, many would be forced to drop out and would be unable to achieve their goals. We thank Congresswoman Lowey for her efforts and wish her success in working with her colleagues to ensure that community college students who are parents continue to receive the support they need,” said Dr. Michael A. Baston, President of Rockland Community College. “Without CCAMPIS and the option of affordable child care on campus, I would have never been able to further my education at Rockland Community College,” said Leydi Flores, a student-parent at RCC. “While pursuing my education, I also have the peace of mind that my child is in an amazing program at Campus Fun and Learn. I see growth in him each and every day, and I am so grateful for the opportunities that the CCAMPIS grant and Campus Fun and Learn have provided for us both.” The $81,983 awarded to RCC comes in the form of a Child Care Access Means Parents in School Program (CCAMPIS) continuation grant, administered by the U.S. Department of Education. This program enables low-income parents to pursue a postsecondary education by providing them access to campus-based child care programs. According to the Institute for Women’s Policy Research, parents with access to child care on campus are nearly three times more likely to graduate or pursue additional degrees within three years of enrollment. CCAMPIS currently provides $15.1 million in support to parents who are earning degrees. Of this total, more than $1.3 million supports New Yorkers. The Fiscal Year 2018 Trump Budget and House Republican spending bill for the Department of Education would eliminate CCAMPIS, forcing students to choose between dropping out of school and taking on more debt to pay for child care. AUDIO of Congresswoman Lowey’s statement is available here. PHOTOS of the event are available on Congresswoman Lowey’s Flickr page. ###
10.06.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17/Rockland-Westchester), Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, issued the following statement on the Trump Administration’s decision to roll back the Affordable Care Act’s contraception coverage rule: “It has been proven that contraception improves women’s health and can even save women’s lives while reducing the number of unwanted pregnancies and abortions. Yet President Trump and this Administration are robbing potentially hundreds of thousands of women of access to contraceptive coverage, rolling back years of progress. This isn’t The Handmaid’s Tale. We must protect American women’s rights to make their own medical decisions, not sacrifice women’s health for poisonous, political priorities that reject common sense and medical evidence.” ###
10.04.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17/Rockland-Westchester), Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, today joined her Gun Violence Prevention Task Force colleagues in a letter to President Trump requesting that he meet with the task force to discuss commonsense gun reform. The letter comes on the heels of the deadliest mass shooting in U.S. history in Las Vegas. “For years, we have extended our hand and asked the Republican Leadership to come to the table to work with us to find a solution. At every turn, they have refused,” the lawmakers wrote. “They rejected a bipartisan commonsense reform of our background check system. They refused to establish a Select Committee on Gun Violence. They have refused to even hold a hearing. Meanwhile, Americans are dying.” “That’s why we are asking you to meet with members of the Gun Violence Prevention Task Force,” the lawmakers added. “You have the power to make real change in America and protect our communities from the senseless gun violence like we saw in Las Vegas. Together, we can find common ground that respects and supports the 2nd Amendment while keeping guns out of the hands of people who should not have them – criminals and the dangerously mentally ill. We are reaching out to you, please: join us in the fight to end gun violence.” Congresswoman Lowey has been a member of the Gun Violence Prevention Task Force since it was established following the Sandy Hook Elementary School Shooting in 2012. Over 1,500 mass shootings have happened since the Sandy Hook tragedy. In 2015, Congresswoman Lowey introduced the National Instant Criminal Background Check System Community Protection Act (H.R. 3375) to increase the three-day waiting period for background checks to 14 business days in order for federal examiners to have more time to perform thorough background checks. She has also cosponsored legislation to close the “terror gap,” which allows individuals on terror watch lists to legally purchase guns; worked to add a similar measure to the annual Department of Justice spending bill; and supports bills to close the gun show loophole and to limit assault weapons and large capacity magazines. Today, Congresswoman Lowey joined her House Democratic colleagues, including Leader Nancy Pelosi and Congressman John Lewis, along with former Congresswoman Gabby Giffords, at a press event on the steps of the U.S. Capitol to honor the victims of the Las Vegas shooting and to call for commonsense gun reform legislation. A pdf of the letter can be found here. ###
10.02.2017	VALHALLA, NY – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17/Rockland-Westchester) today congratulated Valhalla High School for being recognized as a 2017 National Blue Ribbon School for overall academic excellence. Valhalla is just one of 342 public and private schools nationwide to earn this recognition. “Education is paramount for our children, which is why it’s important to recognize and celebrate schools that set high standards and foster student achievement,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “Valhalla High School is leading by example, and I’m proud that the school’s students, teachers, and administrators have been honored for their outstanding work and impressive achievements.” Every year, the U. S. Department of Education celebrates great American schools demonstrating that all students can achieve at high levels. The National Blue Ribbon Schools Program recognizes public and private elementary, middle, and high schools based on their overall academic excellence or their progress in closing achievement gaps among student subgroups. Valhalla was honored as an Exemplary High Performing School. ###
10.02.2017	WHITE PLAINS, NY – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17/Rockland-Westchester), Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, issued the following statement on the deadly mass shooting in Las Vegas: “I am heartbroken by the tragedy in Las Vegas. My prayers go out to the victims and their families during this unimaginably difficult time. We are with you. “With hundreds of injuries and dozens of deaths in Las Vegas, it could not be more obvious that Congress must pass meaningful gun legislation, including a ban on assault weapons. We must also work together to block any attempt to make it easier for shooters to go undetected. Inaction is unacceptable. “Over 1,500 mass shootings have happened since 20 children were gunned down at Sandy Hook Elementary School, and now we have witnessed the worst mass shooting in U.S. history. What will it take for us to embrace our responsibility to act?” ###
10.02.2017	WHITE PLAINS, NY – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17/Rockland-Westchester), Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, was joined today by White Plains Mayor Thomas Roach at a roundtable discussion with tax experts and middle-income taxpayers on the Republican tax plan released last week. “With this plan, Republican leaders have put a target on the backs of hardworking New Yorkers,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “We are already a high-taxed donor state that sends much more revenue to the federal government than we get back. Middle class and working families in New York cannot afford another tax increase, but that’s exactly what they will get if the state and local tax deduction is eliminated.” Every year, 3.3 million New York taxpayers, who are already among the highest taxed in the country, rely heavily on the state and local tax (SALT) deduction to reduce their tax burden. The SALT deduction allows taxpayers to deduct state and local taxes from their federal taxable income. Under the Republican tax proposal, which eliminates the state and local tax deduction to help offset the cost of proposed tax cuts, the federal income tax liability for New York taxpayers could increase by $17.5 billion. Eliminating the state and local tax deduction would increase the average annual tax bill for New Yorkers by nearly $5,300. Among the New York counties that would be hardest hit by the elimination of the SALT deduction are Westchester and Rockland. Both counties are represented by Congresswoman Lowey in New York’s 17th Congressional District, where the average state and local tax deduction was $26,243 in 2015. “I want to thank Congresswoman Lowey for her advocacy in Congress on this important issue that affects every resident of the City of White Plains as well as City government,” said Mayor Roach. “It’s absolutely critical that these deductions remain in place. Providing our taxpayers with the ability to deduct state and local taxes ensures that they are not taxed twice on the same income. Additionally, the property tax deduction, along with the deduction on mortgage interest, provides a strong incentive for homeownership. Likewise, the sales tax deduction incentivizes spending and encourages economic growth. These are key factors in the economic sustainability of every municipality in New York State.” “The Trump-GOP tax plan is an enormous giveaway to the wealthiest Americans and corporations that will leave middle-class families holding the bag,” said Seth Hanlon, Senior Fellow at the Center for American Progress. “The Trump-GOP plan would increase deficits by $2.4 trillion over the next decade to pay for huge new tax breaks for well-connected corporations and the ultra-wealthy, while at the same time increasing taxes on millions of families. In fact, by a decade from now, 47 million families would be paying higher taxes. And the colossal cost of this tax plan would put Medicare, Medicaid, and Social Security at greater risk.” Joining Congresswoman Lowey and Mayor Roach at the roundtable were Seth Hanlon, Senior Fellow at the Center for American Progress; Jorge Fernandez, resident of Peekskill and member of Communication Workers of America; Thomas Grieco, resident of Valley Cottage and member of Communication Workers of America; Patricia Puleo, recently retired president of the Yonkers Federation of Teachers and resident of Thornwood; Koshy Chacko, owner of Fair Deal Café in White Plains; Nancy Kessler, owner of Memoirs Plus in Mount Kisco; and Bernadette Schopfer, Director of Taxation at Maier Markey & Justic in White Plains. Congresswoman Lowey spoke in an interview with WNYC’s Brian Lehrer last week about the disproportionate harm of the Republican proposal to taxpayers in New York. She urges Republicans to work with Democrats to find a bipartisan approach to give working families relief and sustain our economy. ###
09.28.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17/Rockland-Westchester), Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, today called on Congress to stay in session until important public health investments are extended. “Congress should not recess while 1.1 million American children are at risk of losing their health coverage,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “It is unfathomable that Republican leadership would adjourn Congress while allowing historically bipartisan investments in public health to lapse.” Without Congressional action, authorization for important public health investments including the Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP) and Federally Qualified Health Centers will expire after September 30, 2017. CHIP is a vital partnership between the federal government and states that expands access to health coverage for children and pregnant mothers in low-income working families. If CHIP expires, states would lose the partnership of the federal government, costs would increase, and coverage could be dropped. According to the Medicaid and CHIP Payment and Access Commission (MEDPAC), failure to reauthorize CHIP would put 1.1 million children at risk of losing health coverage. Additionally, funding for Federally Qualified Health Centers is also in jeopardy. Community health centers provide vital health services to low-income residents of the Lower Hudson Valley, who often may not have access to other health providers. Without reauthorization, leading local community health centers would see as many as 16,000 patients lose access to care. Lowey is a cosponsor of H.R. 3770, the bipartisan Community Health Investment, Modernization, and Excellent Act, which would extend authorization for community health centers and increase funding annually for five years. Video is available on YouTube here. ###
09.27.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17/Rockland-Westchester), Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, today joined 144 of her House colleagues in a letter to President Trump urging him to send additional U.S. Department of Defense (DOD) resources to Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands to assist with hurricane recovery efforts. “Given the impact of the damage and the population of 3.6 million American citizens affected, we are concerned that federal efforts to date have been insufficient to address the severity of the situation,” the lawmakers wrote. “We know there are DOD elements helping today, and all the service members involved are working very hard, but we are concerned that the scale of DOD assets supporting the operation are inadequate. Thus, we write to urge you to further mobilize the Department of Defense to immediately deploy additional assets in support of Puerto Rican and U.S. Virgin Island recovery efforts.” As Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, Congresswoman Lowey believes the federal government must aggressively and immediately step up to help Puerto Rico just as we would any other American region so severely hit by a natural disaster. Click here for a pdf of the letter. ###
09.27.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17/Rockland-Westchester), Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, issued the following statement on the Republican tax plan released today: “I support efforts to make the tax code fairer and to put more money in the pockets of hardworking Americans. Unfortunately, the Republican plan does not put middle class and working Americans first and would irresponsibly, dramatically increase the deficit. Elimination of the state and local tax deduction would effectively take hard-earned money out of the pockets of New Yorkers and residents of other high-tax states. This would be a disaster for Hudson Valley taxpayers, whose taxes could increase by thousands of dollars were this deduction eliminated. Middle class and working New Yorkers need tax relief, not more tax bills.” ###
09.26.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17/Rockland-Westchester), Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, issued the following statement after Senate Republican leaders announced that the Senate will not vote on the Graham-Cassidy bill to repeal the Affordable Care Act: “Graham-Cassidy was a disaster, and its defeat is a victory for American families who won’t lose their health coverage. I hope Republicans see this defeat for what it is: a repudiation of partisan attempts to dismantle a law that has expanded access to health care for millions of Americans. I urge my Republican colleagues to join with Democrats in making bipartisan improvements to the Affordable Care Act. We are ready to work together to lower costs, improve coverage, and help the remaining uninsured get covered.” ###
09.26.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17/Rockland-Westchester), Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, issued the following statement after signing a discharge petition to force a House vote on the DREAM Act: “I fully support this effort to force a vote on the DREAM Act because it is not only the right thing to do, it’s the smart thing to do. It makes no sense to force out of the United States educated individuals who pay billions in taxes and contribute to our economic growth and competitiveness. Yet, as a result of the Administration’s decision to terminate DACA, that is exactly what will happen if we don’t act. Republican leadership should listen to the vast majority of Americans and bring the DREAM Act up for a vote.” Congresswoman Lowey has been a vocal advocate for “DREAMers,” young undocumented immigrants who were brought to the U.S. as children and who are now at risk of deportation under the Trump Administration. This month, she hosted a roundtable discussion with DREAMers, immigration advocates, legal experts, and Pace University’s president on the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program and the urgent need to enact the DREAM Act. ###
09.25.2017	WHITE PLAINS, NY – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17/Rockland-Westchester), Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, today announced that the City of White Plains has been awarded a $449,692 Improving Criminal Justice Responses Program grant to support survivors of sexual assault, domestic violence, dating violence, and stalking. The funding was awarded through the U.S. Department of Justice’s Office on Violence Against Women. “Survivors of sexual assault and other violent crimes deserve justice, and perpetrators deserve to be held accountable,” said Congresswoman Nita Lowey. “This funding will help White Plains effectively coordinate and sustain community responses to sexual assault, domestic violence, dating violence, and stalking, providing survivors with the safety and support they need and deserve.” “The WPDPS - Police Bureau looks forward to continuing its efforts in providing the finest services to all facets of the White Plains community,” said White Plains Mayor Tom Roach. “The Department has just been awarded a grant from the US Department of Justice - Office on Violence Against Women for $449,692 that will enable a coordinated community response to enhance safety and offender accountability relative to domestic violence, sexual assault, dating violence, and stalking. This 36 month program with our long time partners - Pace Women’s Justice Center, Westchester Independent Living Center, El Centro Hispano, My Sister’s Place, the Loft, and Westchester Jewish Community Services - will enhance the quality of life for those dealing with violence in their lives.” The Improving Criminal Justice Responses Program enhances victim safety and offender accountability in cases of sexual assault, domestic violence, dating violence, and stalking by encouraging collaborative partnerships among jurisdictions, criminal justice agencies, victim services providers, and community organizations to take crimes seriously and respond effectively. The City of White Plains, in collaboration with Pace University/Women’s Justice Center (PWJC), Westchester Independent Living Center, El Centro Hispano, My Sister’s Place (MSP), The Loft, and Westchester Jewish Community Services, will use this funding to support activities in its “TRUST” (Training, Response, Underserved Support Team) project. Specifically, “TRUST” will: Support overtime costs for two White Plains Department of Public Safety (WPDPS) police officers, who will monitor offenders, conduct follow-up home visits, and make cross-referrals for services for victims; support a bilingual attorney, and a supervising attorney from the PWJC, who will represent victims at protection order; support a domestic violence advocate/counselor from MSP, who will receive calls via their hotline from victims who have met with officers during home visits, and will offer access to services; conduct outreach and multi-disciplinary team meetings with project partners to reduce domestic violence in the disabled, Hispanic, and LGBT communities; and provide training for law enforcement on the trauma-informed response to sexual assault, domestic violence, dating violence and stalking, to increase understanding of the impact of trauma, encourage trauma-informed practices and techniques, and provide strategies for developing and implementing trauma-informed policies department-wide. ###
09.20.2017	PEEKSKILL, NY – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17/Rockland-Westchester), Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, today announced that Hudson River HealthCare, Inc. (HRHCare) has been awarded a $91,000 federal Ryan White Part C HIV Capacity Development and Planning Grant to improve and enhance care management of people living with HIV. “The funding announced today will support Hudson River HealthCare’s vital work to improve the quality of care and health outcomes for patients with HIV,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “Our communities are stronger when we make these kinds of investments in health.” “We are excited to be awarded this Ryan White Part C Capacity Development funding to augment the care for almost 1,000 individuals living with HIV throughout our service area who are receiving care through HRHCare’s Genesis HIV treatment program,” said Anne Kauffman Nolon, MPH, President and CEO of HRHCare. “The resources will help to ensure that critical care coordination is in place to reduce duplication and improve health outcomes.” HRHCare is a federally qualified health center that provides access to comprehensive primary and preventive health care to patients throughout the Hudson Valley and Long Island. The Ryan White Part C HIV Capacity Development and Planning Grants program is administered by the Health Resources and Services Administration (HRSA), an agency of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS). ###
09.20.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17/Rockland-Westchester), Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, today announced the reintroduction of the Congressional Afterschool Caucus, of which she will serve as the Democratic Co-Chair. The bipartisan caucus will support afterschool programs and advocate for sufficient resources to promote quality programming in New York and across the country. Congressman Lou Barletta (PA-11) will serve as the Republican Co-Chair. “Afterschool programs are critical to fostering student development and achievement through activities that complement classroom learning, and they are also indispensable for parents who need a safe and educational alternative to costly child care,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “I look forward to once again serving as Co-Chair of the Congressional Afterschool Caucus and to working with our members to support afterschool programs and to highlight the good work these programs do for families in our communities.” “I am proud to lead the Congressional Afterschool Caucus along with my Democratic colleague, Congresswoman Nita Lowey of New York,” said Congressman Barletta. “Afterschool programs, like SHINE, give students of all ages the opportunity to have brighter futures while also helping working families. When you give young children hope and the possibility of what their futures can be, there’s no stopping them. I look forward to working with my colleagues in Congress to continue advocating for programs like SHINE, and believe the caucus will be helpful in educating other members about the positive impacts of afterschool programming.” “We are thrilled that Representatives Lou Barletta and Nita Lowey will co-chair the House Afterschool Caucus this year,” said Jodi Grant, executive director of the Afterschool Alliance. “Both are powerful, longtime champions who understand the essential role that afterschool and summer learning programs play in keeping kids safe, inspiring them to learn and helping working families. The Caucus has never had stronger leadership, and we have never needed it more than we do right now, when we are facing unprecedented threats to federal funding for afterschool. The decisions Congress makes in the next few months will help shape the future for millions of students and families as well as their schools and communities.” Congresswoman Lowey has been a leader in the U.S. House in advancing legislation and securing funding to advance afterschool programs. She helped create the 21st Century Community Learning Centers, the first federal afterschool initiative, and has fought to increase funding from $1 million in 1996 to more than $1 billion today. In 2005, Congresswoman Lowey formed the Congressional Afterschool Caucus to build support for these programs in Congress and provide sufficient funding to meet the growing demand for afterschool initiatives. ###
09.18.2017	WHITE PLAINS, NY – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17/Rockland-Westchester), Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, today announced that Family Services of Westchester (FSW) has been awarded a $331,250 federal grant to support a new initiative aimed at reducing recidivism among young fathers. The grant was awarded through the Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention (OJJDP) within the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ). “This funding is essential to helping young fathers who have served their time successfully re-enter society and make positive contributions to their communities,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “It’s about strengthening families and communities, and breaking cycles of crime and recidivism. I am pleased that DOJ has recognized the importance of the Bringing Fathers Back initiative, and I will keep fighting to securing more federal resources for the Lower Hudson Valley.” “Family Services of Westchester created this new initiative, Bringing Fathers Back, to provide mentors for young fathers who are returning home after incarceration. Many of these young men never had a positive role model in their own lives, and they often struggle to overcome poverty and low levels of job skills and education,” said FSW President and CEO Susan B. Wayne. “By helping these young men become better role models for their own children, FSW will contribute to the health and wellbeing of their families and communities.” Family Services of Westchester provides more than 50 social service and mental health programs for individuals and families in Westchester County. The OJJDP grant will support the agency’s new initiative, Bringing Father’s Back, which aims to reduce recidivism and reinforce ties to family and community by providing mentors for young fathers returning home after incarceration. ###
09.18.2017	WHITE PLAINS, NY – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17/Rockland-Westchester) today hosted a roundtable discussion with DREAMers, immigration advocates, legal experts, and Pace University’s president on the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program and the urgent need to enact the DREAM Act. Joining Congresswoman Lowey were Marvin Krislov, President of Pace University; Lisdy Contreras-Giron, a Pace Pleasantville undergraduate and DREAMer; Carola Otero Bracco, Executive Director of Neighbors Link; Karin Anderson Ponzer, Director of Neighbors Link Community Law Practice; Andrea Alarcon, a DACA recipient and Manager of Operations and Community Development at Neighbors Link; Jessica Young, Immigration Law Attorney at Westchester Hispanic Coalition; Vanessa Merton, Professor of Law and Faculty Supervisor at the Immigration Justice Clinic and the Elisabeth Haub School of Law at Pace University; Tom McDonnell, Professor of Law at the Immigration Justice Clinic at the Elisabeth Haub School of Law at Pace University; Miguel Sanchez Robles, Assistant Clinic Administrator at the Immigration Justice Clinic at the Elisabeth Haub School of Law at Pace University; and Alyson Spindell, Director of Community Engagement at the Office of New York State Attorney General Eric T. Schneiderman. “President Trump’s callous decision to end DACA is immoral and wrong,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “DREAMers like Lisdy and Andrea, who were brought to the United States as children, are Americans in the eyes of their communities. They grow up alongside of us, pledge allegiance to our flag, have graduated from school with us or served in the military, pay billions in taxes, and contribute to our economic growth and competitiveness. DREAMers are us. The DREAM Act, to give DREAMers a path to citizenship, would pass if brought to the House floor, and Republican leadership should stop blocking it.” “I firmly believe in the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program as a path to education for immigrants,” said Pace University President Marvin Krislov. “The program has served Pace, our community, and our country well. During my time at Pace I have already met impressive and highly motivated students, making amazing contributions to the community, who have benefited from DACA. Let’s continue to protect these students and let them focus on achieving their dreams. I hope that Congress and the President can find a way forward that is inclusive and beneficial for all.” “With me choosing to come out it's because I am proud,” said Pace University student and DREAMer Lisdy Contreras-Giron. “I’m proud of the decision that my parents made. I am proud of the jobs they hold to sustain my family, and I’m proud of who I am. Being a ‘DREAMer’ as we are identified, is not just being a ‘DREAMer.’ We are your neighbors, we are peers, we are your classmates, we are your children’s babysitters, your nurses. We are individuals who surround you in different aspects of you each and every day. For me it’s being my parents sacrifices, it’s being my parents struggle, a reflection of my parents work ethic, being my struggles, my sacrifices, my work ethic and my successes. I am the resilience that I’ve built through the hardships and adversity. Everything that I am is because of that. I would never be ashamed to say I am undocumented, and I’m currently a DACA recipient because it has made me who I am. I am proud of who I am.” “DACA rescission was a foolish and terrible decision,” said Pace University law professor Vanessa Merton. “Forcing the most educated and fully integrated of our immigrant communities back into the shadows makes no sense. Reaching across the Congressional aisle to formulate a simple, clear pathway to status for the DACA generation is smart and right, not only for them and their families and friends, but for their employers and our economy, which desperately needs younger, bilingual and multicultural workers with education or military service. As a teacher and employer of DACA recipients, I can tell you that they are among the brightest, quickest, most resourceful, most resilient, most entrepreneurial, and most adaptable members of our society, and the efficiency and productivity of our institutions will suffer tremendously if we can no longer consider them for appropriate positions. Where is the competitive American spirit? Why would we ever not want the very best available people to contribute to our country?” “Neighbors Link is not completely surprised by the decision of the Department of Justice at the request of President Trump to cease and desist the program known as Deferred Action for Childhood Arrival,” said Carola Otero Bracco, Executive Director of Neighbors Link. “Data shows that those who have applied for DACA know no other country as their home but the United States due to their age when they arrived. Data also shows that DACA recipients are either working or in school - either way contributing to their communities and the economy. If these are not the values and activities that we believe in as a country, then what are? We are not surprised, but we are no less heartbroken with this irrational, illogical and indefensible decision by this administration. We are also even more determined to support and defend the rights of the almost 800,000 individuals who proudly call themselves DACAmented Americans.” On September 5, 2017, the Trump Administration announced its decision to end the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program, an Obama-era program that protects some 800,000 young, undocumented immigrants, who were brought to the United States as children, from deportation. An estimated 41,970 people in New York are DACA recipients. The DREAM Act (H.R. 3440) would protect these young immigrants, known as DREAMers, from deportation and give them a path to citizenship. Congresswoman Lowey is a cosponsor of the legislation. Following the Administration’s announcement on DACA, fifteen states, including New York, and the District of Columbia, filed a lawsuit challenging President Trump’s decision to end the program. Additionally, Pace University President Krislov issued a statement in support of the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program on behalf of the university. During a “Campus Conversation on DACA” at the university on September 12, Ms. Contreras-Giron announced her status as a DREAMer to the campus community. Click here for additional photos from the roundtable. Audio of Congresswoman Lowey’s statement is available here. ###
09.14.2017	NYACK, NY – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17/Rockland-Westchester) today announced that Happy People Games, LLC of Nyack has been awarded a $225,000 Small Business Innovation Research (SBIR) grant through the National Institutes of Health’s (NIH) Eunice Kennedy Shriver National Institute of Child Health and Human Development (NICHD). Happy People Games, LLC, in collaboration with university and community college students, will use the funding to research and develop a sexual assault prevention app. “The federal funding announced today will support a critical initiative to address the urgent problem of sexual assault on college campuses,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “I am pleased that NIH is providing federal support to innovative New York businesses, and I will continue to advocate for more of these funds in Congress.” “The NIH/NICHD is funding Happy People Games, LLC to research and develop a college-version app, “Make A Change,” said Sharon Wood, Manager and Co-Founder Happy People Games, LLC. “Our multidisciplinary team represents theoretically-grounded and well-supported models of health behavior change, games behavior theories and game design, and empirically-based individual-, peer-, and community-level risk and protective factors for sexual assault perpetration and victimization. We will research it throughout development and then post-development with University and Community College students. We are including community colleges as there are virtually no sexual assault prevention programs that have been developed or tested for community college students, a large, high-risk and under-resourced population. I appreciate Congresswoman Lowey’s support.” The NIH SBIR program provides grants to early stage small businesses that are looking to research, develop, and commercialize innovative biomedical technologies. Congresswoman Lowey has continuously fought to increase investments in medical research, and NIH funding has nearly tripled since she joined the House Appropriations Committee, where she serves as Ranking Member. ###
09.13.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17) and Congressman Eliot Engel (D-NY16) today met with United States Postal Service Deputy Postmaster General Ron Stroman in Congressman Engel’s Washington office to discuss the systemic issues plaguing the post office branches in Westchester, Rockland, and Bronx Counties. The Congress Members presented Deputy Postmaster Stroman with a list of complaints they had received from constituents, including reports of late or missing deliveries; inconsistent or false information from postal officials; post offices not open during the listed opening hours; and phone calls that are routinely unanswered or ignored throughout the day in the post office. The Congress Members made clear that this type of service is unacceptable and the response from postal officials has been inadequate. They were told by Mr. Stroman that steps are being taken to improve service and that additional resources have been allocated to the area. “We have been reassured by Mr. Stroman that he will return in 30 days to assess the progress that has been made. We hope for positive improvement, but our offices will continue to work with constituents to resolve their complaints. The system is broken, and we were very clear with Mr. Stroman that it needs to be quickly fixed. We remain cautiously optimistic, but will also continue to hold postal officials accountable at the highest level to ensure improved service for our constituents,” Engel and Lowey said. PHOTO: Congressman Engel (left), Deputy Postmaster Ron Stroman (center) and Congresswoman Nita Lowey (right) discussed the issues plaguing the post offices in Westchester, Rockland, and the Bronx. ###
09.12.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Representatives Nita Lowey (D-NY17), Harold “Hal” Rogers (R-KY5), Eliot Engel (D-NY16), and Ed Royce (R-CA39), sent a letter today to Mick Mulvaney, Director of the Office of Management and Budget (OMB), on the Office’s role in the reorganization of the U.S. State Department and the U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID). The letter was prompted by recent reports that State and USAID are scheduled to turn over their recommendations for reorganization this week. “We firmly believe that reforming the diplomatic and development architecture of the United States should enhance – not impede – the ability of the State Department and USAID to advance our most pressing foreign policy priorities,” the Members wrote. “Smart investments in diplomacy and development can help accelerate economic growth, create opportunity, prevent the spread of infectious diseases, stabilize communities, and mitigate the need for costly military interventions that put our Armed Forces in harm’s way. Poor planning and execution can have the exact opposite effect.” “Congress has a critical role to play in the ongoing reform process. Without Congressional assent, reform will not be sustainable over the long-term. Though we have held periodic meetings with teams from the State Department and USAID, we have yet to engage with OMB on the role that it will play in this process. Toward this end, and consistent with the requirements of Section 7076(a)(2) of the Fiscal Year 2017 Consolidated Appropriations Act, we request that you and your colleagues brief us as soon as possible on the role you intend to play and your work to date; share with the appropriate Congressional committees the submissions by the State Department and USAID required pursuant to Executive Order 13781 of March 13, 2017; and engage directly and often with Congress before taking any actions to implement reform proposals that affect the instruments of U.S. foreign diplomacy and development,” the Members concluded. Lowey is the Ranking Member and Rogers is the Chairman of the House State and Foreign Operations (SFOPS) Appropriations Subcommittee. Engel is the Ranking Member and Royce is the Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee. The House Appropriations and Foreign Affairs Committees are responsible for funding and overseeing the work of State and USAID. The full text of the letter can be read here. ###
09.12.2017	NEW CITY, NY – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17/Rockland-Westchester), along with local domestic violence and legal service organizations, held a press conference today at Center for Safety & Change, Inc. in New City to announce $2,309,007 in federal funding to assist adult and youth victims of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking in Rockland and Westchester counties. “Today is about affirming our shared commitment to supporting and empowering survivors of violence and abuse,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “Every member of our community deserves protection from domestic abuse, sexual assault, and violence in any form. Center for Safety & Change, My Sisters’ Place, and Pace Women’s Justice Center do great work for survivors in Rockland and Westchester counties, and this funding will help them continue to enhance and expand services for the adults and youth they serve.” $1.1 Million for Center for Safety & Change in New City Center for Safety & Change, a domestic violence survivor services provider, has received two awards, totaling $1,109,007, to help survivors of domestic violence, sexual assault, and other violent crimes in Rockland County. Awarded through the Justice for Families Program within the U.S. Department of Justice’s Office on Violence Against Women (OVW), $699,997 will enable Center for Safety & Change to help survivors of violence by, among other things, hiring a Spanish speaking bilingual attorney to provide civil legal assistance and providing supervised visitation and safe exchange for families with a history of domestic violence. Center for Safety & Change will implement this grant in partnership with VCS of Rockland County, Big Brothers Big Sisters of Rockland County, Domestic Violence Program for Men, and Rockland County Integrated Domestic Violence and the Family Court. The second award, $409,010 through the Legal Assistance for Victims Grant (LAV) Program, will finance quality representation to primarily Latina immigrant victims of domestic violence, sexual assault, dating violence, and stalking. Center for Safety & Change will implement this grant in partnership with the Legal Aid Society of Rockland County. “This grant will allow Center for Safety & Change to do more work with the immigrant community in Rockland County, particular the Spanish-speaking community,” said Elizabeth Santiago, Executive Director of Center for Safety & Change, Inc. “We saw a 61 percent increase in requests from Spanish-speaking victims and survivors in need of legal representation from 2015-2016. We are pleased that this funding will allow us to meet this growing need by hiring a full time bilingual Spanish-speaking attorney and an additional full time bilingual Spanish-speaking advocate who can communicate with and fully serve victims and survivors of domestic violence, sexual assault, and human trafficking by providing free and confidential services such as advocacy, accompaniment, and representation in Family Court, Civil Court, and Federal Immigration Court. In addition, this grant will allow our partner, Legal Aid Society of Rockland County, to provide four free legal clinics per year to the Center’s staff and the community on issues of housing, landlord/tenant law, and consumer law.” $600,000 to My Sisters’ Place in White Plains My Sisters’ Place, a domestic violence and sexual assault survivor services provider in White Plains, has received $600,000 through the Legal Assistance for Victims Grant (LAV) Program to provide quality representation to primarily Latina immigrant victims of domestic violence, sexual assault, dating violence, and stalking in Westchester County. My Sisters’ Place will implement this grant in partnership with the Westchester Medical Center. “This significant, continued funding will enable My Sisters' Place to provide critical services to immigrant victims of domestic violence, human trafficking, sexual assault, dating violence and stalking,” said Karen Cheeks-Lomax, Chief Executive Officer of My Sisters’ Place. “In the last year alone, with support from the Department of Justice, My Sisters' Place has served more than 300 individuals. We look forward to continuing to serve these particularly vulnerable victims in collaboration with our new partners, Westchester Medical Center.” $600,000 to Pace University Women’s Justice Center Pace University Women’s Justice Center, a legal services organization, has been awarded $600,000 through the Legal Assistance for Victims Grant (LAV) Program to provide quality representation to survivors of domestic violence, sexual assault, dating violence, and stalking in Westchester and Putnam counties. Pace Women’s Justice Center will implement this grant in partnership with the Westchester Community Opportunity Program, the Putnam/Northern Westchester Women’s Resource Center, Hope’s Door, the Westchester Independent Living Center, and the Community Resource Center of Larchmont and Mamaroneck. “As the leading civil legal services provider addressing domestic violence, sexual assault, and elder abuse in Westchester and Putnam Counties, Pace Women’s Justice Center is thrilled to receive this grant from the Office on Violence Against Women,” said Cindy Kanusher, Esq., Executive Director of Pace Women’s Justice Center. “Access to legal services is one of the most critical factors in a victim’s journey to safety. With this funding, PWJC, along with our community partners, will be able to help hundreds more victims and survivors of abuse.” Congresswoman Lowey believes that every person has the basic right to live free from fear and violence. As Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, she successfully fought to increase VAWA funding to $481.5 million in the FY 2017 omnibus, $1.5 million more than the FY 2016 funding level. Additionally, Congresswoman Lowey helped secure passage of the first federal Violence Against Women Act in 1994. Click here for additional photos from the press conference. ###
09.12.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17/Rockland-Westchester) and Congressman Dave Reichert (R-WA08/Chelan-Kittitas-Douglas-King-Pierce), along with Senators Marco Rubio (R-FL) and Dick Durbin (D-IL), authors of companion legislation in the Senate, applauded enactment of the Reinforcing Education Accountability in Development (READ) Act, H.R. 601, bipartisan legislation they introduced to enhance transparency and accelerate the impact of U.S. basic education programs around the world in order to help countries address the more than 263 million children and youth that are out of school. “Without a doubt, education is the greatest force multiplier in foreign aid. The READ Act will enhance our global education efforts, removing barriers to education for those out of school and improving the quality of education for those already enrolled,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “Prioritizing education around the world will not only help students learn to read and write—it will ultimately help protect vulnerable communities from hunger and disease and increase economic advancement, particularly for girls and women. Simply put, by putting education at the center of our efforts, this bill moves us further down the path to building the world we want for ourselves and for future generations. This is a tremendous bipartisan achievement, and I thank my colleagues for their hard work to send this critical legislation to the president’s desk.” “The expression ‘knowledge is power’ knows no borders or backgrounds,” said Rep. Reichert. “By giving young people in impoverished regions the tools to read and write, we will put them down a positive path where they are better able to care for themselves, the needs of their families, and their communities. The opportunity for a basic education will also help these children live longer, healthier lives and will promote stability in areas of the world suffering from conflict. I have been a longtime champion of the READ Act and could not be more pleased to see this bill get across the finish line.” “The READ Act will empower millions of children around the world, particularly girls, by increasing their access to basic education and reducing their vulnerability to poverty, abuse, and extremism,” said Senator Rubio. “I commend President Trump for signing into law this important bill that will advance American interests and values by helping children around the world reach their full potential.” “Passage of the READ Act will help provide children, particularly girls, with a quality education and empower them to improve the lives of their families and change the course of nations,” said Senator Durbin. “This bipartisan achievement will help unleash the potential of children across the globe and arm them with the necessary tools to break the cycles of poverty, violence, and extremism.” The READ Act previously passed the House in January 2017 by voice vote and passed the Senate, with amendments, in August 2017 by voice vote. The bill, originally titled the Education for All Act, was first introduced in 2004 by Congresswoman Lowey and then-Senator Hillary Clinton. Worldwide, 250 million primary schoolchildren are failing to learn basic literacy and numeracy skills. 130 million of these students have attended at least four years of school. Studies have shown that for every year a girl stays in school, her future income increases between 15 to 25 percent. An educated citizenry contributes to sustained economic growth, strengthened democratic institutions, and the empowerment of women and girls. That is why no country has reached sustained economic growth without achieving near universal primary education. Specifically, the READ Act calls for: U.S. engagement with key partner countries, other donors, civil society, the private sector, and multilateral global education initiatives, such as the Global Partnership for Education, to promote sustainable, quality basic education. A comprehensive, integrated U.S. strategy that improves educational opportunities and addresses key barriers to school attendance, retention, and completion for the poorest children worldwide; The creation of a “Senior Coordinator” within the United States Agency for International Development (USAID) responsible for the development, implementation, and coordination of U.S. basic education programs; An annual report to Congress on implementation of the basic education strategy and progress achieved by USAID programs. The READ Act was the legislative vehicle for passage of critical disaster assistance and short-term extensions of federal funding and the federal debt limit last week. Because a version of the READ Act had already passed both bodies, it could bypass Senate procedural steps, thereby expediting enactment of disaster assistance in the wake of Hurricane Harvey and during Hurricane Irma. ###
09.07.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17/Rockland-Westchester), Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, issued the following statement on the Trump Administration’s decision, announced Thursday by Education Secretary Betsy DeVos, to roll back federal Title IX guidelines on campus sexual assault: “The Trump Administration’s decision to roll back Title IX protections shows its utter disregard for survivors of sexual assault. The effect of this policy reversal will be to delegitimize and suppress the voices of survivors, who are now being told by this administration that they will be met with skepticism. Shame on the Trump Administration for this perverse decision.” ###
09.07.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17/Rockland-Westchester), Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, applauded unanimous House passage of an amendment she introduced to help prevent future rail accidents caused by medical conditions of critical safety employees. “While Congress has worked to require passenger railroads to implement technology that will prevent rail accidents and save lives, there is still more to be done to address human factors that can contribute to fatal derailments,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “My amendment would make a necessary investment in rail safety, helping ensure that critical safety personnel are capable of carrying out their responsibilities. This amendment is a major achievement, and I am pleased that both my Republican and Democratic colleagues recognized the need to move it forward. We have taken an important step to prevent future rail accidents and save lives.” Congresswoman Lowey’s amendment would set aside $1 million for the Federal Railroad Administration to establish medical fitness standards for critical safety personnel on interstate railways. By establishing criteria for medical fitness, the Federal Railroad Administration can help interstate railways ensure that train operators and other employees who are critical to operational safety are fit to serve in these roles. In recent years, a number of horrific tragedies have drawn attention to significant shortfalls in railroad safety across the country, and have highlighted the need to address human-factor causes in train derailments. On December 1, 2013, a Metro-North train derailed outside of Spuyten Duyvil, New York, killing 4 passengers and injuring 61. The National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB) determined that one major contributing factor was the train operator’s undiagnosed sleep apnea, which led to his loss of situational awareness. NTSB identified medical fitness requirements for safety-critical personnel as one of its most-wanted transportation safety improvements for 2017. Congresswoman Lowey has been a leading voice in the House for improved rail safety, including the installation of Positive Train Control. In July, Lowey offered an amendment to the FY2018 Transportation, Housing and Urban Development Appropriations Bill to provide $199 million for the implementation of Positive Train Control. In May, Lowey wrote to National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB) Acting Chairman Robert L. Sumwalt urging him to do everything in his power to push for the prompt implementation of PTC. ###
09.06.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17/Rockland-Westchester), Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, Congressman José Serrano, Congresswoman Carolyn Maloney, and New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio, today announced $25,943,449 in federal funds to reimburse New York law enforcement agencies for costs incurred protecting then-President-elect Trump during the presidential transition period. The funding was awarded through the Bureau of Justice Assistance’s (BJA) FY 2017 President-Elect Security Assistance Reimbursement Grant Program. “This is a major victory for New York taxpayers and law enforcement, who shouldn’t have to foot the bill for the federal responsibility of protecting the president-elect,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “These federal funds will help offset the significant costs New York law enforcement incurred protecting then-President-elect Trump while simultaneously maintaining their extraordinary efforts to protect millions of New Yorkers.” “This is an important victory for fairness and common sense. This funding helps make New York City financially whole again by reimbursing the costs of protecting the President-elect between Election Day and Inauguration Day. The NYPD did an extraordinary job in performing what is really a federal responsibility, and I am glad that we were able to help ensure that public safety didn’t suffer as a result of this obligation. As a member of the Appropriations subcommittee and Ranking Member of CJS subcommittee where the money was appropriated, I want to thank our colleagues on both sides of the aisle for understanding the need for this reimbursement,” said Congressman Serrano. “The NYPD and FDNY did an exceptional job meeting the unprecedented demands of protecting then-President elect Trump in and around Trump Tower, which is in the heart of Manhattan in my district,” said Rep. Maloney. “It was simply unfair to expect local law enforcement and New York City taxpayers alone to bear the costs of a national security priority. This had to be a federal responsibility, and I was very pleased that Congress appropriated funds for reimbursement to affected localities earlier this year, as I and many of colleagues urged. This latest funding award ensures the federal government meets this responsibility. I will continue to monitor the ongoing costs of protecting the President when he and his family are in New York and I believe that federal funds should be made available to the city as necessary in the future.” “New York City taxpayers have now gotten back part of what they’re owed,” said Mayor de Blasio. “That’s excellent news for our city and the hardworking police officers faced with this unprecedented security challenge. This was not an easy fight and we could not have done it without the tireless help of our congressional delegation, including U.S. Representatives Nita Lowey, Grace Meng, Jose Serrano, Dan Donovan, Carolyn Maloney and Jerrold Nadler, and Senators Charles Schumer and Kirsten Gillibrand.” New York City spent $24 million protecting Trump Tower and the First Family from Election Day through Inauguration Day. Estimates showed that the city spent, on average, $127,000 to $146,000 a day for the NYPD to protect the First Family when President Trump was not in town, and $308,000 per day when the President was in New York City. The $25,943,449 to the State of New York (through two awards of $18,943,449 and $7,000,000) will reimburse the New York City Police Department and the Suffolk County Police Department for overtime and associated fringe benefits for law enforcement costs associated with the extraordinary security required to protect the president-elect. In May, as Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, Congresswoman Lowey helped secure $68 million in federal funds to defray manpower costs incurred protecting President Trump, then-President-elect Trump, and the first family. ###
09.06.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17/Rockland-Westchester), Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, issued the following statement regarding the lawsuit filed today by fifteen states, including New York, and the District of Columbia challenging President Trump’s decision to end the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program: “I strongly support this effort to protect young immigrants from deportation by the Trump Administration, and I am proud that my home state of New York is among those challenging the president’s unjust decision. These young people are Americans in every way but on paper, and they deserve to remain in America, the only country they know as home. An immediate legislative solution is needed to protect these young immigrants from deportation, and I call on Republican leadership to bring the DREAM Act up for a vote.” ###
09.05.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17/Rockland-Westchester), Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, today announced that Center For Safety & Change, Incorporated in New City, New York, will receive $699,997 in new federal funding to help survivors of domestic violence, sexual assault, and other violent crimes in Rockland County. The funding, authorized in the Violence Against Women Reauthorization Act (VAWA) of 2013, comes from the Justice for Families Program within the U.S. Department of Justice’s Office on Violence Against Women. “Every member of our community deserves protection from domestic abuse, sexual assault, and violence in any form,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “It is great news that Rockland County will have more resources to ensure that women and children who have suffered from violence receive the support and safety they need and deserve.” “As the sole victim service agency in Rockland County, Center for Safety & Change is excited to have the opportunity to enhance our collaborations with VCS’s batterer’s accountability program and Big Brothers Big Sisters’ supervised visitation program to serve adult and child victims of domestic violence while holding perpetrators accountable,” said Elizabeth Santiago, Executive Director of Center for Safety & Change, Inc. “This grant will enable us to meet a significant gap within the Latina community by allowing the partners to hire a bilingual attorney, bilingual advocate, bilingual liaison and supervisors for visitation. In addition, this grant will allow for further court related trainings for court personnel and attorneys.” Center for Safety & Change, Incorporated and its collaborative partners, VCS of Rockland County, Big Brothers Big Sisters of Rockland County, Domestic Violence Program for Men, and Rockland County Integrated Domestic Violence and the Family Court, will use this funding to help survivors of violence by, among other things, hiring a Spanish speaking bilingual attorney to provide civil legal assistance and providing supervised visitation and safe exchange for families with a history of domestic violence. Congresswoman Lowey believes that every person has the basic right to live free from fear and violence. As Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, she successfully fought to increase VAWA funding to $481.5 million in the FY 2017 omnibus, $1.5 million more than the FY 2016 funding level. Additionally, Congresswoman Lowey helped secure passage of the first federal Violence Against Women Act in 1994. ###
09.05.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17/Rockland-Westchester), Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, issued the following statement denouncing President Trump’s decision to end the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program, an Obama-era program that protects certain young undocumented immigrants from deportation: “President Trump’s decision to end the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program is immoral and wrong. DREAMers, who were brought to the United States as children, are Americans in the eyes of their communities. They grow up alongside our children, have graduated from school or served in the military, pay billions in taxes, and contribute to our economic growth and competitiveness. “Today’s announcement continues a pattern of anti-immigrant actions and policies by the Republican Party. In an undemocratic and underhanded move, majority leadership stripped from an upcoming spending package a bipartisan provision, introduced by Appropriations Democrats, that makes DACA recipients eligible for federal jobs. “It is past time for comprehensive immigration reform that gives these young people a path to citizenship while reforming our nation’s broken immigration laws, keeping families together, and protecting our economy and our borders.” ###
08.28.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17/Rockland-Westchester), Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, today issued the following statement after the Tehran Appeals Court upheld the convictions of Siamak and Baquer Namazi, American citizens detained in Iran as political prisoners: “I strongly condemn the Tehran Appeals Court’s decision to uphold the unjust convictions of Siamak and Baquer Namazi. These two American citizens are being held on baseless charges in a heinous and obvious attempt to exact concessions from the United States. This attempt will not work, and the court’s decision only further erodes Iranian credibility on the Namazi case. I am deeply concerned about the safety and well-being of Siamak and Baquer, and I once again urge the Administration to take meaningful action to secure their release, as well as the release of any other United States citizens or legal permanent residents being held in Iran.” In July 2017, the U.S. House of Representatives passed a bipartisan resolution introduced by Congresswoman Lowey, along with Representatives Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL27), Ted Deutch (D-FL22), and Ted Poe (R-TX02), calling for the unconditional release of U.S. citizens and permanent residents held in Iran, including the Namazis. Siamak and Baquer were each unjustly sentenced to 10 years in prison for “collaboration with a hostile government.” Siamak Namazi, who has been held since October 15, 2015, and his 81-year-old father, Baquer Namazi, a former UNICEF official in deteriorating health, lived for a time in White Plains, New York, which is represented by Congresswoman Lowey. In August 2017, Congresswoman Lowey penned a letter to the editor to The Washington Post calling on the Trump Administration to “intensify and maintain pressure on Iran until every American hostage is released.” ###
08.26.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17/Rockland-Westchester), Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, today issued the following statement after President Trump pardoned former Sheriff Joe Arpaio, who was convicted of criminal contempt related to his anti-immigration tactics: "President Trump's pardon of Sheriff Arpaio is a flagrant abuse of his pardoning powers and shows complete disrespect for the rule of law. Sheriff Arpaio was found guilty of violating the constitutional rights of Latinos and should be held accountable. With this pardon, the president has sent a message that racial profiling and discrimination by law enforcement will not only go unpunished, it will be rewarded by this Administration."
08.25.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17/Rockland-Westchester), Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, today issued the following statement on the Trump Administration’s refusal to endorse a two-state solution to the Middle East conflict: “I am gravely concerned with the State Department’s statement earlier this week regarding a two-state solution. It is longstanding U.S. policy that a two-state solution is the only framework that would lead to two states for two people – a democratic, Jewish state of Israel and a democratic, Palestinian state, living side-by-side in peace, security, and mutual recognition. This State Department statement is confusing in light of previous comments from this Administration, such as earlier statements from UN Ambassador Nikki Haley, and does nothing to advance the likelihood of a negotiated resolution to this conflict. I urge the President to publicly express strong support for a two-state solution and reaffirm the U.S.’s stance on this important position.” ###
08.24.2017	Rep. Lowey delivers remarks at a ceremony with Gov. Andrew Cuomo and local elected officials to mark the opening of the first span of the Tappan Zee Bridge replacement. WHITE PLAINS, NY – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17/Rockland-Westchester), Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, joined Governor Andrew Cuomo, along with local elected officials, at a ceremony today to mark the opening of the first span of the Tappan Zee Bridge replacement, the Governor Mario M. Cuomo Bridge. “The Tappan Zee Bridge replacement is one of the most urgently needed and important infrastructure projects in the nation, and today marked another important step toward providing much-needed relief for commuters and strengthening a critical link in our region’s infrastructure system,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “I’m proud to have supported Governor Cuomo’s vision and leadership and to have helped secure $1.6 billion in federal funding through a historic TIFIA loan to make this new bridge a reality for the Lower Hudson Valley. Our state and regional economy depends on reliable transportation infrastructure, and this innovative solution will continue to spur economic growth for years to come. It is fitting that this great system of infrastructure will be named after Mario Cuomo, a great governor of the state of New York.” As Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, Congresswoman Lowey was instrumental in securing federal resources critical to moving the replacement project forward. Congresswoman Lowey helped secure a $1.6 billion Transportation Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act (TIFIA) loan, the largest in history, to help finance the bridge. She also helped secure a $10 million TIGER grant to finance bus rapid transit through the Hudson Links Program. Prior to Congress, Congresswoman Lowey served as assistant secretary of state under former Governor Mario Cuomo. ###
08.13.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17/Rockland-Westchester) issued the following statement on the deadly violence in Charlottesville, Virginia: "My heart is with the victims of the Charlottesville violence and their families during this difficult time, and I condemn these acts in no uncertain terms. In the United States of America, no one should ever be killed or gravely harmed for exercising freedom of speech. Those who committed hateful violence and domestic terrorism, taking one woman's life while injuring and threatening many more, must be prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law. It is the responsibility of all Americans, including our highest elected officials, to reject this hate that engenders fear and perpetuates violence in our communities and give it no cover through weak criticisms, false equivalencies, and complacency."
08.08.2017	NEW CITY, NY – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17/Rockland-Westchester) today presented five overdue service medals to New City resident and World War II Army veteran Alfred Magnatta at a ceremony at her New City office. “I’m honored to present Mr. Magnatta with these medals for his service in the U.S. Army during World War II,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “It has been 74 years since Mr. Magnatta served in the Second World War, but the magnitude of his service is just as profound today as it was then. Our nation owes brave veterans like Mr. Magnatta an enormous debt of gratitude.” Congresswoman Lowey presented Mr. Magnatta with the Air Medal (with 3 Bronze Oak Leaf Clusters), the Army Good Conduct Medal, the Air Force Recruiter Ribbon, the European-African-Middle Eastern Campaign with 4 bronze service stars, and the World War II Victory Medal. Mr. Magnatta, 92, enlisted in the U.S. Army, 8th Air Force and trained as an aerial gunner. He achieved the rank of Staff Sergeant and flew 25 missions in England between 1943 and 1945. Mr. Magnatta was a tail gunner in the combat campaigns of Normandy, Northern France, Ardennes, and Rhineland. Following his distinguished service, Mr. Magnatta joined the Congers Fire Department, where he rose to become fire chief. He is also the longest-serving County Deputy Fire Coordinator in Rockland history, holding the position since 1962. Mr. Magnatta was recently honored by the Rockland County Firemen’s Association for 70 years of active service in the Congers Fire Department. Mr. Magnatta was joined at the ceremony by members of his family, including his wife, Matilda; his son Jeffrey, who contacted the congresswoman for assistance in obtaining the medals; his grandson New York State Assemblyman Ken Zebrowski (D-New City); and his great-grandchildren. Additional photos from the ceremony can be found here. ###
08.08.2017	WHITE PLAINS, NY – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17/Rockland-Westchester) today announced $2,289,022 in federal funding for Mercy College to provide financial and academic support to underserved students majoring in biology. “I am pleased that Mercy College has secured this $2.3 million in federal funding,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “This funding will enable Mercy College to provide financial and academic support that will empower and improve outcomes for underserved students. These students will gain the skills critical to achieving academic success and to obtaining the jobs of today and tomorrow. As Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, I will continue fighting for increased education funding to ensure hardworking New Yorkers can access quality education and find high-paying jobs.” “As an institution serving diverse students—including a large cohort of first generation and underrepresented minority students—Mercy College is pleased to work with like-minded colleges to advance student success in the STEM disciplines,” said Dr. José Herrera, Provost and Vice President of Academic Affairs at Mercy College. “Our students will benefit from stronger academic and financial support, thanks to this NSF grant—with tremendous returns to society as a result.” This five-year grant, awarded by the National Science Foundation (NSF), will be used by Mercy College to provide scholarship and academic support, including advising, mentoring, and career preparation, to low-income and underserved students majoring in biology. Mercy College, whose main campus is in Dobbs Ferry, will also examine the impact of these academic support activities on enrollment, retention, graduation, and postgraduate placement rates, in collaboration with other academic institutions. Mercy is one of six colleges across the country to receive this funding. As Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, Congresswoman Lowey has been a leader in the U.S. House for improving access to STEM education. ###
08.02.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17/Rockland-Westchester), Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, announced the U.S. Senate passed bipartisan legislation she introduced, along with Congressman Dave Reichert (R-WA), to increase accountability for U.S. basic education efforts, removing barriers for those out of school and improving the quality of education for those already enrolled. The Reinforcing Education Accountability in Development (READ) Act, H.R. 601, would enhance transparency and accelerate the impact of U.S. basic education programs around the world in order to help countries address the more than 263 million children and youth that are out of school. The legislation now heads back to the U.S. House for a vote. “There is no greater force multiplier in foreign aid than education,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “Prioritizing education around the world will not only help students learn to read and write—it will ultimately help protect vulnerable children from poverty, disease, hunger, and even extremism. Simply put, we cannot build the world we want for ourselves, and for future generations, without making education the center of our efforts.” Worldwide, 250 million primary schoolchildren are failing to learn basic literacy and numeracy skills. 130 million of these students have attended at least four years of school. Studies have shown that for every year a girl stays in school, her future income increases between 15 to 25 percent. An educated citizenry contributes to sustained economic growth, strengthened democratic institutions, the empowerment of women and girls, and decreased extremism. That is why no country has reached sustained economic growth without achieving near universal primary education. Specifically, the READ Act calls for: U.S. engagement with key partner countries, other donors, civil society, the private sector, and multilateral global education initiatives, such as the Global Partnership for Education, to promote sustainable, quality basic education. A comprehensive, integrated U.S. strategy that improves educational opportunities and addresses key barriers to school attendance, retention, and completion for the poorest children worldwide; The creation of a “Senior Coordinator” within the United States Agency for International Development (USAID) responsible for the development, implementation, and coordination of U.S. basic education programs; An annual report to Congress on implementation of the basic education strategy and progress achieved by USAID programs. ###
08.02.2017	White Plains, NY – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17/Rockland-Westchester) today brought together local superintendents, medical experts, substance abuse prevention workers and advocates, and students for a roundtable discussion on e-cigarette use among teens. The discussion, which Congresswoman Lowey convened in her White Plains office, focused on the alarming increase in e-cigarette use among teens, the dangers of youth smoking, and how parents and community leaders can work to reduce youth use of e-cigarettes and tobacco products. “Vaping is a threat to the health of our children,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “Today’s meeting was an excellent opportunity to discuss serious concerns about teenage e-cigarette use and to gain important insights that will help us combat youth smoking. Five years ago, parents would have worried about their kids taking in too much sugar from a steady diet of Fruit Loops, Gummy Bears, and Swedish Fish. Today, we’re worried that vaping products with those flavors will expose them to dangerous, addictive chemicals. We can’t afford to lose another generation to the harms of nicotine addiction.” While federal law prohibits children under the age of 18 from purchasing tobacco products, the numbers show that children are easily able to acquire e-cigarettes and vaping chemicals. E-cigarette use among teens has risen tenfold in the past decade to 16 percent, or an estimated 3 million American teens, in 2015. Additionally, many tobacco companies and vape shops actively market their products toward children, with more than 7,000 flavors of e-cigarettes, including common candies and treats. The dangers of teens using e-cigarettes are well documented. In testimony before the Labor, Health and Human Services, Education, and Related Agencies, Dr. Nora Volkow, Director of the National Institute on Drug Abuse, stated unequivocally that “Teenagers that otherwise would have no transition into smoking combustible tobacco are doing so after they get first exposed to electronic cigarettes, so we are concerned that all of the advances we’ve done on prevention of smoking may be lost by the accessibility of these electronic cigarette devices.” “The rapid increase in use of e-cigarettes by our youth is a serious health concern,” said Dr. Richard Stumacher, a pulmonary disease specialist at Northern Westchester Hospital. “Nicotine is an incredibly addictive substance, and it remains to be seen what diseases will be caused by vaping and how serious those diseases will be.” “While e-cigarettes may be a safer alternative for those already addicted to cigarettes, they are a major threat to the 96 percent of high school youth in New York State who do not smoke,” said Ellen Morehouse, Executive Director of Student Assistance Services Corporation. “Teen e-cigarette users are over eight times more likely to become regular cigarette users after one year than teens who do not use e-cigarettes, and e-cigarette using teens often use other drugs such as concentrated THC oil in their e-cigarette devices.” In Congress, Congresswoman Lowey is leading the fight to regulate e-cigarettes. In July, Congresswoman Lowey offered an amendment in the House Appropriations Committee to protect the Food and Drug Administration (FDA)’s ability to regulate the chemicals and batteries used in e-cigarettes. In 2015, Congresswoman Lowey also sent a letter to Stephen Ostroff, then-Acting Commissioner of the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA), and Sylvia Matthews Burwell, then-Secretary of the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS), urging finalization of regulations on new tobacco products, such as e-cigarettes, flavored hookahs, and flavored cigars. Participants in today’s roundtable discussion included: Mary Fox-Alter, Superintendent, Pleasantville School District Carol Conklin-Spillane, Superintendent, Pocantico Hills Central School District Marco Pochintesta, Superintendent, Pearl River School District Frank Williams, Executive Director, White Plains Youth Bureau Ellen Morehouse, Executive Director, Student Assistance Services Corp. Colleen Anderson, Coordinator, Cortlandt Community Coalition Dr. Richard Stumacher, Northern Westchester Hospital (pulmonary disease specialist) Makeda James, Program Manager, Reality Check/POW’R Against Tobacco Dr. Bhavana Pahwa, Deputy Director, City of White Plains Youth Bureau Additional photos from the roundtable can be found here. ###
08.01.2017	Valhalla, NY – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17/Rockland-Westchester) today announced $503,938 in federal funding for medical research at New York Medical College in Valhalla through the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS). “New York Medical College is a leading biomedical research institution, and these federal funds will help advance its groundbreaking research,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “This funding will support research that improves our understanding of vascular disease and heart failure and stimulates the development of new treatments. I will continue my work as Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee to secure greater funding for medical research institutions, so that they can help Americans live longer, healthier lives.” The HHS funding will support the work of Dr. Sachin Gupte, Associate Professor of Pharmacology, who is studying the development of vascular disease and heart failure. “New York Medical College is known internationally for its work on the regulation of human blood pressure and the treatment of hypertension,” said Edward C. Halperin, MD, MA, Chancellor/CEO of New York Medical College. “Dr. Gupte’s work builds upon this great tradition.” As Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee, Congresswoman Lowey has fought to increase investments in medical research. Funding to National Institutes of Health has nearly tripled since she joined the committee. ###
07.26.2017	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17/Rockland-Westchester), Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, issued the following statement today after the U.S. House of Representatives passed bipartisan resolution H.Res. 317, calling for the unconditional release of U.S. citizens and permanent residents held in Iran. Congresswoman Lowey introduced the resolution with Representatives Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL27), Ted Deutch (D-FL22), and Ted Poe (R-TX02): “The passage of this resolution sends a strong message to the Government of Iran: heinous attempts to exact concessions by holding U.S. citizens and legal permanent residents on trumped up charges will not pay off,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “The lives of innocent people hang in the balance. I hope the Administration will heed the recommendations in this resolution and take meaningful action to secure the release of Siamak Namazi, Baquer Namazi, and any other United States citizen or legal permanent resident being held in Iran. Furthermore, the Administration must continue to push the Iranian government to fulfill their promises to locate and return Robert Levinson, who has been missing in Iran since 2007.” Iran’s Revolutionary Guard Corps (IRGC) is holding as political prisoners Siamak Namazi, Baquer Namazi, Karan Vafadari, and a fourth not publicly identified United States citizen as well as United States legal permanent residents Afarin Niasari and Nizar Zakka. Siamak Namazi, who has been held since October 15, 2015, and his 80-year-old father, Baquer Namazi, a former UNICEF official in deteriorating health, lived for a time in White Plains, New York, which is represented by Congresswoman Lowey. Following the passage of the resolution, Congresswoman Lowey met with Babak Namazi, the brother and son of Siamak and Baquer, respectively. On Tuesday, Babak testified before the House Foreign Affairs Committee about the circumstances surrounding his brother’s and father’s cases. Specifically, H.Res. 317: Calls on the Government of the Islamic Republic of Iran to release unconditionally Siamak Namazi, Baquer Namazi, Karan Vafadari, Afarin Niasari, Nizar Zakka, and any other United States citizen, legal permanent resident alien, or foreign national being held in Iran; Urges the President to make the release of United States citizens and legal permanent resident aliens held hostage by the Government of Iran the highest of priorities; Requests that the United States and its allies whose nationals have been detained consider establishing a multinational task force to secure the release of the detainees; Urges the Government of Iran to take meaningful steps towards fulfilling its repeated promises to assist in locating and returning Robert Levinson, including immediately providing all available information from all entities of the Government of Iran regarding the disappearance of Robert Levinson to the United States Government; Encourages the President to take meaningful action to secure the release of Siamak Namazi, Baquer Namazi, Karan Vafadari, Afarin Niasari, Nizar Zakka, and any other United States citizen, legal permanent resident alien, or foreign national being held in Iran if the Government of Iran does not release such United States citizens, legal permanent resident aliens, and foreign nationals; and Encourages the President to take meaningful action to secure the return of Robert Levinson if the Government of Iran does not locate and return him. A pdf version of the resolution can be viewed HERE. ###
07.26.2017	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17/Rockland-Westchester) issued the following statement today in response to President Trump’s decision to bar transgender individuals from serving in the U.S. military: “Every member of the U.S. military deserves our profound respect and gratitude for their sacrifices and service. President Trump’s misguided decision to ban transgender individuals from the military is an insult to the valor and heroism of every American in uniform. Gender identity has nothing to do with qualifications to serve. The world is a dangerous place, and forcing out thousands of highly-trained, highly-skilled American troops would undermine both our readiness and national security. I strongly denounce President Trump’s hateful policy and urge him to reconsider this discriminatory and dangerous proposal.” ###
07.25.2017	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17/Rockland-Westchester) issued the following statement after the U.S. House of Representatives overwhelmingly voted today to advance new sanctions against Russia, Iran, and North Korea: “President Trump seems either unwilling or unable to hold Russia accountable for interfering in the 2016 election. Today, Congress has taken strong, bipartisan action to toughen sanctions on Russia as a deterrent against further aggression. We must protect the fundamental integrity of our democracy. This bill also includes additional sanctions on Iran for ongoing ballistic missile testing and human rights violations. As a strong supporter of sanctions to counter those who violate human rights and threaten global security, I urge the President to sign this legislation and hold Russia, Iran, and North Korea accountable.” ###
07.25.2017	Valhalla, NY – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17/Rockland-Westchester), Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, today issued the following statement after the National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB) released its final report on the deadly 2015 Valhalla train crash: “I thank the National Transportation Safety Board for their thorough investigation of the horrifying accident at the Commerce Street Crossing in Valhalla in 2015. The experts at NTSB have recommended closing the Commerce Street crossing as well as a risk analysis of grade crossings and use of the third-rail throughout the Metro-North rail system. I urge Metro-North to conduct the recommended assessment and implement corrective actions as quickly as possible to ensure the safety of rail passengers, commuters, and drivers and passengers on our roadways. My thoughts and prayers remain with the victims of this accident and their families.” Congresswoman Lowey has led the charge in Congress for improved rail safety. In 2016, Congresswoman Lowey helped secure $5,162,417 in Federal Railroad Administration grants to enhance safety and awareness of rail grade crossings in the New York metro area. In 2015, Congresswoman Lowey secured $350 million to improve safety of highway-railroad grade crossings in the Highway Safety Improvement Program. She also secured $6.5 million for the National Highway Transportation Safety Administration (NHTSA) to develop and place broadcast and print media to support highway-rail grade crossing safety. That same year, Congresswoman Lowey sponsored H.R. 2379 to ban interstate shipment of high-volatility crude oil via rail. ###
07.24.2017	Pleasantville, NY – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17/Rockland-Westchester) today expressed her solidarity with parents and other community members who joined together for a special school board meeting at Pleasantville High School over concerns regarding the opening of a local vaping store on Wheeler Avenue, where children gather, potentially making it easier for students to obtain e-cigarettes. “I applaud the Pleasantville Union Free School District for raising concerns regarding the opening of a local vaping store and convening this meeting with parents and community members,” Congresswoman Lowey said in a written statement. “With high levels of formaldehyde and other dangerous and cancer-causing chemicals, and marketing ploys aimed squarely at children, parents and members of the community must do all we can to combat youth smoking and prevent epidemic levels of e-cigarette use. Rest assured I will continue leading the fight to ensure that any tobacco industry efforts to weaken the FDA’s regulation of tobacco products never become law.” While federal law requires that no child under 18 can legally purchase tobacco products, the numbers prove that children are still able to easily access e-cigarettes and vaping chemicals. E-cigarette use among teens has risen tenfold in the past decade, rising to 16 percent of teens in 2015, or an estimated three million American teens. In addition, many tobacco companies and vaping stores are actively marketing their products toward children, with more than 7,000 flavors of e-cigarettes on the market, including flavors like Fruit Loops, Gummy Bears, and Swedish Fish. In Congress, Congresswoman Lowey is leading the fight to regulate e-cigarettes. Earlier this month, Congresswoman Lowey offered an amendment in the House Appropriations Committee to protect the Food and Drug Administration (FDA)’s ability to regulate the chemicals and batteries used in e-cigarettes. “If we do not combat smoking now, including vaping, we will pay greatly increased costs associated with cancer, lung disease, and more for years to come,” added Congresswoman Lowey. “The community must work together to ensure that e-cigarettes do not make it into the hands of our children.” Congresswoman Lowey’s statement was delivered by a staff member. At the time of the meeting, Congresswoman Lowey was headed to Washington, DC, for legislative business. ###
07.21.2017	Washington, DC -- This week, Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY) and Congressman Dave Reichert (R-WA) introduced a bipartisan resolution reinforcing America’s commitment to promoting access to quality education to the world’s most at-need children and youth across the globe. The resolution calls on the U.S. government to continue working with our global partners to increase the number of children who complete primary and secondary school, help train more teachers in the most disadvantaged communities, and improve access to textbooks and safe learning environments. To read the resolution, click HERE. “No country has reached sustained economic growth without achieving near-universal primary education,” said Rep. Lowey. “I believe that education is not only a moral imperative, it’s a global security issue. If we want to make sustained progress on international development and make the world a more stable place, we must prioritize international basic education, especially for girls and young women.” “A child’s education, health, and economic outcomes are directly linked,” said Rep. Reichert. “While many of our children and grandchildren are enjoying summer break right now, 263 million kids around the world never even made it to school this year. We have an opportunity to transform the lives of young people by improving access to and the quality of education across the globe. Not only is this the right thing to do, but it will reduce global poverty, and make the world a safer, more stable place.” ###
07.20.2017	Nyack, NY -- Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17/Rockland-Westchester), Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, today announced a federal grant award of $27,572 for the Nyack Joint Fire District through the Federal Emergency Management Agency’s (FEMA) Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) program. “It is essential that our first responders have the resources they need to react quickly and decisively to protect our communities,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “This federal funding will ensure that Nyack Joint Fire District can effectively equip its firefighters and improve their ability to save lives. I will continue to advocate for more funding to protect our fire departments as they protect our communities.” “We are grateful to Congresswoman Lowey for her support of the Nyack Joint Fire District's request for these funds,” said James B. Hartwick, Chairman of the Nyack Board of Fire Commissioners. The AFG program provides grants to first-responder organizations to improve response capabilities and more effectively protect the health and safety of the public and first-responder personnel. AFG grants can be invested in emergency response equipment, personal protective equipment, firefighting and emergency vehicles, and training. The Nyack Joint Fire District will use this funding to acquire personal protective equipment for its firefighters. ###
07.19.2017	Washington, DC -- Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17/Rockland-Westchester), Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, issued the following statement after the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office (CBO) released its score of the Senate Republicans’ repeal-and-delay health care bill: “Senate Republicans have managed to propose a plan that is even more morally bankrupt than Trumpcare. The CBO has just confirmed that their repeal-and-delay plan would leave 32 million more Americans uninsured and would double premiums by 2026. I urge Republicans to abandon this ill-conceived plan and work with Democrats to achieve common-sense solutions to expand access to quality, affordable health care.” ###
07.19.2017	White Plains, NY -- Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17/Rockland-Westchester) today announced $3,125,875 in federal funding over the next five years for Burke Medical Research Institute (BMRI) in White Plains. The funding was allocated through the U.S. National Institutes of Health’s (NIH) National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS), and BMRI will use this funding for the pioneering study of spinal cord injury. “Advances in scientific research hold tremendous potential to help people suffering from spinal cord injuries lead full and independent lives,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “This federal funding will enable Burke Medical Research Institute to continue to lead in cutting-edge research and innovation on spinal-cord rehabilitation that has the potential to improve thousands of lives. As Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee, I will continue working to bring these essential resources to the Lower Hudson Valley.” “The grant is a collaboration with a leading imaging group at Cornell University in Ithaca that will allow Dr. Jian Zhong, Director of the Molecular Regeneration Laboratory at Burke Medical Research Institute, and his colleagues here at BMRI to visualize reformation of spinal circuits as they are happening,” said Dr. Rajiv R. Ratan, Executive Director of the Burke Medical Research Institute. “This exciting new potential may be relevant for the repair of the brain and spinal cord not only after spinal injury but also may pave a successful path for treatment of an array of conditions including stroke, Alzheimer’s disease, and traumatic brain injury.” Research project grants funded by NINDS are highly competitive, with only 20 percent of applicants receiving funding. ###
07.18.2017	WASHINGTON, DC -- Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17/Rockland-Westchester), Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, last night offered an amendment to the FY2018 Transportation, Housing and Urban Development Appropriations Bill to provide $199 million for the implementation of Positive Train Control. Click here for video of Congresswoman Lowey’s remarks. “The horrifying train derailments in the Lower Hudson Valley in recent years underscore the need to make rail safety a priority,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “My amendment would invest in life-saving technology that will make American railroads safer and more reliable for all passengers. New Yorkers deserve a quick path to improved rail safety, and I will continue to fight for expedited implementation of this life-saving technology.” Positive Train Control (PTC) is a critical safety technology that can prevent train accidents and derailments caused by excessive speed, conflicting train movements, or human error. The National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB) estimates that PTC could have prevented dozens of accidents, including fatal ones like the 2013 Spuyten Duyvil crash, which killed four people and injured 60, and the 2015 Philadelphia Amtrak accident, which killed eight people. PTC also could have mitigated the 2017 Metro-North train derailment in Rye, NY, where five of the train’s 12 cars came off the tracks during rush hour. The Fixing America’s Surface Transportation (FAST) Act, signed into law in 2015, set a December 31, 2018, deadline to implement PTC along all passenger railroads in the United States. However, many commuter railroads may miss that deadline because of financial hardship compounded by a lack of adequate federal funding. While the Federal Railroad Administration has estimated a cost of $14 billion to implement full PTC, the federal government has provided just $1.2 billion in loans and grants. The $199 million appropriated by Lowey’s amendment is equal to the Fiscal Year 2017 enacted level. Lowey has been a leading voice in the House for improved rail safety, including the installation of Positive Train Control. In May, Lowey wrote to National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB) Acting Chairman Robert L. Sumwalt urging him to do everything in his power to push for the prompt implementation of PTC. Lowey’s amendment was voted down by the Republican majority. ###
07.10.2017	** Video from Lowey’s Deliveries here ** Haverstraw, NY -- Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17/Rockland-Westchester) rode along with Meals on Wheels of Rockland for deliveries today to highlight meal services that could be eliminated if Congressional Republicans enact President Trump's budget proposals. “I’ll fight the cuts President Trump proposed to Meals on Wheels, because letting our seniors go hungry just isn’t an option,” said Lowey, before beginning the route to deliver meals. “It makes economic sense to invest in these programs that support seniors in their own homes and keep them out of the hospital, where one day costs the same as one year of Meals on Wheels services. I’ll fight tooth and nail in my committee this week to save Meals on Wheels.” Don Hammond, CEO/President of Meals on Wheels of Rockland, said, “In Rockland County, we have had over 6,000 new seniors in the last 6 years with that number projected to keep growing. The President’s budget puts thousands of seniors in danger locally by not giving us the resources to meet their basic food needs.” Howard Phillips, Supervisor of the Town of Haverstraw, said, “I applaud the Congresswoman for supporting this vital program for families who have fallen on difficult times and seniors who cannot afford proper meals. Having personally delivered Meals on Wheels to local residents over the last 25 years, I know that just having the human contact is important, and they are extremely appreciative of the nutritious meals delivered to their doors.” President Trump’s budget request would: Cut funding for congregate meals by $2 million; Decrease funding for home delivered meals by $1 million; and Eliminate the Community Development Block Grant (CDBG), which provides significant funding to Meals on Wheels, including $25,000 for Meals on Wheels of Rockland. These cuts could result in 4,000 fewer meals delivered to Rockland seniors and jeopardize funding for services for 450 homebound seniors and 500 individuals attending senior activity centers. Statewide, nearly 30% of our seniors live in or near poverty, nearly 27% live alone, and 16% struggle with hunger. In 2016 alone, Meals on Wheels served 174,276 New York seniors and 22,383,489 meals, which are at risk for the coming year. Lowey is the highest ranking Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, which this week will begin consideration of the bills that include funding for the federal programs that support Meals on Wheels, which the President proposed cutting. She will fight to protect CDBG in the Transportation-Housing and Urban Development Subcommittee bill on Tuesday evening and Older American Act initiatives, including congregate and home delivered meals, in subcommittee consideration of the Labor-Health-Education spending bill on Thursday. Haverstraw Town Supervisor Howard Phillips, Congresswoman Nita Lowey, and Meals on Wheels of Rockland President/CEO Don Hammond discussed the importance of maintaining federal funding for Meals on Wheels. Lowey, Hammond, and volunteer drivers delivered meals to local seniors and discussed their efforts to protect this vital initiative. # # #
07.06.2017	WASHINGTON— Today, Representatives Nita Lowey (D-NY), Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee and its subcommittee on State and Foreign Operations, and Chris Smith (R-NJ), along with 114 other Members of Congress, sent a bipartisan letter to Secretary of State Rex Tillerson inquiring whether he intends to comply with the Fiscal Year 2017 (FY17) Omnibus Appropriations Act, which directs the State Department to provide funds to support the Special Envoy to Monitor and Combat Anti-Semitism and to appoint someone to this position in a timely manner. The letter also urges the President to maintain staff in the Office to Monitor and Combat Anti-Semitism in accordance with the Global Anti-Semitism Review Act. The Members of Congress wrote in the letter, “State Department spokesperson Mark Toner stated on April 14 that the Administration will appoint a Special Envoy. We understand that filling the position of Special Envoy takes time and the final placement of the Office may wait until a State Department reorganization is complete. Nevertheless, these new reports about the lack of staff in the Office raise questions about whether the State Department will comply with the directives and instructions regarding the Special Envoy contained within the FY17 Omnibus.” Lowey said, “I am very troubled that the Administration has yet to fill the Special Envoy to Monitor and Combat Anti-Semitism. With recent reports that the Envoy’s Office will be unstaffed as of July 1st, I am worried the U.S. will lose ground in the fight against global anti-Semitism. While I have personally expressed my concerns to Secretary Tillerson, this letter is an important symbol to the Administration of the historical bipartisan support for the Special Envoy and Office to Monitor and Combat Anti-Semitism. I urge the Administration to appoint a Special Envoy in a timely manner and to maintain staff in the Envoy’s Office.” Smith added, “Jewish communities here and abroad continue to be targets of hatred and deadly violence. America has a history of leading the fight against anti-Semitism—a history we must build upon. As primary author of the 2004 amendment that created the Special Envoy I believe it is extremely important this is position continues to walk point in the fight against this terrible hate that is on the rise in the world. Seventy two years after the Holocaust ended, anti-Semites continue to target the Jewish people for discrimination, destruction of property and even death.” Congress required the State Department to create the Special Envoy and the Office in the Global Anti-Semitism Review Act (Public Law 108-322), through provisions authored by Smith. Under Public Law 108-322, the Special Envoy and the Office are to monitor and combat acts of anti-Semitism abroad, document these incidents in State Department reports, and consult with appropriate domestic and international nongovernmental and multilateral organizations. Following reports that Secretary Tillerson did not intend to fill the Special Envoy position, Lowey ensured the FY17 Omnibus contained specific directives about the Special Envoy position. These directives included funding within State Department’s Democracy, Human Rights, and Labor Office for the Special Envoy and instructions for the Secretary of State to fill the position in a timely manner. Members who signed the letter include Representatives Nita M. Lowey, Christopher H. Smith, Eliot L. Engel, Edward R. Royce, Bradley S. Schneider, Leonard Lance, Jacky Rosen, Kay Granger, Joseph Crowley, Tim Murphy, Mark Pocan, Randy Hultgren, Debbie Wasserman Schultz, Gus M. Bilirakis, Robin Kelly, Earl L. “Buddy” Carter, Don Beyer, Ileana Ros-Lehtinen, Gwen Moore, Brian Mast, Lois Frankel, Randy Weber, John Conyers, Jr., Brian K. Fitzpatrick, John Lewis, F. James Sensenbrenner, Jr., Adam Schiff, Peter T. King, Filemon Vela, Patrick Meehan, Nydia M. Velázquez, Daniel M. Donovan, Jr., Gregorio Kilili Camacho Sablan, Michael C. Burgess, M.D., Frank Pallone, Jr., Steve Chabot, David N. Cicilline, Michael T. McCaul, Dina Titus, David P. Joyce, Gregory Meeks, Bruce Poliquin, Alcee L. Hastings, Bill Johnson, Ted Lieu, Glenn Grothman, Kyrsten Sinema, Peter J. Roskam, Jamie Raskin, Jackie Walorski, Brenda Lawrence, David Schweikert, Eleanor Holmes Norton, Scott Taylor, Steve Cohen, David Kustoff, Josh Gotteimer, Jeff Duncan, Yvette D. Clarke, Francis Rooney, Rick Larsen, Dave Trott, Mike Doyle, Carlos Curbelo, Nanette Diaz Barragán, Barbara Comstock, Ami Bera, Ted Poe, Suzanne Bonamici, Brian Babin, Madeleine Z. Bordallo, Frank A. LoBiondo, Brendan F. Boyle, Robert A. Brady, Salud Carbajal, Matt Cartwright, Charlie Crist, Danny K. Davis, Suzan DelBene, Val B. Demings, Ted Deutch, Keith Ellison, Adriano Espaillat, Bill Foster, Gene Green, Marcy Kaptur, Ruben J. Kihuen, Sander Levin, Dan Lipinski, Zoe Lofgren, Alan Lowenthal, Michelle Lujan Grisham, Donald M. Payne, Jr., Sean Patrick Maloney, James P. McGovern, Grace Meng, Ro Khanna, Seth Moulton, Jerrold Nadler, Donald Norcross, Jimmy Panetta, Jared Polis, Mike Quigley, Kathleen M. Rice, Cedric Richmond, Tim Ryan, John Sarbanes, Jan Schakowsky, José E. Serrano, Brad Sherman, Thomas Suozzi, Norma J. Torres, Juan Vargas, John Yarmuth, A. Donald McEachin, Marc Veasey, and Hakeem Jeffries. The full text of the letter follows: June 30, 2017 The Honorable Rex Tillerson Secretary of State U.S. Department of State 2301 C Street NW Washington, D.C. Dear Mr. Secretary, As Members of Congress deeply concerned by the rise of global anti-Semitism, we are writing in response to reports that the Office to Monitor and Combat Anti-Semitism may be unstaffed as of July 1. Congress required the State Department to create the Office, headed by the Special Envoy to Monitor and Combat Anti-Semitism, in the Global Anti-Semitism Review Act (Public Law 108-332), through provisions authored by Rep. Chris Smith, a lead cosigner of this letter. The Act passed Congress in 2004 with broad bipartisan support. Earlier this year, 167 members of Congress from both parties sent a letter to President Trump, urging him to prioritize the appointment of Special Envoy after reports surfaced that the position may not be filled. We now ask whether the State Department intends to comply with the Fiscal Year 2017 (FY17) Omnibus Appropriations Act and plans to fill the position of the Special Envoy to Monitor and Combat Anti-Semitism in a timely manner. Further, we urge you to maintain staff in the Office to Monitor and Combat Anti-Semitism, which is crucial to ensuring U.S. efforts against global anti-Semitism match the scale and severity of threats to Jewish communities on the ground. Under Public Law 108-322, the Special Envoy and the Office are to monitor and combat acts of anti-Semitism abroad, document these incidents in State Department reports, and consult with appropriate domestic and international nongovernmental and multilateral organizations. A strong leader needs solid staff support – particularly true for a position such as the Special Envoy who is tasked with tracking anti-Semitism around the globe. Under the leadership of Ranking Member Nita Lowey, a lead cosigner of this letter, the FY17 Omnibus instructed federal departments to comply with the directives, reporting requirements, and instructions contained in the FY17 House and Senate reports unless specifically directed to the contrary. Page 14 of the House Report 114-693 states: “Democracy, Human Rights, and Labor (DRL).--The Committee recommendation includes the requested funds for human rights vetting. The recommendation also includes funds for support of the Special Envoy to Monitor and Combat Anti-Semitism. The Committee remains concerned about the rise of anti-Semitism and the increase in anti-Semitic incidents around the world. The Committee supports efforts by the Department of State to emphasize Holocaust education.” Because of the importance of this position and growing anti-Semitism abroad, the FY17 Omnibus included additional language regarding the Special Envoy on page 7 of its explanatory statement: “The Secretary of State is directed to fill the position of Special Envoy to Monitor and Combat Anti-Semitism authorized by Public Law 108-332 in a timely manner.” State Department spokesperson Mark Toner stated on April 14 that the Administration will appoint a Special Envoy. We understand that filling the position of Special Envoy takes time and the final placement of the Office may wait until a State Department reorganization is complete. Nevertheless, these new reports about the lack of staff in the Office raise questions about whether the State Department will comply with the directives and instructions regarding the Special Envoy contained within the FY17 Omnibus. Thank you for your attention to these critical issues. We look forward to your response about whether the State Department intends to comply with the FY17 Omnibus and fill the position of Special Envoy to Monitor and Combat Anti-Semitism in a timely manner and fully implement Public Law 108-332 by maintaining staff in the Office to Monitor and Combat Anti-Semitism. Respectfully, # # #
06.14.2017	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-Rockland/Westchester), Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee, today released the following statement after a gunman attacked a Congressional Baseball game practice: “Today's cowardly attack on Members of Congress, congressional staff, and law enforcement officers was an assault on all of us, and I condemn it in the strongest possible terms. As I keep the victims and their loved ones in my heart, I am thankful for the courage of the U.S. Capitol Police and the Alexandria Police Department who responded fearlessly in the face of great danger, saving many lives. “Above all else, we are Americans. Today and every day, the things that unite us will always be far stronger than those that divide us.” ###
06.12.2017	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-Rockland/Westchester), Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee, today released the following statement on the anniversary of the Pulse Nightclub Attack in Orlando, Florida: “One year ago, our nation was shocked and horrified by the brutal terrorist attack on the Pulse Nightclub, which left 49 innocent people murdered and 53 injured by an ISIS-inspired extremist. From the earliest days of The Loft in New York City, clubs and discotheques have provided a refuge for LBGTQ people to come together and celebrate the strength of their love and community. The Pulse attack was both a violent and hateful assault on LGBTQ lives, many of whom were people of color, and a cowardly attempt to strike fear into the heart of the LGBTQ community by desecrating a space of joy. “As we continue to grieve for the victims, their families, and their loved ones, we must ensure our national security by combating violence and extremism at home and abroad. We must finally implement commonsense gun safety measures like mandating universal background checks and preventing those on the terror watch list from buying firearms. And we must make certain that all Americans, regardless of gender or sexual orientation, are guaranteed their constitutional rights to live free from discrimination and violence. “I am a proud cosponsor of a resolution honoring the victims and marking the anniversary of this heartbreaking attack, but Congress must do more. We cannot wait any longer to act on proposals that will protect our communities and save lives. Our thoughts and prayers are no longer enough.” ###
06.12.2017	Since 2012, Cost of Education at Public Four-Year Colleges has Risen 9%, 11% at Public Two-Year Colleges 10,700 Students at Mercy College and Rockland and Westchester Community Colleges Receive More Than $42 Million in Pell Grants Lowey Secured Year-Round Pell Grant Funding in FY17 Omnibus, Providing 1 Million Students with an Average Additional $1,650 Valhalla, NY – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-Rockland/Westchester), Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee, was joined today by college students and administrators for a roundtable discussion on increasing federal investments in college affordability to ensure all Americans, regardless of income, have access to higher education. In May, Congresswoman Lowey helped to negotiate thee reinstatement of year-round Pell Grants, which will cover a third semester of school and allow students to earn their degrees faster with less debt. “A college degree should be a down payment on a successful future, not a financial burden that forces America’s students to the brink of bankruptcy,” said Lowey. “With millions of students owing trillions in debt, it’s clear the costs of higher education have gotten out of control. As Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee, I was proud to help negotiate the reinstatement of year-round Pell Grants, helping students across the country graduate sooner and take on less debt. The federal government must continue to do its part to help all Americans access and afford a higher education, without jeopardizing the future they’ve worked so hard to achieve.“ Since, 2012, the cost of a four-year education at a public university has risen 9%, and costs have jumped 11% at public two-year colleges. A total of 44.2 million Americans are saddled with $1.44 trillion in student loan debt, and according to the Consumer Federation of America, the average amount owed by a student loan borrower has risen 17 percent since 2012 to $30,650. In 2016, there were more than one million defaults on student loans. Previously, low-income full-time students were eligible for Pell Grants to help offset the costs of tuition for two semesters per year. The federal investments in the Fiscal Year 2017 Omnibus allowed approximately one million students to receive an average of $1,650 in additional grants to cover a third semester of school. This will help students to obtain their degrees and enter the workforce more quickly, resulting in less accumulation of debt. For the 2015-2016 school year, 10,752 students at Westchester Community College, Rockland Community College, and Mercy College received more than $42 million in Pell Grants to help them manage the rising costs of higher education. Despite the skyrocketing costs of higher education, the Trump Administration’s recently released Fiscal Year 2018 budget would make paying for school even more difficult for working New Yorkers. The President’s proposal would prevent inflationary increases for Pell Grants, cut federal work study in half, and eliminate the Child Care Access Means Parents in School (CCAMPIS) initiative, which serves Rockland Community College and provides child care for low-income parents taking college courses, also helping them to enter the workforce faster with less debt. “Pell Grants provide essential financial support for thousands of Westchester Community College students. This support helps students finish college and achieve their dreams. Our graduates leave the college well prepared for 21st century jobs and transfer to four-year universities,” said Dr. Belinda Miles, President of Westchester Community College. “Year-Round Pell Grants help students take classes during the summer and stay on track to complete their degrees. Research has shown that community college students who enroll continuously have higher college completion rates.” "Mercy fully supports giving students and their families access to the opportunities to provide them with the financial means to contribute to the next generation of innovations, workforce contributions and a ladder to the middle class,” said Dr. José Herrera, Provost and Vice President of Academic Affairs at Mercy College. “This is an investment that will pay dividends and will help all of us profit from their intellectual capital." "CCAMPIS has allowed for a two generation approach to education here in Rockland County,” said Andrea Bogin, Director of the Campus Fun and Learning Center at Rockland Community College. “ This child care tuition subsidy has allowed low-income student-parents the opportunity to create a positive cycle of change for themselves and their families, while having piece of mind knowing their children are receiving a high-quality early childhood education. The elimination of this initiative would have devastating effects on educational future of student-parents and children in the Rockland County community." As a grandmother of eight and a former PTA president, Congresswoman Lowey has spent her career fighting to ensure that all Americans have access to quality, affordable education. As Ranking Member of the powerful House Appropriations Committee, she has worked to secure critical investments that will help prepare students to succeed in a 21st century economy. ###
06.09.2017	Ossining, NY – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-Rockland/Westchester), Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee, today released the following statement in response the arrest of a 19-year old Ossining High School senior arrested by federal immigration authorities on Thursday: “On Thursday morning, federal authorities took a 19-year old Ossining High School senior into custody on the day of his prom and just weeks before graduation simply because of his family’s immigration status. Instead of celebrating the end of high school with his friends and peers, this young man was arrested and processed for deportation to Ecuador. The Ossining community has admirably risen to show support for this young man who was well-liked and admired. "In the Lower Hudson Valley, we understand that our tightly knit, diverse communities are places where people of all backgrounds work to build a brighter future together. It is unconscionable that the Trump Administration would violate this fundamental trust, and I am deeply concerned this reckless action will have a chilling effect on the critical relationships between immigrant communities, law enforcement, and school officials. Young people who were brought to the United States as minors and have no criminal record should never be subject to such a cruel, deportation-first policy. "I have been in touch today with U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) to express my concern for the wellbeing of the student and his mother, who was also arrested earlier this week. I join with Ossining community leaders in calling on ICE to immediately grant this young man a stay of removal. While it is critical we work to improve our nation’s immigration system, the Trump Administration’s increasingly aggressive assault on immigrant families does not reflect the values on which this nation was founded. Congress must immediately work to pass a comprehensive immigration package that will reform our nation’s broken immigration laws, keep families together, and protect our economy." ###
06.08.2017	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-Rockland/Westchester), Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee, today released the following statement on Former FBI Director James Comey’s testimony before the Senate Intelligence Committee: “James Comey’s sworn testimony today reveals President Trump’s desperate and increasingly unhinged attempts to obstruct an ongoing FBI criminal investigation into whether his campaign colluded with Vladimir Putin’s Russia. With the integrity of our democracy at stake, I urge Congressional Republicans to put partisan politics aside and immediately establish a bipartisan, independent commission to complement the investigation of Special Counsel Robert Mueller. We must ensure the American people get the facts.” ###
06.05.2017	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-Rockland/Westchester), Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee, today released the following statement responding to President Trump’s proposal to privatize America’s air traffic control system: “The Federal Aviation Administration’s fundamental responsibility is ensuring the safety of the millions of Americans who fly each day. Yet, President Trump today revived a failed plan to privatize America’s air traffic control system that would weaken the FAA’s role in aviation safety and could undermine bipartisan efforts to modernize our aging aviation infrastructure. Without proper congressional oversight, there is simply no guarantee that a private organization would continue to make the necessary investments to upgrade critical technology and equipment or protect consumers. The FAA oversees the largest and most complex air traffic control system in the world, and I have grave concerns about any plan that would sell the safety of Americans to aviation industry stakeholders who have an undeniable interest in improving their own bottom line.” ###
05.31.2017	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-Rockland/Westchester), Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee, today released the following statement on reports that President Trump will withdraw the United States from the Paris Climate Accords: “I strongly condemn President Trump’s reported decision to pull the United States out of the Paris Climate Accords, which would fundamentally undermine American global leadership and endanger the future of our planet. “Members of Congress from both sides of the aisle, scientists, business leaders, and the vast majority of Americans agree: man-made climate change is real, and it poses an existential threat to our planet that must be confronted quickly and seriously. Signed by 195 nations, the Paris Climate Accords are critical to ensuring a unified, global response to combating rising carbon dioxide levels that erode our national security, risk flooding our coastal cities, exacerbate famine and water shortages, and increase the destructive scale of natural disasters. In the wake of Superstorm Sandy, New Yorkers understand that the threats posed by increasingly powerful storms are not abstract scientific warnings, but rather catastrophic events that can cripple the economy, destroy the livelihoods of entire families, and put lives at risk. “We have a moral responsibility to safeguard our planet and ensure our children and grandchildren inherit a clean, healthy future. Any alternative is unacceptable. As Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee, I will continue leading the fight for federal investments in renewable energy technology that will reduce greenhouse gas emissions and protect our water and air.” ###
05.29.2017	White Plains, NY – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-Rockland/Westchester), Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee, today released the following statement commemorating Memorial Day: “This Memorial Day, we honor the legacies of the women and men who died defending the United States and the freedoms we cherish. We owe these patriots our deepest debt of gratitude, one that we will never be able to fully repay. “And as we salute our nation’s fallen service members, we also keep their families and loved ones in our hearts. They too have made a great sacrifice, and it is our solemn duty to care for them and the millions of veterans still with us. “Today, and every day, we hold the memories of these brave Americans close. Their courage and valor represent the highest form of public service, and we celebrate their lives by continuing to uphold the fundamental values they gave everything to protect.” ###
05.24.2017	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-Rockland/Westchester), Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee, today released the following statement on the House TrumpCare bill: “Today, the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office confirmed that TrumpCare 2.0 is still a complete disaster for American families. It would drop 23 million Americans from their health insurance in addition to removing protections for those with pre-existing conditions, imposing an Age Tax on older Americans, and raising premiums by 20% in 2018. “TrumpCare remains a cruel attack on seniors and those with pre-existing conditions that could endanger the lives of millions. President Trump and Congressional Republicans must stop playing political games before they cause irreparable damage. They must work with Democrats to achieve commonsense solutions that will ensure all Americans receive the quality, affordable care they deserve.” ###
05.23.2017	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-Rockland/Westchester), Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee, today released the following statement on the terrorist attack in Manchester: “The United States stands firmly in solidarity with our closest friend and ally, the United Kingdom, as we mourn the vile terrorist attack in Manchester last night. My thoughts and prayers are with the victims and their families. The United States will continue to provide any and all assistance to our British partners to complete the investigation of this attack, and work with our allies to combat violence and extremism wherever it exists.” ###
05.23.2017	Washington D.C. — Congresswomen Nita M. Lowey (NY-17) and Congressman Eliot Engel (NY-16) have written to National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB) Acting Chairman Robert L. Sumwalt urging the Chairman to do everything in his power to push for the prompt implementation of Positive Train Control (PTC). Following a rash of train derailments in the northeast, including one in Rye just last week, it is clear that PTC has become a necessity on our railways. According to the Federal Railroad Administration, PTC technology is “capable of reliably and functionally preventing train-to-train collisions, over speed derailments, incursions into established work zone limits, and the movement of a train through a main line switch in the wrong position.” Congress passed legislation in 2008 requiring the implementation of PTC on railways in the northeast corridor, but the deadline for implementation has been pushed back to 2020. PDF of the letter to Chairman Sumwaltcan be found here, with text below: May 19, 2017 Acting Chairman Robert L. Sumwalt National Transportation Safety Board 490 L’Enfant Plaza East, SW Washington, DC 20594 Dear Chairman Sumwalt: Last night, a Metro-North train derailed in Rye, NY, when five of the train’s 12 cars came off the tracks during rush hour. Thankfully, only minor injuries were reported. We are grateful for the National Transportation Safety Board’s (NTSB) rapid response to the scene and ongoing investigation into the causes of the derailment, and urge the NTSB to complete its investigation as soon as possible. As you are aware, this is just one of the many unnecessary and dangerous train derailments that have occurred in the Lower Hudson Valley in recent years. While yesterday’s incident was minor compared with other horrifying accidents in recent years, we cannot afford a next time. It is critical that Positive Train Control (PTC) be expeditiously implemented. We both supported legislation mandating PTC implementation in 2008. It is disappointing that many of America’s passenger rail lines are still not utilizing this lifesaving technology, and we encourage you to do everything in your power to push for its prompt adoption. We appreciate your attention to this incident and your critical work to improve transportation safety in our region. Thank you for your attention to this matter and for the Board’s commitment to the investigation. Sincerely, Rep. Nita Lowey Rep. Eliot L. Engel ###
05.23.2017	Lowey: “President Trump’s budget proposal is a cruel attack on the prosperity, health, and safety of New York families.” Washington, DC – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-Rockland/Westchester), Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee, today outlined the dangerous impact President Donald Trump’s proposed budget would have on the economic growth, wellbeing, and safety of hardworking families in the Lower Hudson Valley. “President Trump’s budget proposal is a cruel attack on the prosperity, health, and safety of New York families,” said Lowey. “This budget is a radical departure from the bipartisan appropriations bill that Congress passed—and the President signed—just three weeks ago. It would gut critical services and programs secured in the Omnibus, inducing devastating whiplash for working New Yorkers, hospitals, law enforcement, schools, and infrastructure across New York.” Economic growth and job creation would be undermined by cuts in the budget proposal: Eliminates TIGER Grants and reduces the Capital Investment (New Starts) Grant Program by $928 million, making it more difficult to fund major local infrastructure projects. In 2015, Lowey helped secure a $10 million TIGER Grant to help implement a bus rapid transit system on the New New York Bridge to better connect Rockland and Westchester for residents and commuters. Reduces funding for the National Institutes of Health (NIH) by $7.5 billion, a cut of 21.9%, resulting in 5,000-8,000 fewer research grants, directly harming our ability to find cures for diseases that wreak havoc on hardworking families throughout New York. In 2016 the NIH provided more than $2.2 billion in biomedical research funding to New York and added more than $4.6 billion to the New York economy. The President’s budget would devastate the health, education, and wellbeing of hardworking New Yorkers, by reducing funding for essential programs and support services. The budget would: Cut Medicaid by more than $800 billion over 10 years and slash the Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP) by 20%, jeopardizing the health care of hundreds of thousands of low-income New York families and children. For the first time in history, explicitly prohibits Planned Parenthood from receiving any funds from the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, hurting millions who receive life-saving screenings and basic health care from Planned Parenthood. Reestablish for veterans the practice of rounding down annual Cost of Living Adjustments (COLA) for service-connected disability compensation, dependency and indemnity compensation, and certain education programs, cutting $2.68 billion in COLA benefits for former service members in New York and across the country over the next decade. Make higher education more expensive by cutting federal work study in half, preventing inflationary increases for Pell Grants, and eliminating the Child Care Access Means Parents in School initiative, which serves Rockland Community College and provides child care for low-income parents taking college courses so students can enter the workforce more quickly with less debt. Eliminate afterschool activities for 87,480 New York schoolchildren. Cutting funds for Federal (TRIO), which helps disadvantaged students complete postsecondary degrees. These cuts would jeopardize grants provided to Rockland Community College, Westchester Community College, and Mercy College to assist 555 students since 2015. Eliminate the Legal Services Corporation which was created to ensure that all Americans have access to a lawyer for civil legal issues regardless of their ability to pay. New York has seven LSCs including Legal Services of the Hudson Valley in White Plains, which received $1,752,426 in FY16 and served 15,910 people in 2015, including over 6,000 children. Eliminate the Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP), which provided $364.2 million to help more than 1 million vulnerable New York households afford heating and cooling last year. This program is aimed at assisting seniors, the disabled, and low-income families with children avoid health complications from bitter cold and extreme heat. The President’s budget proposal jeopardizes our homeland security by gutting critical programs that keep New Yorkers safe from terrorist attacks and natural disasters. The President’s proposal: Cut $118 million from the State Homeland Security Grant Program (SHSGP), including roughly $19 million from New York State, endangering state and local planning, organizing, equipment, and training to prevent and protect our communities against acts of terrorism. Cut the Urban Areas Security Initiative (UASI) by $156 million, with more than $44 million in cuts for the New York metro area, which could jeopardize critical homeland security and counter terrorism funding and put a greater burden on New York taxpayers. Eliminate the National Flood Insurance Program’s Flood Hazard Mapping Program, an essential program in the wake of Hurricane Sandy used to identify flood hazards, assess flood risk, and partner with states and communities to provide accurate flood hazard and risk data. Includes $1.6 billion for President Trump’s useless border wall that Mexico will never pay for and will not adequately protect our nation’s borders. “The President has the power to propose a budget, but Congress has the power to dispose of that request,” said Lowey. “I remain ready to work with my colleagues from both sides of the aisle on solutions that will help create good-paying jobs, support hardworking New York families, and protect our national security. But President Trump’s budget proposal is dead on arrival.” ###
05.19.2017	Total of 12 Nominees from Rockland, 16 from Westchester White Plains, NY -- Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), the Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee, last week honored at her annual Service Academy Recognition Ceremony the 28 students from Westchester and Rockland counties she nominated last December for admission to our nation’s service academies -- U.S. Air Force Academy, U.S. Merchant Marine Academy, U.S. Military Academy (West Point), and U.S. Naval Academy. “These exceptional young Americans are the future leaders of our great nation,” said Lowey. “Their outstanding applications reflect a deep commitment to public service and to improving their communities. It is an honor to work with our local veterans to identify and nominate such accomplished young people to represent the Lower Hudson Valley at our nation’s service academies.” The nominees come from many communities in the 17th Congressional District, including 12 nominees from Rockland and 16 from Westchester. As of today, six students have been accepted by an academy for admission this summer. The ceremony took place at the Nanuet Public Library. Lowey thanked local veterans who attended the May 8 ceremony for their service to our country and noted her work in Congress on behalf of veterans, including her support for the largest funding increase in the history of the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) and for expanded access to educational opportunities and health care for all veterans. A photo of Congresswoman Lowey with the 13 nominees who attended the ceremony can be found here (photo IDs can be found the end of this release). Below is a list of this year’s students nominated by Congresswoman Lowey to a service academy, listed by municipality. Rockland County Nominees: Blauvelt Austin Skywark, Tappan Zee High School, nominated to the United States Merchant Marine Academy Congers Matthew McGovern, Don Bosco Preparatory School, nominated to the United States Military Academy Nanuet Kyran Christopherson, Nanuet Senior High School, SUNY Maritime, nominated to the United States Air Force Academy New City Brian Huang, Clarkstown High School North, nominated to the United States Naval Academy Benjamin Lockey, Clarkstown High School South, nominated to the United States Military Academy Pearl River Conor McCabe, St. Joseph’s Regional School, nominated to the United States Naval Academy and United States Merchant Marine Academy Michael O’Meara, Nanuet Senior High School, nominated to the United States Merchant Marine Academy Spring Valley Daniel Hernandez, Paramus Catholic High School, US Military Academy Preparatory School, nominated to the United States Military Academy Kevin Mesones, Ramapo Senior High School, Rockland Community College, nominated to the United States Air Force Academy Stony Point Patrick Fenton, North Rockland High School, nominated to the United States Air Force Academy Suffern Brian Nicpon, Suffern High School, nominated to the United States Naval Academy West Haverstraw Patrick Saavedra, North Rockland High School, nominated to the United States Merchant Marine Academy Westchester County Nominees: Chappaqua Matthew Jabloner, Horace Greeley High School, nominated to the United States Military Academy Cortlandt Manor Spencer Dunham, Fordham Preparatory School, nominated to the United States Naval Academy, United States Air Force Academy and United States Merchant Marine Academy Matthew Sillcocks, Walter Panas High School, nominated to United States Air Force Academy Croton-on-Hudson Noah Cohen, Iona Preparatory School, nominated to the United States Naval Academy and the United States Air Force Academy Elmsford Lara Malaver, Alexander Hamilton High School, nominated to the United States Naval Academy Harrison Connor Gates, Harrison High School, nominated to the United States Naval Academy Margot Butler, Sacred Heart High School, nominated to United States Naval Academy Jefferson Valley Alexander Piedra, Lakeland High School, nominated to the United States Air Force Academy Mohegan Lake Mary Punzalan, The Ursuline School, nominated to the United States Military Academy Ossining Nicholas San Martin, Ossining High School, nominated to the United States Military Academy Yoo Shin Tanai, Ossining High School, nominated to the United States Military Academy Peekskill Kelsey Baron, Kennedy Catholic High School, nominated to United States Naval Academy Shrub Oak Kevin Moore, Lakeland High School, nominated to the United States Military Academy White Plains Paul Terminello, Archbishop Stepinac High School, Marion Military Institute, nominated to the United States Naval Academy, United States Air Force Academy and the United States Merchant Marine Academy Yorktown Heights Teresa DeVino, Kennedy Catholic High School, Virginia Polytechnic Institute, nominated to the United States Military Academy and the United States Merchant Marine Academy Thomas Cole, Yorktown High School, nominated to the United States Military Academy Photo IDs – Back Row (L-R): Connor Gates, Matthew McGovern, Patrick Fenton, Alexander Piedra, Benjamin Lockey, Conor McCabe, Kevin Moore. Front Row (L-R): Margot Butler, Brian Huang, Matthew Sillcocks, Congresswoman Nita Lowey, Mary Punzalan, Noah Cohen, Brian Nicpon. Photos are available HERE ###
05.19.2017	Millwood Student to travel to Washington, DC, meet with Congresswoman Lowey, and have art displayed in U.S. Capitol Runners up from Pearl River, Tappan and Yorktown Heights WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (Westchester/Rockland), the Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee, announced that Victoria Xu, a junior at Horace Greeley High School in Chappaqua, NY, is the winner of the 2017 Congressional Art Competition for New York’s 17th Congressional District. Victoria’s acrylic on canvas, “Tonight on the Metro,” was judged to be first of 22 entries. “I congratulate Victoria on winning this year’s Congressional Art Competition,” said Lowey. “I’m proud that her outstanding artwork, ‘Tonight on the Metro,’ will represent New York’s 17th Congressional District in the United States Capitol, where millions of visitors may see it.” “The Chappaqua Central School District and Chappaqua Community are truly thrilled and proud of Victoria,” said Jennifer Schmidt, Art Teacher at Horace Greely High School. “Victoria’s painting is a testament to her technical and aesthetic ability. She is an extraordinary artist with a strong work ethic, creative spirit and an admirable devotion to the visual arts. We appreciate the efforts of Congresswoman Nita Lowey’s office in recognizing high school artists, and join in honoring Victoria, whose commitment to the artistic process reflects her dedication and respect for this discipline. Victoria has been an inspiration to all of the Horace Greeley Community.” Annie McCormack, a Pearl River resident and a junior at Pearl River High School, came in second place for her photograph entitled “Reservoir;” Avery Schwarz, a Tappan resident and junior at Riverview High School, came in third for his “Royal Guards” mixed digital media; and Isobel Watson Ley, a Yorktown Heights resident and a junior at Yorktown High School, received an honorable mention for her watercolor, “The Hoatzin.” “Our region is fortunate to be home to so many excellent young artists,” said Lowey. “I congratulate Annie, Avery, Isobel and all of the participants in this year’s Congressional Art Competition. Their artistic talents are excellent contributions to the Lower Hudson Valley’s cultural identity.” The Congressional Art Competition is a nationwide high school visual art competition to recognize and encourage artistic talent in the nation and in each congressional district. Each spring, students submit entries to their representative’s office, and panels of district artists select the winning entries. Winners are recognized both in their district and at an annual awards ceremony in June in Washington, DC. The winning works are displayed for one year at the U.S. Capitol. Congresswoman Lowey hosted the 17th Congressional District awards ceremony at the Nanuet Public Library on Monday, May 8th. The three judges who chose the winners were Daly Flanagan, Acting Director at Rockland Center for the Arts in West Nyack; Carole Perry, Artistic Director and Curator at the Edward Hopper House Art Center in Nyack, and Eileen MacAvery Kane, Instructor and Director of the Graphic Design Program at Rockland Community College in Suffern. In addition to promoting arts through the annual Congressional Art Competition, Congresswoman Lowey has been stalwart in her defense of the National Endowment for the Arts (NEA) and served on the prestigious National Council for the Arts in recognition of her leadership. ###
05.18.2017	Measure Calls for Continued & Enhanced Reporting on Anti-Semitism in Europe WASHINGTON – The co-chairs of the Bipartisan Taskforce for Combating Anti-Semitism today welcomed the unanimous passage in the House of Representatives of the Combating European Anti-Semitism Act of 2017 (H.R. 672), which calls for continued and enhanced reporting on anti-Semitism in Europe from the U.S. government. “It’s shocking that in the 21st century, anti-Semitism is gaining strength within our borders and across Europe. Effectively confronting this problem requires a better understanding of its scope and depth,” the co-chairs of the Taskforce said. “This bill would require the U.S. government—and encourage our global partners—to continue to take a hard look at anti-Semitism in Europe, provide a thorough assessment of trends, and outline what the United States and our partners are doing to meet this challenge. We’re glad to see this bill pass the House unanimously, and hope our colleagues in the Senate work quickly to get this to the President’s desk.” The legislation builds upon the annual reporting on religious freedom worldwide as required by the International Religious Freedom Act of 1998 and the 2004 Global Anti-Semitism Review Act, which required the State Department’s Office of the Special Envoy to Monitor and Combat Anti-Semitism to annually report on anti-Semitism around the world. This bill specifically calls for continued and enhanced reporting on: Anti-Semitism in Europe, including physical attacks on and security threats to Jewish communities; Efforts of the U.S. government to partner with European institutions to share information and best practices on combating anti-Semitism; and Attempts by European governments to adopt and apply a working definition of anti-Semitism similar to the one used by the International Holocaust Remembrance Alliance. The bill also expresses the views of Congress that: Combating anti-Semitism at home and abroad is in our national interest; It is critical to ensure the safety of European Jewish communities; and Multilateral institutions, like the UN and the OSCE, have an important role to play in combating anti-Semitism. The Bipartisan Taskforce for Combating Anti-Semitism includes Reps. Nita Lowey (D-NY), Chris Smith (R-NJ), Eliot Engel (D-NY), Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL), Ted Deutch (D-FL), Kay Granger (R-TX), Marc Veasey (D-TX), and Peter Roskam (R-IL). ###
05.17.2017	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-Rockland/Westchester), Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee, today released the following statement on the Department of Justice’s decision to appoint former FBI Director Robert Mueller as Special Counsel to investigate any connection between Russia and President Trump’s associates: “Today, the Department of Justice appointed former FBI Director Robert Mueller as Special Counsel, authorizing him to investigate any links or coordination between the Russian government and associates of President Trump’s campaign. This is an appropriate step given the President’s indefensible attempts over the past week to derail the FBI’s ongoing investigation into his presidential campaign. “Now it is time for Congress to immediately create a bipartisan, independent commission to investigate Trump’s ties to Vladimir Putin’s Russia, and then present all of the facts to the public. We must protect the fundamental integrity of our democracy. I hope Speaker Ryan and Congressional Republicans agree that the American people deserve nothing less.” ###
05.16.2017	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-Rockland/Westchester), Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee, today released the following statement on reports that the intelligence President Trump allegedly revealed to high-ranking Russian officials was provided by Israel: “I am shocked and disturbed by today’s reports that President Trump divulged to the Russians highly classified intelligence shared with us by Israel. This reckless behavior risks the crucial intelligence-sharing relationship between the United States and Israel, which is invaluable in today’s dangerous environment. The President’s actions could potentially put the lives of Israelis and Americans working in military and intelligence agencies in harm’s way. Irresponsibly sharing this information with the Russians is a national embarrassment at best and a threat to our national security at worst.” ###
05.15.2017	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-Rockland/Westchester), Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee, today released the following statement on reports that President Trump revealed highly classified intelligence to Russian officials: “The White House must immediately and fully clarify reports indicating the President revealed code-word clearance level intelligence to high-ranking Russian officials in the Oval Office, and whether or not the President did so intentionally. If these reports are accurate, it would represent one of the most serious violations of national security by a United States President ever. “When taken in concert with the President’s vindictive firing of FBI Director James Comey for the Bureau’s ongoing investigation of the Trump Administration’s ties to Russia, this episode confirms the absolute necessity of an independent Congressional commission to complete the Russia probe. “The events of the past week raise grave questions about the President’s judgment and fitness to perform the primary duty of the Presidency: ensuring the safety and security of the American people.” ###
05.15.2017	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-Rockland/Westchester), Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee, today released the following statement on the Syrian government’s crematorium at the Saydnaya Prison: “Today, the State Department disclosed intelligence indicating that Bashar al-Assad’s government has set up a crematorium to incinerate the bodies of hundreds of Syrians murdered by the Syrian military at the Saydnaya Prison outside of Damascus. As further evidence of Mr. Assad’s crimes against humanity are revealed, the international community must put forth a clear and comprehensive plan to remove Mr. Assad from power and halt this brutal and unconscionable bloodshed. “More than 70 years after the horrors of Hitler’s Final Solution were exposed, we have reached another pivotal moment in world history. Our solemn oath ‘Never Again’ makes certain we will never turn a blind eye to brutality and crimes against humanity. Inaction in the face of Mr. Assad’s atrocities is not an option.” ###
05.15.2017	“Expansion of the anti-woman Global Gag Rule is a cruel and unprecedented attack on the world’s most vulnerable women.” WASHINGTON, DC — Nita M. Lowey (D-NY), Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee, along with Eliot Engel, Ranking Member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee; Louise Slaughter, Ranking Member of the House Rules Committee, and Representative Barbara Lee released the following statement after the Administration unveiled its dangerous policy, the Protecting Life in Global Health Assistance, to expand the Global Gag Rule restrictions to all global health assistance provided by the Department of State, USAID, and the Department of Defense, totaling over $8.8 billion dollars in more than 60 vulnerable countries: “President Trump’s expansion of the anti-woman Global Gag Rule is a cruel and unprecedented attack on the world’s most vulnerable women. The updated policy will not only limit access to family planning services, it will limit all global health services, potentially cutting off life-saving programs for women, children, and men around the world. President Trump’s expanded Rule will severely weaken the effectiveness of our foreign assistance by undermining the United States’ moral leadership abroad and placing burdensome requirements on some of our most capable international partners. In some cases, this could end access to critical health programs entirely. “President Trump has shown he cannot be trusted to lead in the global fight for women’s human rights and dignity. Therefore, Congress must move immediately to vote on the Global Health, Empowerment, and Rights (HER) Act, which would permanently repeal the President’s vicious, anti-woman policy.” Immediately following President Trump’s reinstatement of the Global Gag Rule in January, Congresswoman Lowey introduced the Global Health, Empowerment, and Rights (HER) Act, which would permanently repeal this anti-woman policy. The Global Gag Rule, first introduced in 1984 by the Reagan Administration, forces health providers eligible for U.S. assistance to choose between receiving U.S. funding or providing comprehensive health care services to their patients. President Trump’s expansion of the Global Gag Rule would apply to all U.S. global health assistance provided by the Department of State, USAID, and Department of Defense, but does not include The Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis, and Malaria, as well as the vaccine alliance GAVI. ###
05.11.2017	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-Rockland/Westchester), Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee, today released the following statement on the nomination of Ambassador Mark Andrew Green for Administrator of the United States Agency for International Development: “I welcome the nomination of Mark Andrew Green as the Administrator for the U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID). Ambassador Green has served with distinction throughout his career in public service, including as Ambassador to Tanzania and as my colleague in the House of Representatives. At this consequential moment in American history, I believe Ambassador Green understands just how important effective foreign assistance is to U.S. national security. I look forward to working with him, and I am confident that, under his leadership, USAID will continue to act as a world leader in setting development and humanitarian priorities.” ###
05.10.2017	Investments will boost groundbreaking research across the Lower Hudson Valley Hudson River Healthcare is one of six community health centers nationwide participating in the NIH Precision Medicine Initiative Trump budget proposal would slash NIH funding by nearly $6 billion, eliminating up to 5,000 research grants Nyack, NY – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-Rockland/Westchester), Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee, was joined today by local healthcare providers and advocates at Hudson River Healthcare to announce a $2 billion increase in federal investments for medical research through the National Institutes of Health (NIH) in the recently enacted 2017 Omnibus Appropriations Act. Hudson River Healthcare is one of six community health centers nationwide participating in the NIH Precision Medicine Initiative. “Investments in cutting-edge medical research will improve health outcomes, ease suffering, and provide more Americans with longer, healthier, and more productive lives,” said Lowey. “Last week’s Omnibus demonstrated a bipartisan commitment that the National Institutes of Health must have the necessary resources to study, fight, and cure diseases. I was proud to lead House Democrats in securing these funds, and as Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee, I will continue fighting to expand investments that improve Americans’ health, create good-paying jobs in the Lower Hudson Valley, and boost our local economy.” The Precision Medicine Initiative, which began under President Obama in 2015, aims to tailor treatments to the individual in order to improve health outcomes. Under the Precision Medicine Initiative’s All of Us program, Hudson River Healthcare patients may voluntarily provide genetic and health data so scientists can study how different diseases and treatments impact Americans across race, gender, and background. As a part of last week’s Omnibus, Congresswoman Lowey secured $320 million for the Precision Medicine Initiative in Fiscal Year 17. Despite bipartisan support for the NIH in Congress, President Trump’s proposed budget for Fiscal Year 2018 includes a nearly $6 billion, or 18.3%, cut, an unprecedented reduction that would eliminate up to 5,000 medical research grants. “We are honored that the National Institutes of Health (NIH) chose HRHCare as one of just six FQHCs to participate in the national ‘All of Us’ Precision Medicine Initiative, and we are thankful for the leadership of Congresswoman Nita Lowey which made possible the $2Billion increase in NIH funding,” said Hudson River Healthcare President and CEO Anne Nolon. “I am an ovarian cancer survivor and I am excited about this research funding increase,” said American Cancer Society Cancer Action Network (ACSCAN) Ambassador-Team Leader Marcia Earle. “By appropriating a $2 billion increase for medical research, and a $475 million increase specifically for cancer research, Congress has shown their commitment to fighting cancer. This funding will enable our nation to capitalize on research investments and accelerate the pace of progress against a disease that is projected to kill more than 600,000 Americans this year. As a volunteer with the American Cancer Society Cancer Action Network I thank Congresswoman Lowey for her steadfast support for funding of cancer research and look forward to working with her on next steps to help maintain this sense of urgency in Congress when crafting the 2018 budget.” “Congresswoman Lowey has long been a champion for individuals with dementia and their loved ones,” said Alzheimer’s Association Hudson Valley Chapter’s Director of Government Relations Debbie Warburton. “She has been instrumental in ensuring that funding for Alzheimer's research has dramatically increased over the past five years. Because of her visionary leadership, promising theories are being explored and tested, and we are more confident than ever that we will see a breakthrough for Alzheimer's within the next few years.” In 2016 the NIH provided more than $2.2 billion in biomedical research funding to New York and added more than $4.6 billion to the New York economy. Congresswoman Lowey has continuously fought to increase investments in medical research, and NIH funding has nearly tripled since she joined the House Appropriations Committee. ###
05.10.2017	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-Rockland/Westchester), Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee, today released the following statement regarding President Trump’s decision to fire Federal Bureau of Investigation Director James Comey: “President Trump’s decision to fire the Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation raises questions, and the Administration’s explanation for this dismissal lacks any clarity. In his letter to Director Comey, the President himself alludes to the ongoing investigation regarding Russian’s interference in our election and his ties to it. Any attempt to derail this investigation would be a threat to our very democracy. “President Trump must immediately make three things clear: why he chose to fire Director Comey now; why Administration officials have claimed Director Comey’s termination had nothing to do with pre-election events; and why the American people should have confidence in any future nominee the President chooses for FBI Director. “I join a bipartisan, bicameral group of my colleagues in renewing our calls for a special prosecutor and an independent, bipartisan Congressional commission to get to the bottom of the President’s ties to Russia. Now more than ever, the American people demand the full, clear, and independent truth about President Trump’s connections to Vladimir Putin and the Russian government.” ###
05.05.2017	Delegation Secured Funding to Defray Manpower Costs Incurred Protecting President, President-Elect, First Family As President Returns to NYC for First Time Since Taking Office New York Spends More Than $127,000 Per Day to Protect First Family when President Trump Is Not In Town, $308,000 When President Is In NYC New York, NY – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey, Ranking Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee; New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio; Congresswoman Carolyn B. Maloney; Congresswoman Grace Meng, and other members of the New York City Congressional Delegation hosted a press conference in the Blue Room of New York City Hall to announce $68 million in federal funds to reimburse local law enforcement agencies and New York taxpayers for costs incurred protecting the President, then-President-Elect Trump, and the First Family. “This is a clear win for New York taxpayers,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “Hardworking New Yorkers shouldn’t get stuck with the bill for the federal responsibility of protecting the President and First Family. These federal funds will help reimburse the costs of the New York Police Department and other local law enforcement agencies that are securing the President even as they maintain extraordinary efforts to protect the millions who live in and commute to the City each day.” "This is an important victory for fairness. New York City should not be forced to bear the unprecedented costs of protecting the President and his family,” said Congressman Serrano. “As a longtime Member of the Appropriations Committee from New York City and the Ranking Democrat on the CJS Subcommittee, where some of this money is appropriated, I thank Full Committee Ranking Member, Nita Lowey, for her hard work and colleagues on the other side of the aisle for helping New York City address these unique circumstances." "We are getting what we are owed," said Mayor de Blasio. "That's good news for our city and the hardworking police officers faced with this unprecedented security challenge. We could not have done this without our congressional delegation, including Senators Charles Schumer and Kirsten Gillibrand, and U.S. Representatives Nita Lowey, Grace Meng, Jose Serrano, Dan Donovan, Carolyn Maloney and Jerry Nadler. They worked tirelessly over the past several months to make sure these costs are paid for by the federal government." “It is ridiculous to expect local law enforcement, like the NYPD and FDNY, to bear the extraordinary and ongoing costs of protecting the President of the United States,” said Congresswoman Maloney. “Reimbursing New York City taxpayers for the money spent to protect then-President elect Trump and his family and ensuring that future costs will be covered as the NYPD and FDNY continue to protect Trump Tower is the right and fair thing to do. Protecting the President is clearly a national security concern and paying for it should be federal responsibility. This spending agreement ensures the federal government meets this responsibility and I’m very pleased we were able to secure this funding." “Earlier this year, I called on the federal government to reimburse New York for the cost of providing security around Trump Tower, and I am extremely pleased that our City will be receiving these vital funds,” said Congresswoman Meng. “As a member of the House Appropriations Committee, I was proud to fight for this money, and I am honored to have helped secure it. The costs of protecting the President and First Family should be paid for by the federal government. It should not be on the back of New York taxpayers nor should it further strain our needed police resources.” The city spent $24 million protecting Trump Tower and the First Family from Election Day through Inauguration Day. It is estimated that the city spends, on average, $127,000 to $146,000 a day for the NYPD to protect the First Family when President Trump is not in town. It is anticipated those costs will be $308,000 per day when the President is in New York City, as he was yesterday for the first time since Inauguration. Of the $68 million, $20 million is dedicated to reimbursing local law enforcement agencies for costs incurred protecting the President-elect from the time of the 2016 election through Inauguration Day. This funding will be awarded through the Byrne-JAG program at the U.S. Department of Justice. The remainder - $41 million - will be provided through the Federal Emergency Management Agency. Local law enforcement agencies that incurred such costs after President Trump’s inauguration may submit claims for reimbursement of manpower costs. When added to $7 million secured in the FY2017 Continuing Resolution enacted in December, this brings total funding to $68 million to help defray manpower costs expended helping the U.S. Secret Service in fulfillment of the federal responsibility of protecting the President-elect, and after inauguration, the President. ###
05.04.2017	Washington, DC – U.S. Representatives Nita Lowey (D-NY), Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL), Ted Deutch (D-FL), and Ted Poe (R-TX) today introduced H.Res. 317, a resolution calling for the unconditional release of U.S. citizens and legal permanent resident aliens being held for political purposes by the Government of Iran. “I am gravely concerned about the safety of U.S. citizens and permanent legal residents who have been taken hostage by Iran’s Revolutionary Guard Corps on baseless charges,” said Lowey. ”The Government of Iran must understand that this horrific attempt to exact concessions from the U.S. will not work. The Iranians must immediately release these hostages, and swiftly locate and release Robert Levinson, a U.S. citizen missing in Iran since 2007.” The resolution calls for the immediate release of Siamak Namazi, Baquer Namazi, Karan Vafadri, and a fourth not publically identified U.S. citizen, as well as U.S. legal permanent residents Afarin Niasari and Nizar Zakka, who are all being held as hostages by Iran’s Revolutionary Guard Corps (IRGC). The resolution also urges the Government of Iran to take meaningful steps toward its repeated promises to assist in locating and returning Robert Levinson, a U.S. citizen and retired agent of the Federal Bureau of Investigation who went missing after traveling to Kish Island, Iran. Additionally, the resolution encourages the President to take meaningful action regarding the hostages and Robert Levinson if the Government of Iran does not release the hostages and locate and return Robert Levinson. ###
05.04.2017	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-Rockland/Westchester), Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee, today released the following statement following House passage of the American Health Care Act: “Today Republicans in the House of Representatives passed a monstrosity of a health care bill that will hurt the American people. It’s no wonder they reached an agreement on the bill in secret backroom deals and then refused to hold a hearing on it or even come clean on how much it will cost. “Unfortunately, what we do know about TrumpCare 2.0 is that it will destroy protections for Americans with preexisting conditions, impose an Age tax on older Americans, and force working families to pay more for far less coverage. In New York alone, over 2.7 million people will be left without health coverage at all. “The American people deserve open and transparent debate, and they deserve solutions that will improve their health care and their lives, not endanger them.” ###
05.02.2017	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-Rockland/Westchester), Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee, released the following statement on Yom Ha’atzmaut: “On this Yom Ha’atzmaut, I join the Israeli people in celebrating 69 years of independence. For more than six decades, the U.S. and Israel maintained a relationship of steadfast support and cooperation. As our closest ally in the Middle East, Israel has been a key supporter in our fight against terrorism and the only country in the region where the voice of its citizens is regularly heard at the ballot box. “But the U.S.-Israel relationship goes beyond security concerns. Our two countries are bonded through shared democratic values, common goals, and the unbreakable bond between our people. On this Israeli Independence Day, let us celebrate this important relationship and recommit ourselves to working together on challenges facing both our countries and our world.” ###
05.01.2017	Nine of the 10 warmest years on record have occurred since 2000 President Trump signed executive order to dismantle Clean Power Plan, proposed unprecedented cuts to NASA, NOAA, and EPA Lowey secured a $1.7 billion increase for NASA, NOAA, and National Science Foundation in the FY 16 Omnibus to fund research and protect our water and air PALISADES, NY – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-Rockland/Westchester), Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee, was joined today by Lamont-Doherty Deputy Director Dr. Arthur Lerner-Lam, Rockland County Legislator Harriet Cornell, scientists, and local environmental groups at Columbia University’s Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory in Palisades to highlight the local impact of the first 100 days of President Trump’s anti-science agenda. “After just 102 days, the Trump Administration is already the most anti-science executive branch in history,” said Lowey. “The Lower Hudson Valley is still recovering from the devastation caused by Superstorm Sandy, and as climate change accelerates, storms of that magnitude will only become more frequent. We don’t have the option to put our heads in the sand and deny the reality that climate change is real when the safety of our community is at stake. I call on the Trump Administration to accept the overwhelming scientific facts, reverse course, and take immediate steps to combat climate change.” An overwhelming majority of scientists and most scientific organizations around the world agree that climate change is caused by human activity. Global temperatures have risen roughly two degrees Fahrenheit over the past century, and nine of the 10 warmest years on record have occurred since 2000. However, in his first 100 days, President Trump has fought to dismantle critical environmental research and climate change initiatives across the federal government. He named climate change denier Scott Pruitt to be Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA); signed Executive Orders to gut the Clean Power Plan and other regulations vital to protecting air quality, and proposed to cut critical federal investments in scientific research, including: ●$102 million from the National Aeronautics and Space Administration’s (NASA) Earth research budget; ●$250 million from the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration’s (NOAA) Sea Grant Program, eliminating it altogether; and ●$2.6 billion from the EPA, gutting climate programs and eliminating a quarter of the agency’s 15,000 jobs. Friday the Trump Administration announced it was taking down the EPA’s climate change website, uploading a message that reads, “We are currently updating our website to reflect EPA's priorities under the leadership of President Trump and Administrator Pruitt.” These anti-science initiatives have been deeply disturbing to scientists, local lawmakers, and environmental groups in the Lower Hudson Valley, including Dr. Arthur Lerner-Lam, Deputy Director of Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory, who said, "Now is the time for the US to retain its position in climate research, to have a strong international role and to ensure we have a workforce that can not only conduct research but that knows enough to help build a sustainable future. We are grateful to Congresswoman Lowey. She has been a friend to this institution and a passionate supporter of basic research and its application to policy decisions.” “With 97% of actively publishing climate scientists in consensus that global warming is caused by humans, the challenge appears to be how to effectively communicate this fact to policymakers and a public that believes there is conflict among scientists,” said Harriet Cornell, Chairwoman of the Environmental Committee in the Rockland County Legislature. “This is not surprising since those who oppose taking action to curb climate change use misinformation to deny the expert consensus. This poses an enormous danger which must be countered with increased funding for scientific studies that will produce incontestable facts.” “The Trump administration’s relentless attacks on our air, water, and climate put ideology and corporate polluters ahead of science and public health, creating an unprecedented danger for all families in America,” said Gale Pisha, Secretary of Sierra Club Lower Hudson Valley. “One result of such reckless and nearsighted policies will likely be more devastating superstorms like Sandy, which left a swath of destruction in Rockland and Westchester. Sierra Club joins Congresswoman Lowey in fighting back harder than ever on the national, state, and local levels to slow further climate change; to keep our transition to clean renewable energy moving forward, and to protect our environment for present and future generations.” “Climate change impacts the Hudson River, our communities, and our drinking water today. It creates increased flooding, powerful storm surges, and saltwater intrusion,” said Paul Gallay, President of Riverkeeper. “These events have been destructive, causing property and infrastructure damage. The big storms driven by climate change have contributed to an increase in waterborne pollution in drinking water systems and the overloading of our wastewater systems. This is not the time to ignore or, even worse, deny the consequences. It’s time for the President to accept the science of climate change and tackle the problem head on.” Across the country, research facilities like Lamont-Doherty work closely with NASA, NOAA, EPA, and other federal agencies to perform groundbreaking research that improves our understanding of the Earth’s climate. This research is invaluable in helping experts reliably predict global scientific trends and propose policies at all levels of government that protect the environment and ensure the health and safety of Americans. The Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory, a core component of the Earth Institute - Columbia University, seeks fundamental knowledge about the origin, evolution and future of the natural world. Its scientists study the planet from its deepest interior to the outer reaches of its atmosphere, on every continent and on every ocean, providing a rational basis for the difficult choices facing humanity. In addition to its research on climate, Lamont-Doherty: ●Contributes data to NOAA’s National Centers for Environmental Information data archive on deep sea sediment samples. ●Received NASA and NSF funding to help develop and build an instrument that measures how ice responds to a wide range of conditions important to Earth and planetary science. After the news conference, Congresswoman Lowey toured Lamont-Doherty’s Core Repository, which contains one of the world’s most unique and important collections of scientific samples from the deep sea. Sediment cores from every major ocean and sea are archived at the Core Repository. In 2015, Congresswoman Lowey announced a $35 million, five-year cooperative agreement with the National Science Foundation (NSF) to manage scientific support services for U.S. scientists conducting oceanic research. As Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, Congresswoman Lowey secured a $1.7 billion increase for NASA, NOAA, and National Science Foundation in the FY 16 Omnibus to fund research and protect the health and safety of American families. ###
05.01.2017	Senior Appropriators Secure Funding to Defray Manpower Costs Incurred Protecting President, President-Elect, First Family Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY), Ranking Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, and Congressman José Serrano, Ranking Democrat on the Commerce Justice Science Subcommittee, today announced the Omnibus Appropriations Act contains a total of $68 million to reimburse local law enforcement agencies for their supportive work to protect President Trump and his family. “Protecting the President of the United States and the First Family is primarily a federal responsibility, and their residence in one of the most densely populated areas in the world presents huge and unprecedented challenges,” said Lowey. “NYPD and other law enforcement agencies have performed admirably, in coordination with the U.S. Secret Service. I am very pleased New York taxpayers will not be on the hook for these critical and necessary expenses.” "This is an important victory for fairness. New York City should not be forced to bear the unprecedented costs of protecting the President and his family,” said Serrano. “This funding reimburses the City for both the costs of securing the President and his family prior to, and since, Inauguration Day. The money helps make New York City whole, and ensures that the City does not have to reduce resources elsewhere in order to protect Trump Tower. As a longtime Member of the Appropriations Committee from New York City and the Ranking Democrat on the CJS Subcommittee, where some of this money is appropriated, I want to thank my Full Committee Ranking Member, Nita Lowey for her hard work on this issue. I also want to thank my colleagues on the other side of the aisle for agreeing to help New York City address these unique circumstances." Of the $68 million, $20 million is dedicated to reimbursing local law enforcement agencies for costs incurred protecting the President-elect from the time of the 2016 election through inauguration Day. This funding will be awarded through the Byrne-JAG program at the U.S. Department of Justice. The remainder - $41 million - will be provided through the Federal Emergency Management Agency. Local law enforcement agencies that incurred such costs after President Trump’s inauguration may submit claims for reimbursement of manpower costs. When added to $7 million secured in the FY2017 Continuing Resolution enacted in December, this brings total funding to $68 million to help defray manpower costs expended helping the U.S. Secret Service in fulfillment of the federal responsibility of protecting the President-elect, and after inauguration, the President. ###
04.24.2017	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-Rockland/Westchester), Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee, today released the following statement marking Yom HaShoah, Holocaust Remembrance Day: “Today, on Holocaust Remembrance Day, we honor the lives of six million Jews systemically targeted and killed during the Holocaust. The solemn oath ‘Never Again’ makes certain the world will never turn a blind eye to the horrors of this dark and brutal genocide. “This year’s Yom HaShoah comes at a dangerous time for Jewish communities in the United States and around the world. As we mourn past atrocities, we cannot ignore the deeply troubling surge of anti-Semitic hatred and violence in recent months. “Now more than ever, we must unite to eliminate hatred, brutality, and violence wherever human dignity is threatened. The memories of the Holocaust and its victims must continue to serve as a reminder of the importance of ensuring the fundamental rights of all people.” ###
04.20.2017	Investments will support New York State programs to combat abuse, provide treatment, and train health care providers Washington, DC – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-Rockland/Westchester), Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee, today announced $25,260,676 in federal funds from the Department of Health and Human Services to New York State to combat opioid addiction through the State Targeted Response to the Opioid Crisis Grants program administered by the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA). The funding is the first of two rounds provided for in the 21st Century Cures Act, which Congresswoman Lowey voted for and helped pass the House of Representatives last year. “America’s opioid epidemic is one of the most significant public health emergencies of our time, destroying lives, breaking apart families, and devastating communities throughout New York,” said Lowey. “These federal investments are a bold step forward, providing New York with essential resources to aggressively combat, treat, and prevent the spread of opioid addiction across our state. I’m proud to have helped secure these federal funds, and as Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee, I will continue fighting to expand investments that will protect our communities and save lives in the Lower Hudson Valley.” The 21st Century Cures Act, supported by Congresswoman Lowey, was enacted by President Obama on December 13, 2016. The legislation dedicates $6.3 billion over 10 years for America’s health priorities, including $1 billion over two years to combat the opioid epidemic. This money will provide grants to states to supplement opioid abuse prevention and treatment activities, such as improving prescription drug monitoring programs, implementing prevention activities, training for health care providers, and expanding access to opioid treatment and recovery programs. In 2015, opioids, including prescription drugs and illegal drugs such as heroin, killed more than 33,000 Americans. In New York, more than 800 people lost their lives, the highest death toll due to opioids in state history. ###
04.20.2017	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-Rockland/Westchester), Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee, today released the following statement on a helicopter crash that injured West Haverstraw Army Captain Terikazu Onoda. The crash took place during a training exercise in Maryland. “I am deeply saddened that West Haverstraw resident, Army Captain Terikazu Onoda, was injured in a helicopter crash this week in Maryland. Captain Onoda’s dedication to serving and protecting his fellow citizens is an inspiration to all. My heart is with him and his family as we pray for his full recovery.” ###
04.19.2017	Grant will be used to create online resources for students on preserving cultural heritage around the world Pleasantville, NY – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-Rockland/Westchester), Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee, today announced $250,000 in National Endowment for the Humanities (NEH) funds for Smarthistory in Pleasantville to produce 44 videos and six framing essays on the importance of preserving endangered cultural heritage. “When students explore shared histories and cultures, it brings diverse communities from around the globe together,” said Lowey. “These federal funds will allow millions of people in New York and across the country to access rich and engaging educational resources on endangered cultural sites and heritage. As Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee, I will continue fighting to expand investments in the arts and humanities, and provide more opportunities for young Americans to explore the history of the world around them.” This $250,000 grant will be used to complete the At Risk Cultural Heritage Education Series (ARCHES), a new collection of online content tracing a comprehensive introduction to the preservation of cultural heritage worldwide. These 44 videos and six essays will explore the monuments, sites, and objects that define our shared humanity and which are being lost at an unprecedented rate. ARCHES will go beyond the news headlines describing the most dramatic acts of destruction to provide high quality, engaging, and in-depth information to students, educators, and the general public. “Smarthistory is absolutely delighted and grateful to the National Endowment for the Humanities for supporting the humanities in communities across the nation, large and small,” said Steve Zucker, Co-Founder and Executive Director for Smarthistory. “This grant will make possible the creation of learning resources about endangered cultural heritage on the Smarthistory platform that will be available for free and without advertising to learners around the United States. The National Endowment for the Humanities provides essential support for research and public outreach in the humanities and makes the United States a leader in education.” Smarthistory is an online educational resource for art and cultural history. Since 2005, Smarthistory has produced accessible, conversational videos and essays to help students, educators, and the general public more easily understand art and culture from around the world. Congresswoman Lowey is a staunch supporter of the NEH and has long fought to expand investments in the Endowment. The NEH is one of the largest funders of humanities programs in the United States, and it serves and strengthens our country by promoting excellence in the humanities and conveying the lessons of history to all Americans. The Endowment accomplishes its mission by awarding grants for top-rated proposals examined by panels of independent, external reviewers. President Trump’s proposed budget would eliminate the NEH, jeopardizing critical federal investments that enrich the culture and economy of the Lower Hudson Valley. ###
04.17.2017	Funds Will Be Used to Study Complications in Patients with Kidney Disease Washington, DC – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-Rockland/Westchester), Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee, today announced an $82,000 National Institutes of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases (NIDDK) grant for New York Medical College to research complications in patients with kidney disease. “By supporting research into the most challenging medical mysteries, we will save lives,” said Lowey. “These federal funds for New York Medical College are a great example of why we should be investing more money in biomedical research, not less. As Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee, I will continue fighting to increase funding for the National Institutes of Health to develop new treatments and cures that will improve health outcomes.” These federal funds will allow New York Medical College to study and identify unconventional sources of fibroblast growth factor 23 (FGF23), a hormone that helps to regulate phosphate levels in the blood. The mechanisms that control FGF23 are not well understood, and high levels can worsen the health of patients with acute kidney disease. By researching this hormone, New York Medical College will deepen understanding of this condition, and help patients suffering from kidney disease in the Lower Hudson Valley and across the country live longer, healthier lives. The project researcher is Marta Christov, M.D., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Medicine. "This two-year grant will help advance the work of a promising physician-scientist in her quest to reduce morbidity and mortality in kidney disease patients,” said Charles B. Hathaway, Ph.D., Assistant Dean for Research Administration Director at New York Medical College. “We are very pleased that NIH has recognized the importance of Dr. Christov's research." New York Medical College is a health sciences college whose purpose is to educate physicians, scientists, public health specialists, and other healthcare professionals, and to conduct biomedical and population-based research. Through its faculty and affiliated clinical partners, the College works to provide service to its community in an atmosphere of excellence, scholarship and professionalism. The NIDDK, within the National Institutes of Health, conducts, supports, and coordinates research on many of the most serious diseases affecting kidney disease, digestive health, and diabetes . ###
04.14.2017	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-Rockland/Westchester), Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee, released the following statement on reports that the Trump Administration plans to keep the position of U.S. Special Envoy to Monitor and Combat Anti-Semitism vacant: “It is deeply concerning that President Trump reportedly has no plans to name a Special Envoy to Monitor and Combat Anti-Semitism, particularly during a time of increasing anti-Semitic incidents at home and abroad. “From his reluctance to disavow David Duke during the early days of his presidential campaign through his chief spokesman’s recent attempt to minimize the horrors of the Holocaust, President Trump has sent mixed messages regarding his commitment to combatting anti-Semitism. “Actions speak louder than apologies. The President must show he takes the rise of anti-Semitism seriously by immediately appointing a Special Envoy to Monitor and Combat Anti-Semitism and fully staffing the Special Envoy’s office.” ###
04.13.2017	Proposed Cuts to Health, Education, and Childcare Programs Would Strip Services from Lower Hudson Valley Families Budget Would Eliminate National Endowment of the Arts, Humanities White Plains, NY – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-Rockland/Westchester), Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee, today joined Nonprofit Westchester, Westchester Women’s Agenda, and local advocacy organization leaders for a forum on the impacts of President Trump’s policies and budget on the arts, childcare, afterschool programs, health, immigration, and LGBTQ community in the Lower Hudson Valley. “If you’re working hard every day and still can’t make ends meet, you’re out of luck in Trump’s America,” said Lowey. “The Trump budget would decimate investments crucial to the health, safety, and wellbeing of families and children in New York and across the country. As Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee, I will continue fighting against these draconian cuts, and I will work to expand investments that improve the lives of Lower Hudson Valley residents.” President Trump’s proposed budget framework would eliminate the National Endowments of the Arts and Humanities, after school programs for 87,480 New York children, heating and cooling for more than 1.2 million vulnerable New York households, more than $1.7 million in legal services for low-income New Yorkers, and the Corporation for National and Community Service, putting AmeriCorps on the chopping block. In addition, the President has yet to release his full Fiscal Year 2018 budget proposal or detail his requested $54 billion in cuts and reductions to non-defense domestic programs, which would jeopardize important services on which hardworking American families rely. “We were pleased to partner with Congresswoman Nita Lowey and Westchester Women’s Agenda for this informative discussion about the President’s proposed budget, which calls for cuts to critical services including arts, health education and childcare services,” said Joanna Straub, Executive Director of Nonprofit Westchester. “Congresswoman Lowey’s update from Washington gave local advocacy leaders insight on how these proposed cuts will impact the families who rely on nonprofit services. NPW will continue to find ways to strengthen the impact, capacity and visibility of the nonprofit sector for a more just and caring community.” Nonprofit Westchester is a membership collective comprised of 142 Westchester nonprofit organizations. Its mission is to strengthen the impact, capacity and visibility of the nonprofit sector in Westchester County to achieve a more just and caring community. Congresswoman Lowey has spent her career fighting to protect the National Endowments of the Arts and Humanities, the National Institutes of Health, and the Department of Education from crippling cuts, and is fighting in Washington to expand investments in programs that support the wellbeing of American families. Photos are available HERE. ###
04.11.2017	White Plains, NY – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-Rockland/Westchester), Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee, released the following statement on White House Press Secretary Sean Spicer’s comments regarding the Holocaust: “It is deeply disturbing that the President’s chief spokesman has either a cavalier aversion to facts, is completely unmoored from reality, or both. “Instead of articulating a clear, comprehensive strategy toward Syria, Sean Spicer chose the second day of Passover to repeatedly downplay the horrors of the Holocaust. “Mr. Spicer’s lack of credibility renders his multiple clarifications meaningless. He must apologize and resign immediately.” ###
04.07.2017	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-Rockland/Westchester), Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee, released the following statement on the U.S. missile strike against a Syrian government airbase in response to the Assad Regime’s chemical weapons attack on civilians: “This week, Syrian President Bashar al-Assad again used chemical weapons to brutally massacre innocent Syrian men, women, and children. There is absolutely no place in human society for chemical weapons, and those who would use these barbaric tools must be held accountable. “President Trump's missile strike was a measured response to deter further use of chemical weapons by Assad and the Syrian regime. However, this strike will not solve the Syrian crisis nor provide humanitarian assistance to millions of Syrians so desperately in need. “President Trump now must present to the American people and Armed Forces a comprehensive, long-term strategy for ending the Syrian crisis, providing stability to the region, removing Assad, and holding him accountable for his crimes.” ###
04.05.2017	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-Rockland/Westchester), Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee, released the following statement on the reported chemical weapons attack in Syria: “Syrian President Bashar al-Assad’s suspected use of chemical weapons violates long-standing global agreements and universal principles of human decency. This barbaric attack that took the lives of over 100 Syrians, including 20 children, is a crime against humanity. There is absolutely no place in human civilization for chemical weapons or those who would use them. For peace to ever return to the region, President Assad and those who committed this attack, as well as countless other crimes against the men, women, and children of Syria, must be held accountable." ###
04.04.2017	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-Rockland/Westchester), the Ranking Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, today released the following statement on the Department of Justice review of agreements between the Civil Rights Division and troubled police departments: "Ensuring law enforcement officers are safe as they work tirelessly each day to protect and serve our communities is one of my top priorities. However, I am deeply concerned that Attorney General Jeff Sessions’ decision to review agreements between the Division of Civil Rights and troubled police departments nationwide will halt reforms that would make officers and citizens alike more safe; sow doubt between law enforcement and communities of color; and break our nation’s promise that all Americans, regardless of race, must be protected under the law. We must support law enforcement by helping them reach the highest standards of excellence as they safeguard our communities, just as we must continue the difficult but necessary work of building communication, collaboration, and trust between police departments and communities that have been targets of racism and violence." ###
03.28.2017	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-Rockland/Westchester), the Ranking Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, today released the following statement on President Trump's Executive Order rolling back climate change and environmental protections: "President Trump has chosen to forsake the health and safety of American families in favor of corporate polluters and the fossil fuel industry. His most recent executive order will gravely damage our environment and harm the very air we breathe and water we drink. "Climate change is real, even if the Trump Administration pretends otherwise. The facts demand action, and as Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee, I will continue fighting to expand environmental protections and increase our investments in green energies to create jobs for America’s 21st century economy." ###
03.24.2017	Lowey: “President Trump promised ‘so much winning.’ Today, hardworking American families won” Washington, DC – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-Rockland/Westchester), Ranking Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, today released the following statement on House Republicans’ failed attempt to repeal the Affordable Care Act: “During the campaign, President Trump promised ‘so much winning.’ Today, hardworking American families won. “After seven years of obstruction and days of cutting secret backroom deals, President Trump and Republican Leadership failed to destroy the Affordable Care Act. Apparently, even House Republicans agreed that TrumpCare was a total disaster. “It’s time for Republicans to stop their misguided efforts to destroy the progress we’ve made and get to work on commonsense solutions that will help all Americans receive the quality, affordable care they deserve.” ###
03.22.2017	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-Rockland/Westchester), the Ranking Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, today released the following statement on the violent attack in London: "Today’s evil attack on Great Britain is horrifying, and I condemn it in the strongest possible terms. It is still too early to determine what exactly occurred, but it is clear that those responsible must be brought to justice immediately. The special relationship between the United States and the United Kingdom has endured for generations, and I will continue working to ensure that we fully supports our friends in their investigation of this apparent act of terror. My thoughts and prayers are with the people of London and the victims of this senseless attack." ###
03.22.2017	Meals on Wheels Cuts Would Stop Meals for Hundreds of Local Seniors Cuts Would Gut Programs That Support Housing and Heat for Millions of New Yorkers Washington, DC – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (Westchester/Rockland), Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee; Dr. Donald Hammond, CEO and President of Meals on Wheels Programs and Services of Rockland County (MOW Rockland); Dana Levenberg, Ossining Town Supervisor; Gerri Levy, Executive Director of Rockland Housing Action Coalition, and Joseph Guarinello, Vice President of Energy Programs at Heartshare today highlighted the devastating local impacts to vulnerable New Yorkers of President Donald Trump’s proposed budget. “President Trump’s budget would literally leave older and vulnerable New Yorkers cold and hungry,” said Lowey. “It would eliminate millions of dollars in essential investments supporting nutrition, housing, and heating for Lower Hudson Valley families that need them most. The President continues to show that his promises to help hardworking Americans are nothing more than empty campaign bluster. President Trump’s proposal is dead on arrival, and as Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee, I will continue fighting to increase federal investments to help ensure the health and safety of all New Yorkers.” President Trump’s budget proposal would eliminate the Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) Program that funds portions of Meals on Wheels programing. For Meals on Wheels Programs and Services of Rockland (MOW Rockland), the CDBG cut would mean a cut of $25,000. But that is only a small fraction of the problem. The budget would also make devastating $15.1 billion and $4.7 billion cuts to the Departments of Health and Human Services and Agriculture, respectively. In Rockland, this could result in 24,000 fewer meals delivered to more than 100 homebound seniors, closure of five senior activity centers that provide more than 28,000 meals, and closure of adult day care centers that support seniors with dementia and Alzheimer’s. The CDBG Program also funds a wide range of unique community development needs such as affordable housing, infrastructure investments, and economic development. New York State received nearly $300 million in CDBG grants last year, of which $824,518 went to White Plains and $2,197,424 went to Rockland County. "These cuts would reduce the number of seniors we can service but we are not going to give in or give up,” said Dr. Don Hammond, President and CEO of Meals on Wheels Rockland. “We are confident that the quality of our services speak for itself and will encourage more people to get involved. With Congresswoman Lowey advocating for us in Washington, we will show the administration that our current results cannot simply be ignored.” “The Town of Ossining’s senior nutrition program serves over 150 seniors regularly. We serve meals in our community center and provide programs to those looking to participate with others in activities,” said Dana Levenberg, Ossining Town Supervisor. “As well, we deliver meals daily to the homebound. We count on federal and state dollars to subsidize our local property taxes to make sure our seniors get reduced cost, healthy meals. Without federal funding, the Town stands to lose about $54,000 annually, which is the equivalent of approximately 13,000 meals. This would be catastrophic for the senior citizens in our community.” The President has also proposed to eliminate other vital investments that support housing and heating for older, disabled, and vulnerable New York families including: The HOME Investment Partnerships Program, which provides funding for a wide range of development opportunities like building, buying, and rehabilitating affordable housing for rent or ownership as well as direct rental assistance to low-income individuals. New York State received nearly $93 million in HOME Grants last year, of which $605,037 went to Rockland County. The Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP), which provided $364.2 million to help more than 1.2 million vulnerable New York households afford heating and cooling last year. This program is aimed at assisting seniors, the disabled, and low-income families with children avoid health complications from bitter cold and extreme heat. Congresswoman Lowey has long been a strong supporter of nutrition, economic security, and safety for older and vulnerable Americans. She has spent her career fighting to protect and expand investments in programs like Medicare and Social Security to ensure that all New Yorkers have a secure future and dignified retirement. ###
03.20.2017	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-Rockland/Westchester), the Ranking Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, today released the following statement on the confirmation of the FBI’s ongoing investigation into Russian hacking in the 2016 election and links between the Trump campaign and the Russian government: “FBI Director James Comey today confirmed the Bureau is investigating Russian interference in our election and links between the Trump campaign and the Russian government. Director Comey also confirmed the FBI had ‘no information’ to support President Trump’s baseless accusation that President Obama wiretapped him. “This investigation is essential to our national security and to the integrity of our democracy. It must be fair, independent, and comprehensive because the American people deserve nothing less than the whole truth about Russian sabotage and Russian ties to President Trump. I renew my call for an independent commission to investigate and present all of the facts to the people of the United States. “I also call on President Trump to apologize to President Obama for his unfounded and offensive accusation, and to think before he tweets so he does not continue to erode the credibility of the Office of the President.” ###
03.20.2017	Lowey, Experts Discussed Impact of Affordable Care Act Repeal More Than 1 Million New Yorkers Could Lose Insurance Westchester Would Lose $8.1 Million, Rockland $2 Million in Tax Dollars White Plains, NY – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-Rockland/Westchester), Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee, today held two Health Care Town Halls in Rockland and Westchester to discuss the dangerous Republican legislation to repeal and replace the Affordable Care Act. Congresswoman Lowey met with constituents and local health care experts about the effects this plan would have on families in the Lower Hudson Valley. “Speaker Ryan has called for a ‘Better Way,’ but his health care plan is clearly the wrong way for New Yorkers,” said Lowey. “The President and Congressional Republicans are moving as fast as possible to pass this bill, apparently in hopes that Americans won’t realize its impact. Trumpcare would result in 24 million Americans losing coverage, eliminate funding for Planned Parenthood, end Medicaid as we know it, and force hardworking families and older New Yorkers to pay more for less coverage. Lives hang in the balance, and Lower Hudson Valley families deserve the opportunity to discuss this legislation before the House takes a vote.” The town halls at Fieldstone Middle School in Thiells and White Plains High School in White Plains covered important data on the impacts of the Republican proposal to repeal the Affordable Care Act, which is expected to be considered on the floor of the House of Representatives next week. Congresswoman Lowey discussed with constituents and health care experts how many New Yorkers could lose coverage, reductions in coverage, increased costs of insurance, loss of subsidies to purchase insurance, and harm to Medicaid and Medicare under the Republican plan. The events were livestreamed on Congresswoman Lowey's Facebook page. "Cuts to Medicaid would take away medical care, compromise critical services and jeopardize millions of Americans, putting their health and their lives at risk,” said Jill Warner, CEO of Jawonio, Inc. "For many people with disabilities and mental health challenges at Jawonio and similar organizations, Medicaid cuts as proposed, would threaten access to essential services that support our most vulnerable citizens to exercise their basic human right to live, work and participate in the community." Bea Grause, President of the Healthcare Association of New York State, said, "Supporters of this bill urge that it would allow individuals to have access to buying insurance, as an end in and of itself. We believe a more important measure of good and meaningful policy for all Americans would be their having not just the opportunity to buy insurance, but to be able to afford meaningful health insurance coverage that ensures access to quality health care services. True coverage matters. Congresswoman Lowey understand the critical importance to health care coverage and is fighting to protect it for millions of Americans." "No matter what your view on the role of government, I think we can all agree that it has the responsibility to protect kids, so they can get the medical and preventative care they need to grow into healthy adults, and to never turn away from sick and disabled children," said Larry Levine, President and CEO of Blythedale Children's Hospital. "Proponents don't talk about the impact of the proposed American Health Care Act on kids. And the silence about the devastating impact of federal Medicaid cuts on kids won’t make the problem go away. We owe all children the chance to have healthy starts to their lives, and to be treated when they are ill, short or long-term. They have the right to be treated, each and every one of them, as if they were our children, because they are." Last week, the non-partisan Congressional Budget Office predicted that 14 million Americans would lose health care coverage under Trumpcare by the end of 2018, and 24 million would lose coverage by 2026. According to a New York State Department of Health report, more than 1 million New Yorkers would face a significant loss of coverage under the Republican plan, and more than $4.5 billion in costs would be shifted to state, counties and safety net hospitals over the next four years. Westchester could lose $8.1 million while Rockland could lose $2 million. Other effects of Republicans’ Trumpcare proposal include: Families would pay more for fewer protections. Under Trumpcare, working families’ premiums and deductibles could increase by hundreds to thousands of dollars. Individuals purchasing insurance could see premiums increase by 15 to 20 percent. Older Americans would pay an age tax, and life of Medicare Trust Fund would be shortened. Under Trumpcare, older Americans could pay premiums five times higher than what young people pay for health coverage. The GOP bill also would shorten the life of the Medicare Trust Fund by four years. Planned Parenthood would be defunded. While instituting radical new restrictions on women’s rights to comprehensive health coverage, Trumpcare also defunds Planned Parenthood. Women with nowhere else to turn would lose access to essential preventative care and affordable contraception. GOP Bill would destroy Medicaid as we know it. Trumpcare would destroy Medicaid as we know it by capping and slashing the program. As a result, the GOP bill would severely hurt the 70 million Americans who rely on Medicaid, including seniors with long-term care needs, Americans with disabilities, pregnant women, and vulnerable children. Republicans have campaigned on repealing the ACA for seven years since it was enacted, but only revealed their so-called replacement plan last week. Now, President Trump and Republican Leadership are trying to jam Trumpcare through Congress. Speaker Ryan and Congressional Republicans steamrolled their Trumpcare proposal through two House Committees less than 72 hours after it was introduced last week, before a cost or impact analysis could be completed by the non-partisan Congressional Budget Office. By contrast, the House held 79 bipartisan hearings and markups on health insurance reform in 2009 and 2010, and the original House version of the Affordable Care Act was posted online for 30 days before the bill was first considered in committee. Congresswoman Lowey has long been a champion of providing all Americans with affordable health care. She supported the expansion of the Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP) and is a tireless advocate for expanding women’s access to health services and family planning. Lowey has worked successfully to nearly triple the NIH budget since she joined the House Appropriations Committee, and as Ranking Member, continues to work hard toward commonsense solutions that build on the progress of the Affordable Care Act so that every American has quality, affordable health care. ###
03.16.2017	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-Rockland/Westchester), the Ranking Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, today outlined the devastating impact President Donald Trump’s budget would have on New York families. “Budgets are a statement of values, and it is clear this Administration does not value investments that support hardworking New Yorkers,” said Lowey. “Instead of responsible solutions that will help move us forward, President Trump’s budget savages programs critical to the health, education, and economic security of families in the Lower Hudson Valley.” The President’s budget cuts or eliminates funding for critical programs that provide for our homeland security and keep New Yorkers safe from terrorist threats and natural disasters. The President’s budget: Cuts $117 million from the State Homeland Security Grant Program (SHSGP), including $19.2 million from New York State, endangering state and local planning, organizing, equipment, and training to prevent and protect our communities against acts of terrorism. Cuts the Urban Areas Security Initiative (UASI) by $150 million, with an estimated $44.7 million cut for the New York metro area, and jeopardizing critical homeland security and counter terrorism funding and putting a larger burden on New York taxpayers. Eliminates the National Flood Insurance Program’s Flood Hazard Mapping Program, an essential program in the wake of hurricane Sandy used to identify flood hazards, assess flood risks, and partner with states and communities to provide accurate flood hazard and risk data. Medical research is vital to the health and economy of the Lower Hudson Valley, yet the President’s budget would: Reduce funding for the National Institutes of Health (NIH) by nearly $6 billion, or 19%, resulting in 5,000 fewer research grants studying cancer, heart disease, and more. In 2016 the NIH provided more than $2.2 billion in biomedical research funding to New York and added more than $4.6 billion to the New York economy. The President’s budget would devastate vulnerable New York families by cutting and reducing funding for critical job training programs and support services. The budget would: Eliminate the Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP), which provided $364.2 million to help more than one million vulnerable New York households afford heating and cooling last year. This program is aimed at assisting seniors, the disabled, and low-income families with children avoid health complications from bitter cold and extreme heat. Decimate bipartisan investments in job training and employment services with a cut of approximately $2 billion, which would leave 452,615 New Yorkers without access to job training programs to build skills for a 21st century economy. Eliminate the Legal Services Corporation which was created to ensure that all Americans have access to a lawyer for civil legal issues regardless of their ability to pay. New York has seven LSCs including Legal Services of the Hudson Valley in White Plains which received $1,752,426 in FY16. Eliminate the Corporation for National and Community Service, which invested $143.4 million into New York community service projects such as AmeriCorps in 2017. Higher education brings millions of Americans into the middle class, and ensures America continues to lead in a 21st century economy. The President’s budget puts America’s future leaders in jeopardy by: Eliminating after-school programs for 87,480 New York students. Making college more expensive by cutting Federal Work-Study programs, which support students who work their way through college. Cutting funds for Federal (TRIO), which helps disadvantaged students complete postsecondary degrees. These cuts would jeopardize grants provided to Rockland Community College, Westchester Community College, and Mercy College to assist 555 students since 2015. “Congress writes the Appropriations laws that fund the federal government—not the President, and this budget is dead on arrival,” said Lowey. “As Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee, I will continue fighting for commonsense federal investments that create good paying jobs, rebuild our bridges and schools, and keep New Yorkers healthy and safe.” ###
03.14.2017	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-Rockland/Westchester), Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee, today released the following statement on the Congressional Budget Office estimate of the impacts of the Republican health care plan: “It’s clear why the President and Congressional Republicans were so desperate last week to ram their disastrous health care plan through committee in the dead of night: their plan would take health care away from 14 million Americans in 2018 alone and 24 million Americans in ten years. By 2026, there would be 52 million uninsured Americans. “These are not just numbers on a page; lives hang in the balance. Working families with children, seniors, and disabled Americans would be devastated by reduced coverage, increased costs, and weaker protections under President Trump and Speaker Ryan’s plan. Millions of American families will once again be one illness or hospital visit away from losing their home or bankruptcy. “President Trump promised ‘insurance for everybody.’ Speaker Ryan promised to ensure that ‘no one is worse off.’ They did not deliver on their promises. They must withdraw this harmful plan from Congress immediately.” ###
03.09.2017	More than 50% of America’s 566 Refuges Allow Trapping Bill Would End the Use of Inhumane Traps in the National Wildlife Refuge System Washington, DC – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-Rockland/Westchester), Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee, this week introduced H.R. 1438, the Refuge from Cruel Trapping Act, which would prohibit the use of body-gripping traps in the National Wildlife Refuge System. “We must restore the true meaning of ‘refuge’ to the National Wildlife Refuge System,” said Lowey. “This critical legislation will ban indiscriminate body-gripping traps on public land, which not only endanger wild animals but also the millions of visitors who enjoy our nation’s 566 refuges each year. These violent devices are simply not worth the devastation of even one accident. It is past time we ensure the entire National Wildlife Refuge System remains safe for animals and families alike.” Each year, thousands of bobcats, otters, foxes, beavers, and other wild animals are trapped in violent body-gripping traps within the National Wildlife Refuges, where they endure hours or days of excruciating pain. These devices are indiscriminate, and often endangered species and pets are brutally wounded by them. The Refuge from Cruel trapping Act would prohibit the use of body-gripping traps in the National Wildlife Refuge System. These traps include: Steel-jaw leghold traps: designed to shut immediately after an animal steps in them, often mutilating the limb or paw. These traps have been banned or severely restricted in more than 100 countries and seven states. Conibear traps: designed to slam shut on an animal’s spinal column and kill instantaneously. However, studies and undercover investigations have shown that animals that enter the trap at the wrong speed or spot die slowly and painfully. Strangling neck snares: designed to tighten around an animal’s neck the more it struggles, these traps are notoriously brutal yet widely used because they are cheap and simple to operate. "Permitting steel-jaw leghold traps and strangling snares in wildlife refuges is a true oxymoron,” said Cathy Liss, President of the Animal Welfare Institute. “Passage of the Refuge from Cruel Trapping Act would help to ensure animals on protected lands do not fall victim to these brutal devices. We thank Congresswoman Lowey for her continued leadership on this issue.” “The mission of the National Wildlife Refuge System is clear: to be an inviolate sanctuary for our native wildlife. Dangerous, indiscriminate body-gripping traps simply have no place on these federal protected lands,” said Adam M. Roberts, CEO of Born Free USA. “The brutality of these traps cannot be overstated. Steel-jaw leghold traps and Conibear traps slam shut with bone-crushing force, causing massive injury and trauma. Animals trapped in strangulation neck snares—designed to tighten around an animal’s neck as he or she struggles—also suffer in extreme agony for an unconscionable amount of time. Born Free USA commends Congresswoman Lowey for leading the effort to end this cruelty and urges swift passage of the legislation to ensure that National Wildlife Refuges are safe havens for wildlife.” The National Wildlife Refuge System, managed by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, is the nation’s premier habitat conservation network, encompassing more than 150 million acres in 566 refuges and 38 wetland management districts. National Wildlife Refuges provide habitat for more than 700 species of birds, 220 species of mammals, 250 reptile and amphibian species, and more than 1,000 species of fish. More than 380 threatened or endangered plants or animals are protected on wildlife refuges. Each year, 47 million visitors enjoy the National Wildlife Refuge System. Congresswoman Lowey has spent her career fighting for the humane treatment of animals. She has been rated a Humane Champion by the Humane Society of America’s Legislative Fund (HSLF), consistently earning over 100% on the HSLF’s legislative report card. ###
03.07.2017	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-Rockland/Westchester), Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee, today released the following statement on the derailment of the train in Newburgh: “A CSX train carrying hazardous materials that was scheduled to travel through Rockland derailed today in Newburgh. Yet again the quick and decisive action of our first responders demonstrated that these brave women and men are so critical to protecting our communities. This derailment is part of a disturbing pattern of accidents involving freight trains carrying hazardous materials through densely populated areas. We must build on the progress we have made to improve rail safety and decrease risks to our communities.” ###
03.07.2017	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-Rockland/Westchester), Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee, today released the following statement on the Republican Trumpcare bill repealing the Affordable Care Act: “Now we know why Republicans didn’t want anyone to read their health care plan. More than seven years since the Affordable Care Act passed, and with the uninsured rate at record lows, Trumpcare will threaten health coverage for millions of Americans, increase premiums, jeopardize the retirement security for middle-class families, attack women’s health, and diminish health coverage for the most vulnerable among us. It will force working families to pay more for less, and the Republican game of hide and seek with this bill conveniently covered up how much all of this chaos will cost. We cannot return to a time when American families lived in fear that a single illness or trip to the hospital could bankrupt them. We should be working to provide more Americans quality, affordable care, not forcing working families to pay more for less coverage. I will continue to fight every attempt to rip health care away from millions of Americans and destroy the progress we have made.” ###
03.07.2017	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-Rockland/Westchester), Ranking Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, today issued the following statement on President Trump’s second attempt to ban Muslims and refugees from entering the United States: “The American people will not be fooled by the Trump Administration’s outrageous attempt to bait and switch one unconstitutional Muslim ban for another. As White House officials promised, today’s executive action is simply a rewording with the same intent and impact. “Let me be clear: this will not make America safer. It will corrode our moral leadership around the world and be used as propaganda by those who want to do us harm. Even the President’s own Department of Homeland Security found that citizenship is an “unlikely indicator” for identifying potential terrorist threats. “Discriminating against those in need based on nationality or religion is contrary to our nation’s fundamental values of freedom, justice, and equality for all. It’s not who we are and we will not accept it. I will continue working with my colleagues to fight against attacks on our basic values and find solutions that truly keep Americans safe.” ###
03.06.2017	More than 100 Bomb Threats Against JCCs Across Country, Two in Westchester Lowey Calls On Department of Justice to Thoroughly Investigate and Respond to Anti-Semitic Violence Washington, DC – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee, today hosted a roundtable discussion with local Jewish leaders at the Jewish Community Center (JCC) on the Hudson in Tarrytown to discuss the wave of 120 bomb threats made against JCCs and Jewish schools across the country. JCC on the Hudson was one of two JCCs in Westchester to receive a bomb threat last week. As Co-Chair of the Bipartisan Taskforce for Combating Anti-Semitism, Congresswomen Lowey sent a letter to President Trump demanding that the Department of Justice (DOJ) have access to the necessary resources to fully investigate these threats and anti-Semitic acts. “The recent threats against Jewish Community Centers in Westchester and across the country are horrifying and unprecedented,” said Lowey. “As Co-Chair of the Bipartisan Taskforce for Combating Anti-Semitism, I call on the Department of Justice to use its full power to aggressively and immediately bring the perpetrators of these crimes to justice. Hatred and anti-Semitic violence have absolutely no place in our community and will not be tolerated by the federal government.” In their letter to President Trump, Congresswoman Lowey and the other Co-Chairs of the Bipartisan Taskforce for Combating Anti-Semitism demanded the Administration and the DOJ: Ensure that the Civil Rights Division of the Department of Justice has access to the necessary resources and information to fully investigate alleged anti-Semitic crimes and ensure the perpetrators are brought to justice. Ensure that a mechanism exists to coordinate inter-agency detection of and response to new anti-Semitic crimes. Evaluate growing anti-Semitism online, particularly incitement to violence, and devise a comprehensive policy response. “The recent rash of bomb threats and other Anti-Semitic incidents has highlighted the importance for all elected officials to make the security of our community centers and the Jewish community priority one,” said Frank Hassid, Executive Director of JCC on the Hudson. “We are encouraged that representatives such as Congresswoman Nita Lowey have been proactive in helping us look at how we can best secure our institutions, find resources to make that possible and assure the community that we stand together during these difficult times.” “Although JCC Rockland has not received one of these hateful, harassing calls, we support JCCs across this continent that have been targeted. This kind of hate has no place in Rockland Country—or anywhere,” said David Kirschtel, Chief Executive Officer of JCC Rockland. “JCC Rockland is a safe place to connect to others and to enjoy a variety of recreational, sports, educational and cultural programming. The safety and security of our participants remains our highest priority, so that we continue to be an open and welcoming space—not only for the Jewish community, but for all the people of Rockland County and beyond.” On February 27, bomb threats were called into the JCC on the Hudson in Tarrytown and the JCC of Mid-Westchester in Scarsdale, causing the evacuation of more than 200 adults and children. More than 100 bomb threats against Jewish organizations across the country have been reported since January 9th, and Jewish cemeteries in New York, Missouri, and Pennsylvania have been vandalized. Congresswoman Lowey, who has spent her career fighting bigotry and anti-Semitic violence, also praised the Federal Communications Commission for granting a waiver that will allow Jewish organizations receiving threats to track the phone numbers of the callers. In recent years, she and fellow Co-Chairs relaunched the Bipartisan Taskforce for Combating Anti-Semitism, which works actively to address increasing anti-Semitism in the United States and abroad. **Photos will be available HERE** ###
03.02.2017	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-Rockland/Westchester), the Ranking Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, today issued the following statement calling on Attorney General Jeff Sessions to resign: “I am deeply troubled that Attorney General Jeff Sessions appears to have lied under oath in front of the Senate Judiciary Committee regarding his ties to Russian officials. We now know that he met with a Russian Ambassador at the same time he was campaigning for Donald Trump, which is shocking and unacceptable. “Last month, I sent a letter to the Attorney General expressing my deep concern with the Trump Administration’s ties to Russia during the campaign and after the election. I called for his recusal and for the appointment of special counsel to conduct an independent investigation. This has become a bipartisan call, as both House Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy and Oversight Chairman Jason Chaffetz have called for the Attorney General’s recusal as well. “However, these recent revelations make clear that recusal is not enough. The Attorney General is the highest law enforcement official in the country and must be truly independent. He must resign and a bipartisan commission should be established to maintain trust in our law enforcement.” ###
02.28.2017	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-NY), Ranking Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, issued the following statement on President Donald Trump’s speech to a Joint Session of Congress: “President Trump’s speech tonight fell short on the positive, inclusive agenda that would unite our nation and on solutions to America’s most pressing challenges. “While the President acknowledged the 100 anti-Semitic bomb threats made against over 60 Jewish Community Centers and schools across the country, including two in Westchester, it is not enough. He must show a real commitment to protecting and defending the dignity and humanity of Americans of all faiths, backgrounds, and identities with swift and strong action. “The President made promises we already know he can’t keep. “To expand access and make health care even more affordable, we need to expand on the progress of the Affordable Care Act. Americans like my guest tonight, a college student with Crohn’s disease who fears he won’t be able to find or afford health care and stay healthy enough to hold down a job in a few years, are rightfully worried. The only thing Republicans seem to agree on when it comes to the ACA is repealing it, without a plan to address the chaos that would create. “The President can’t protect working families with his proposal to dramatically increase military spending at the expense of programs working Americans rely on to survive and get ahead. Let me be clear: our national defense is paramount, and we need to support our women and men in uniform during and after their service. But our success also depends on ensuring that children have access to the education they need to compete in a 21st century economy, that all Americans receive quality, affordable health care, that we invest in creating good jobs and training Americans to fill them, that families across the United States have access to clean water and air. “Our security and our economy rely on strong leadership in the international community that is undermined by policies like the President’s unconstitutional Muslim ban and his $21 billion dollar border wall. These valuable federal dollars could instead be invested in policies proven to keep our communities secure. Cutting foreign aid would also undermine stability around the world, and even military experts agree that’s a bad strategy. “The American people deserve consistent leadership from their President, grounded in dignity and respect for all people. President Trump has yet to demonstrate that he understands the solemn responsibility of his job.” ###
02.27.2017	White Plains Resident Noah Buyon Will Attend the President’s Speech Washington, DC – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-Rockland/Westchester), the Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee, today announced that White Plains resident Noah Buyon will be her guest for the President's speech before a Joint Session of Congress on Tuesday, February 28. Mr. Buyon suffers from Crohn's Disease, and if Republicans follow through on their plans to repeal the Affordable Care Act (ACA), Noah might not be able to secure insurance coverage once he turns 26 because of his pre-existing condition. "It is an honor to have Noah as my guest in our nation's capital for the President's speech before the Joint Session of Congress," said Lowey. "Noah is one of the thousands of Lower Hudson Valley residents who rely on the protections provided by the Affordable Care Act. I hope that Noah’s brave decision to share his story will help Republicans realize the important progress we've made toward ensuring all Americans have affordable, quality health care." "I'm honored to be invited by Congresswoman Lowey to attend the President's speech to the Joint Session of Congress," said Buyon. "As someone who lives with Crohn's Disease, I am extremely concerned my employment options will be limited or I will be unable to find affordable health care coverage if the Affordable Care Act is repealed." Crohn’s Disease is among the conditions that were likely grounds for being denied health insurance before the ACA was enacted. One month’s supply of Humira, the medication Mr. Buyon takes, costs $2,362. Since the ACA reformed our health care system, more than 20 million Americans across the country have gained health care coverage. In New York, the uninsured rate in New York has dropped nearly in half, to the lowest level on record. Earlier this month, Congresswoman Lowey was joined by constituents from Westchester and Rockland, medical providers, hospital administrators, and advocacy organizations at White Plains Hospital for a roundtable discussion on the devastating effects Republicans' proposed plan to repeal the Affordable Care Act would have on the Lower Hudson Valley. Repealing the ACA would strip insurance coverage from 2.7 million New Yorkers, including over 130,000 in Westchester and Rockland. New York State could lose 130,700 jobs and approximately $3.7 billion from its budget. Westchester and Rockland would lose $19.1 million in federal funding that goes directly to counties. Yet, Republicans in Congress continue working to undo health reforms that help millions of New York families, without even offering a replacement plan. The President's address to a Joint Session of Congress will take place at 9 p.m. ET on Tuesday, January 20, 2017 in Washington DC. ###
02.27.2017	WASHINGTON—Representatives Nita Lowey (D-NY), Chris Smith (R-NJ), Eliot Engel (D-NY), Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL), Ted Deutch (D-FL), Kay Granger (R-TX), Marc Veasey (D-TX), and Peter Roskam (R-IL) are announcing the re-launch of the Bipartisan Taskforce for Combating Anti-Semitism in the House of Representatives for the 115th Congress. According to the latest available FBI statistics, the number of anti-Semitic criminal offenses rose from 635 in 2014 to 695 in 2015. Since January 2017, over 60 Jewish Community Centers (JCCs) have been targeted by telephonic bomb threats, including several more Monday morning. Over the last week, an estimated 170 Jewish graves were found toppled at a cemetery in Missouri and an estimated 100 headstones were toppled at a cemetery in Philadelphia. As co-Chairs of the Taskforce, the Members issued the following statement: “At home and abroad, we continue to witness anti-Semitism that is both dangerous and complex. The recent desecration of Jewish grave sites and bomb threats targeting Jewish Community Centers and Jewish day schools across the country are deplorable. And overseas, the anti-Semitic threats, vandalism, and violence aimed at Jewish schools, synagogues, kosher supermarkets, homes and property are unacceptable. In light of recent events, it is more important than ever that Democrats and Republicans work together to root out hatred and racism in all its ugly forms. We look forward to working with our colleagues in Congress to find innovative solutions that match the 21st century face of this ancient bigotry.” Background on the Taskforce: Reinstated in the 114th Congress with over 100 Republicans and Democrats, the Taskforce works to ensure that Congress plays an integral role in condemning anti-Semitism and spearheading initiatives that promote tolerance worldwide. The Taskforce will continue to serve as a forum for educating Members on this distinct form of intolerance and to engage with the Administration, foreign leaders and civil society organizations to share best practices and collaborate on solutions to rebuff this systemic problem. It will also promote Holocaust remembrance in concert with exploring innovative ways to teach tolerance and confront hate. ###
02.27.2017	Tarrytown, NY – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (Westchester/Rockland), the Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, released the following statement on a bomb threat made against the Jewish Community Center (JCC) on the Hudson in Tarrytown: “Today, a bomb threat was made against the Jewish Community Center on the Hudson in Tarrytown. My office has been in contact with local police and the Federal Bureau of Investigation to offer all necessary support to the ongoing investigation and to bring the criminals responsible for this horrifying act of terrorism to justice. We will not allow hatred, bigotry, or anti-Semitic violence to terrorize our families or our community.” ###
02.17.2017	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-NY), Ranking Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, today issued the following statement on the confirmation of Scott Pruitt as Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency: "I am outraged that the Senate confirmed Oklahoma Attorney General Scott Pruitt to head the Environmental Protection Agency just 24 hours after a federal judge ruled that Oklahoma must turn over thousands of emails related to Pruitt’s communications with fossil fuel companies. This information is central to whether Pruitt is fit to lead the agency, considering he accepted over $300,000 from the oil and gas special interests. As Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee, I will hold Administrator Pruitt and the Trump Administration accountable for ensuring our families and communities have access to clean air and water."
02.16.2017	White Plains, NY – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (Westchester/Rockland), the Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, released the following statement celebrating Black History Month: “Each February, our nation honors the history and vibrance of the black community during Black History Month. “Black history is American history. For hundreds of years, Black Americans have bravely served in our Armed forces, shifted the American cultural landscape through generation-defining art, music, and literature, and created thousands of jobs through black owned businesses and entrepreneurship. Black Americans have shifted our nation’s political and social equilibrium, compelling the United States to live up to its most basic values by confronting our nation’s darkest demons. “We have come a long way toward racial equality in America, but we have more work to do. We must recommit ourselves to erasing the systemic discrimination and disparities Black Americans still face in health, housing, and employment. We must expand voting rights and reform our criminal justice system so no one in America is denied basic opportunities based on the color of their skin, or for any other reason. And we must continue working together to achieve a more perfect union, with liberty, justice, and freedom for all.” ###
02.16.2017	During WWII, 180,000 Cadet Nurses Provided 80% of Nursing for Civilian Hospitals Bill Would Grant Long Overdue Veterans Status to Cadet Nurses Washington, DC – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-Rockland/Westchester), Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee, and Representative Leonard Lance (R-NJ) today introduced the United States Cadet Nurse Corp Equity Act, which would designate members of the Cadet Nurse Corps as veterans, properly recognizing them for their hard work on behalf of our nation. “When the United States faced a domestic nursing shortage during the darkest years of World War II, the Cadet Nurse Corp answered the call and played a pivotal role in providing critical health services to Americans across the country,” said Lowey. “Now it is time for us to uphold our commitment by honoring the 180,000 Cadet Nurses who bravely served with the recognition they earned.” “The legacy of the US Cadet Nurse Corps is felt by all Americans,” said Lance. “Many cadet nurses were deployed to Army, Navy and other public health agencies during their cadet service. As a result, World War II military veterans came home to a strong health care system and were provided critical care by cadet nurses. They deserve this honor.” The United States Cadet Nurse Corp was established in 1943 to ensure that the United States had enough nurses to care for the civilian population both at home and at war. The program accepted participants from 1943 to 1945, and funding for the program continued until all Cadet Nurses had graduated nursing school in 1948. During World War II, Cadet Nurses provided 80% of the nursing staff for civilian hospitals in the United States. Although the Cadet Nurse Corp was established during a time of war and was under the command of the Surgeon General of the United States, Cadet Nurses are not considered veterans. The United States Cadet Nurse Corp Equity Act would correct this glaring oversight by granting veteran status to women who served in the Corps, making them eligible for health benefits through the VA. Many of these women are advanced in age, and veteran status would help relieve the costs of their care. It is long past time for these women to be honored for their service and receive the benefits and recognition they earned. “I am proud to introduce this legislation with my colleague, Congressman Lance,” said Lowey. “Cadet Nurses deserve proper recognition for their service to our country.” ###
02.15.2017	Washington, DC –Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-NY), Ranking Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, today issued the following statement reaffirming her commitment to a negotiated resolution that secures two states for two peoples—a democratic, Jewish state of Israel and a democratic, Palestinian state: “Last year, I led a letter to President Obama reiterating that Members of the House remain fully committed to a negotiated resolution that secures two states for two peoples - a democratic, Jewish state of Israel and a democratic, Palestinian state, living side-by-side in peace, security and mutual recognition. The letter was signed by 394 of my colleagues – 90% of the House of Representatives. “Today President Trump refused to lend his voice toward this goal. Not only were his remarks shameful, they were short-sighted. A two-state solution for Israelis and Palestinians is the only means to ensure Israel’s long-term security and enable Palestinian aspirations for their own state. That is why Presidents from both parties, the vast majorities of the House and Senate, and the American people have consistently supported this objective, and why President Trump must as well. “President Trump also failed to address the rise of anti-Semitism and has yet to address xenophobia and intolerance in this country. Not only is President Trump already going back on his commitment to be ‘President for all Americans,’ he has yet to realize that those who sow division and bigotry are solidly outnumbered by those of us who stand for decency and tolerance.” ###
02.14.2017	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-NY), Ranking Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, today issued the following statement on the resignation of Lt. General Michael Flynn from his job as National Security Advisor: “Michael Flynn resigned overnight from a job he should never have had. With such close ties to Vladimir Putin and Russia, he should have been disqualified from any job with access to classified material. Instead, President Trump appointed him National Security Advisor, an irresponsible and dangerous decision that appears to have resulted in Flynn subverting American foreign policy. “Flynn’s secret conversation with the Russian government regarding sanctions relief was not simply unethical—it was a potentially illegal act that undermined our national security. I demand an immediate bipartisan, bicameral briefing into the ongoing investigations of Flynn, and we need a full, bipartisan investigation that gets to the bottom of the links between the President, his Administration, and the Russians once and for all. “The American people deserve to know when the President learned of Flynn's conversation with the Russian ambassador, and why he appointed a National Security Advisor who was willing to put the interests of Vladimir Putin ahead of those of the United States.” ###
02.13.2017	Health Care Reform Has Cut the New York Uninsured Rate Nearly In Half Repeal Would Strip Coverage from 2.7 Million New Yorkers, 130,000 in Westchester and Rockland, and Cut 130,000+ New York Jobs White Plains, NY – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-Rockland/Westchester), Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee, on Monday was joined at White Plains Hospital by constituents from Westchester and Rockland, medical providers, hospital administrators, and advocacy organizations for a roundtable discussion on the consequences of repealing the Affordable Care Act. This proposed repeal would throw our nation’s health care system into chaos and devastate Lower Hudson Valley families, doctors, and hospitals. “Let me be perfectly clear: this Republican attempt to dismantle the Affordable Care Act could jeopardize the financial security of New York families and put lives at risk,” said Lowey. “In the last seven years, we have made great strides toward ensuring all Americans have access to affordable, quality health care. Still, we have work to do, and New Yorkers want results, not partisan pandering. As Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee, I will continue to work with my colleagues from all sides of the aisle to find responsible solutions to improve our health care system so that all Americans receive the care they deserve.” Since the Affordable Care Act was enacted, more than 20 million Americans across the country have gained health care coverage. In New York, the uninsured rate in New York has dropped nearly in half, to the lowest level on record. Repealing the ACA would strip insurance coverage from 2.7 million New Yorkers, including over 130,000 in Westchester and Rockland. New York State would lose 130,700 jobs and experience a direct budget cut of $3.7 billion. Westchester and Rockland would lose $19.1 million in federal funding that goes directly to counties. Yet, Republicans in Congress continue working to undo health reforms that help millions of New York families, without even offering a replacement plan. Constituents shared their fears about the repeal of ACA. “The Affordable Care Act prevents insurance companies from discriminating against people with pre-existing conditions, like my son who was born with congenital heart disease,” said Judith Tanen of White Plains. “If this law is repealed, I’m extremely worried that my son’s heart anomaly will preclude his access to health insurance, not to mention limit his employment options, and keep him out of work." Local health providers shared concerns about the impact on their ability to provide care and on the local economy. “Any contemplation of repeal of the ACA in whole or in part must include a simultaneous and thorough plan for replacement that is meaningful for patients and providers,” said President and CEO of White Plains Hospital Susan Fox. “I am grateful to Congresswoman Lowey for her leadership on this issue and for providing the opportunity to discuss it thoughtfully with healthcare leaders and constituents.” “Nita Lowey has always been a health care champion for her constituents and the hospitals that care for them, and she understands that repealing the Affordable Care Act without an immediate and adequate replacement will severely harm insurance coverage, hospitals, and health care funding in the New York State budget,” said Greater New York Hospital Association President Kenneth E. Raske. “The hospital community is deeply grateful for her leadership on this critically important issue.” “The Affordable Care Act has been so important in reducing rates of uninsurance from historic highs pre-ACA; this has given millions and millions people peace of mind and life-saving coverage,” said Open Door Family Medical Centers President and CEO Lindsay Farrell. “Further improvements in benefits packages, including reproductive health coverage and preventive care, have benefited even more people. While there are challenges in the individual market in areas of the country, improvements can be made without wholesale ‘repeal and replace.’ It will be important to maintain the Affordable Care Act with fixes. The good outweighs the bad. The uncertainty and the fear on the part of insurance companies and providers could really mess up all of the improvements we’ve made thus far.” Additional benefits of the Affordable Care Act to New Yorkers: More than 8.6 million New Yorkers with private health insurance can go to the doctor for preventative services without co-pays or deductibles; More than 6.4 million New Yorkers no longer have to fear that the next illness or accident could bankrupt them because of an annual or lifetime limit; and More than 3 million New Yorkers have gained the comfort of knowing that their preexisting condition will not prevent them from gaining coverage, or that they will be charged more based on their medical history. Congresswoman Lowey has spent her career fighting to improve our nation’s health care system so that it works for all Americans. She supported the expansion of the Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP) and is a tireless advocate for expanding women’s access to health services and family planning. Lowey has worked successfully to nearly triple the National Institutes of Health (NIH) budget since she joined the House Appropriations Committee, and, as Ranking Member, continues to fight to increase federal investments in groundbreaking medical research to improve treatments, decrease health costs, and grow our economy. Congresswoman Lowey is asking constituents to join the fight to save the progress America has made. Through her website, she is collecting stories from constituents who have been helped by health care reform and will be publishing selections from them on her social media pages. Photos will be available here ###
02.10.2017	Grant Will Help Protect Women’s Reproductive Health White Plains, NY – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (Westchester/Rockland), the Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee, today announced a $71,137 National Institute on Aging (NIA) grant to New York Medical College to study DNA repair in ovarian aging. “Now more than ever is the time to double down on our commitment to researching and solving women’s health challenges,” said Lowey. “I’m pleased that New York Medical College continues to make women’s health a priority, helping women in the Lower Hudson Valley live healthier, happier lives. Funding for NIH has nearly tripled since I joined the House Appropriations subcommittee that funds medical research, and I will continue fighting to ensure we study and cure medicine’s most complex and difficult problems.” The NIA grant will allow New York Medical College researchers to investigate how DNA damage is the root cause of two types of ovarian aging: reproductive aging and aging caused by cancer treatments. Once the key genes are identified, this critical research will advance efforts to protect and enhance women's reproductive health using innovative pharmacological tools to repair the damaged DNA. “This grant from the National Institute of Aging will enable us to better understand how reproductive aging occurs, specifically ovarian aging as a result of DNA damage,” said Gabriela Murphy-Goldberg, Ph.D. candidate in the School of Basic Medical Sciences at New York Medical College and the Principal Investigator for the project, under the mentorship of Kutluk Oktay, M.D., Ph.D., Departments of Obstetrics & Gynecology and Pathology. “Reproductive aging is a significant public health issue affecting a major segment of the female population and our lab is leading the research in this area," said Dr. Oktay. "This study will help us understand the factors which control ovarian aging and DNA repair, findings which may later be used to develop new therapies for counteracting reproductive aging." New York Medical College is a health sciences college whose purpose is to educate physicians, scientists, public health specialists, and other healthcare professionals, and to conduct biomedical and population-based research. Through its faculty and affiliated clinical partners, the College works to provide service to its community in an atmosphere of excellence, scholarship and professionalism. Since 1974, the NIA has been at the forefront of the nation's research activities dedicated to understanding the nature of aging, supporting the health and well-being of older adults, and extending healthy, active years of life for more people. NIA’s research program covers a broad range of areas, from the study of basic cellular changes that occur with age to the examination of the biomedical, social, and behavioral aspects of age-related conditions, including Alzheimer’s disease. ###
02.09.2017	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-NY), Ranking Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, today issued the following statement on the Senate’s confirmation of Jeff Sessions as Attorney General: “It is a dark day when Republicans are more concerned about silencing the words of Coretta Scott King than protecting the civil rights of Americans. “The Senate’s confirmation of Jeff Sessions as Attorney General is concerning and deeply dangerous. The Justice Department must work aggressively to uphold the Constitution, independently oversee the President, and ensure Americans are equally protected under the law. Regrettably, it is unclear if Jeff Sessions is willing or capable of carrying out these basic job requirements. “As Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee, I will hold the Attorney General and his Justice Department accountable for performing their Constitutional duties to enforce the laws of the United States equally and fairly.” ###
02.07.2017	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-NY), Ranking Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, today issued the following statement on the Senate’s confirmation of Betsy DeVos as Secretary of Education: “Unfortunately, today Betsy DeVos was confirmed by the Senate by the closest margin ever for a cabinet nominee. Our children deserve an Education Secretary who does her homework and aces the test, not one who passes only after being graded on a curve. “I join New York families, educators, and a bipartisan group of 50 senators in voicing my deep concern about Devos’ ability to adequately do the job. Her lack of knowledge on education policy and the federal role in promoting the education of students with disabilities, in addition to her extreme desire to gut our nation’s public education system, should have disqualified her from confirmation. “As Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee, I will oversee the Department’s activities and hold Secretary DeVos accountable for providing our students with the education they deserve and our schools with the resources to succeed.” ###
01.31.2017	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-NY), Ranking Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, today issued the following statement on President Donald Trump's firing of Acting Attorney General Sally Yates: “Each day brings a new outrageous act by the Trump Administration. Acting Attorney General Sally Yates was fired overnight by the President for doing her job. “In her refusal to defend the President's illegal religious test for immigrants and refugees, Attorney General Yates did exactly what she swore to do: uphold the constitution and remain loyal to the rule of law. Now more than ever we need principled officials like Sally Yates. “President Trump must stop treating our core values and religious freedoms like reality show plot lines and get serious about the security and economic challenges we face.” ###
01.30.2017	Lowey Joined House and Senate Democrats on the Steps of the Supreme Court to Demand Trump Reverse His Illegal Refugee Policy Washington, DC –Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-NY), Ranking Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, today joined Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi, Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer, and her House and Senate Democratic colleagues on the steps of the Supreme Court of the United States to demand President Donald Trump rescind his unconstitutional executive order banning refugees based on their religion. “Donald Trump has never had a boss before. Well, now he has 350 million of them, and our voices will be heard,” said Lowey. “I join the thousands of New Yorkers, and millions of Americans across the country, expressing outrage at President Trump’s hateful and unconstitutional executive order. My colleagues and I will continue to do everything we can to fight and defeat this illegal directive.” Lowey is a proud original cosponsor of both the Statue of Liberty of Liberty Values Act (SOLVe) Act and the No Funds for Unconstitutional Executive Orders Act. Both prohibit the President from using congressionally authorized funds to enforce his unconstitutional executive orders. Lowey has called on Customs and Border Patrol and Immigration and Citizenship Enforcement to release those held at airports who have already cleared security vetting procedures and to immediately give more information to their attorneys and families. ###
01.30.2017	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-NY), Ranking Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, today issued the following statement on President Donald Trump's executive order instituting religious tests for refugees: "For more than 200 years, the United States has been a haven and symbol of hope for people around the world fleeing persecution, violence, and unspeakable horror. Our Statue of Liberty proudly proclaims, 'Give me your tired, your poor, your huddled masses.' Yet, on International Holocaust Remembrance Day, President Trump enacted an unconstitutional executive order banning people of a particular religion from entering the United States. "We already have strict security vetting requirements for refugees, and the President's order will not make us safer. In fact, our enemies will use President Trump's directive for propaganda and recruitment, bolstering their efforts to damage America's global stature and endanger the lives of US citizens at home and abroad. Even Republicans, including Vice President Pence, former Vice President Cheney, and Speaker Ryan, have criticized religious tests for entering our country. "The Lower Hudson Valley has already been affected by the order. I have called on CBP and ICE to release those held at airports who have already cleared security vetting procedures and to immediately give more information to their attorneys and families. I am pleased to see that many have been released over the past 24 hours but there is more to be done. There is too much at stake and this simply cannot wait. "Our nation's most powerful foreign policy tool is our moral leadership. President Trump's action does not live up to America's core values of equality and religious freedom, and he must rescind his executive order immediately." ###
01.26.2017	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-NY), Ranking Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, today issued the following statement on President Donald Trump’s immigration executive orders: “President Trump’s most recent outrageous executive orders are not just reckless, they are dangerous. In his first week, the President has provided no adequate justification for his multi-billion dollar boondoggle along the US-Mexico border. He will strip federal funding from New York and other ‘sanctuary cities’ that lawfully refuse to bow to his draconian demands. These steps are an affront to our nation’s core values and put American lives at risk. “New York is the top target for terrorist threats in the country. As a result, President Trump’s executive orders will put the City in a budget crisis where it will be unable to fully fund the New York Police Department, counterterrorism operations, and other vital programs that keep New Yorkers safe. It is particularly shameful that President Trump – who professes to be a proud New Yorker – would even consider threatening the security of millions without ensuring the NYPD is reimbursed for the cost of his own protection at Trump Tower. “The President should execute thoughtful policies that keep us safer, not ones that serve simply as costly ideological attacks on the most vulnerable. These directives are counter to who we are as New Yorkers and as Americans. As Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee, I will continue fighting to keep New Yorkers safe, both from terrorism and from attacks on our fundamental values.” ###
01.24.2017	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-NY), Ranking Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, issued the following statement on House passage of H.R. 7, the so called No Taxpayer Funding For Abortion Act: “Rather than heal our divided nation, create jobs or improve access to health care, today, Republicans are taking another step in their tireless quest to drag America back to the Mad Men era by depriving women of their own healthcare decisions. H.R. 7 would roll back women's rights, make comprehensive health insurance more expensive for women, and even penalize small businesses that offer comprehensive health coverage for their employees. But we're not going to take it. America's women demand that Republicans stop this dangerous assault on women's rights. ###
01.24.2017	Over 120 Million Children and Adolescents Not in School Globally READ Act Would Accelerate Impact of U.S. Basic Education Programs WASHINGTON, D.C.– Today the House of Representatives passed bipartisan legislation, introduced by Representative Nita Lowey (D-NY), Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee, and Representative Dave Reichert (R-WA). The Reinforcing Education Accountability in Development (READ) Act aims to enhance transparency and accelerate the impact of U.S. basic education programs around the world in order to help achieve universal access to quality basic education and improve learning outcomes. “Education is the fundamental tool that empowers girls and boys to increase their economic potential, improve their health outcomes, address cultural biases, participate in their communities, and provide for their families,” said Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey. “That’s why prioritizing children’s access to education around the world strengthens our national security and global leadership. Simply put, we cannot build the world we want for ourselves, and for future generations, without making education the center of our efforts.” “Today, millions of children, especially in conflict-affected states and sub-Saharan Africa, are desperate for an education, but are denied that opportunity through no fault of their own. Helping these children receive a basic education is not only the right thing to do, but will also give them skills to care for their families, improve their own health outcomes, contribute positively to their communities, and foster more stability in conflict-prone regions,” said Congressman Dave Reichert. “I am hopeful that with this bill, we can better coordinate our efforts with global partners to work toward reaching the 124 million children around the world who are not in school and improve the quality of education for those currently enrolled.” Worldwide, 59 million primary school-age children and 65 million adolescents do not attend school – the majority of whom are girls. Tens of millions of children who start primary school drop out, and millions more are denied a secondary education. An educated citizenry contributes to sustained economic growth, strengthened democratic institutions, the empowerment of women and girls, and decreased extremism. That is why no country has reached sustained economic growth without achieving near universal primary education. Specifically, the READ Act calls for: U.S. engagement with key partner countries, other donors, civil society, the private sector, and multilateral global education initiatives, such as the Global Partnership for Education, to promote sustainable, quality basic education. A comprehensive, integrated U.S. strategy that improves educational opportunities and addresses key barriers to school attendance, retention, and completion for the poorest children worldwide; The creation of a “Senior Coordinator” within the United States Agency for International Development (USAID) responsible for the development, implementation, and coordination of U.S. basic education programs; An annual report to Congress on implementation of the basic education strategy and progress achieved by USAID programs. ###
01.24.2017	Washington, DC – U.S. Rep. Nita Lowey (D-NY), Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee, and Rep. Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL), Chairman of the Subcommittee on the Middle East and North Africa, made the following statement after introducing H.Res. 58 – Expressing the sense of the House of Representatives regarding unanswered questions into the fate of Raoul Wallenberg. Reps. Ros-Lehtinen and Lowey were joined in introducing this bipartisan resolution by Reps. Pete Roskam (R-IL), Eliot Engel (D-NY), Chris Smith (R-NJ), Ted Deutch (D-FL), and Kay Granger (R-TX). Statement by Lowey: “Raoul Wallenberg was one of the world’s unsung heroes during the darkest chapter in human history, and we must continue to demand answers regarding his tragic disappearance and death. It’s the least we can do for a man who risked everything to save tens of thousands of Jews from the Nazis, including our late colleague Congressman Tom Lantos. Part of Tom’s legacy instructs each of us to never rest in the pursuit of justice. That is why Congress must continue to press Russia to resolve the outstanding questions regarding Raoul Wallenberg’s fate and finally bring closure to the family and loved ones of this truly remarkable man.” Statement by Ros-Lehtinen: “For over 70 years, the mystery of what really happened to Raoul Wallenberg has haunted the memories of his loved ones, of the countless he saved from the horrors of the Holocaust, and of the many who have fought tirelessly to uncover the truth. We have honored his courage and his humanitarian spirit over the years, and now we have a chance to honor his memory by bringing closure to this tragedy. I want to personally thank Marie Dupuy and Louise von Dardel, nieces of Raoul Wallenberg, for their cooperation and support for this initiative and for continuing the tireless efforts of Raoul’s parents, Maj and Fredrik von Dardel. I also want to thank the many, many researchers and volunteers who have never stopped seeking the truth, particularly Dr. Vadim Birstein and Susanne Berger. It is my most sincere hope that this resolution will help finally resolve one of the most tragic mysteries of the 20th century by bringing it the attention it deserves. NOTE: January 17, 2017 marked the 72ndanniversary of the last time anyone saw Raoul Wallenberg as a free man. For over seven decades, members of Raoul Wallenberg’s family and countless researchers and volunteers have worked to solve the mystery surrounding Raoul Wallenberg’s fate. Mr. Wallenberg has been credited with saving tens of thousands of Jews, or more, through his efforts during the Holocaust, including the only Holocaust survivor ever to serve in the United States Congress, the late Tom Lantos. In 1981, Raoul Wallenberg was bestowed honorary United States citizenship. To read the resolution, please click here. ###
01.24.2017	129 Cosponsors in House Demand Effective Foreign Aid Policy That Stops Attack on Vulnerable Women Washington, DC – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-Rockland/Westchester, Ranking Member of the State and Foreign Operations Appropriations Subcommittee, today introduced the Global Health, Empowerment, and Rights (HER) Act, which would permanently repeal the ill-conceived, anti-woman Global Gag Rule, in response to President Donald Trump’s executive order reinstating the policy. “President Trump said he would put ‘America First’ in his Inaugural Address. He can’t do that by marginalizing women around the world,” said Lowey. “Reinstating the dangerous and arbitrary Global Gag Rule is an especially outrageous assault on women. It has not decreased the rate of abortions and unwanted pregnancies under previous Republican Administrations. In fact, its severe limits on access to family planning services will dramatically erode progress on maternal and child health, and the policy will weaken the effectiveness of our foreign assistance by making ineligible some of the most capable and effective international partners.” The ill-conceived Global Gag rule, first introduced in 1984 by the Reagan Administration, forces health providers eligible for U.S. assistance to choose between receiving U.S. funding or providing comprehensive health care services to their patients. The Global Gag Rule contradicts our country’s founding principles. It silences freedom of speech, interferes with the doctor-patient relationship, and weakens the effectiveness of U.S. foreign assistance. When last in place, the Global Gag Rule not only decreased access to family planning services, it cut off access to some of the most capable and respected basic health service providers, sometimes the only providers serving vulnerable populations in remote regions. Congresswoman Lowey believes that instead of making it more difficult for women to access quality care, U.S. foreign assistance initiatives should support programs that help women and their partners ensure their health and the health of their families. That is why she will introduce legislation to permanently repeal the ill-conceived Global Gag Rule and counteract President Trump’s Executive Order. The HER Act, which will be introduced in the U.S. Senate by Senator Jeanne Shaheen, would: Ensure that eligible foreign NGOs can continue to operate U.S.-supported health programs abroad, particularly those that provide legal health services to women -- including counseling, referral, and legal abortion services -- with their own, non-U.S. funds. Guarantee that foreign NGOs will not be forced to sacrifice their right to free speech in order to participate in U.S.-supported programs abroad. Help expand access to health programs for women around the world to improve health and development outcomes for entire families, communities, and developing countries. “Women around the world deserve the ability to make healthy choices for themselves and their families,” said Lowey. “Congress should put aside politics and support full and consistent access to family planning and reproductive health services by supporting the Global HER Act.” # # #
01.23.2017	Bicameral HER Act would Permanently Repeal Ill-Conceived Gag Rule Washington, DC – House Appropriations Committee Ranking Member Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today announced legislation to permanently repeal the ill-conceived, anti-woman Global Gag Rule in response to President Donald Trump’s executive order reinstating the policy. “We can’t put ‘America First’ by marginalizing women around the world,” said Lowey. “Reinstatement of the dangerous and arbitrary Global Gag Rule is an especially outrageous assault on women. It has not decreased the rate of abortions and unwanted pregnancies under previous Republican Administrations. In fact, its severe limits on access to family planning services will dramatically erode progress on maternal and child health, and the policy will weaken the effectiveness of our foreign assistance by making ineligible some of the most capable and effective international partners.” Lowey believes that instead of making it more difficult for women to access quality care, U.S. foreign assistance initiatives should support programs that help women and their partners ensure their health and the health of their families. That is why she will introduce legislation to permanently repeal the ill-conceived Global Gag Rule and counteract President Trump’s Executive Order. The Global Health, Empowerment, and Rights (HER) Act, which will be introduced in the U.S. Senate by Senator Jeanne Shaheen, would: Ensure that eligible foreign NGOs can continue to operate U.S.-supported health programs abroad, particularly those that provide legal health services to women -- including counseling, referral, and legal abortion services -- with their own, non-U.S. funds. Guarantee that foreign NGOs will not be forced to sacrifice their right to free speech in order to participate in U.S.-supported programs abroad. Help expand access to health programs for women around the world to improve health and development outcomes for entire families, communities, and developing countries. “Women around the world deserve the ability to make healthy choices for themselves and their families,” said Lowey. “Congress should put aside politics and support full and consistent access to family planning and reproductive health services by supporting the Global HER Act.” # # #
01.20.2017	Washington, DC - Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-NY), Ranking Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, issued the following statement regarding the Inauguration of Donald J. Trump as the 45th President of the United States: “Today, Donald Trump missed a chance to begin to heal the wounds of a divisive campaign and explain his vision for a bright, inclusive American future. “The time for campaigning is over. Republicans and Democrats must join together in our efforts to make responsible investments in creating jobs, improving healthcare and schools, and helping working families make ends meet. “I congratulate Donald J. Trump on his inauguration as our 45th President. But I will fight tirelessly to hold him to his promise of being a President for all Americans. We must unite to build a more perfect union for our children and grandchildren, with equality and justice for all.” ###
01.20.2017	Washington, DC - Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-NY), Ranking Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, issued the following statement regarding her attendance at the Inauguration: "With respect for our nation’s democratic institutions and the peaceful transfer of power, I am planning to attend the Inauguration. In addition, I will join millions of Americans tomorrow in support of justice and equality for all, respect for women, and leadership that unites – not divides – us. "In Congress, I will keep fighting forcefully with Congressman John Lewis and other colleagues who share my commitment to those ideals. As the highest ranking Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, it will continue to be my top priority to advance improvements in affordable and accessible health care, gun safety, the right to choose, quality education, and job creation while ensuring accountability for the President-elect." ###
01.16.2017	White Plains, NY - Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-NY), Ranking Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, issued the following statement on Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. Day, and attended six events across Rockland and Westchester honoring the life of Dr. King: “Today across the country, in community centers, houses of worship, and homes, we gather to remember the life, teachings, and vision of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. In 2017, his legacy and life’s work are as important as ever, and they continue to light America’s path toward becoming a more perfect union. “We must continue to follow Dr. King’s example and strive to live by the principles he fought to uphold. We must continue to work together to make this country a better place than when we found it, regardless of how impossible that goal may seem at times. And we must continue working with all Americans who believe in equality and justice to drive out hate and make Dr. King’s dream a reality.” ###
01.13.2017	Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY), Ranking Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, today issued the following statement on the Republican budget resolution: “This budget resolution makes clear that, to the Republican majority, deficits only matter when a Democrat is president. “For the past six years, the House majority has directed a damaging fiscal austerity, preventing domestic investments that improve communities and create jobs. Yet the first action of the 115th Congress (second, if you count attempting to gut ethics enforcement) is to advance a budget resolution adding $9.5 trillion to the national debt. “This budget resolution paves the way to repeal the Affordable Care Act with no plan for a replacement to maintain high quality coverage for American families. In addition to ripping health insurance away from 20 million Americans, repealing ACA would add $350 billion to the national debt, eliminate millions of jobs, and cause fiscal collapse in states. “The majority further intends to force U.S. taxpayers to pay tens of billions of dollars for a border wall. This would be a broken promise, a colossal waste of money, and a boondoggle of historic proportions. “Republicans should work with Democrats on responsible investments to create jobs, improve our healthcare and schools, build roads and bridges and help working families make ends meet.” ###
01.08.2017	White Plains, NY – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-Rockland/Westchester), the Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee, today released the following statement on the terrorist attack in Jerusalem: “I am shocked and saddened by today's horrific terror attack in Jerusalem, which took the lives of four and injured at least 14 others. My prayers are with the victims and their loved ones. We reaffirm the United States' strong commitment to helping ensure the security of Israel and its people, our closest friend and ally in the Middle East, and pledge to continue to root out and destroy extremism wherever it exists.” ###
01.05.2017	Reimbursements are the result of language Lowey secured in the FY 2016 Omnibus spending package Westchester Medical Center will receive $480,000 in supplemental funding White Plains, NY – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-Rockland/Westchester), the Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee, announced the US Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) will provide an additional $3.63 million to hospitals in New York that served as Ebola Treatment Centers and prepared to treat Ebola patients as the virus spread. “During the height of the Ebola crisis, many hospitals in New York took extraordinary emergency preparedness measures to protect the health and safety of all Americans,” said Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey, Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee. “I’m pleased these federal funds will help reimburse medical facilities for their decisive actions in protecting the public. In the wake of the deadly Ebola and Zika outbreaks, we must continue to make strong federal investments in our healthcare infrastructure and ensure we are prepared to prevent and respond to any public health threat.” Nearly half of all passengers traveling from the most Ebola affected West African countries to the United States arrived at airports in the New York City area. To combat this threat, New York hospitals took on incredible costs to prepare for cases of Ebola and other infectious diseases, including renovation of hospital facilities, increasing the number of isolation units, and other steps that maintain treatment capacity to combat the next epidemic. As the cases of Ebola increased, Congress invested in a federal response to contain the epidemic at its epicenter and increase the public health infrastructure within the United States to adequately address domestic Ebola threats. However, many Ebola Treatment Centers in New York were left without reimbursement for improvements made to their facilities. In the Fiscal Year 2016 Omnibus, Congresswoman Lowey secured language that directed HHS to allocate portions of the unobligated Ebola emergency funds to partially reimburse hospitals for renovations and alterations made in preparation for receiving Ebola patients. Under the plan announced today, HHS will amend original awards to Ebola Treatment Centers to increase each allocation to a total of $750,000 per facility. “We are deeply grateful to Congresswoman Lowey for her continued support of our work to ensure that we are always at the ready to provide the most advanced care to the residents of our region,” said Michael D. Israel, President and CEO of WMCHealth. “As the lifeline for the people of the Hudson Valley, our resources are focused on providing care to the most critically ill and injured children and adults. During the Ebola crisis, our organization and staff did not hesitate to answer the call and we applaud Congresswoman Lowey for her commitment to a robust and ready healthcare system.” “Funding for New York’s Ebola Treatment Centers has long been a major priority for Congresswoman Nita Lowey,” said Kenneth E. Raske, President of the Greater New York Hospital Association. “The medical centers that came forward did so on a humanitarian basis, and with the understanding that serving the public was more important than being fully reimbursed for their Ebola preparedness costs. I’m deeply grateful to Congresswoman Lowey for her diligence and persistence, and to the hospitals – and hundreds of hospital workers – that trained and retrained to be prepared to treat this extraordinarily threatening disease.” "Congresswoman Lowey's dedication to the health and health care of all is proven once again by her determination to secure additional support for the hospitals that stepped up and did the hard work at high cost to become Ebola Treatment Centers,” said Bea Grause, President of the Healthcare Association of New York State. “We are grateful to the Congresswoman and to the HANYS members who went to such great lengths to ensure New York was prepared during the Ebola crisis." The hospitals in New York that will receive additional funding are listed below: Westchester Medical Center (Valhalla, NY) — $480,000 Erie County Medical Center (Buffalo, NY) — $480,000 Upstate University Hospital (Syracuse, NY) — $480,000 University of Rochester Medical Center (Rochester, NY) — $480,000 Stony Brook University Hospital (Stony Brook, NY) — $480,000 Women and Children’s Hospital of Buffalo (Buffalo, NY) — $480,000 North Shore/LIJ, Glen Cove Hospital (Glen Cove, NY) — $250,000 Mt. Sinai Hospital (New York, NY) — $250,000 Montefiore Medical Center (Bronx, NY) — $250,000 These funds are in addition to the nearly $18.8 million in original Ebola emergency funding for entities within New York. ###
01.03.2017	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-Rockland/Westchester), the Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee, today released the following statement on the proposed House Republicans Rules package for 115th Congress: “It is shameful that the first action of the Republican majority in the 115th Congress will be to advance a rules package gutting the independent Office of Congressional Ethics. In the dark of night, in a secret vote, the majority breached public trust by disempowering the sole independent investigatory body holding lawmakers accountable for ethics violations. This action exposes Republicans’ campaign pledge of ‘drain the swamp’ as absolute parody. "Furthermore, instead of protecting American families from the devastating effects of gun violence, House Republicans have responded to last year's historic Democratic sit-in by proposing potentially unconstitutional punishments for Members who participate in similar actions in the future. This is unacceptable, and Democrats will not be intimidated out of fiercely advocating for policies that save American lives. "The Republican rules package includes brazen assaults on the integrity of the House, and I urge all of my colleagues to reject this package." ###
12.23.2016	Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY), Ranking Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee and the State and Foreign Operations Subcommittee, today issued the following statement in response to the Administration’s failure to veto a resolution in the United Nations Security Council condemning Israeli settlement policy: “Today's abstention is a stain on the United States' long and consistent record of defending Israel against one-sided UN Security Council resolutions. I am profoundly disappointed. Only through direct negotiations can the Israelis and Palestinians resolve their complicated differences. “Today's resolution will not further the cause of peace. In fact it will only harden both sides and make direct negotiations all the more difficult to ever resume. I will redouble my efforts to defend Israel in international bodies and bring the parties back to the table.” ###
12.21.2016	White Plains, NY – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), the Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee, released the following statement today on the return of a gun show to the Westchester County Center: “I am outraged to learn that a gun show will return to the Westchester County Center after a welcome four-year reprieve. Gun shows should not be held in government buildings. “I am a strong supporter of universal background checks, closing the gun show loophole, and closing the terror gap. As I have been throughout my career, I remain committed to passing commonsense gun safety legislation that will keep our communities safe and protect American lives.” ###
12.20.2016	Washington, DC - Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), the Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee, released the following statement today on the horrific attack at the Berlin Christmas Market: “My thoughts and prayers are with the people of Germany who are reeling from yesterday’s deplorable, suspected terrorist attack at the Berlin Christmas market. The loss of innocent life during what should be a joyous holiday season is heartbreaking. “The United States stands in total solidarity with our close ally. We will support the German government’s efforts to bring all those responsible to justice and to condemn terrorism wherever it rears its hideous head.” ###
12.20.2016	White Plains, NY – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-Rockland/Westchester), the Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee, today announced $110,000 in National Endowment For the Arts (NEA) grants for arts organizations in Westchester. These investments will support local artists, performances, and arts education programs across the county. “The arts help connect us by telling the story of our communities,” said Congresswoman Lowey, Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee. “I will continue fighting to protect funding for the National Endowment of the Arts, and I’m pleased these federal investments will help local artists and organizations celebrate and enrich the Lower Hudson Valley’s vibrant creative culture.” “This list makes clear that Westchester arts groups are developing innovative projects that are highly regarded in the American Artistic Landscape,” said Janet Langsam, CEO of ArtsWestchester. These grants are a part of more than $30 million awarded by the NEA to nonprofit organizations and individuals across the country for grants in the areas of Art Works, Art Works: Creativity Connects, Challenge America, and Creative Writing Fellowships. These grants cross all artistic disciplines, reach 48 states as well as Washington, DC, and the U.S. Virgin Islands, and also support partnerships between the arts and non-arts sectors. See the list of Westchester grant recipients below: $35,000 for the Jacob Burns Film Center (Pleasantville) to support "The Power of Film: Community Engagement and Dialogue," a curated film series. Dedicated to bolstering the role of the art house theater in a community, Jacob Burns will present several curated films with a focus on cultural awareness and social justice. Additional activities include talkbacks, community events, and an educational program for middle and high school students. $30,000 for Hudson Valley Center for Contemporary Art (Peekskill) to support the residency component to complement the exhibition "Threads." The exhibition will feature artists who work with yarn, paper, twine, thread, and other domestic materials to create artwork inspired by their personal journeys. The artist residency component will include both international and local artists who will create work, give workshops, and mentor students. $25,000 for ArtsWestchester (White Plains) to support “Modern Families,” a visual exploration of the modern American family. “Modern Families” will explore the diverse faces and facets of the American family during the last century as portrayed by contemporary photographers. $10,000 for Copland House (Peekskill) to support performances of American music performed by the Music from Copland House ensemble and related educational activities, including commentary during performances and question-and-answer discussions. In addition to the music of Aaron Copland, programs will feature music by composers such as Derek Bermel, Richard Danielpour, Gabriela Lena Frank, Paul Moravec, Tamar Muskal, Rob Schwimmer, and William Grant Still. $10,000 for the Clay Art Center, Inc. (Port Chester) to support the creation and installation of public art projects in White Plains. Healing Through Clay, an arts therapy program, will provide free clay classes for adults living with cancer and youth impacted by homelessness. Professional teaching artists will work with program participants under the supervision of Ariel Edwards, lead artist and Clay Art Center's Community Arts Director, to create mosaic works for public installation. Congresswoman Lowey has been stalwart in her defense of the National Endowment for the Arts (NEA) and served on the prestigious National Council for the Arts in recognition of her leadership. Each year, Lowey celebrates local artistic talent through the Congressional Art Competition, a nationwide high school visual art competition to recognize and encourage artistic talent in the nation and in each congressional district. ###
12.19.2016	New City, NY – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-Rockland/Westchester), Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee, released the following statement on the passing of Congressman Benjamin Gilman: “Congressman Benjamin Gilman was a true legislator and a patriot who honorably served the Lower Hudson Valley in Congress for 30 years. He was steadfast in his belief in the importance of steady American leadership around the world, a view cemented during his service as an Army Air Corps pilot in Japan during World War II. Representative Gilman was a staunch advocate for his constituents who wasn’t afraid to cross party lines when he knew it was the right thing to do. My thoughts and prayers are with his family, who so generously shared him with us throughout his many years of public service.” ###
12.14.2016	White Plains, NY - Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), the Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee, released the following statement today on the fourth anniversary of the horrific shooting at Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown, CT: “On December 14, 2012, 26 lives were stolen in the mass shooting at Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown, Connecticut. Our nation will never be the same. “In the four years since, America’s gun violence epidemic has steadily claimed thousands more lives. Families across the county from San Bernardino to Orlando have been forced to experience the same pain and anguish as Sandy Hook families as they mourn parents, children, siblings, and friends killed by firearms. “Enough is enough. We cannot allow one more preventable tragedy. Congress must stop playing partisan games with the lives of innocent Americans and keep our communities safe from gun violence.” ###
12.12.2016	President-elect Trump calls climate change a “hoax” and nominates climate change denier to head Environmental Protection Agency 9 of 10 of the warmest years on record have occurred since 2000; 2016 on track to be warmest ever Congresswoman Lowey has helped secure $2.073 billion in federal investments for research on clean and renewable energy Dobbs Ferry, NY – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-NY17) today hosted a roundtable discussion and press conference with local environmental leaders at Mercy College in Dobbs Ferry to celebrate the first anniversary of the adoption of the landmark Paris Climate Agreement and urge President-elect Donald Trump to make combatting climate change a top priority. “On the anniversary of the adoption of the landmark Paris Agreement, there is no doubt that climate change poses an existential threat to our planet that must be confronted quickly and seriously,” said Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey, Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee. “As Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee, I have fought to support federal investments in renewable energy technology that will reduce greenhouse gas emissions and protect our environment. To ensure the safety of the air and water we drink and to mitigate even the worst natural disasters that threaten our communities, President-elect Trump must build on our progress, uphold the Paris Climate Agreement, and ensure the United States continues to lead the fight to combat our planet’s rising temperatures.” Adopted unanimously by over 190 countries on December 12, 2015, the Paris Climate Agreement is the world’s first comprehensive framework to combat climate change and commits to preventing the increase in global average temperature to well below 2 degrees Celsius. It is the first agreement signed by China, the United States, and India, the countries that together make up 42% of the world’s greenhouse gas emissions. By signing the Agreement, the United States committed to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 26-28 percent below 2005 levels by 2025. Nine of the ten warmest years on record have occurred since 2000, and scientists say the Agreement is critical to reducing manmade carbon emissions before they trigger irreparable damage to the planet. Yet, President-elect Trump has stated climate change is a “hoax,” pledged to “cancel” the Paris Agreement, and nominated Oklahoma Attorney General Scott Pruitt, a climate change denier, to head the Environmental Protection Agency. "We simply cannot afford to slide backward on these hard-won efforts to deal with climate change. Our future depends on it,” said Paul Gallay, President of Riverkeeper. “Remember, businesses rely on stable regulations for clean air and water too. They are encouraged by investments in renewable energy and energy efficiency. We will not let anyone roll back the progress we've made to protect and restore the environment – here on the Hudson River and around the world." “The Sierra Club stands squarely behind Congresswoman's Lowey's call for full implementation of the Paris Climate Agreement,” said Lee Seham of the Sierra Club. “It is what the American people demanded, what future generations deserve, and what the world needs.” As Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, Congresswoman Lowey led the fight to secure $2.073 billion in FY2016 for programs that invest in alternative energy sources like wind and solar and decrease America’s dependence on fossil fuels. PHOTOS AVAILABLE HERE ###
12.07.2016	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (Rockland/Westchester), the Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, released the following statement on the nomination of Scott Pruitt for Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency: “Scott Pruitt’s nomination to lead the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency is as egregious as it is reckless. He has spent his tenure as Attorney General of Oklahoma working to dismantle and undermine the critical work of the agency, taken over $300,000 from fossil fuel corporations, and questioned the validity of man-made climate change. “The EPA needs a leader who will work to protect our environment and combat climate change, not a man who takes marching orders from the oil and gas special interests. “For the sake of our planet, America’s national security, and the well-being and safety of future generations, I hope my Republican colleagues will join Democrats to seriously question Mr. Pruitt’s qualifications during confirmation proceedings.” ###
11.29.2016	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (Rockland/Westchester), the Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, released the following statement on the nomination of Budget Committee Chairman Tom Price for Secretary of the Department of Health and Human Services: "The first rule of medicine is to do no harm. Unfortunately, should Dr. Tom Price be confirmed as the next Secretary of Health and Human Services, his leadership would threaten the very foundation of health care in this nation. "Dr. Price supports ending Medicare as we know it, eliminating affordable health care for 20 million Americans, and prohibiting women from buying insurance plans that cover a full range of reproductive health services. His support for legislation to allow hospitals to refuse legal reproductive health services, even when the life of a mother is at stake, is dangerous. And he’s just wrong when he says that defunding Planned Parenthood, an organization which provides vital health services to 2.5 million women and men a year, is 'common, human decency and who we are as a people.' "Providing affordable, basic health care to all Americans, including equitable care for women with a full range of legal services, is the right thing to do. That’s why I will keep fighting to ensure that the Department of Health and Human Services upholds its commitment to enhance and protect the well-being of all Americans, instead of undoing all the progress we have made and returning us to the Mad Men era." ###
11.26.2016	Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY), Ranking Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee and the State and Foreign Operations Subcommittee, today issued the following statement following the death of Fidel Castro: "For nearly six decades, Fidel Castro ruled over Cuba with an iron fist. His death marks a painful end to an era of repression felt by so many Cubans on the island and Cuban-Americans who fled his brutal dictatorship. "In 2014, the United States and Cuba restored diplomatic relations after more than fifty years of hostility between our two countries. In the wake of Castro’s passing, continuing to improve diplomatic and economic ties will benefit Americans and Cubans alike. However, through our engagement efforts, the United States must continue to press for human rights, civil liberties, free and fair elections as well as freedom of assembly, speech, and religion. "As the Ranking Member of the State and Foreign Operations Appropriations Subcommittee, I will continue to support efforts to engage with the Cuban people and efforts that encourage genuine democratic change, which the Cuban people have long deserved." ###
11.18.2016	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (Rockland/Westchester), the Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, released the following statement on the appointment of Lieutenant General Michael Flynn as National Security Advisor and the nomination of Senator Jeff Sessions for Attorney General: “During his victory speech last week, President-elect Donald Trump committed to being ‘President for all Americans.’ Yet he is choosing to staff his Administration with individuals well-known for espousing anti-Semitic, anti-Muslim, and racist views. This is a dangerous path that threatens to erode Americans’ faith in their government. “Coming on the heels of appointing Steve Bannon, who has trafficked in white supremacy and anti-Semitism, I am highly concerned with the reported selection of Lt.Gen. Michael Flynn as National Security Advisor given his despicable comments about the Muslim religion, lobbying for the Turkish government, and questionably close ties to Russia. The selection of Senator Jeff Sessions as Attorney General should concern African Americans, Hispanic Americans, and all those who believe our justice system should be color blind and work aggressively to protect the civil rights of all Americans. “At a time when the FBI has confirmed a dangerous spike in anti-Muslim, anti-Jewish, anti-black, and anti-LGBT hate crimes, I am profoundly concerned that President Trump’s surrounding himself with such figures will divide – not unify and heal – our country. “Americans must make their voices heard and implore the President-elect to reverse course and govern responsibly on behalf of all Americans.” ###
11.14.2016	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (Rockland/Westchester), the Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, released the following statement on the appointment of Stephen K. Bannon as Chief White House Strategist and Senior Counselor: “This is a tenuous time in our country following a historic election that split the popular vote from the electoral college. If President-elect Trump wants to fulfill his promise of being a leader for all Americans, he must refrain from dividing us any further. That is why I am profoundly concerned that one of the President-elect’s first appointments is Steve Bannon, a well-known supporter of alt-right, extremist ideology including white nationalism and anti-Semitism. “In the last week, we’ve already seen reports of rising vandalism and intimidation across the country including swastikas graffitied on schools and sidewalks – even in my own district on the Bronx River bike path. Not only is such behavior unacceptable, it must be universally denounced and stopped. It is my sincere hope that the President-elect will recognize that words matter and do everything in his power to combat anti-Semitism, intolerance, and bigotry, including by replacing Bannon with a qualified candidate.” ###
11.11.2016	WHITE PLAINS/NEW CITY, NY – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (Westchester/Rockland), the Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, released the following statement marking Veterans Day: "On Veteran’s Day, we salute the men and women who have bravely served in our military forces to protect our country. "Our nation’s promise to our veterans is sacred. With more than 890,000 veterans across New York State, it is our duty to deliver the benefits, care, and training they earned and deserve. "With my support, I am pleased that Congress passed and the President enacted the final fiscal year 2017 Military Construction and Veterans Affairs (VA) Appropriations bill. Among other things, this bill includes over $74 billion for much-needed medical care; improved policies to reimburse veterans whose war wounds complicate conception for in vitro fertilization; and a request that the VA properly address the gender specific needs of female veterans. "We owe a vast debt of gratitude to veterans and their families. I will keep working in Congress to ensure we honor the sacrifices they have made in defense of our most fundamental freedoms." ###
10.29.2016	WHITE PLAINS/NEW CITY, NY – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (Westchester/Rockland), the Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, issued the following statement today regarding the fourth anniversary of Superstorm Sandy: “On October 29, 2012, Superstorm Sandy ripped across New York, devastating communities, neighborhoods, and families throughout Westchester and Rockland. In the following weeks, New Yorkers came together as only New Yorkers can, supporting one other in our efforts to heal and rebuild. “Four years later, we have come a long way. As Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee, I was proud to lead the fight to secure $60 billion in emergency funds that helped families and businesses recover from this devastating natural disaster. However, we must continue to provide the necessary resources and support to ensure that all New Yorkers recover completely from this horrible tragedy.” If you are experiencing issues with a federal agency, please contact Congresswoman Lowey’s White Plains District Office (914-428-1707), New City District Office (845-639-3485), or website for help: https://lowey.house.gov/contact-nita/. ###
10.20.2016	Lowey Attends Hudson Valley Workforce Academy Graduation More than 2,500 unfilled positions in Lower Hudson Valley in health care and information technology Congresswoman Lowey helped secure the $9.8 million federal grant to address need for skilled workers in healthcare, technology and business 26 long-term unemployed Workforce Academy Graduates make up 8th class from the Jobs Waiting Program White Plains, NY – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D- NY17) joined Westchester County Association (WCA) President and CEO William M. Mooney, Jr. and local employers at the WCA’s Hudson Valley Workforce Academy Boot Camp graduation where she presented certificates of achievement to the 26 graduates. These 26 long-term unemployed students make up the 8th class to complete the Jobs Waiting Program; the 9th is currently underway in Orange County. To date, 119 participants have been hired or are in training. “To lead in an increasingly globalized economy, we must invest in a 21st century workforce,” said Lowey. “Training individuals to fill high-skilled jobs right here in the Hudson Valley is exactly the type of smart, federal investment that our nation should be making. I am proud to honor today’s graduates, and I look forward to their continued success.” “Today’s graduation marks an important milestone for the Jobs Waiting Program that has now trained over 200 participants in the critical skills needed by our booming healthcare sector,” said William M. Mooney, Jr., Westchester County Association President and CEO. “For the long-term unemployed, the program continues to be a life-saver and an entry into the region’s hottest growth industry. For employers, Jobs Waiting provides a critical talent pipeline to fill thousands of new jobs.” The WCA created the Hudson Valley Workforce Academy with the goal of addressing the critical need for skilled workers to fill an estimated 2,500 unfilled jobs in the healthcare, technology, and business sectors in the Lower Hudson Valley. The Academy has focused on building the healthcare workforce, which includes IT, clinical and administrative positions, and patient-centered careers. Congresswoman Lowey helped secure the $9.8 million U. S. Department of Labor (DOL) grant for Westchester County to help train skilled workers for the estimated 2,500 open jobs in the healthcare and technology fields in the Lower Hudson Valley. The grant is part of the Ready to Work Partnership (Ready To Work) initiative to support and scale innovative collaborations between employers, nonprofit organizations and federal job training programs to help connect ready-to-work Americans with ready-to-be-filled jobs. A dozen potential employers participated in jobs fair for the graduates after today's ceremony. PHOTOS FROM THE EVENT WILL BE AVAILABLE HERE. # # #
10.13.2016	Lowey Announces $696,572 for Five-Year Mercy College Program Supporting Hispanic & Low-Income Students in STEM More than 2,500 unfilled positions in Lower Hudson Valley in health care and software engineering Funds will enable partnership between Mercy College and Westchester Community College Photos available HERE Dobbs Ferry, NY – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D- Rockland/Westchester), the senior Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, today was joined at the Mercy College Wellness Initiative Fair by Mercy College President Timothy Hall, Westchester Community College Interim Provost and Vice President for Academic Affairs Dr. Peggy Bradford, Mercy College senior and Biology major Christian Castillo, as well as administrators from Mercy College and Westchester Community College, to announce a $696,572 grant from the Department of Education (ED) Hispanic Serving Institution - Science, Technology, Engineering, or Mathematics (HSI STEM) and Articulation Program for Mercy College in Dobbs Ferry. This funding will help create Team STEM, a five-year joint program between Mercy College and Westchester Community College (WCC) to help Hispanic and low-income students complete studies in STEM fields. “Educating more students in STEM fields is one of the most productive steps we can take to strengthen our economy,” said Lowey. “I’m pleased that Mercy College and Westchester Community College are using these federal dollars to address a growing need for STEM professionals in the Hudson Valley. As Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee, I will continue working to provide students of all backgrounds with the resources they need to succeed in a dynamic, globalized workforce.” “We are grateful for this grant and for the support we receive from Congresswoman Lowey,” said Tim Hall, President of Mercy College. “We are a proud Hispanic serving institution, and these dollars will allow Mercy College to open the minds of so many of our students. With knowledge and motivation, the possibilities are endless.” “Westchester Community College is uniquely positioned to help our many talented Hispanic and underrepresented students pursue STEM careers. The college’s partnership with Mercy College and our seven StepUP high schools will provide rigorous academic preparation for successful transition into college and transfer into baccalaureate degree programs. We are proud to work with Mercy College to increase access and success to STEM careers for all of those who seek relevant education, including Hispanic and low-income students,” said Dr. Belinda. S. Miles, President of Westchester Community College. In the United States, more than half of the five million currently open jobs involve information technology. In the Lower Hudson Valley, there are more than 2,500 unfilled positions in fields that require a science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM) education, such as health care and software engineering. Team STEM will focus on two- and four-year Hispanic and/or low-income undergraduates seeking to complete a bachelor’s degree within six years in one of six STEM disciplines offered at Mercy College: Biology, Psychology, Mathematics, Computer Science, Computer Information Science, and Cybersecurity. Team STEM will offer three all-new student-centered initiatives designed to improve the persistence, retention and graduations rates of Hispanic and low-income STEM students. In addition, Team STEM will capitalize on the long-standing articulation agreements between Mercy College and WCC by jointly sponsoring new activities designed to facilitate the seamless transfer of Hispanic and low-income two-year students into Mercy College’s STEM baccalaureate programs. Highlights of these new, student–centered activities include personalized advising; Mercy-WCC peer mentoring; summer bridge programs focused on acclimating to college; and undergraduate research and internship opportunities. Once enrolled at Mercy, Team STEM students will also have full access to traditional student support services. Westchester Community College is SUNY’s first Hispanic Serving Institution and the county’s largest college. The Mercy College/Westchester Community College Transfer Pipeline will increase the number of WCC students who successfully transition from our StepUP high school partners to WCC, and then on to Mercy College to earn a dual degree AS/BS in a STEM major. The HSI STEM and Articulation Programs are run through the U.S. Department of Education. The goals of these programs are to increase the number of Hispanic and low-income students attaining degrees in the fields of science, technology, engineering, or mathematics; and to develop model transfer and articulation agreements between two-year and four-year institutions in such fields. Photos available HERE ###
10.07.2016	WASHINGTON - Representatives Nita Lowey (D-NY), Chris Smith (R-NJ), Eliot Engel (D-NY), Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL), Kay Granger (R-TX), Steve Israel (D-NY), Peter Roskam (R-IL), and Ted Deutch (D-FL), the co-chairs of the House of Representatives Bipartisan Taskforce for Combating Anti-Semitism, introduced legislation aimed at shining a light on the growing problem of anti-Semitism in Europe. Upon introducing the Combating European Anti-Semitism Act of 2016 (H.R. 6208), the co-chairs issued the following joint statement: “It’s shocking that in the 21st century, anti-Semitism is gaining strength across Europe. From taunts and threats on the street; to violent attacks in schools and synagogues; to governments amplifying anti-Semitic voices and messages, such as leaders in Hungary giving a prestigious State award to anti-Semitic writer Zsolt Bayer, many European Jews are being forced to reconsider whether there is still a future for them in their countries. This is unacceptable, and we will continue to call on leaders across Europe to speak out against this growing problem, strengthen partnerships with Jewish communities to help them develop safety standards, and foster cultures that respect diversity and inclusion of all minority groups, including Jews. “Effectively confronting this problem requires a better understanding of its scope and depth. This bill would require the Administration to continue taking a hard look at anti-Semitism in Europe, providing a thorough assessment of trends and outlining what the United States and our partners are doing to meet this challenge. That way, we’ll have the best information available as we work to root out this pernicious threat and ensure that the commitment ‘never again’ remains a reality. Background: Building on a resolution regarding the safety and security of Jewish communities in Europe (H.Res.354) that passed the House in November 418-0, this bill calls for continued and enhanced reporting on anti-Semitic incidents in Europe, safety and security of European Jewish Communities, and the efforts of the United States to partner with European entities to combat anti-Semitism. All eight co-chairs are original cosponsors of this legislation: Representatives Nita Lowey (D-NY), Chris Smith (R-NJ), Eliot Engel (D-NY), Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL), Kay Granger (R-TX), Steve Israel (D-NY), Peter Roskam (R-IL), and Ted Deutch (D-FL). ###
09.30.2016	Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY), Ranking Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, and Rep. Mike Honda (D-CA), Ranking Democrat on the Appropriations Commerce, Justice, Science Subcommittee, today issued the following statement in response to a federal court’s rejection of a last-minute attempt to block the expiration of a federal contract overseeing Internet domain naming conventions: “It is appropriate that a federal court today denied a meritless request by a few Republican attorneys general to block the long-scheduled transfer of internet domain name system oversight from the U.S. to the global Internet community. “The transition has been nearly two decades in the making with the support of Democratic and Republican administrations. It was also the clear intent of this Congress, which specified in the FY2016 Omnibus (P.L.114-113) that no prohibition against this transition would apply in FY2017, which begins tomorrow. “This transition will help ensure the Internet’s continued security and stability and will help prevent any foreign nation from asserting control over Internet policymaking and governance. The nonprofit Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers (ICANN) will retain its integral role and operate under the laws of the United States. “We will continue to work with our colleagues to ensure the Internet remains an engine for economic growth and innovation and a tool to connect the world through free speech and open sharing of ideas across borders.” ###
09.30.2016	DOJ Grant helps My Sisters’ Place enhance and expand services White Plains, NY – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D- Rockland/Westchester), the senior Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, today announced a U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) grant from the Office for Victims of Crime (OVC) totaling $749,927 for My Sisters’ Place, Inc. (MSP) of White Plains. These funds will help MSP provide robust direct services to survivors of human trafficking. “The exploitation of women, men, and children for profit is a severe violation of human rights, and we must do everything in our power to identify and combat it,” said Lowey. “I’m pleased that My Sisters’ Place will use these federal funds to enhance and expand critical direct service programs for human trafficking survivors. As Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee, I will continue fighting to secure resources that protect our region from atrocities like human trafficking while supporting survivors in our communities.” This grant will enable MSP to assist more trafficking survivors in and around Westchester County with comprehensive, timely services to recover and restore more stability in their lives. It will support efforts to increase the capacity of communities to respond to human trafficking victims through interagency partnerships, professional training, and public awareness activities. In addition, the provision of high-quality services over a three- year project period will address individual needs of trafficking survivors. The DOJ’s OVC is committed to enhancing the nation’s capacity to assist crime victims and to providing leadership in changing attitudes, policies, and practices to promote justice and healing for all victims of crime. OVC administers the Crime Victims Fund, which is financed by fines and penalties paid by convicted federal offenders, not from tax dollars. OVC channels funding for victim compensation and assistance throughout the United States, raises awareness about victims’ issues, promotes compliance with victims’ rights laws, and provides training and technical assistance and publications and products to victim assistance professionals. Ensuring safe and secure communities is a priority for Congresswoman Lowey, and she believes residents have the basic right to live in communities free from fear and violence. That is why Lowey is working to advance commonsense gun safety initiatives; protect children from predators; eliminate drunk driving; and ensure law enforcement officers, firefighters, and EMTs are trained and equipped to keep our communities safe. ###
09.29.2016	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-Rockland/Westchester), Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee, released the following statement on the train crash in Hoboken, New Jersey: “I am deeply saddened by the casualties and injuries caused by the train crash in Hoboken. My thoughts and prayers are with the victims and their loved ones. The first responders on the scene have our gratitude and support. The train originated in Spring Valley and stopped in Nanuet and Pearl River. My office is in contact with the Federal Railroad Administration and Metropolitan Transit Authority to facilitate information for any concerned constituents who may have been affected by this tragic crash. An FRA investigation is underway, and the National Transportation Safety Board will also begin an investigation later today. I will work to ensure investigators and first responders have all necessary resources. The safety and security of New Yorkers is my top priority, and I will continue to actively monitor the situation.” Local residents looking for loved ones who may have been on NJ Transit train that crashed in Hoboken can call: (855) 336-1774. ###
09.28.2016	Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY), Ranking Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, today issued the following statement on the Fiscal Year 2017 Continuing Resolution, which also includes emergency funding to respond to the Zika virus, and the FY2017 Military Construction-VA Appropriations bill: “Seven months after President Obama requested emergency assistance to respond to the Zika virus, it is long past time for Congress to act. The $1.1 billion provided equals the total funding the Senate passed by a vote of 89-8 in May. Importantly, it allows federal grants and reimbursements for Title X providers – like Profamilias – and permits funding for contraceptive services. It does not include extraneous legislation allowing unrestricted use of pesticides on or near waterways. “The Continuing Resolution also includes the full-year 2017 Appropriations bill for Military Construction and Veterans Affairs, providing $82.7 billion to address the needs of those who have served our nation in uniform, as well as construction costs necessary to support active and reserve components of the military and their families. It extends current federal spending rates through December 9th, which is sufficient time for Congress to negotiate and enact an Omnibus consisting of each of the remaining 11 Appropriations bills. “I object to the inclusion of $400 million in rescissions in this CR, which could lead some to believe incorrectly that emergency spending should be offset or will be in the future. I also object to the continuation of a rider shielding corporate political spending from public disclosure. “During the lame duck session, Congress must enact a Water Resources Development Act (WRDA) conference report that includes robust funding to respond to the manmade disaster in Flint. Congress must also meet its remaining obligations to respond to the natural disaster in Louisiana.” ### SUMMARY OF FY2017 CONTINUING RESOLUTION
09.28.2016	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-Rockland/Westchester), Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee, released the following statement on the passing of former Israeli Prime Minister and President Shimon Peres: “I join millions of people in Israel, the United States, and around the world in mourning the loss of former Israeli Prime Minister and President Shimon Peres. “As one of Israel's founding fathers, President Peres played an integral role in firmly cementing the Jewish state as a beacon of democracy in the region and America's closest ally. “President Peres was one of the most admired peacemakers of our time. Throughout tumultuous periods in Israel, including wars, assassinations, and political upheaval, President Peres remained committed to the goal of peace between Israel and all her neighbors. He worked tirelessly to resolve the complicated differences between Israelis and Palestinians, never giving up on the vision of two states for two peoples. “Part of his indelible and everlasting legacy instructs each of us to never give up on peace. “As we mourn the loss of this extraordinary leader and world-renowned statesman, let us redouble our commitment to the many causes to which he devoted his life. President Peres' memory is a blessing and an inspiration to all.” ###
09.23.2016	Grant Will Help Study Distorted and Disrupted Brain Function Washington, DC – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (Westchester/Rockland), the Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee, today announced a $337,190 National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS) grant to the New York Medical College to better understand dendrites and their role in helping the brain function. “I’m pleased New York Medical College will use these federal resources to continue its groundbreaking medical research and help all Americans live longer, healthier lives,” said Lowey. “Funding for NIH has nearly tripled since I joined the House Appropriations subcommittee that funds medical research, and I will continue working to increase the $2 billion the NIH pumps into New York’s economy each year. We must maintain our commitment to researching and curing medicine’s most complex and difficult challenges.” “This grant from the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke will enable us to develop and exploit new ways of examining dendrites, which are specialized parts of nerve cells especially important in communication within the brain,” said Dr. William Ross, Professor of Physiology at New York Medical College and Principle Investigator for the project. “This is an example of basic research where we hope to acquire new knowledge, which can later be used to uncover new therapies for neurological problems like Alzheimer’s disease.” This project through the New York Medical College will research dendrites, the vital structures that allow nerve cells in the brain to communicate with each other. Neural scientists will examine the signaling mechanisms in the dendrites themselves, to better understand normal brain function and treat illnesses in which brain functions are distorted or disrupted. NINDS is a division of the National Institutes of Health (NIH) whose mission is to seek fundamental knowledge about the brain and nervous system and to use that knowledge to reduce the burden of neurological disease. It supports and conducts research on the normal and diseased nervous system; fosters the training of investigators in neurosciences; and seeks better understanding, diagnosis, treatment, and prevention of neurological disorders. NINDS serves as a prime source of neurological information for scientists, clinicians, and the public. Lowey fought to include a $2 billion increase in NIH funding in the December 2015 year-end omnibus government spending bill. ###
09.19.2016	Funds to Bolster Education Programming for Students Across New York White Plains, NY – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (Westchester/Rockland), the Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee, today announced a $149,780 Institute of Museum and Library Services (IMLS) grant for Historic Hudson Valley in Pocantico Hills in Mount Pleasant. The federal funds will be used to create a film-based online curriculum to educate students about the complex issues surrounding slavery in American history. “A rigorous education can inspire every young American to lead an intellectually curious and passionate life,” said Lowey. “I’m pleased this grant will help Historic Hudson Valley maintain its longtime commitment to excite and educate students across New York. As Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee, I will keep working to secure federal resources for educators so that every child has the opportunity to reach her or his full potential.” “Historic Hudson Valley (HHV) is both honored and elated that the IMLS has chosen to award us with a Museums for America grant,” said Michael A. Lord, Associate Director of Content Development at Historic Hudson Valley. “Our project, On the Run: A Film-Based Curriculum, is a powerful, 10-12 minute digital film based on an actual event that took place in 1740 at Philipsburg Manor, HHV’s 26-acre National Historic Landmark site in Sleepy Hollow, New York. The film will enable classrooms to engage in a discussion surrounding the complex, sensitive, and still relevant issue of enslavement in New York.” This $149,780 grant will support the filmed vignette and curriculum, creating a learning experience that helps students explore new information, ask questions, and develop an increased sense of empathy with historical figures, particularly those whose stories have been neglected. It will help teachers and students better understand this period in American history and connect to abstract concepts of "resistance" within the enslaved community. Since 2002, Historic Hudson Valley's oldest historic site, Philipsburg Manor, has told the story of enslavement in the colonial north and its effect on the cultural and commercial development of New York. Hudson Valley is a not-for-profit education organization that interprets, preserves, and celebrates historic landmarks of national significance in the Hudson Valley for the benefit and enjoyment of the public. The IMLS is an independent, federal agency that serves as the primary source of federal support for the nation's 123,000 libraries and 35,000 museums. Its mission is to inspire libraries and museums to advance innovation, lifelong learning, and cultural and civic engagement, and it helps these cultural institutions deliver valuable services that make it possible for communities and individuals to thrive. ###
09.13.2016	Congresswoman Nita Lowey, Ranking Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee and the State and Foreign Operations Subcommittee, today issued the following statement on news that the United States and Israel have agreed to a new 10-year Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) on military assistance: “I am pleased the United States and Israel have agreed to a new Memorandum of Understanding on military assistance, extending a productive partnership that has ensured Israel’s continued qualitative military edge and advanced the security of both nations. “For nearly 70 years, the U.S.-Israel relationship has been based on shared values, mutual respect, and an enduring commitment to each nation’s security. Fostering and strengthening this relationship is our shared moral responsibility. This MOU - the largest bilateral aid package ever reached - builds on our unshakeable commitment to Israel’s security by providing certainty with regard to our foreign military assistance and missile defense funding through this decade and beyond. Israel will be in a better position to address turmoil and instability in the region and therefore be able to better protect its citizens and secure its borders. “I congratulate the Obama Administration and the Netanyahu Administration on reaching this milestone agreement. As Ranking Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee and its State and Foreign Operations Subcommittee, I will do everything in my power to fully support and implement the new MOU. I will also work to ensure that the United States continues to be the greatest force against efforts to delegitimize Israel in the international community as well as the greatest advocate for a lasting peace between Israel and the Palestinians and recognition of Israel by all of her neighbors.” ###
09.12.2016	Grade Crossing Fatalities Have Increased 16% Nationally Over the Last 3 Years Three Projects Will Enhance Rail Crossing Safety and Awareness in Westchester and Rockland Counties New York Will Benefit From More Than 20% of Total Funding Available From Consolidated Rail Infrastructure and Safety Improvement Grants Photos from the event available here White Plains, NY – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (Westchester/Rockland), the Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee, today welcomed Federal Railroad Administration (FRA) Administrator Sarah Feinberg and Metropolitan Transportation Authority (MTA) Chairman and CEO Thomas Prendergast to announce $5,162,417 in FRA grants to enhance safety and awareness of rail grade crossings in New York State. “In recent years, tragic rail accidents and many near misses have been painful reminders of the number of dangerous rail grade crossings in the Lower Hudson Valley,” said Lowey at a press conference today at the North White Plains Metro-North Station. “I’m pleased these federal funds will allow for critical upgrades to crossings throughout the MTA system. I will continue working with officials at all levels of government to ensure our communities are safe for residents, travelers, and commuters.” “A safe railroad network requires continuous investment and upgrades,” said FRA Administrator Sarah E. Feinberg. “These grants will improve safety at hundreds of railroad crossings and make important safety upgrades at stations across the country. This is an investment that is desperately needed—and I urge state DOTs to join the FRA in investing more in improving safety at crossings.” "Safety is at the foundation of every decision we make at MTA and every action we take," said MTA Chairman and CEO Thomas F. Prendergast. "We have been working hard at every turn to make railroad crossings safer and this funding will be vital in helping us make improvements to signage, markings, signals and engineering to further improve safety. We are extremely grateful for the FRA and Administrator Feinberg, and to Congresswoman Lowey and the entire New York delegation for this award." The first $1,347,500 grant will be used to add highway traffic signal pre-emption to seven grade crossings on Metro-North’s Harlem and Port Jervis Lines to activate the traffic signals at the intersections and allow queued traffic to exit onto the highway prior to the activation of the railroad grade crossing warning systems. The crossings to be improved by this grant in New York’s 17th Congressional District are: Cleveland Street (Vahalla) Lakeview Avenue (Vahalla) Stevens Avenue (Hawthorne) Roaring Brook Road (Chappaqua) Washington Avenue (Sloatsburg) As part of the second project, $1,904,132 in upgrades will be made to three grade crossings to mitigate hazardous conditions between highway and rail traffic. In New York's 17th Congressional District, the roadway, pavement markings, and signage at the heavily used grade crossing at Virginia Road in North White Plains will be improved. Finally, the third grant will provide $1,910,785 to install CCTV cameras to record grade crossing movements at 43 grade crossings within Metro‐North territory in New York to investigate specific incidents and analyze crossing/traffic operations for targeted modifications to improve safety at grade crossings. Crossings that will benefit from this grant in New York’s 17th Congressional District are: Hudson Avenue (Peekskill) Virginia Road (North White Plains) Cleveland Avenue (Valhalla) Lakeview Avenue (Valhalla) Commerce Street (Vahalla) Roaring Brook Road (Chappaqua) Municipal Plaza/Ballard Road (Sloatsburg) Washington Avenue (Sloatsburg) These grants are part of the Rail Infrastructure and Safety Improvements Grants program, a new funding opportunity that Congresswoman Lowey secured in the Fiscal Year 2016 Omnibus Appropriations Act. These funds are intended to improve the safety, efficiency, and reliability of passenger and freight rail systems. Congresswoman Lowey also fought hard to increase the set-aside funding for grade crossing improvements in the Highway Safety Improvement Program to $350 million in last year’s omnibus spending bill. ###
09.11.2016	White Plains, NY – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (Westchester/Rockland), Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, today issued the following statement marking the 15th anniversary of the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001: “Fifteen years after the worst terrorist attack on American soil, we do not merely recount a tragedy. We surround 9-11 families with love. We ensure those we lost are never forgotten. We follow the inspiring lead of those who sacrificed their own health in long and arduous rescue and recovery efforts at Ground Zero by joining this weekend in community service projects to help our neighbors. And we proudly celebrate the American spirit of endurance and perseverance. “Survivors, the families of victims, our community, our state and our great nation are stronger than ever. Despite unimaginable violence and hate, the American spirit endures. “It is my honor to fight every day in that same spirit to bolster our defenses, from the military to the cops on the beat in our own neighborhoods, and to stop terrorism abroad and at home. United together, we will continue to endure and to protect the American way of life.” ###
09.07.2016	Three Projects Will Enhance Rail Crossing Safety and Awareness in Westchester County Washington, DC – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (Westchester/Rockland), the Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee, today announced $5,162,417 in Federal Railroad Administration grants to enhance safety and awareness of rail grade crossings in New York State. These funds will help prevent tragedies like the February 2015 Metro-North crash in Valhalla. “We cannot allow one more preventable tragedy at a rail crossing in our region,” said Lowey. “The heartbreaking Metro-North crash in Valhalla and too many near misses since remind us that we must continue to work to protect families at dangerous railroad crossings throughout the Lower Hudson Valley. I’m pleased these grants will help officials at all levels of government work together to ensure our communities are safe and secure.” The first $1,347,500 grant will be used to add highway traffic signal pre-emption to seven grade crossings on Metro-North’s Harlem and Port Jervis Lines to activate the traffic signals at the intersections and allow queued traffic to exit onto the highway prior to the activation of the railroad grade crossing warning systems. The recipients of this grant in New York’s 17th Congressional District are: Cleveland Street (Vahalla) Lakeview Avenue (Vahalla) Stevens Avenue (Hawthorne) Roaring Brook Road (Chappaqua) Washington Avenue (Sloatsburg) As part of the second project, $1,904,132 in upgrades will be made to three grade crossings to mitigate hazardous conditions between highway and rail traffic. The roadway, pavement markings, and signage at a heavily used grade crossing in North White Plains will be improved. The recipient of this grant in New York’s 17th Congressional District is: Virginia Road (North White Plains) Finally, the third grant will provide $1,910,785 to install CCTV cameras to record grade crossing movements at 43 grade crossings within Metro‐North territory in New York to investigate specific incidents and analyze crossing/traffic operations for targeted modifications to improve safety at grade crossings. The recipients of this grant in New York’s 17th Congressional District are: Hudson Avenue (Peekskill) Virginia Road (North White Plains) Cleveland Avenue (Valhalla) Lakeview Avenue (Valhalla) Commerce Street (Vahalla) Roaring Brook Road (Chappaqua) Municipal Plaza/Ballard Road (Sloatsburg) Washington Avenue (Sloatsburg) These grants are part of the Rail Infrastructure and Safety Improvements Grants program, a new funding opportunity that Congresswoman Lowey secured in the Fiscal Year 2016 Omnibus Appropriations Act. These funds are intended to improve the safety, efficiency, and reliability of passenger and freight rail systems. Congresswoman Lowey also fought hard to increase the set-aside funding for grade crossing improvements in the Highway Safety Improvement Program to $350 million in last year’s omnibus spending bill. ###
09.07.2016	Comprehensive U.S. Global Education Strategy is Key to Development, Diplomatic, and National Security Goals WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY), Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee and of the Subcommittee on State Department and Foreign Operations, and Congressman Dave Reichert (R-WA), Chairman of the Ways and Means Subcommittee on Trade, today praised the House of Representative’s passage of H.R. 4481, the Education for All Act, which they introduced. “With millions of children currently out of school, and even more who are not learning despite being in school, we must be tireless in our efforts to expand access and increase quality in classrooms across the globe,” said Lowey. “Without access to basic education, these children will not have the skills to care for their families, improve their own health outcomes, and contribute positively to their communities. If we fill their hands with books and their heads with knowledge, we can ensure they are less vulnerable to hunger, poverty, disease, abuse, and extremism. That is why helping to educate children in developing nations and conflict-affected countries is not only the right thing to do, it is a critical economic and national security priority.” “For the millions of children living in poverty, especially in conflict-affected regions and sub-Saharan Africa, access to an education is their best chance of growing up to live a healthy, productive, and stable life,” said Reichert. “By giving children in the most desperate situations the tools to think for themselves, care for their families, and give back to their communities, we are not only doing what is right, we are laying the groundwork for greater peace and stability around the world.” The Education for All Act, which passed the House today, would: Establish as U.S. policy the promotion of quality basic education by working with other countries, multilateral organizations, international and local civil society organizations, and other major donors to assist developing countries in strengthening their educational systems and ensuring all children have access to school; Require a comprehensive U.S. strategy that improves educational opportunities and addresses key barriers to school attendance, retention, and completion for the poorest and most vulnerable children worldwide; and Improve coordination and oversight of the US Agency for International Development’s basic education programs by designating a “Senior Coordinator” within the Agency tasked with developing and monitoring the education strategy; coordinating policy with other agencies, donors, and international organizations; and reporting to Congress on program implementation. The 2012 attack on education activist Malala Yousafzai by the Taliban in Pakistan and the kidnapping of hundreds of Nigerian girls by the terrorist organization Boko Haram in April 2014 remain painful reminders of the barriers to education so many youth face around the world. Here are the startling facts about the state of international basic education today: Approximately 59 million primary-school-aged children and 65 million adolescents are out of school. Half of the children in the world do not have access to preschool. 250 million children are not learning basic skills in reading, writing, and math or are dropping out before the fourth grade. More than 100 million youth cannot read or write. Nearly two-thirds of the world's 751 million illiterate adults are women. An estimated 98 percent of children with disabilities under the age of 18 do not attend school. Roughly half, or 28.5 million, of the world's out-of-school children live in countries affected by conflict and crisis. The Lowey-Reichert Education for All Act would ensure the United States continues to lead efforts with international organizations, foreign leaders, and other donors to increase global access to quality education. A Senate version of the Education for All Act was introduced by Senators Richard Durbin (D-IL), Susan Collins (R-ME), Edward Markey (D-MA), and Marco Rubio (R-FL) in July. It has been referred to the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, where it awaits consideration. # # #
09.06.2016	Grants to 14 Local Organizations Will Help Support Crucial Initiatives to Curb Substance Abuse Washington, DC – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (Westchester/Rockland), the Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, announced 14 local organizations in New York’s 17th Congressional District will receive a total of $1.825 million in federal grants for youth anti-substance abuse initiatives through the Office of National Drug Control Policy (ONDCP) Drug-Free Communities (DFC) Program. These grants include $125,000 in new funding for the Town of New Castle’s Coalition for Youth in Chappaqua. “Our children and grandchildren are our most valuable resources, and they must have every opportunity to succeed,” said Lowey. “I’m pleased these grants will help the Town of New Castle, and many other communities across the Lower Hudson Valley, keep our future leaders healthy and safe from drug and alcohol abuse. As Ranking Member of the Appropriations Committee, I will keep fighting to increase funding for this crucial program so that all children can achieve their greatest potential.” New Castle Town Supervisor Rob J. Greenstein, who acknowledged the work of town and school district officials as well as several residents, said, “This new funding will allow the newly formed New Castle United for Youth Coalition to work with parents, agencies, schools, businesses, faith groups, civic groups and others to help place more young people on the path toward success and enable them to live healthier and safer lives. I look forward to working with New Castle United for Youth Coalition to build a healthier community." Ellen Morehouse, Executive Director of Student Assistance Services Corporation, said “The Town of New Castle and the Chappaqua School District have a strong commitment to substance abuse prevention. This grant will provide the additional support to expand their efforts. Congresswoman Lowey's advocacy for substance abuse prevention and treatment programs were key to funding these grants nationally." The Coalition for Youth serves the Town of New Castle’s 17,569 residents by establishing and strengthening community collaboration in support of local efforts to prevent substance misuse. These federal funds will help the Coalition work to reduce the availability of alcohol, marijuana and prescription drugs; implement prevention messaging campaigns for parents and youth; increase surveillance of areas known for youth drug use; and change the culture and context within which decisions about substance use are made. In New York’s 17th Congressional District, 13 other local entities awarded continuing DFC grants include: Cortlandt Community Coalition in Cortlandt Manor ($125,000); Port Chester Cares Community Coalition in Port Chester ($125,000); Croton Community Coalition in Croton ($125,000); South Orangetown Community Awareness of Substance Abuse in West Nyack ($125,000) and ($75,000) for the Prevention Education for East Ramapo Coalition; Mount Kisco Drug and Alcohol Prevention Council in Mount Kisco ($125,000); Our Community Against Drug Abuse in Blauvelt ($125,000); Blind Brook Community Coalition in RyeBrook ($125,000); Alliance for Safe Kids in Yorktown Heights ($125,000); Irvington Community Advisory Board in Irvington ($125,000); Peekskill Agencies Together (PAT) in Peekskill ($125,000); Dobbs Ferry Youth Services Council in Dobbs Ferry ($125,000); Pleasantville STRONG (Safe Teens, Real Opportunities, New Goals) in Pleasantville ($125,000); Suffern United Coalition Against Substance Abuse in West Nyack ($125,000). The Drug-Free Communities (DFC) Support Program, created by the Drug-Free Communities Act of 1997, is the Nation’s leading effort to mobilize communities to prevent youth substance use. Directed by the White House Office of National Drug Control Policy (ONDCP), in partnership with the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA), the DFC Program provides grants to community coalitions to strengthen the infrastructure among local partners to create and sustain a reduction in local youth substance use. The DFC Program provides grants of up to $625,000 over five years to community coalitions that facilitate youth and adult participation at the community level in local youth drug use prevention efforts. ###
08.25.2016	Grant Provides Resources to Improve Safety Infrastructure WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (Westchester/Rockland), the Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, announced a $13,065 Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant (Byrne JAG), which will be used by the Village of Spring Valley to enhance the effectiveness of local public safety programs. “Our communities are most secure when we work together to fight and reduce crime,” said Lowey. “I’m pleased this grant will ensure the continued safety of our neighborhoods and families by helping Spring Valley better equip and train local law enforcement.” The Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant (Byrne JAG) Program is the cornerstone federal crime-fighting program, supporting the federal government’s crucial role in spurring innovation, as well as testing and replicating evidence-based practices nationwide. States and localities use Byrne JAG to test emergence and evidence-based approaches to public safety challenges. Over the years, many proven criminal justice practices have been tested using Byrne JAG funds and are now in practice nationwide, such as anti-gang strategies, drug courts, reentry programs, and information sharing protocols such as multi-jurisdictional drug and gang task forces. ###
08.24.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), the senior Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, yesterday sent a letter to Mylan Chief Executive Officer Heather Bresch, expressing concern over the skyrocketing cost of EpiPens. “According to various news accounts, the price of EpiPen has increased 400% since 2007. Such a dramatic increase in the cost of life-saving medication is of tremendous concern,” wrote Lowey. “Food allergies, which often require immediate medical intervention, affect an estimated 15 million Americans, including one in every 13 children.” Access to EpiPens remains as critical now as ever, particularly ahead of a new school year. In the letter, Lowey appealed directly to CEO Bresch urging Mylan to take immediate steps to lower the cost of these life-saving devices. The full text of the letter can be found here. August 23, 2016 Ms. Heather Bresch Chief Executive Officer Mylan 1000 Mylan Boulevard Canonsburg, PA 15317 Dear Ms. Bresch, I write regarding alarming reports about the price of your epinephrine-filled devices, EpiPen and EpiPen Jr., which have skyrocketed in recent years. According to various news accounts, the price of EpiPen has increased 400% since 2007. A two-dose pack now costs an average of $400, a shocking difference in price from just nine years ago when it was $60. Such a dramatic increase in the cost of life-saving medication is of tremendous concern. While a variety of allergies result in the prescription of EpiPens, as you are well aware, food allergies, which often require immediate medical intervention, affect an estimated 15 million Americans, including one in every 13 children. That is why in 2013 Congress passed the School Access to Emergency Epinephrine Act, which incentivized states to encourage public elementary and secondary schools to maintain a supply of epinephrine and permit trained personnel to administer it. Access to EpiPens remains as critical now as ever. According to my constituents, if the price of EpiPen continues to rise, medical personal, school officials, and family members could be forced to use cheaper options, such as manual syringes, which are more complicated to administer and less effective. We could face a situation in which millions of families and schools simply cannot afford to keep the device on hand, which would be catastrophic. Particularly ahead of a new school year, I urge you to take immediate steps to lower the cost of critically-needed EpiPens, which are essential for the health and well-being of millions of children and adults. Sincerely, Nita M. Lowey Member of Congress ###
08.22.2016	Officials Participate in National Historic Trail Ceremony and Historic Preservation Roundtable (White Plains, NY) U.S. Secretary of the Interior Sally Jewell joined Congresswoman Nita Lowey and New York State Office of Parks, Recreation and Historic Preservation Commissioner Rose Harvey today at two events within the Hudson River Valley National Heritage Area, marking the 100th anniversary of the National Park Service. A morning ceremony to unveil new Washington Rochambeau Revolutionary Route National Historic Trail signs at Franklin D. Roosevelt State Park was followed by an afternoon historic preservation stakeholder roundtable at Bear Mountain State Park led by Secretary Jewell, Congresswoman Lowey and Commissioner Harvey. To celebrate its 100th anniversary and to look ahead to its next 100 years, the National Park Service launched the #FindYourPark movement to inspire people from all backgrounds to celebrate and support not just the National Parks but all of America's parks and special places that rejuvenate and inspire them. These two events highlight the National Park Service’s and the Department of Interior’s commitment to engage partners in a joint effort to connect more people to our nation's natural landscapes, vibrant culture, and rich history. United States Secretary of the Interior Sally Jewell said, "As America's storyteller, the National Park Service is proud to preserve iconic places that tell our Nation's history for future generations. Historic and cultural sites like the Hudson Valley National Heritage Area boost tourism and fuel local economies, while telling important stories about our journey. I thank Representative Lowey for her continued dedication and support for our national parks and historic preservation." Congresswoman Lowey, Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee, said, “As we celebrate the Centennial of the National Park Service, we recognize the important work NPS does each day to protect America’s greatest national treasures, including various sites throughout the Hudson Valley. After having worked hard to include the historic Washington-Rochambeau trail as part of the National Trails System, it’s an honor to welcome Secretary Jewell to unveil its new trail markers, witness firsthand the impact of the Department of Interior’s support for our region, and learn from local experts about our rich Hudson Valley heritage. I will continue working to secure robust federal funding for NPS to build on these investments to preserve our nation’s greatest historical and cultural sites for the education and enjoyment of future generations.” State Parks Commissioner Rose Harvey said, “State Parks wishes the National Parks Service a happy 100th and is thrilled to host today’s celebration at two of our most beloved destinations, FDR and Bear Mountain State Parks. Whether it’s partnering on the Every-Kid-in-a-Park initiative to free park entry to fourth graders and their families; expanding opportunities to educate and inspire current and future generation of park stewards, or participating in a community discussion on the importance of historic preservation and our treasured cultural assets, we are once again honored to jointly celebrate and partner with the Department of Interior and National Park Service during what is a very special week.” National Historic Trail Signs Unveiled General George Washington and other reenactors in period uniform greeted officials and partners at the unveiling of the Washington-Rochambeau Revolutionary Route National Historic Trail signs at FDR State Park. Today’s ceremony also marked the 235th anniversary of General Washington’s Continental Army joining forces with General Rochambeau’s French army in the lower Hudson Valley. The combined forces made the long march to Yorktown, VA where they won the final battle in the Revolutionary War and secured American independence. The new signs mark the location of a French Army encampment, tell the story of the alliance, and highlight the Hudson Valley’s significant role in the Revolutionary War. The Washington-Rochambeau Revolutionary Route National Historic Trail extends through nine states from Boston, Massachusetts to Yorktown, Virginia. Congresswoman Lowey cosponsored legislation designating the route a National Historic Trail in 2009 - the newest of 19 National Historic Trails that are part of the National Trails System. Historic Preservation Round Table Secretary Jewell, Congresswoman Lowey and Commissioner Harvey invited regional historic preservation stakeholders and advocates to Bear Mt. State Park to participate in a roundtable discussion on the issues and opportunities associated with protecting and preserving the country’s historical and cultural sites and structures. Participants in the forum discussed challenges to historic preservation, what works, sustainability of historic sites, and ways to engage new audiences and cultivate the next generation of preservationists. The dialogue provided valuable insight to the challenges and creative ideas that will shape historic preservation over the next 100 years. Mark Castiglione, Acting Executive Director of the Hudson River Valley National Heritage Area and Greenway, said, “The Hudson River Valley National Heritage Area is about building partnerships across our region to celebrate and promote the Hudson Valley’s rich history and natural resources. Today’s events highlight that partnerships work. I thank Secretary Jewell and Commissioner Harvey for leading the state-federal partnership that is so critical to preserving our history and Congresswoman Lowey for being a champion for the Hudson River Valley National Heritage Area by making sure we can continue to access the federal resources that support our work.” Congresswoman Lowey has continually fought to increase funding for the National Park Service, securing $2.9 billion for the NPS in the Fiscal Year 2017 House Interior Appropriations Bill, $71 million more than the FY 16 level. She also worked hard to include the Washington-Rochambeau Trail in the National Trails System, highlighting the critical role the Hudson River Valley played in the fight for American independence. The Hudson River Valley National Heritage Area program was established by Congress in 1996 and is funded, in part, through the National Park Service, Department of Interior. The National Heritage Area expands on traditional approaches to resource stewardship by building public and private partnerships that help celebrate, preserve, protect, and interpret the nationally significant resources for the Hudson River Valley for the benefit of the nation. The activities of the HRVNHA and its partners contribute $584 Million in economic benefit and support 6,500 jobs in the Hudson Valley. Nationwide, National Heritage Areas support 148,000 jobs. The Hudson River Valley National Heritage Area is managed by the Hudson River Valley Greenway. Photos from the event are available HERE ###
08.12.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), the senior Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, sent a letter to United States Coast Guard Rear Admiral Linda Fagan, District Commander of the First Coast Guard District, expressing concerns regarding the Maritime Association of the Port of New York/New Jersey Tug &Barge Committee’s request for expanded anchorage sites along the Hudson River. “The increase in barge traffic along the Hudson River will adversely impact the economy and safety of the Lower Hudson Valley region,” wrote Lowey. “At least two local municipalities within my Congressional district – the Towns of Cortlandt and Haverstraw –have passed resolutions opposing the proposed anchorage sites and requesting public hearings… Several hundred residents of the Hudson Valley have also entered comments online opposing this proposal… I urge you to… hold public hearings in the Hudson Valley … before you make any decision on the request for expanded anchorage sites.” The full text of the letter can be found here. *************************************************************************************** August 10, 2016 RDML Linda Fagan, District Commander First Coast Guard District 408 Atlantic Avenue Boston, MA 02110 Dear RDML Fagan: I am writing to express my concerns and those of my constituents on both sides of the Hudson River regarding the Maritime Association of the Port of New York/New Jersey Tug & Barge Committee’s (Committee) request for expanded anchorage sites in the Hudson River. I have reviewed and understand the reasons for the Committee’s request. However, I believe the increase in barge traffic along the Hudson River will adversely impact the economy and safety of the Lower Hudson Valley region. Both Westchester and Rockland Counties have recreational marinas in the vicinity of the proposed anchorage sites. More barges will limit the number of recreational boaters at the marinas and increase the likelihood of serious accidents between boaters and barges, thereby hurting the recreational boating and tourism industry in the region. The proposed anchorage sites will also be visually unappealing, after several river towns have spent significant funds and effort to maintain the aesthetically pleasing shorelines. The proposed anchorage sites also raise security and safety concerns. Indian Point Energy Center (Indian Point) operates two nuclear plants that sit on the Hudson River in Buchanan. Spectra Energy Partners is expanding its natural gas pipeline, which runs under the Hudson River, just south of Indian Point. Champlain Hudson Power Express (CHPE) is in the permitting process for constructing a high-voltage transmission line from the U.S.-Canada border to New York City along the Hudson River. The proposed anchorage sites could be used to observe, violate, or even attack Indian Point. Also, the CHPE line will be covered by cement mattresses on the River floor, and barge anchors could get caught and move the mattresses, or even damage the CHPE line. Furthermore, some of the barges that would anchor near the shoreline carry potentially dangerous and/or hazardous material. At least two local municipalities within my Congressional district – the Towns of Cortlandt and Haverstraw –have passed resolutions opposing the proposed anchorage sites and requesting public hearings. I enclose these resolutions for your consideration. Several hundred residents of the Hudson Valley have also entered comments online opposing this proposal. Based on the above serious concerns, I urge you to grant the Town of Cortlandt’s timely request and hold public hearings in the Hudson Valley region to give opponents the opportunity to present their arguments in person before you make any decision on the request for expanded anchorage sites. Sincerely, Nita M. Lowey Member of Congress ###
08.11.2016	Appropriations Ranking Dem: Republican Majority Playing Russian Roulette with Public Health Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY), Ranking Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, today released the following statement on the Department of Health and Human Services transferring funding to avoid a halt in the Zika vaccine development process: "In its continued failure to enact emergency Zika appropriations, the Republican majority is playing Russian Roulette with the health of the American people. This failure has forced the Administration to divert funding from other critical priorities, including cancer, Alzheimer's, HIV/AIDS, mental health, viral hepatitis, and home energy assistance for low-income Americans. "Robbing Peter to pay Paul is damaging and immoral, and it must stop. "Instead of playing political games, Speaker Ryan must immediately reconvene the House to pass the bipartisan Zika funding bill that the Senate passed 89-8 three months ago." ###
08.11.2016	NEW CITY, NY – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (Westchester/Rockland), the Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, released the following statement in response to the incidents of incendiary devices detonating outside two rabbis’ homes in New City: “I join the Rockland County community in condemning this week’s disturbing incidents involving incendiary devices detonating outside two rabbis’ homes,” said Lowey. “Thankfully no one was injured by the small fires, but they are painful reminders that we must remain vigilant at all times against such targeted displays of hate. I greatly appreciate our local law enforcement’s quick response. Intolerance in any form is unacceptable, and I hope the investigation will lead to swift resolution for all those affected.” ###
08.06.2016	WHITE PLAINS, NY – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (Westchester/Rockland), the Ranking Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, today released the following statement marking 51 years since President Johnson signed the Voting Rights Act into law: “Today we celebrate the 51st anniversary of the Voting Rights Act (VRA), the most successful civil rights legislation in our nation’s history. This landmark achievement dismantled systemic discrimination and disenfranchisement across the country, and it ensured that the voices of millions of Americans were heard at the ballot box. “Unfortunately, over half a century later, there is still much work to be done to guarantee voting rights for all. Three years ago, the Supreme Court’s ruling in Shelby County v. Holder gutted crucial parts of the VRA, opening the flood gates to a slew of restrictive voting laws in over 20 states that impede the basic rights of countless Americans today. I am a proud cosponsor of the Voting Rights Advancement Act, which would restore the full power of the VRA, because it is essential that we do everything we can to protect and expand access to the polls. “The right to vote is the fundamental building block of our democracy. When it is threatened or hampered, our nation cannot realize our loftiest aspirations or achieve our most ambitious goals. As we strive toward a more just and democratic system, we must vigilantly work to remove burdens that limit citizens' ability to exercise their core Constitutional rights.” ###
08.04.2016	First Locally Transmitted Infections Recorded in Miami, Prompting First-Ever CDC Travel Warning in Continental United States Without Action by Congress, Vaccine Development and Mosquito Eradication Funds Will Run Out in Coming Weeks White Plains, NY -- Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY17) today called on Speaker of the House Paul Ryan to immediately reconvene Congress to pass emergency funding to mount a robust response to the deadly Zika virus. Joining Congresswoman Lowey to detail the medical concerns and health dangers of Zika was Dr. Robert Amler, Dean of the School of Health Sciences and Practice and Institute of Public Health at New York Medical College. “It is outrageous that, at a time when the deadly Zika virus is spreading within the continental United States, Congress sits on its hands and refuses to provide emergency funding needed for an effective response,” said Lowey. “The consequences of this public health emergency are too severe for political gamesmanship. Speaker Ryan should immediately reconvene the House of Representatives to provide emergency funding to stem the tide of this public health crisis.” “Zika is typically mild when you get it, but when it hits during pregnancy it can cause permanent damage to the baby,” said Almer. “CDC and our local health departments are working hard to prevent Zika from spreading, but there are still many unknowns. Additional important work must be done to learn everything needed to fully contain transmission of this unusual virus.” In February, President Obama requested $1.9 billion in emergency funding to combat the spread of Zika and protect American communities. In May, the Senate passed $1.1 billion in emergency funding. Yet nearly six months and 6,400 American Zika cases – including 855 pregnant women – after funding was first requested, the Republican House Majority has not passed a Zika funding bill that can be signed into law. Evidence that the virus is spreading accumulates daily, including this week with the first cases of local transmission by mosquitos recorded in Miami, prompting a first-ever federal travel warning within the continental United States. Yesterday, Secretary of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services Sylvia Mathews Burwell detailed the consequences of Congress’s continued failure to approve emergency funding. By the end of August, funding that the Administration repurposed for vaccine and diagnostic development, testing, and private sector partnership will be exhausted, “delay[ing] when a safe and effective Zika vaccine is available to the American public,” according to Burwell. By the end of September, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) will have exhausted its funding for assistance to states, territories, and localities to fight Zika. Dr. Anthony Fauci, Director of the National Institute Allergy and Infectious Diseases (NAID), said yesterday on a tele-briefing, “Without Congressional approval of additional funding for Zika efforts, the planning and preparation necessary to conduct a Phase II trial will slow down significantly, effectively impeding our smooth process on the vaccine development front. He continued, “We cannot afford to delay the work needed to develop a safe and effective vaccine to prevent Zika virus infection.” “We cannot let vital research on vaccines and treatments for Zika lapse in the wake of local transmissions on our shores,” said Lowey. “CDC must also be prepared to provide states and local governments with assistance should local transmission occur in other regions, including New York, in the coming months. The House Majority simply cannot stall any longer on the bipartisan Senate agreement to ramp up our Zika preparedness.” Photos from the event can be found here. # # #
07.29.2016	Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY), Ranking Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, today issued the following statement in response to news of four cases of Zika virus in Florida that were locally transmitted: "This news makes clear how reckless it was for the Republican majority to adjourn for seven weeks without having enacted emergency Zika funding. Speaker Ryan should immediately call Congress back into session to provide robust funding for mosquito eradication and vector control, vaccine research, and health services." ###
07.21.2016	66,000 children in Westchester are food insecure; 13,600 in Rockland enrolled in school nutrition programs Families of kids receiving free and reduced lunch in school face hundreds in additional costs in summer Congress must save and strengthen child nutrition programs Ellen Lynch, CEO & President, Food Bank for Westchester; Congresswoman Lowey; Kurt Messner, Northeastern Regional Administrator, USDA Food and Nutrition Service; USDA Under Secretary Concannon; and Toby Pidgeon, Director of Operations, Food Bank for Westchester, tour the Food Bank’s distribution center. Elmsford, NY – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) and United States Department of Agriculture Under Secretary for Food, Nutrition, and Consumer Services Kevin Concannon today toured Food Bank for Westchester’s distribution center and held a roundtable on helping children at risk of hunger during the summer. “The dog days of summer shouldn’t also be the hungry days of summer,” said Lowey, Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee. “Yet tens of thousands of children in the Lower Hudson Valley are hungry in the months they don’t attend school where they receive vital meals. We can’t expect children to grow, thrive, and succeed if they are hungry. That’s why I’m working with Food Bank for Westchester and USDA Under Secretary Concannon to pass legislation to save and expand summer feeding programs and other nutrition initiatives for millions of American children and families.” Under Secretary Concannon said, “The USDA has long recognized summer as a vulnerable time for kids and has been focused on closing the food security gap that occurs during the months when school is out of session. Since 2009, more than 1.2 billion meals have been served through the Summer Meal Programs, fueling kids and teens throughout the summer and helping to ensure they are healthy and ready to learn when the school year begins. Alongside Congresswoman Lowey, New York State, the Food Bank for Westchester, and other partners, we will continue our commitment to the New Yorkers most in need.” President and CEO of the Food Bank for Westchester Ellen Lynch added, “One in five people in Westchester County are food insecure, and 33 percent of those people are children. We thank Congresswoman Nita Lowey and USDA Under Secretary Kevin Concannon for their visit today and are grateful for their efforts on behalf of children and families. With their help, we are optimistic that we will be able to expand our summer feeding programs and make sure that more children receive the nutritious food they need and deserve.’’ Millions of American children are food insecure, including 66,000 in Westchester County, according to the Food Bank for Westchester. Many go without the nutritional support they receive at school during the summer months, including up to 25,000 Westchester students in grades five and under who receive free or reduced lunches in school. In Rockland County, according to People to People for Rockland, food insecurity affects 9.5 percent of the population, including 13,641 children enrolled in school nutrition programs. The Food Bank of Westchester officials said that, based on Feeding America estimates, families need an additional $318 for meals in the summer for each child who loses the benefit of free or reduced school lunch programs while school is out. Following a tour of the Food Bank for Westchester’s impressive distribution center, Lowey and Concannon heard from hunger relief advocates, youth agency and nutrition program representatives, and school officials about the dire circumstances facing many local families and proposals to close the meal gap. Joe Allen, Chairman of the Board for People to People for Rockland, which served nearly 47,000 individuals last year, said, “Since the recession began in 2008, the number of Rocklanders needing the services of the People to People pantry increases virtually every single month. In the throes of summer, the situation gets more severe. Too many parents now dread the financial strain that comes with feeding their families in the summer, traditionally the season of rest and relaxation.” Elmsford Union Free School District Superintendent Joseph Ricca said, “Too many of our children are living in a constant state of uncertainty and anxiety about finding their next nutritious meal. During the summer months or holiday school recesses, these concerns are exacerbated. We must continue to work hard to support our neediest children and their families by providing them with opportunities to secure the food that they need during these challenging times. We are grateful to Congresswoman Lowey, Under Secretary Concannon and the Food Bank for Westchester for continuing to bring these dire circumstances affecting our children to the forefront.” Congress is overdue to pass a Child Nutrition Reauthorization bill. Many related programs expired last summer, were temporarily extended, and will expire on September 30th. The bill Republicans passed in the House Education and Workforce Committee in May to reauthorize the Healthy Hunger-Free Kids Act of 2010 would put more children at risk of hunger year-round. The partisan bill’s shortcomings include: A higher threshold for the Community Eligibility Provision, which helps schools with high poverty rates provide free breakfast and lunch to all students; Block grants and decreased funding for states in place of vital and successful initiatives like the Summer Food Service Program and school lunch and breakfast programs; and No permanent authorization and less funding than is currently provided for the Summer Electronic Benefits Transfer (EBT) for Children pilot project. As Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee, Congresswoman Lowey has strongly supported the Summer EBT program since 2010 and President Obama’s proposal to expand it nationwide, including for New York families. It provides debit-like cards for food purchases during the summer to families with children in free and reduced lunch school feeding programs. Concannon said Summer EBT has helped reduce the most severe food insecurity by one-third during the summer months and enabled children at risk of hunger to eat more nutritious meals in the eight states where it operates. “Thankfully we have great organizations like People to People for Rockland and the Food Bank for Westchester to fill the hunger gap,” said Lowey. “Our communities are strongest when our economy helps Americans secure good jobs that fully support their families and when the government safety net is sufficient to help when they need it. When Congress returns to Washington in September, ending hunger for millions of young Americans must be a top priority. Our children are counting on us to put food on the table, and we cannot let them down. “ Additional photos and captions from the event can be found here. # # #
07.15.2016	WASHINGTON, DC - Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), the Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, released the following statement on yesterday’s Bastille Day attack in Nice, France: “My heart aches for the people of France, and my prayers are with the victims of yesterday’s appalling attack, which appears to be an act of terrorism, and their families. The loss of so many innocent lives is devastating as the French people grapple with yet another unthinkable assault. “The United States stands in total solidarity with our close ally, and we will support the French government’s efforts to bring all those responsible to justice. Together we must reaffirm our resolve to root out evil and hatred and rededicate ourselves to the eternal goals of liberté, équalité, fraternité.” ###
07.14.2016	Comprehensive U.S. Global Education Strategy is Key to Development, Diplomatic, and National Security Goals WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY), Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee and of the Subcommittee on State Department and Foreign Operations, and Congressman David Reichert (R-WA), Chairman of the Ways and Means Subcommittee on Trade, today praised the House Foreign Affairs Committee’s passage of H.R. 4481, the Education for All Act, which they introduced. “If we equip the world’s children with books and knowledge, we can decrease the chances they become lured by extremist ideology,” said Lowey. “An education is the fundamental tool with which boys and girls are empowered to increase their economic potential, improve their health outcomes, provide for their families, address cultural biases, participate effectively in their communities, and ultimately defeat the root causes of extremism. We simply will not achieve real, long-term diplomatic and development success without education at the center of our efforts, and as the 9/11 Commission declared, global education is a national security imperative.” “For the millions of children living in poverty, especially in conflict-affected regions and sub-Saharan Africa, access to an education is their best chance of growing up to live a healthy, productive, and stable life,” said Reichert. “By giving children living in the most desperate situations the tools to think for themselves, care for their families, and give back to their communities, we are not only doing what is right, but we are laying the groundwork for greater peace and stability in conflict-prone regions around the world. This bill will strengthen our existing efforts to reach the 124 million children globally who currently lack an education by better coordinating with international partners who share the same mission.” The Education for All Act, which passed out of committee today, would: Establish as U.S. policy the promotion of quality basic education by working with other countries, multilateral organizations, international and local civil society organizations, and other major donors to assist developing countries in strengthening their educational systems and ensuring all children have access to school; Require a comprehensive U.S. strategy that improves educational opportunities and addresses key barriers to school attendance, retention, and completion for the poorest and most vulnerable children worldwide; and Improve coordination and oversight of the US Agency for International Development’s basic education programs by designating a “Senior Coordinator” within the Agency tasked with developing and monitoring the education strategy; coordinating policy with other agencies, donors, and international organizations; and reporting to Congress on program implementation. The 2012 attack on education activist Malala Yousafzai by the Taliban in Pakistan and the kidnapping of hundreds of Nigerian girls by the terrorist organization Boko Haram in April 2014 remain painful reminders of the barriers to education so many youth face around the world. Here are the startling facts about the state of international basic education today: Approximately 59 million primary-school-aged children and 65 million adolescents are out of school. Half of the children in the world do not have access to preschool. 250 million children are not learning basic skills in reading, writing, and math or are dropping out before the fourth grade. More than 100 million youth cannot read or write. Nearly two-thirds of the world's 751 million illiterate adults are women. An estimated 98 percent of children with disabilities under the age of 18 do not attend school. Roughly half, or 28.5 million, of the world's out-of-school children live in countries affected by conflict and crisis. The Lowey-Reichert Education for All Act would ensure the United States continues to lead efforts with international organizations, foreign leaders, and other donors to increase global access to quality education. # #
07.14.2016	Investments will support patients with traumatic brain injuries and with spinal muscular atrophy WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (Westchester/Rockland), the Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, announced two National Institutes of Health (NIH) grants totaling $789,454 for the Burke Medical Research Institute in White Plains. These grants will support research to help improve sight in people with trauma-induced neurological injuries and help restore movement in spinal muscular atrophy patients. “Every day, some of our nation’s most cutting-edge medical research is being performed right here in the Lower Hudson Valley,” said Congresswoman Nita Lowey. “I am proud to fight for federal resources for the Burke Medical Research Institute and other outstanding local facilities whose important work keeps New Yorkers healthy while dramatically improving health outcomes across the country. Funding for NIH has nearly tripled since I joined the House Appropriations subcommittee that funds medical research, and I will continue working to increase the $2 billion the NIH pumps into New York’s economy each year.” The $314,454 National Eye Institute (NEI) grant will be used as seed money for a device that improves sight in people with neurological injuries. This specialized equipment was developed from studies of children who have sustained traumatic brain damage as a result of car accidents or falls from a bike. Patients are shown pictures or other stimulants and asked to visually track them across a screen. Music plays when the images are tracked properly but stops if they are followed incorrectly. Because these patients’ extensive brain damage has left them unable to communicate what they see, the device helps doctors understand what is being perceived visually while also stimulating and improving the patient’s visual system. “We are thrilled,” said Dr. Rajiv R. Ratan, Executive Director of the Burke Medical Research Institute. “While much of what we are doing here promises improvements in clinical care in five or ten years, this new piece of equipment can improve care almost immediately.” The NEI was established to protect and prolong the vision of the American people. Its mission is to conduct and support research, training, and other programs with respect to blinding eye diseases, visual disorders, and the special health problems and requirements of the blind. NEI research leads to sight-saving treatments, reduces visual impairment and blindness, and improves the quality of life for people of all ages and has advanced knowledge the visual system in health and disease. The $475,000 National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS) grant will be used to study a genetic form of paralysis in children called spinal muscular atrophy. This condition results in the deterioration of motor ability, robbing patients of their ability to walk, use their arms, eat, or breathe. This grant will be used to investigate why motor neurons in particular are vulnerable to this genetic disease. This research will have important implications for the restoration of movement in children and adults, a central goal of the Burke Medical Research Institute. NINDS is a division of the National Institutes of Health (NIH) whose mission is to seek fundamental knowledge about the brain and nervous system and to use that knowledge to reduce the burden of neurological disease. It supports and conducts research on the normal and diseased nervous system; fosters the training of investigators in neurosciences; and seeks better understanding, diagnosis, treatment, and prevention of neurological disorders. NINDS serves as a prime source of neurological information for scientists, clinicians, and the public. Lowey fought to include a $2 billion increase in NIH funding in the December 2015 year-end omnibus government spending bill. ###
07.08.2016	Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY), Ranking Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, today issued the following statement regarding passage of an amendment to the FY2017 Financial Services & General Government Appropriations bill barring federal or local funds to enforce the District of Columbia’s Reproductive Health Nondiscrimination Amendment Act (RHNDA): “The 2017 Financial Services & General Government Appropriations bill is replete with divisive and ideological poison pill riders spanning the gamut of reproductive rights, foreign policy, the Affordable Care Act, consumer financial protections, and much more. “But today’s passage of an amendment barring funds to enforce the D.C. Reproductive Health Nondiscrimination Amendment Act (RHNDA), is especially spiteful and destructive. RHNDA was passed in 2014 to prevent employers from discriminating against employees – male or female – based on their reproductive health choices. “District of Columbia residents should not have to worry that their choice to terminate a pregnancy, to use in vitro fertilization to conceive a child, or even to use contraception, will result in their being fired or denied a job. Under the guise of “religious liberty,” this amendment is an unprecedented intrusion into D.C. residents’ personal health choices, and cannot be a part of any final Appropriations law.” ###
07.07.2016	Grants will bolster local emergency services WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (Westchester/Rockland), the Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, announced two Department of Homeland Security Assistance to Firefighters Grants (AFG) awarded to the Irvington Fire Department and to the Village of Tarrytown Fire Department. “Local fire departments are often the first to respond during an emergency, and their actions in those crucial moments can be the difference in preventing tragedies,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “It is essential that our emergency service providers have the resources they need to react quickly and decisively to protect our communities. I’m pleased these grants will help the Irvington Fire Department and the Village of Tarrytown Fire Department keep families safe. Irvington Fire Department will receive $27,239 to purchase 11 sets of new interior firefighter turnout gear. “I want to thank Congresswoman Lowey for her support of the AFG program,” said Irvington Fire Department Chief Anthony Tarricone. “These funds will be spent to keep Irvington firefighters safe while they protect our community.” Tarrytown Fire Department will receive $51,429. The Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) Program is a Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) program awarding grants directly to fire departments, non-affiliated Emergency Medical Services (EMS) organizations, and state fire training academies to enhance their ability to protect the health and safety of the public. The AFG program is an important component of strengthening the United States’ overall level of preparedness and ability to respond to fire and related hazards. Since Fiscal Year 2001, it has provided approximately $6.4 billion in grants to first-responder organizations to obtain much needed equipment, emergency vehicles, and training. ###
07.02.2016	Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey, Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee, released the following statement on the passing of Elie Wiesel, Auschwitz Survivor and Nobel Peace Prize Laureate: "I join millions of mourners across the globe whose hearts ache after the passing of Elie Wiesel. He was the embodiment of perseverance in the darkest and most brutal chapter in human history. Despite unimaginable odds, Elie survived the Holocaust and devoted the rest of his life to ensuring the world would never forget its horrors. His writings, teachings, and advocacy for human rights will live on forever, but the world will be a lesser place without his decency and dignity. "I will forever consider myself privileged to have known Elie. His memory is a blessing to all." ###
06.29.2016	Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey, Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee, released the following statement on the tragic terrorist attack in Istanbul’s airport, which took the lives of more than 40 people and injured hundreds: "My thoughts and prayers are with victims’ families from yesterday’s despicable terrorist attack in Istanbul and with the hundreds of innocent people who were injured. Such senseless violence must be condemned by all nations, and we must work even closer with our allies to defeat terrorism. The United States stands in total solidarity with the people of Turkey as they endeavor to recover from this latest assault on their people. As the Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on State and Foreign Operations, I will keep supporting efforts to bring about stability and security for our allies in the region and around the world." ###
06.29.2016	Local 7th grader: “Responsible gun control laws are necessary to the safety of U.S. citizens” Women’s Justice Advocate: guns in domestic violence situations raise risk of homicide for women by 500% *** Photos Available Here *** White Plains, NY – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) and New York Lieutenant Governor Kathy Hochul led a roundtable discussion today with Dalia Roshal, a 7TH grade student from Hartsdale, and advocates for gun violence prevention and women’s justice as part of the National Day of Action to Prevent Gun Violence. “In the face of extraordinary suffering, we are not demanding acts of extraordinary heroism. We are asking simply for a vote in Congress on sensible measures the vast majority of Americans support to keep people safer,” said Lowey, Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee. “I was proud to join civil rights leader Congressman John Lewis and many colleagues in a sit-in to demand action in Congress on commonsense gun violence prevention legislation last week. Yet, in the dark of night last Wednesday, Speaker Ryan adjourned the House for two weeks during which more preventable gun deaths will leave mothers, fathers, and loved ones grieving.” "We are tired of burying our children, our friends and our neighbors at the hands of people using assault weapons in the United States," said Lieutenant Governor Kathy Hochul. "In New York State, Governor Cuomo led the charge to pass the most comprehensive gun violence prevention in the country. Now Republicans in Congress must do the same and stop prioritizing politics over peoples' lives." Lowey and Hochul said that despite New York’s responsible gun laws, we need stronger protections at the federal level to keep guns out of the wrong hands. That’s why Lowey joined fellow House Democrats in a sit-in on the House floor last week to protest the failure of the House Republican Majority to bring gun safety legislation to a vote. Seventh grader Dalia Roshal of Hartsdale wrote Lowey to thank her for standing up for gun safety legislation during the sit-in. She wrote, “I think responsible gun control laws are necessary to the safety of U.S. citizens, and that all and any steps towards pushing through those bills and laws should be taken. I’m proud that I live in district 17, a district whose representative is working hard towards safe gun laws.” Lowey also offered an amendment in the Appropriations Committee for the sixth time to prevent suspected terrorists, including those banned from boarding airplanes, from legally purchasing guns, also known as the “NoFlyNoBuy” provision. Republicans on the committee unanimously opposed the amendment to the Fiscal Year 2017 Homeland Security Appropriations Bill. Many local gun safety advocates joined the discussion, including Jessica Meller, Brady Campaign to Prevent Gun Violence and Moms Demand Action; Clare Cosslett and Sarah Kozloff, New Yorkers Against Gun Violence; and Nicole Lesser, Dawn Greenberg, and Peter Toth, Moms Demand Action. Cindy Kanusher, the Executive Director of Pace Women’s Justice Center, spoke about the unique gun violence risks for women, especially victims of domestic violence, saying, “Domestic violence perpetrators use guns to threaten, intimidate, assault and kill their partners and do so with alarming frequency. Family violence is much more likely to be lethal in a home where guns are present; when a gun is present in a domestic violence situation, it increases the risk of homicide for women by 500%. Keeping guns out of the hands of abusers will save lives. “ Click here for photos from the event and see one below: Hartsdale 7th grade student Dalia Roshal, Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey, and Lt. Governor Kathy Hochul are surrounded by gun violence prevention and women’s justice advocates at a roundtable for the National Day to Prevent Gun Violence. ###
06.23.2016	Lowey: While Republican Majority does nothing in two-week recess, more preventable gun deaths will leave mothers, fathers, friends, and loved ones grieving WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-NY17), Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee, released the following statement about the sit-in Democratic Members of Congress have held on the House floor since 11:30 a.m. yesterday: “House Democrats are giving voice to the millions of Americans demanding action in Congress to stop the deadly gun violence in streets, schools, churches, and theaters throughout the country. “In the face of our steadfast protest, instead of putting meaningful gun legislation before Congress, Speaker Ryan adjourned the House for two weeks. “And in that two weeks while the Republican Majority does nothing, we know that more preventable gun deaths will leave mothers, fathers, friends, and loved ones grieving. “We are not demanding acts of extraordinary heroism. We are asking to vote on sensible measures the vast majority of Americans support to keep people safer. Why would we continue to let terrorist suspects legally buy guns in America? Why can't people whose records look questionable wait a little longer before obtaining a deadly weapon? “While we couldn't get a vote in the full House, I did force a vote yesterday in the Appropriations Committee on preventing the legal sale of guns to terror suspects. Sadly, it puts plenty of House Republicans on record opposing this basic step that could protect American lives. “I'm proud to have stood with Representatives John Lewis, Elizabeth Esty who represents Newtown, Jim Clyburn who represents Charleston, Pete Aguilar who represents San Bernardino, Corrine Brown who represents Orlando, and so many more leaders in this important fight, which we vow to continue.” ###
06.22.2016	Provision to Prevent Terrorists From Buying Firearms Offered As Amendment to Homeland Security Appropriations bill Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY), Ranking Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, today offered an amendment to the FY2017 Homeland Security Appropriations bill to prevent potential terrorists from purchasing firearms, in the first House votes on gun policy since the tragic Orlando attack that killed 49 individuals. Democratic members of the Committee speaking in support of the amendment used their time to discuss individual victims of attacks in San Bernardino and Orlando, in order to put human faces on the issue of gun violence. “It is common sense that individuals involved in terrorist activity should not be permitted to purchase firearms,” said Lowey. “After San Bernardino, Orlando, and many other tragic attacks that the FBI has investigated as terrorism, we know the consequences of allowing the most dangerous people easy access to the most dangerous weapons. Congress must summon the will to take this simple step to prevent further tragedies and keep American communities safe.” Federal law currently prohibits nine categories of dangerous individuals from purchasing firearms. That list includes convicted felons, domestic abusers, and the seriously mentally ill. It does not include suspected terrorists. Between 2004 and 2015, individuals on terror watch lists tried to purchase guns or explosives 2,477 times. Of those attempts, 2,265 were successful – a 91 percent approval rate. The amendment offered by Lowey is identical to language offered by Senator Diane Feinstein and voted down by the U.S. Senate this week. It gives the attorney general the authority to block the sale of firearms to known or suspected terrorists, if the attorney general has a reasonable belief that the firearm would be used in connection with terrorism. It also requires the Attorney General to establish procedures to ensure that the DOJ is promptly notified if an individual who has been investigated for terrorism at any point in the past five years attempts to purchase a firearm. The amendment was voted down by the majority. Lowey has offered versions of this amendment five times in previous years dating back to FY2012. ###
06.17.2016	Congress Should Pass #NoFlyNoBuy Proposal Lowey has Offered to Stop Legal Gun Purchases by Suspected Terrorists Assault Weapons Ban & Universal Background Checks Would Save Lives White Plains, NY – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) was joined today by local elected officials, law enforcement, and advocates for the LGBTQ community and gun violence prevention to call on the Republican Majority in Congress to take action on gun laws to save lives. “Despite mass shooting after mass shooting, the Republican Majority in Congress refuses to act on commonsense gun safety measures, even when the majority of Americans support those policies,” said Lowey. “We grieve with the families who have lost loved ones to gun violence. But our thoughts and prayers are no longer enough. Congress must act to stop the legal sale of guns to suspected terrorists, to ban assault weapons, and to conduct background checks for every gun sale.” White Plains Mayor Tom Roach, who represented Everytown for Gun Safety, said, “The terrorist who perpetrated this horrific crime of hate should never have had access to a gun. The actions of those in Congress who have fought to block even basic protections like permitting the FBI to block gun sales to suspected terrorists, prohibiting people convicted of violent hate crimes from buying or possessing guns, and requiring a background check for every gun sale in America are outrageous and unacceptable.” Nyack Village Mayor Jen Laird White, who is also a member of Everytown for Gun Safety, said, “As I stood amid mourners in my small village yesterday, as I read in this morning’s paper that more toddlers than cops die each year from gunshot wounds, as I watch the fear on the faces of my friends from the LGBTQ community, and as I send my children into the world, lovingly raised young adults, I am consumed with the nagging fear that they may not come home because of some random act of gun violence. I find myself begging for something better for this great nation -- responsible and reasonable gun laws. That is all anyone is asking. And I continue to thank Congresswoman Lowey for never wavering in this fight but, rather, becoming more resolute that change MUST happen.” White Plains Public Safety Commissioner David Chong also attended the press conference at the White Plains Public Safety Department in the wake of the deadliest mass shooting in U.S. history, which occurred in Orlando over the weekend. Ramapo, NY, native Shane Tomlinson, whose family moved to North Carolina when he was in high school, was one of the 49 killed. Lowey said Congress should act immediately to stem the gun violence epidemic in our country by passing three critical policies: The “NoFlyNoBuy” provision could bar suspected terrorists, including those banned from boarding airplanes, from legally purchasing guns. The Government Accountability Office found that individuals on the terror watch lists successfully purchased guns and explosives 2,043 times between February 2004 and December 2014. Lowey has offered the measure five times in the House Appropriations Committee, where it has failed with Republican opposition, and cosponsored a bill introduced by Republican New York Congressman Peter King to enact this policy. Republicans have opposed considering this measure in the full House 13 times. Universal background checks would close the gaping loophole that allows gun sales by “private sellers” without background checks, which is exploited by those who know they couldn’t get guns from licensed gun dealers who are required to conduct background checks. Reinstatement of the ban on military style assault rifles would stop the sale of the weapons of war used to kill hundreds of innocent people in most of the mass shootings in recent years, including in Orlando, Newtown, Aurora, Rosenberg, and San Bernardino. It’s no surprise that 57 percent of Americans support a federal assault weapons ban. The Republican Majority in the House of Representatives refuses to pass – or even consider – commonsense gun violence prevention measures despite support from the American people. For example, according to Everytown for Gun Safety, surveys show that 92 percent of Americans—including 82 percent of gun owners and 74 percent of NRA members—support criminal background checks for all gun sales, and a 2012 survey by Republican pollster Frank Luntz found that 76 percent of gun owners, including 71 percent of National Rifle Association (NRA) members, support prohibiting people on the terror watch lists from purchasing guns. Lowey, who noted that 43,000 hate crimes between 2010 and 2014 were committed with guns, said that she stands in solidarity with the LGBTQ community, especially in the fight to stop gun violence and hate crimes. Scott Havelka, Director of Programs and Services of The Loft: LGBT Community Services Center in White Plains, said, “As community center leaders, we see the vast work that remains to eliminate homophobia, biphobia, transphobia, racism, and many other forms of bigotry from our communities; after Sunday, what is visible every day to us has now become clear to all.” Alexandra Dubroff, Hudson Valley Coordinator of New Yorkers Against Gun Violence, said, “Congresswoman Lowey has been a champion for gun safety measures for decades. We are grateful for her determination to stop people’s lives from being valued less than the gun industries’ profits. We in New York State are lucky to have strong gun laws, which is why New York gun deaths have declined 19 percent from 2003-2013 whereas nationally they have risen 11 percent. New Yorkers Against Gun Violence applauds Congresswoman Lowey's unrelenting efforts to enact commonsense federal regulations to keep guns out of dangerous hands. Only when her colleagues follow Congresswoman Lowey’s example and act to disarm hate will we finally begin to address the nation's appalling gun violence epidemic.” # # #
06.16.2016	Nearly $6.1 million increase is more than double the funding received in previous fiscal years Washington, DC –Reps. Nita Lowey (NY-17), Steve Israel (NY-03), and Rosa DeLauro (CT-03) announced $10 million in funding for Long Island Sound was included in the Fiscal Year 2017 Department of Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies appropriations bill earlier this week. The nearly $6.1 million increase in funding for Fiscal Year 2017 will be used for projects to improve water quality, habitat restoration, and water quality monitoring to improve the health of Long Island Sound. "When I was first elected, I promised to do all I could to restore the Long Island Sound," said Congresswoman Lowey, Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee. "Our success in sustaining this funding year after year and in substantially increasing it in the House bill this year supports our local economy and preserves the environment. I will continue fighting to save this essential resource for generations to come." “Long Island Sound is one of our greatest natural treasures -critical to our regional economy, our environment and our community,” said Congressman Steve Israel. “I have made increasing investments in the Sound one of my top priorities in Congress, and I am proud to have fought with Reps. Lowey and DeLauro to more than double funding for its restoration, protection and preservation. This $10 million will go a long way in ensuring Long Island Sound will continue to be a valuable resource for future generations of New Yorkers.” “The Long Island Sound is a national treasure with a significant ecological and economic value, contributing at least $9.4 billion to the regional economy from commercial and recreational fishing, ecotourism, and other water dependent businesses,” said Congresswoman Rosa DeLauro. “The $10 million provided in the 2017 budget bill, which I have fought to secure for a number of years, will ensure that the Sound remains a life-sustaining piece of our environment and our economy for generations to come.” Federal funding for the Environmental Protection Agency’s Long Island Sound Geographic Program is vital to our regional economy, our environment and the communities that rely on it. Since its formation 11,000 years ago, Long Island Sound has sustained a diversity of birds, wildlife and marine organisms, while also serving as a recreational magnet for tens of thousands of Americans. Today, more than 23 million people live within 50 miles of its shores. According to the Long Island Sound Study, the Sound alone directly contributes $9.4 billion to the regional economy each year and provides between $17 billion and $37 billion in economic value each year. Federal investments in the Long Island Sound help leverage additional funding from other Federal, state, local and private partners. Since 2006, for every $1 in funding provided by the Environmental Protection Agency, $84 was leveraged from other entities. This has contributed to $3.8 billion in direct environmental project support to restore and protect the Sound between 2006 and 2015. The funding bill passed the Appropriations Committee and must now be passed by the full House and Senate and signed by the President before becoming law. ###
06.15.2016	House Democratic Conferees Statement on Zika Conference Meeting House Democrats on the MilCon-VA and Zika Conference Committee today issued the following joint statement after the committee’s first meeting: “Sixteen weeks ago, President Obama requested urgent, emergency investments to protect American communities from the Zika virus. “Since then, about 2,000 cases of Zika have been diagnosed in the U.S. states and territories, including 372 pregnant women. Just in the two weeks between May 25 and June 8, nearly 100 pregnant women were infected with this devastating virus that is a known cause of microcephaly and other neurological disorders in developing babies. “As the virus has spread and its known effects have grown more severe, the House majority delayed and deflected, and finally got around to providing less than one-third of the President’s request. Even that paltry amount was offset with dangerous cuts to critical investments in Ebola and domestic public health preparedness. “The responsible path forward for this conference committee is to provide full funding of the President’s emergency request, including $1.1 billion in new Zika funds; $560 to restore Ebola funding and state public health funding that was been diverted to Zika; and $250 million in direct public health assistance to Puerto Rico – the epicenter of the outbreak in the United States – to deal with the impact of Zika. “If we do not act quickly and forcefully to respond to the threat of Zika now, we will face its costs for years to come.” ###
06.14.2016	“Alternative F” will provide adequate parking, reduce traffic on Village streets, and keep options open for future economic development Washington, DC—Congresswoman Nita Lowey today issued the following statement after New York State Governor Andrew Cuomo announced “Alternative F” for the New NY Bridge Terminus: “The selection of Alternative F for the New NY Bridge Terminus will help preserve quality of life and economic opportunity in our communities. I was proud to advocate for Alternative F because it will meet parking needs and provide pedestrian access to the shared use path on both sides of the bridge, alleviate morning commuter traffic in the Village of South Nyack, and allow more space between traffic and local homes in Rockland. “The New NY Bridge Terminus will welcome visitors and present another opportunity for the economic growth our area needs. I look forward to continuing to work with our local and state elected officials to cultivate more economic opportunity for the region. “I applaud the Governor and Thruway Authority for working with our communities to reach common agreement on what’s best for local residents.” # # #
06.13.2016	Lowey, Gillibrand, and Hochberg Meet With Local Businesses and Economic Development Leaders to Discuss Ways to Expand Export Opportunities Elmsford, NY – Congresswoman Nita Lowey, Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee, U.S. Senator Kirsten Gillibrand, a member of President Obama’s Export Council, and Fred P. Hochberg, the chairman and president of the Export-Import (EXIM) Bank of the United States hosted a roundtable conversation today at Magnetic Analysis Corporation to promote the exporting potential of businesses in Westchester County and the Lower Hudson Valley region. “The Ex-Im Bank helps American companies export the best brand in the world – ‘Made in America,’” said Lowey, who fought hard to reauthorize the ExIm Bank last year. “ExIm’s guaranteed financing supported $2.2 billion worth of exports and 14,150 jobs at 22 exporters – including nine small businesses – from 2007-2014 in New York’s 17th Congressional District. I’ll keep fighting for commonsense federal investments like ExIm to support job creation and global competitiveness for local businesses.” “Our global economy is more connected now than it’s ever been, and competition can come from anywhere in the world,” said Senator Gillibrand. “We need to make sure that businesses in Westchester County and the Lower Hudson Valley region have the resources and support they need to stay competitive. The Export-Import Bank can give Westchester’s businesses a strong head start when they want to sell their products to consumers in other countries. I’m very pleased that Fred Hochberg, the head of the Export-Import Bank, joined me today to meet with our local business and economic development leaders and help connect them to financing opportunities.” “New York is one of the most export-driven states in the nation. EXIM Bank is a tool for New York small business exporters to reduce risk and unleash opportunity to grow their businesses abroad while supporting well-paying jobs here in the state,” said Fred P. Hochberg, Chairman and President of EXIM Bank. “Senator Gillibrand’s ongoing commitment to the small businesses of New York, is both admirable and needed. She relentlessly advocates for them to have access to all the tools they need to be globally competitive exporters.” “For the past 6 years we have taken advantage of our relationship with the EXIM Bank to secure working capital for foreign sales activity thereby enabling us to level the playing field with our foreign competition,” said Tom Gannalo, CFO, Magnetic Analysis Corporation. “Business Council of Westchester members appreciate the access to information about financing in the global marketplace,” said Dr. Marsha Gordon, President/CEO, The Business Council of Westchester. “Bringing President Hochberg to Westchester demonstrates Senator Gillibrand's ongoing commitment to business in New York.” EXIM Bank is an independent federal agency that creates and maintains U.S. jobs by filling gaps in private export financing at no cost to American taxpayers. EXIM Bank provides a variety of financing mechanisms, including working-capital guarantees, export-credit insurance and financing to help foreign buyers purchase U.S. goods and services. Since Fiscal Year 2011, EXIM Bank has supported over $615 million in exports from Westchester and the Lower Hudson Valley. EXIM has supported more than 1.4 million U.S. jobs over the past seven years. Last year, EXIM Bank approved 2,300 small business authorizations, nearly 90 percent of the total number of the bank’s authorizations. For information, visit www.exim.gov. ###
06.10.2016	Fewer than Two Dozen Jews Remain in Egypt Today Invaluable Heritage and Historic Relics at Risk Washington, DC—Congresswoman Nita Lowey today released a bipartisan, bicameral letter from Jewish Members of the House of Representatives and U.S. Senate to Egyptian President El-Sisi regarding Jewish Egyptian heritage sites, which are currently in severe disrepair and in desperate need of preservation and restoration. “With a rapidly dwindling Jewish population in Egypt, synagogues, cemeteries, and other heritage will soon be the only remaining testament to its once vibrant Jewish community,” said Lowey, Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee, who initiated the letter. “Many of these precious sites and artifacts are at grave risk of disappearing without urgent attention, and we owe it to future generations and Egyptian Jewish communities currently living in the United States to act now to preserve them. These relics should be protected and restored because they help tell the story of the Jewish people and of Egypt’s rich cultural past. We hope President El-Sisi will work in partnership with international efforts to save these historic sites and treasures before it’s too late.” According to reports, there are fewer than two dozen Egyptian Jews left in the country, a dramatic decline from a community of 80,000 in the 1950s. The invaluable cultural heritage, including Torah scrolls, community records, libraries, and other Judaica are in jeopardy of neglect or destruction. There is also immediate concern for Jewish synagogues and cemeteries, which have been damaged or desecrated in recent years. Text of the letter can be found here and below. Members signing the letter include Representatives Nita M. Lowey, Sander M. Levin, Eliot L. Engel, Lee Zeldin, Jerrold Nadler, Brad Sherman, Alan Grayson, Adam Schiff, Theodore E. Deutch, Steve Israel, Jan Schakowsky, Alan Lowenthal, Debbie Wasserman Schultz, Susan Davis, David N. Cicilline, Lois Frankel, Jared Polis, Steve Cohen, John Yarmuth; and Senators Ron Wyden, Charles E. Schumer, Benjamin L. Cardin, Richard Blumenthal, Al Franken, Brian Schatz, Dianne Feinstein, Barbara Boxer, and Michael F. Bennet. ___ President Abdel Fattah El-Sisi Arab Republic of Egypt Dear President El-Sisi, As Jewish Members of Congress with a strong interest in Egyptian-American relations and the preservation of the long history of Jewish life in Egypt, we write to request your assistance in preserving Jewish heritage sites in Egypt. Synagogues, cemeteries, libraries, Torah scrolls and other Judaica, as well as irreplaceable records of a community that once numbered nearly 100,000, are in grave danger. The Jewish community in Egypt has shrunk dramatically, and the few Jews who remain have acknowledged their inability to preserve and maintain the history, heritage, and artifacts of Jewish life in Egypt. We have immediate concerns for many Jewish sites including the crumbling roof on the Eliyahu Hanavi Synagogue in Alexandria and the groundwater damage to the historic 12th Century Maimonides Yeshiva in Cairo, which was painstakingly restored by Egyptian antiquity specialists only five years ago. We are also concerned about the protection of the centuries-old Bassatine Cemetery, which has been vandalized and overrun by squatters; the long-term preservation of the remaining synagogues in Cairo and Alexandria; the care and use of the dozens of Torah scrolls in Egypt some of which are individually owned by Egyptian Jewish families living in the United States; and the preservation and access to the Egyptian Jewish community registers. In recent years, representative associations of Jews from Egypt, key Jewish organizations such as the American Jewish Committee, and the U.S. Embassy in Cairo have been in close contact with the Egyptian Cultural Ministry and the Ministry of Antiquities to propose cooperative, international efforts for the restoration and protection of this heritage, such as a Museum of Egyptian Jewish Heritage. Mr. President, we respectfully request that you act now to save these heritage sites that reflect Egypt’s rich history, and its once-thriving Jewish community, by supporting international initiatives, which should include the input and involvement of Egyptian authorities, to ensure their long-term preservation. We believe conservation projects such as the proposed museum would bring in tourism revenue in addition to informing Egyptian and international students about the country’s diverse cultural heritage. We stand ready to assist you in these efforts, and we look forward to your response. # # #
06.08.2016	Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY), Ranking Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, today issued the following statement in response to the Rules Committee announcing the Republican majority will abandon open rules and restrict the content of amendments to Appropriations bills: “After failing to adopt a budget resolution, declining to provide transparent allocations, and twisting arms to change the outcome of amendments, it is not a surprise that Republican leadership would renege on its pledge to consider Appropriations bills under open rules. “Today’s announcement is clearly aimed at preventing the House from passing basic protections for LGBT Americans and hard-working families. “If we are to have a functioning Appropriations process, Republican leadership must also abandon their poison pill riders targeting women’s health, the environment, workers’ rights, gun regulations, financial protections, and much more – many of which are in base text of Appropriations bills.” ###
06.07.2016	First U.S.-Born Baby Diagnosed with Zika-Related Microcephaly and Increasing Cases in U.S. Demand Immediate Action Washington, DC – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-NY17), Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee, was today joined by Dr. Edward McCabe, Chief Medical Officer for the March of Dimes, in calling for immediate federal resources to address the potential spread within the United States of the Zika virus, which has been shown to cause microcephaly in babies born to infected mothers. “Four months after the Administration requested federal emergency funds to ramp up efforts to prevent the spread of Zika on our shores, Republicans have failed to act,” said Lowey on a press conference call. “Summer is here, mosquitoes are biting, and U.S. travel-related cases continue to rise. We cannot wait any longer to provide the resources for public health professionals to protect our communities. One baby has now been born here with microcephaly. Even though his mother contracted the virus abroad, every day that passes is a missed opportunity to protect pregnant American women who could become at risk of contracting Zika.” “The March of Dimes continues to urge Congress to pass the funding necessary to combat Zika in the United States,” says Dr. Edward McCabe, Chief Medical Officer for the March of Dimes which is headquartered in White Plains, NY. “We don’t have another day to waste. If we are going to prevent untold numbers of infants from being born with devastating birth defects, we need Congress to act now.” In early February, the Obama Administration requested $1.9 billion in emergency funds to provide federal support primarily for mosquito control and monitoring as well as development of medical diagnostics and vaccines. The bulk of the funding would support efforts by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) to aggressively control and monitor mosquito populations, conduct medical research, and put in place health infrastructure to detect and respond to any outbreak, among other activities. Additional funds would support the treatment of pregnant mothers diagnosed with Zika and children born with Zika-related microcephaly, especially in Puerto Rico where there is an outbreak; aggressive research, development and procurement of diagnostics and vaccines through the National Institutes of Health and Food and Drug Administration along with the private sector; and international efforts to stem the spread of the virus. More than three months after the Administration’s request and after the World Health Organization declared a Zika public health emergency, House Republicans passed a woefully inadequate $622 million bill in non-emergency funds, which is paid for by stealing from continuing efforts to control Ebola. The U.S. Senate passed $1.1 billion in emergency funds for Zika last month. Lowey, who introduced a bill to provide the full Administration request, was appointed two weeks ago to serve on the House-Senate conference committee to negotiate a final Zika bill, where she will fight to expeditiously pass the full Administration request. To date, 1732 Americans have been affected by the Zika virus. The 618 Zika cases in the continental United States have been acquired while travelers were in other countries where the virus is more aggressive or, as in 11 cases, through sexual transmission after infected individuals returned home. Of the 1114 cases in the U.S. territories, 1110 were transmitted locally. Southern states are most at risk for local transmission by the type of mosquito that most commonly carries Zika. However, another mosquito strain that has been shown to carry Zika is prevalent in southern New York, where 130 travel-related cases have already been identified. (Statistics can be found on CDC.gov). “While our state and local public health officials have increased mosquito control and monitoring efforts and are educating the public on prevention, much more must be done. Mosquitoes do not respect state boundaries, and the federal government should act to ensure robust research and development on the medical front,” said Lowey. “If we wait until local transmission is happening on our shores, it could be too late to save many pregnant women and newborns from the dire impact of Zika. Congress must act now.” # # #
06.02.2016	Grant will bolster preparedness & protection for firefighters in Hartsdale, Elmsford, & Fairview WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (Westchester/Rockland), the Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, and Congressman Eliot Engel (Bronx/Westchester), the Ranking Democrat on the House Foreign Affairs Committee, announced a $440,564 Department of Homeland Security Assistance to Firefighters Grant to benefit the Hartsdale, Elmsford and Fairview Fire Departments. “From the moment they arrive on the scene, first responders play a vital role in minimizing loss of life, often at great personal risk,” said Congresswoman Nita Lowey. “This grant will provide crucial equipment and training our first responders need in the Hartsdale, Fairview and Elmsford Fire Departments to do their jobs effectively and keep our community safe. I’ll keep fighting to ensure federal resources help preserve the health and safety of local families and first responders.” Congressman Eliot Engel said, “Every day our first responders put their lives on the line to save those in peril—it’s imperative that we do everything in our power to support and protect them in that endeavor. With this funding, the brave men and women of the Hartsdale Fire Department, serving the people of Greenburgh, will get the equipment and training they need to help keep themselves and the general public safe. And we at the federal level will continue to look for ways to supplement those critical resources.” Hartsdale Fire Chief Ed Rush said, “I am thrilled to hear that the Hartsdale Fire Department has been awarded a regional Assistance to Firefighter Grant, along with the Fairview and Elmsford Fire Departments. This grant will allow us to purchase new Self Contained Breathing Apparatus that meet all of the latest standards, which will help keep our firefighters safe and allow them to do their very dangerous job in a more efficient manner. This grant program is a great example of how the federal government can provide direct assistance at the most basic local level. The fact that it is a regional grant shows how well our agencies can work together to share services and achieve the greatest efficiencies.” The Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) Program is a Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) program awarding grants directly to fire departments, non-affiliated Emergency Medical Services (EMS) organizations, and state fire training academies to enhance their ability to protect the health and safety of the public. The AFG program is an important component of strengthening the United States’ overall level of preparedness and ability to respond to fire and related hazards. Since Fiscal Year 2001, it has provided approximately $6.4 billion in grants to first-responder organizations to obtain much needed equipment, emergency vehicles, and training. ###
05.30.2016	WHITE PLAINS/NEW CITY, NY – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (Westchester/Rockland), the Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, today released the following statement commemorating Memorial Day: "Today, on Memorial Day, we salute the service members who lost their lives defending our nation’s fundamental principles of freedom, liberty, and democracy. No one has given more than the brave men and women—the mothers, fathers, daughters, and sons—who made the ultimate sacrifice to ensure that the American dream will continue to be a beacon of hope for future generations. Although they are no longer with us, we will always remember the fallen heroes of our armed forces and the deep debt of gratitude we owe them for their service. We must continue to honor these service members and their families, whose legacies are towering monuments to the strength and conviction of the American spirit.” ###
05.26.2016	Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY) issued the following statement after the Energy & Water Appropriations bill failed by a vote of 112-305. “The Energy & Water Appropriations bill contained divisive and ideological riders when it came to the floor. It was made much worse by the House’s shameful adoption of discriminatory amendments. The fact that the Republican conference brought down their own bill due to the adoption of Sean Patrick Maloney’s anti-discrimination amendment is doubly shameful. “Clearly there is only one path forward for the House majority if they are interested in enacting Appropriations bills: Work with Democrats on realistic, responsible funding levels for critical investments, and abandon discriminatory riders and amendments that have no place in Appropriations bills or anywhere else.” ###
05.26.2016	Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY) today delivered the following statement urging the House to defeat the previous question to bring up H.R. 5044, providing the President’s full $1.9 billion request for emergency Zika funding: “Mr. Speaker, I rise to urge my colleagues to defeat the previous question so we can support a robust and aggressive response to an imminent public health emergency. “Researchers at Harvard and CDC reported that pregnant women who contract the Zika virus in their first trimester face as high as a 13 percent chance that their baby will have microcephaly. Nearly 300 pregnant women in the United States and its territories are terrified their child will have a devastating birth defect, and that number increases every day. Every day we learn a new bit of information about this devastating virus, and each piece of news is more alarming than the last. “That is why President Obama acted responsibly and requested $1.9 billion to research and develop vaccines and diagnostic tests, invest in mosquito vector control, and implement an aggressive public education and outreach campaign. “And yet the House Republican Zika bill would provide a mere $622 million – less than one-third of the $1.9 billion that public health experts tell us is necessary to protect American communities. To make matters worse, the bill robs Peter to pay Paul, stealing funding still needed to protect against Ebola and increase public health preparedness at home. “The spread of the Zika virus is taking a severe toll on Brazil and other South and Central American countries. It has spread to Puerto Rico, and the outbreak is knocking at our door. Why are my friends in the majority acting more like bureaucrats and accountants than responsive representatives of hardworking Americans? “Protecting American communities is the foremost responsibility of the federal government, yet the majority has failed to lead the way to a response worthy of this emergency. “If the previous question is defeated, Mr. McGovern will amend the rule to offer my bill, H.R. 5044, as a substitute, providing the full $1.9 billion the Administration requested, without offsets, to ensure an adequate response to Zika that doesn’t rob our Ebola response. “I urge my colleagues to vote NO on the previous question.” ###
05.24.2016	Amendment Would Allow Attorney General to Block Attempted Gun Purchases by Persons on Terror Watch List Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY), Ranking Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, today offered an amendment to the FY2017 Commerce, Justice, Science Appropriations bill that would block known or suspected terrorists from purchasing firearms. “It is common sense that individuals involved in terrorist activity should not be permitted to purchase firearms,” said Lowey. “The consequences of failing to close this gaping loophole in public safety are almost unimaginable. Congress must summon the will to reject specious arguments by the gun lobby and take this simple step to prevent a tragedy and keep American communities safe.” According to Jonas Oransky, Counsel to Everytown for Gun Safety, "Suspected terrorists on government watch lists bought guns more than 2,000 times in the past 11 years -- all because the FBI had no authority to intervene. And today, yet again, members of this House of Representatives want to block our law enforcement from stopping those dangerous sales from going through—even though 70 percent of NRA members believes we should keep terrorists from getting guns.” Current law prohibits individuals from purchasing firearms if he or she has a history of conviction of a serious crime, mental illness, drug abuse, restraining orders, domestic abuse, or an outstanding warrant or indictments, or several other criteria. However, there is nothing in current law preventing individuals known or suspected of involvement in terrorist activity from purchasing deadly weapons like semi-automatic military style rifles. The Lowey amendment would allow the Attorney General to block the purchase of a firearm by individuals on the federal government’s terror watch list. The list, maintained by the National Counter Terrorism Center (NCTC), includes roughly 25,000 U.S. persons, and its accuracy is constantly improving. Since 2011, approximately 166,000 names have been removed from the database because they no longer fit the criteria for inclusion. The amendment was voted down by a vote of 17-29. ###
05.19.2016	Grants will enhance preparedness of White Plains Fire Bureau and the Ossining Volunteer Ambulance Corps WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (Westchester/Rockland), the Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, announced two Department of Homeland Security Assistance to Firefighters Grants awarded to the White Plains Fire Bureau and the Ossining Volunteer Ambulance Corps, helping improve safety in communities across Westchester. “Local emergency services providers play a critical role in protecting our neighborhoods and families,” said Congresswoman Nita Lowey. “I am pleased that these two grants will better equip the White Plains Fire Bureau and the Ossining Volunteer Ambulance Corps to respond to emergencies. As Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, I will continue working to ensure that first responders in Westchester have the resources they need to keep our communities safe.” The White Plains Fire Bureau received $361,646 in federal funds to replace outdated breathing equipment. "The Assistance to Firefighters Grant will be used to replace our aging Self Contained Breathing Apparatus. The new equipment, which is compliant with National Standards, will greatly improve the health and safety of our members and increase our effectiveness during emergency response. Through enhanced design modifications, the new equipment reduces physical stress, while improving safety, communications and member accountability. The AFG workshops that were hosted by FEMA, the Office of U.S. Senator Kirsten Gillibrand, and the Office of U.S. Representative Nita Lowey, were of great assistance to us in preparing a successful grant application,” said White Plains Mayor Thomas Roach. The Ossining Volunteer Ambulance Corps received $121,399 in federal funds for two new defibrillators and 87 new EMS rescue turnout coats, helmets, and gloves. “We are extremely grateful for the AFG program which will allow us the ability to replace aging equipment and to provide OVAC with the latest tools to more effectively treat patients as well as protect our personnel,” said Nick Franzoso, Director of Ossining Volutneer Ambulance Corps. “I also couldn’t think of a better time to receive such great news than National EMS Week, as we are recognizing the dedication of EMS practitioners nationwide.” The Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) Program is a Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) program awarding grants directly to fire departments, non-affiliated Emergency Medical Services (EMS) organizations, and state fire training academies to enhance their ability to protect the health and safety of the public. The AFG program is an important component of strengthening the United States’ overall level of preparedness and ability to respond to fire and related hazards. Since Fiscal Year 2001, it has provided approximately $6.4 billion in grants to first-responder organizations to obtain much needed equipment, emergency vehicles, and training. ###
05.19.2016	Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY), Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, today issued the following statement after the House majority held open a vote on the Military Construction-VA Appropriations bill for the purpose of changing the outcome to allow discrimination against LGBT individuals: “Speaker Ryan should be ashamed of the action of his House majority. Entering the office pledging openness, participation, regular order, and respecting the will of the majority, Speaker Ryan’s majority today behaved in a manner that flies in the face of those ideals. “For the House to countenance discrimination against LGBT individuals would be bad enough. But to do so in such an undemocratic manner is nothing short of a disgrace. “The majority’s reprehensible action in undermining a legitimate vote result has cast a pall over a bipartisan bill to provide critical support for military veterans and construction, priorities that both Democrats and Republicans support." ###
05.18.2016	Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY) today delivered the following statement urging the House to defeat the previous question, allowing consideration of H.R. 5044 to provide the Administration’s full request for $1.9 billion to mount a robust Zika response: The Republican Zika bill provides only $622 million, about a third of the $1.9 billion requested. The bill also steals more Ebola funding as an offset instead of replenishing what was already redirected to Zika. We don’t offset spending to respond to emergencies, and we certainly don’t steal from prior emergency response efforts still underway when a new emergency arises. Let’s just consider recent history. Emergency funding was provided to respond to both Ebola and H1N1. In last year’s omnibus, Congress used emergency funding, without offsets, to pay for Wildland fire suppression, mostly in the West. Congress also provided emergency funding to respond to two hurricanes and flooding in the Carolinas and Texas, again without offsets. When those disasters struck, we didn’t steal money from prior disaster response, like the emergency funding provided for hurricane damage in Louisiana, Mississippi, Alabama, and Florida; storms in West Virginia; and tornadoes in Oklahoma and Kentucky. In fact, after the 2013 Oklahoma tornadoes, my friend Chairman Rogers told reporters: “I don’t think disasters of this type should be offset. We have an obligation to help these people.” Now that the Zika public health emergency has ravaged Brazil, spread to Puerto Rico, and threatens an outbreak in the continental United States, suddenly Republicans insist on shortchanging efforts to ensure the deadly Ebola virus doesn’t re-emerge to pay for Zika response. And the money they would take from Ebola isn’t nearly enough to prevent the spread of the deadly Zika virus that especially endangers pregnant women and children, who could be born with very severe disabilities. I urge my colleagues to vote NO on the previous question. If the previous question is defeated, Mr. McGovern will amend the rule to offer my bill, H.R. 5044, as a substitute providing the full $1.9 billion the Administration requested, without offsets, to ensure an adequate response to Zika that doesn’t rob our Ebola response. ###
05.17.2016	Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY), Ranking Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, today delivered the following statement at the House Rules Committee regarding House Republicans’ Zika appropriations bill, which provides less than one-third of the amount experts confirm is necessary for a robust Zika response, and offsets that amount with damaging cuts to Ebola and other health priorities. “The nation is on the threshold of a public health emergency. CDC confirmed 1,204 Zika cases – including more than 100 pregnant women – in the U.S., Puerto Rico, and the other territories as of May 11. So far, all of the continental U.S. cases are associated with travel but experts expect the first locally transmitted cases in a matter of weeks. “The scientific community has concluded the Zika virus can cause microcephaly, resulting in miscarriage and other severe fetal brain defects as well as adult neurological disorders. Robust resources are urgently needed to deploy medical countermeasures, care for affected mothers and children, and support multilateral efforts to stem the spread of Zika virus. We need to act now to improve surveillance globally and increase availability of diagnostic tools to identify additional outbreaks. “The President asked in February for $1.9 billion to respond to the impending crisis. However the Republican Leadership failed to act, so the Administration was forced to redirect $589 million, mostly from emergency Ebola balances, to fund mosquito control and other immediate efforts to respond to Zika. According to Dr. Fauci at the National Institutes of Health, the redirected funds allowed the U.S. to start work but "we can't finish what we need to do." “Unfortunately, the Republican bill does not allow us to finish the job either. It provides only $622 million, less than a third of what is needed. The bill does not replenish Ebola funding; instead, it takes more, even as more Ebola cases continue to emerge. We did not offset spending to respond to similar public health emergencies such as the Ebola and H1N1 influenza viruses. Why require offsets for Zika funding? “Without full funding, we can't test vaccine candidates because the later stages of vaccine development require multi-year funding commitments to encourage the necessary commitments from the private sector. Without the $1.9 billion request, State and local public health emergency preparedness grants will be underfunded, hampering efforts to expand mosquito control and mitigation efforts. Without full funding to replenish Ebola accounts redirected to Zika, we won't complete commitments to fortify international public health systems, provide adequate care for survivors, or have public health contingency funds in place to respond to outbreaks of either disease or any other unanticipated public health crisis. “In conclusion, Mr. Chairman, the House Republican Zika bill calls the fire department to put out a fire in the attic while flames rage from the basement on up. It is a day late and a dollar short. “Because of the shortcomings in the Republican bill, I respectfully request the Rules Committee make in order H.R. 5044, the President’s full emergency supplemental, as a substitute.” ###
05.17.2016	Department of Transportation Funding Will Be Used to Make Infrastructure Upgrades At Airport U.S. Senators Charles E. Schumer and Kirsten Gillibrand and Congresswoman Nita Lowey today announced $3,834,000 in federal funding for two critical infrastructure projects at the Westchester County Airport. The funding was allocated through the U.S. Department of Transportation’s (DOT) Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) to complete existing construction projects currently underway at the airport. The Westchester County Airport will use $2,790,000 of funding to complete the final phase of the construction of storm water collection and detention facilities to improve drainage for storm water runoff. The remaining $1,044,000 will fund the final phase of milling and overlay to rehabilitate 2,950 feet of the airport's existing access road to preserve access to the airport. “Keeping our airport runways in top-notch shape is crucial to attracting business and tourism to the region,” said Senator Schumer. “With this funding, the Westchester County Airport will be able to make the critical infrastructure and access road upgrades to increase safety and efficiency for the passengers and pilots that fly in and out of Westchester every day.” “This funding through the Department of Transportation’s Federal Aviation Administration would help support critical infrastructure upgrades to the Westchester County Airport,” said Senator Gillibrand. “The Westchester County Airport is a vital economic anchor in the region, and investing in our airport’s infrastructure enables safer, more efficient service for the businesses and travelers who rely on it every day. I will continue to push for resources that enhance efficiency and public safety.” “Completion of these drainage and access road projects at Westchester County Airport will improve airport operations, enhance passenger safety, and foster better access to our regional economy,” said Congresswoman Nita Lowey. “As Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee, I will continue working to protect and strengthen critical investments in our nation’s crumbling transportation infrastructure, including those in the Hudson Valley.” This funding for Westchester County Airport in New York is part of the Airport Improvement and Rehabilitate Access Road Program administered by DOT’s Federal Aviation Administration (FAA). The Airport Improvement Program provides grants to public agencies for the planning and development of public-use airports that are included in the National Plan of Integrated Airport Systems (NPIAS). Funds obligated for the AIP are drawn from the Airport and Airway Trust fund, which is supported by user fees, fuel taxes, and other similar revenue sources. ###
05.16.2016	Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY), Ranking Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, today released the following statement regarding House Republicans’ Zika supplemental appropriations bill: “Three months after President Obama requested emergency funding to protect American communities from the Zika virus, the Republican majority’s response is completely insufficient given the severity of the public health emergency facing the Western Hemisphere. “The majority’s decision to underfund the President’s request by $1.3 billion risks worsening an already severe crisis. Without full funding, private sector work on vaccines and diagnostic testing will be delayed due to the lack of multi-year funding commitments. State and local public health emergency preparedness grants will be underfunded, hampering efforts to control mosquito populations. Failing to replenish Ebola accounts will force us to renege on commitments to fortify public health systems and hurt our ability to respond to new outbreaks. “Pinching pennies on these basic investments will inevitably heighten costs – in dollars and lives – down the road. “I am also extremely disappointed the majority is holding this emergency to a different standard than Ebola or H1N1 emergencies or disaster relief supplementals, demanding offsets as a condition of providing needed funding. Our sole focus should be on containing and ultimately ending this crisis – not trying to force more reckless funding cuts through Congress.” ###
05.05.2016	White Plains, NY – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee and the Subcommittee on State and Foreign Operations, released the following statement on Holocaust Remembrance Day: “Today on Holocaust Remembrance Day we pause to remember the six million innocent Jewish men, women, and children who perished during the Holocaust - the darkest chapter of human history. In honor of their memory, we read their names out loud in vigils all over the world. It would take 350 days of nonstop reading to voice every victim’s name. “Even today, with the lessons of the Holocaust weighing heavily on all our hearts, Jews around the world are still the target of religious prejudice and discrimination. Our continued vigilance against modern day anti-Semitism remains absolutely crucial. “On this year’s Yom HaShoah, let us rededicate ourselves to the meaning of the words ‘Never Again’ by committing ourselves to combating all forms of hatred, bigotry, and intolerance and leaving a better world for generations to come.” # # #
05.05.2016	Pearl River student to travel to Washington, DC, meet with Congresswoman Lowey, and have art displayed in U.S. Capitol Runners up from Pearl River, Palisades, and Harrison WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (Westchester/Rockland), the Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, announced that Kayla Terry, a junior at Pearl River High School in Pearl River, NY, is the winner of the 2016 Congressional Art Competition for New York’s 17th Congressional District. Kayla’s photograph, “Sunset Grill,” was judged to be first of 10 entries. “I congratulate Kayla on winning this year’s Congressional Art Competition,” said Lowey. “New York’s 17th Congressional District will be well represented in Washington, DC, by her outstanding artwork on display in the United States Capitol, where millions of visitors may see it.” “Pearl River High School and our local community are thrilled that Kayla’s photograph was selected to represent Nita Lowey’s Congressional District at the Art Competition Exhibit in our Nation’s Capitol Building,” said Pearl River Art Teacher Paul Martin. “Kayla’s youthful enthusiasm, self- dedication and hard work embody all that is great about our country and the bright promise of our future. Her keen artistic eye has captured the rich spirit and heritage of America in her photograph ‘Sunset Grill.’ We thank Congresswoman Lowey for providing this wonderful opportunity for all of Rockland and Westchester’s talented young artists.” Cyle Rockoff, a Harrison resident and a junior at Harrison High School, came in second place for his painting entitled “bontanica du désir étrange;” Ellen Xing, Palisades resident and senior at Tappan Zee High School, came in third for her “Wrath” drawing; and Peter Zuidema, a Pearl River resident and sophomore at Pearl River High school, received an honorable mention for his photograph, “Route 66.” “Our region is fortunate to be home to so many excellent young artists,” said Lowey. “I’m proud of Cyle, Ellen, Peter and all of the participants in this year’s Congressional Art Competition. Their artistic talents are excellent contributions to the Lower Hudson Valley’s cultural identity.” The Congressional Art Competition is a nationwide high school visual art competition to recognize and encourage artistic talent in the nation and in each congressional district. Each spring, students submit entries to their representative’s office, and panels of district artists select the winning entries. Winners are recognized both in their district and at an annual awards ceremony in June in Washington, DC. The winning works are displayed for one year at the U.S. Capitol. The awards ceremony was held at the Music Conservatory of Westchester on Monday, April 25, 2016. The three judges who chose the winners were Steven Lam, Director and Associate Professor at the School of Art + Design, Purchase College, SUNY in Purchase; Adam Chau, Program Manager at Clay Arts Center in Port Chester; and Logan Hanley, Gallery Coordinator at ArtsWestchester in White Plains. In addition to promoting arts through the annual Congressional Art Competition, Congresswoman Lowey has been stalwart in her defense of the National Endowment for the Arts (NEA) and served on the prestigious National Council for the Arts in recognition of her leadership. ###
05.03.2016	White Plains, NY -- Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), the senior Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, last week honored at her annual Service Academy Recognition Ceremony the 29 students from Westchester and Rockland counties she nominated last December for admission to our nation’s service academies -- U.S. Air Force Academy, U.S. Merchant Marine Academy, the U.S. Military Academy (West Point), and the U.S. Naval Academy. “These distinguished young Americans have answered the call to duty,” said Lowey. “I commend their accomplishments and look forward to their continued success in service to our nation. It’s an honor to work with local veterans, who have made great sacrifices to our nation, to nominate such impressive young men and women to the service academies.” The nominees come from many communities in the 17th Congressional District, including 11 nominees from Rockland and 18 from Westchester. As of today, eight students have been accepted by an academy for admission this summer and others may still receive offers of appointment. The ceremony took place at the White Plains Public Library. Lowey thanked local veterans who attended the April 25 ceremony for their service to our country, and noted her work in Congress on behalf of veterans, including her support for the largest funding increase in the history of the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) and for expanded access to educational opportunities and health care for all veterans. A photo of the nominees with Congresswoman Lowey can be found here (photo IDs can be found the end of this release). Below is a list of this year’s students nominated by Congresswoman Lowey to a service academy, listed by municipality. Rockland County Nominees: Montebello Matthew Hinkley, Saint Joseph Regional High School, nominated to the United States Naval Academy Nanuet Kyran Christopherson, Nanuet High School, nominated to the United States Air Force Academy Renato Cocucci, Don Bosco Preparatory High School, nominated to the United States Military Academy New City John Andrew Spallanzani, Don Bosco Preparatory High School, currently attends Hobart College, nominated to the United States Naval Academy August St. Louis, Clarkstown High School South, nominated to the United States Military Academy Pearl River Manuel Arango, Pearl River High School, nominated to the United States Military Academy Nicholas D’Allara, Nanuet High School, nominated to the United States Naval Academy Jake Kurzhals, Pearl River High School, nominated to the United States Air Force Academy Liam O’Hara, Don Bosco Preparatory High School, nominated to the United States Military Academy Pomona Casey Bischoff, Albertus Magnus High School, nominated to the United States Military Academy Thiells Katelyn Gormley, North Rockland High School, nominated to the United States Air Force Academy Westchester County Nominees: Cortlandt Manor Taylor Crisci, Hendrick Hudson High School, nominated to the United States Air Force Academy and the United States Merchant Marine Academy Matthew Scully, Walter Panas High School, nominated to the United States Military Academy Croton-on-Hudson Lawrence Chiulli, Croton Harmon High School, nominated to the United States Merchant Marine Academy Charles O’Brien, Regis High School, nominated to the United States Military Academy Benjamin Vasta, Croton Harmon High School, currently attends Cheshire Academy, nominated to the United States Air Force Academy Hartsdale Robert Bellantoni, Iona Preparatory High School, currently attends Bucknell University, nominated to the United States Naval Academy Daniel Guadalupe, Brunswick School, nominated to the United States Naval Academy Mohegan Lake Ian Tumulty, Lakeland High School, nominated to the United States Naval Academy Ossining Iran Cedeno, Ossining High School, nominated to the United States Merchant Marine Academy Pleasantville Justin Scilufo, The Kent School, nominated to the United States Air Force Academy Rye Brook Alyssa Wei, Blind Brook High School, nominated to the United States Naval Academy Sleepy Hollow August Iorio, Iona Preparatory School, nominated to the United States Military Academy White Plains Kaleigh D’Arcy, White Plains High School, nominated to the United States Merchant Marine Academy and the United States Naval Academy Cardon Furry, White Plains High School, nominated to the United States Military Academy Sara Pennella, Valhalla High School, nominated to the United States Air Force Academy Paul Terminello, Archbishop Stepinac High School, nominated to the United States Merchant Marine Academy and the United States Naval Academy Yorktown Heights Kenneth Brown, John F. Kennedy Catholic High School, nominated to the United States Military Academy Teresa DeVino, John F. Kennedy Catholic High School, nominated to the United States Naval Academy # # #
04.26.2016	Low Water Levels in Unit 3 Drain Tank Resulted from Open Valves White Plains, NY – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (NY17-Westchester/Rockland) today said Entergy’s discovery of low water levels in Unit 3’s drain tank at the Indian Point Energy Center in Buchanan, NY, raises yet more concerns about its operations. Low water levels apparently resulted from valves that were unexpectedly opened, forcing Unit 3’s power to be reduced by 50%. “On the 30th anniversary of the Chernobyl disaster, another mishap at Indian Point today is reminder of the dangers of keeping this facility open,” said Lowey, the Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee. “I remain highly skeptical that the safety and security measures at Indian Point can protect the people of the Hudson Valley and greater New York City area given continued operations and safety incidents.” More than 17 million people in parts of New Jersey, Connecticut, and New York live within 50 miles of the Indian Point Energy Center. This news is the latest in a series of safety lapses at Indian Point this year, including a tritium leak into monitoring wells beneath the facility and the discovery of faulty baffle bolts in Unit 2 earlier this year. Lowey introduced a measure to require the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) to evaluate old power plants seeking license renewals with the same stringent criteria used to license new plants today. She has also proposed requiring NRC to award grants for emergency preparedness when the agency collects safety-related fines from nuclear facilities. # # #
04.20.2016	38% Increase in Anti-Israel Programs & 21% increase in BDS Movements in ‘14-‘15 Require Attention to Prevent Anti-Semitic Harassment and Intimidation Washington, DC—Today, members of the House of Representatives Bipartisan Taskforce for Combating Anti-Semitism sounded the alarm about a troubling surge in anti-Semitism on American college campuses. “I hope Secretary King will work aggressively to quell the uptick in dangerous anti-Semitic activity at American colleges and universities,” said Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey, Ranking Member, House Appropriations Committee & Subcommittee on State and Foreign Operations. “College campuses should be safe environments for learning, where students respect the diverse backgrounds of fellow students while exercising their own rights to free speech. It is uniquely important to preserve historically accurate, honest dialog in educational environments to prevent the spread of anti-Semitism.” In a letter to the Secretary of Education, the Taskforce asked the Secretary about the Department’s planned response to the issue. Additionally, the co-chairs made the following statement: “An alarming rise of anti-Israel programs on American college campuses contribute to increasing harassment, intimidation, and discrimination against Jewish students. While we believe that students’ freedoms of speech and assembly should be respected, there are increasing reports that activity advertised as anti-Israel or anti-Zionist is devolving into displays of subtle, but sometimes outright anti-Semitism. Attacks on students because of their actual or perceived religion, ancestry, or ethnicity are unacceptable. We believe strongly that no student should ever face discrimination and that school activities must be structured in a respectful manner to ensure academic integrity and a nondiscriminatory environment throughout the entire campus. For these reasons, we ask the Department of Education to assess its ability to monitor and respond to anti-Semitic incidents and to take additional steps to combat intimidation and harassment against minority students on college campuses.” In 2004, the U.S. Department of Education Office for Civil Rights (OCR) clarified its interpretation of Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, including protections for groups of students on the basis of their actual or perceived shared ancestry or ethnic characteristics, regardless of whether they are members of a faith community, as in the case for Jewish, Sikh, and Muslim students. The Department reiterated this policy again in 2010 and 2015. However, as the number of reported Boycott, Divestment, and Sanctions (BDS) movement campaigns and other anti-Israel initiatives rise on college campuses, Members of Congress believe the Department must proactively implement its anti-discrimination policy to mitigate anti-Semitism on college campuses. The Bipartisan Taskforce for Combating Anti-Semitism is co-chaired by U.S. Reps. Nita Lowey (D-NY), Chris Smith (R-NJ), Eliot Engel (D-NY), Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL), Kay Granger (R-TX), Steve Israel (D-NY), Peter Roskam (R-IL), and Ted Deutch (D-FL). The following organizations expressed their support for the letter: the Anti-Defamation League, Jewish Federation of North America, B’nai Brith International, Jewish United Fund/Jewish Federation of Metropolitan Chicago, the Louis D. Brandeis Center for Human Rights Under Law, the World Jewish Congress, and the Zionist Organization of America. Text of the letter can be found here. ###
04.19.2016	Congresswoman Nita Lowey released the following statement after the Republicans on the Appropriations Committee voted down the Administration's request for emergency supplemental appropriations to respond to the Zika virus: “While Congress continues to dither, the Zika virus is spreading, and causing microcephaly, neurological disorders, and other adverse health consequences for pregnant women, babies, and others. “The majority continues to claim it needs more information to respond. But what will ever be enough? The Administration has been extremely forthcoming with information and has answered every question repeatedly. Yet we continue to act more like pencil pushing bureaucrats than responsible legislators, holding the Zika request to a different standard than we have held any other emergency request. “I am pleased one Republican joined Democrats in our bid to provide necessary funding, and I urge others - particularly those representing Florida and the Gulf Coast - to wake up. The time to act is now.” ###
04.15.2016	Chairman Acknowledged Work on Supplemental Appropriations Bill Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY), Congresswoman Rosa DeLauro (D-CT), and Congresswoman Debbie Wasserman Schultz (D-FL) today urged Appropriations Chairman Hal Rogers (R-KY) to hold a special meeting on the Administration’s request for emergency supplemental funding to respond to the Zika virus. Under the rules of the Appropriations Committee, three members may request the Chairman convene a special meeting. If the Chairman fails to schedule such a meeting within seven calendar days, a majority of the Committee Members may convene a special meeting on their own. Full letter follows: Dear Mr. Chairman: We write to request that the Appropriations Committee hold a special meeting to hear from the Administration on its $1.9 billion Zika virus supplemental request before Congress recesses for the next district work period. The Zika virus is a true public health emergency that has the potential to affect millions of Americans this summer, including more than two million pregnant women. The federal government's top public health experts affirm that new information about the severity of the Zika virus is cause for even more concern. There are already 700 cases in the United States, including 354 in the continental U.S. Now is the time for Congress to act in a bipartisan way to mount aggressive response and prevention efforts. At the Military Construction-VA markup yesterday, you stated, “I have the staff of the committee now working on a supplemental, if we can get the administration to get us the numbers we would be happy to file that supplemental bill..." We are happy to hear that. While we believe that the Administration has provided ample information concerning the reasons why its $1.9 billion emergency funding request to combat the Zika virus is urgently needed now, we suggest that the committee hold a special meeting to lay out your questions and get them all answered by the Administration. We formally request this special meeting immediately. It is imperative that the Appropriations Committee move quickly on this potential public health catastrophe and that we provide both short- and long-term resources, to properly prepare our public health system. Sincerely, Nita Lowey Rosa DeLauro Debbie Wasserman Schultz
04.14.2016	394 Members of Congress Sign Bipartisan Letter Only Direct Negotiations – Not One-Sided Initiatives from Outside Parties – Can Achieve Lasting Peace Agreement WASHINGTON – 394 members of the U.S. House of Representatives signed a letter urging President Obama to veto possible upcoming one-sided initiatives in the United Nations concerning the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. The letter was precipitated by reports that one-sided initiatives – which dangerously hinder the prospects for resuming direct negotiations – may arise at the United Nations in the coming months concerning the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. The letter is an unambiguous statement that the view of the U.S. House of Representatives is that only at the negotiating table – and not at the UN – can the parties resolve their complicated differences. The letter was led by: Rep. Nita M. Lowey, Ranking Member, Appropriations Subcommittee and State and Foreign Operations Subcommittee Rep. Kay Granger, Chair, Appropriations Subcommittee on State and Foreign Operations Rep. Karen Bass, Ranking Member, Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Africa, Global Health, Global Human Rights, & International Organizations Rep. Christopher H. Smith, Chair, Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Africa, Global Health, Global Human Rights, & International Organizations Rep. Ted Deutch, Ranking Member, Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on The Middle East & North Africa Rep. Ileana Ros-Lehtinen, Chair, Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on The Middle East & North Africa Full letter follows: Dear Mr. President: We share your frustration with the lack of significant progress toward a lasting peace between Israelis and Palestinians. Nevertheless, we remain committed to the objective of two states for two peoples - a democratic, Jewish state of Israel and a democratic, Palestinian state, living side-by-side in peace, security, and mutual recognition. We are united in our willingness to work with you now on constructive steps to counter the recent surge in terrorist activities and foster an environment conducive to eventually restarting serious negotiations. Only the parties themselves can agree to end their conflict through a negotiated resolution. The United States must maintain its indispensable role of mediator, which has always adhered to the following tenets: Close coordination with our democratic ally Israel; A refusal to support counterproductive efforts aimed at imposing a solution on the parties; Opposition to Palestinian efforts to seek recognition of statehood status in international bodies; A willingness to oppose and, if need be, veto one-sided United Nations (UN) Security Council Resolutions; A commitment to work with Arab states to contribute to peace and development efforts; and Unequivocal condemnation of terrorist organizations like Hamas until such groups recognize Israel’s right to exist, renounce terror, and accept prior Israeli-Palestinian agreements. Because of our strong commitment to these principles, we are deeply troubled by reports that one-sided initiatives may arise at the UN in the coming months concerning the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. Such efforts dangerously hinder the prospects for resuming direct negotiations. We therefore urge you to continue to insist that it is only at the negotiating table – and not at the UN – that the parties can resolve their complicated differences. Your continued commitment to longstanding U.S. policy to veto one-sided UN Security Council resolutions remains fundamentally critical. We stand ready to assist you in these efforts, and we look forward to your response. Sincerely, Nita M. Lowey Kay Granger Karen Bass Christopher H. Smith Ted Deutch Ileana Ros Lehtinen
04.13.2016	Investment will Support Innovative Alzheimer’s Research White Plains, NY – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (Westchester/Rockland), the Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, today announced a grant totaling $2,437,958 from the National Institute on Aging (NIA), one of the National Institutes for Health (NIH), for the Burke Medical Research Institute in White Plains to study mitochondrial and metabolic dysfunction in age-related neurodegeneration. “More than five million Americans are living with Alzheimer’s, which is not only tragic for individuals suffering from this disease but also imposes significant financial and emotional burdens on family members caring for Alzheimer’s patients,” said Lowey. “I’m pleased this grant will allow the Burke Medical Research Institute to continue its world-class research by studying innovative ways to treat, slow, and ultimately cure Alzheimer’s. Since I joined the Appropriations Committee, funding for the NIH has nearly tripled, and I will continue working to increase investments in life-saving medical research that will also bolster the economy of the Lower Hudson Valley.” “We are excited, pleased and honored to have this support, and we really appreciate the work that the Congresswoman does to keep the NIH budget up, because it is essential in our fight against disease,” said Dr. Rajiv R. Ratan, Executive Director of the Burke Medical Research Institute. While many NIH grants support individual labs, this funding will support collaborative efforts among four different laboratories, two at Burke and two at Weill Cornell, of which Burke is an affiliate. According to Burke Medical Research Institute, many of the predominant treatment strategies and billions in private research have focused on eliminating toxic proteins in the brain, like senile plaques and neurofibrillary tangles. This project, led by Burke scientist Gary Gibson, PhD, will focus instead on abnormal utilization of glucose in the brain and understanding how glucose and the powerhouses of the cell, the mitochondria, can be essentially normalized to produce energy to allow normal cognition and thinking. “This grant takes a whole different approach and says the problem is not primarily the build-up of toxic proteins but the failure to use glucose properly,” said Ratan. “Significant support of the type we got in this grant offers the promise that we can get closer to a cure for Alzheimer’s.” Since 1974, the NIA has been at the forefront of research activities dedicated to understanding the nature of aging, supporting the health and well-being of older adults, and extending healthy, active years of life for more people. The NIA’s research program covers a broad range of areas, from the study of basic cellular changes that occur with age to the examination of the biomedical, social, and behavioral aspects of age-related conditions, including Alzheimer’s disease. Burke Medical Research Institute was also recently awarded a National Eye Institute grant of $425,000 to study vascular control in diabetic retinopathy. Lowey fought to include a $2 billion increase in NIH funding in the December 2015 year-end omnibus government spending bill to make more grants like these possible. ###
04.06.2016	National Science Foundation Funds to Support Math Education for Former Service Members Westchester County, NY – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (Westchester/Rockland) and Congressman Eliot Engel (D-Bronx/Westchester) today announced a National Science Foundation (NSF) grant of $1,165,182 for Mercy College for its “Mathematics Education Intensive Residency Project Focusing on Veterans.” “This award is a win-win-win,” said Lowey, Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee. “This grant will support a local college, help prepare veterans for the workforce, and help give students a stronger education in math, which is essential to compete in the 21st century workforce. It makes me proud when federal funds bolster creative initiatives like this one to address pressing challenges right here in the Hudson Valley.” “This grant from the National Science Foundation will go a long way toward helping a wonderful program at a great school,” said Congressman Eliot Engel, Ranking Member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee. “Mercy College has done a tremendous job of helping our returning veterans ready themselves for the workforce through advanced training and education. Their work is inspiring, and I am pleased they will be receiving this well-deserved federal support.” Director of Accreditation for Mercy College School of Education Arlene Zimny said, “Obviously we are very excited and thrilled because our purpose is two-fold. One was to have the veterans have an opportunity for a life change and a new chapter in their careers and lives, and the other was that it would be meaningful for youngsters in high-needs schools to see the leadership and maturity and confidence that veterans may bring to them. We think that women and men who are veterans have panache and standing that will be very important and they can be mentors to the young.” Mercy College is now working to recruit 10 veterans who have strong math backgrounds to qualify for full scholarships in a 14-month master’s degree program, with the intention of assisting 20 veterans in completing the coursework over four years. Mercy will collaborate with the Yonkers Public School District to train the program’s students and to help meet the needs of high-needs Yonkers students to improve their math education. Details on the award can be found here. The NSF supports research, innovation, and discovery that provides the foundation for economic growth in this country. By advancing the frontiers of science and engineering, NSF seeks to develop the knowledge and cutting-edge technologies to address the challenges of today and the future. # # #
04.05.2016	Investments will enhance cultural sites and programs in Westchester White Plains, NY – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (Westchester/Rockland), the Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, today announced two National Endowment for the Humanities (NEH) grants totaling more than $69,000 for the Jacob Burns Film Center, Inc. and for Historic Hudson Valley in Westchester County. “Preserving our shared histories and culture is crucial for future generations,” said Lowey. “I’m proud these two grants will help the Jacob Burns Film Center and Historic Hudson Valley maintain important aspects of our community’s history for years to come. I will continue working as the Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee to protect federal investments in critical cultural and arts programs that provide educational opportunities for Lower Hudson Valley residents.” Emily Keating, Director of Education at the Jacob Burns Film Center, said, “Funding from NEH will create a curriculum in collaboration with the Brooklyn Historical Society to help 8th grade students connect the Civil Rights Movement of the 1960s to the current struggle for civil rights through the study of primary source materials and media-making. We’ll be using the Stanley Nelson film called “Freedom Riders” to study techniques as a way to develop the students’ skills, giving them an opportunity to create their own short documentaries.” Keating said the $39,759 grant for the Jacob Burns Film Center, Inc. in Pleasantville is “terrific.” She added that the Brooklyn Historical Society brings primary source documents from the Congress of Racial Equality (CORE) Brooklyn Chapter, which was instrumental in some accomplishments in housing and education issues. The Jacob Burns Film Center is a nonprofit educational and cultural organization aimed at developing and implementing programs that provide instruction and inspiration in media-making and communication for a visually, digitally, and globally connected world. The $30,000 grant for Historic Hudson Valley in Pocantico Hills will support “Historic Hudson Valley: Washington Irving and the Art of Storytelling,” and fund research, concept design, audience evaluation, and design workshops exploring the stories and life of renowned author Washington Irving. Historic Hudson Valley is a not-for-profit education organization that interprets, preserves, and celebrates historic landmarks of national significance in the Hudson Valley for the benefit and enjoyment of the public. “We are thrilled that the NEH is providing this research grant. Washington Irving was America’s first storyteller. We want to use Sunnyside as a place to explore storytelling, how Washington Irving stories stand the test of time and the influence they had on American storytellers ever since,” said Michael A. Lord, Director, Content Development at Historic Hudson Valley. “We are bringing together a group of scholars this summer to better understand the way we can tell these stories to visitors.” The NEH is one of the largest funders of humanities programs in the United States, and it serves and strengthens our country by promoting excellence in the humanities and conveying the lessons of history to all Americans. The Endowment accomplishes its mission by awarding grants for top-rated proposals examined by panels of independent, external reviewers. ###
03.31.2016	Tribute to Israelis Killed at 1972 Olympics in Munich Would be Powerful Reminder of Loss of Innocent Life in Fight Against Terror and Hate Families of Victims Prepare to Meet Soon with Olympics President White Plains/New City, NY – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (NY17-Westchester/Rockland) recently renewed her call for the International Olympic Committee (IOC) to hold a minute of silence during the opening ceremonies for the Olympic Games to honor the memory of the 11 Israeli athletes, coaches and referees who were brutally killed by terrorists at the 1972 Munich Olympics. “Without observances like this minute of silence, we risk that the world will forget – forget those lost to at the hands of brutal terrorists, forget the families they left behind, forget the tragic events that marred an international celebration of sportsmanship,” said Lowey. “By remembering the attack at the 1972 Munich Olympics with a minute of silence in the opening ceremonies at the upcoming Olympics in Brazil, we can help ensure that the world’s attention remains united in denouncing prejudice, hate, and intolerance.” This year marks the 44th anniversary of the barbaric murder at the hands of the Palestinian militant group Black September. In a recent letter to IOC President Thomas Bach, which can be found here, Lowey called for the IOC to hold a minute of silence during this summer’s games, a request she supported along with victims’ families and the Jewish Community Center Rockland in advance of the 2012 Olympic Games. In 2012, Lowey held her own minute of silence on the floor of the House of Representatives in support of the effort. She also wrote the IOC and introduced a resolution calling for the minute of silence along with Congressman Eliot Engel. Lowey has met with Ms. Ankie Spitzer and Ms. Ilana Romano, two widows whose husbands were killed in the brutal attack in 1972 (photo below). They will meet soon with Bach, whose predecessors have hosted receptions or memorial services in memory of the victims during previous Games but never a minute of silence. “For the victims’ families, whose painful loss is all the more palpable with each and every Olympic Game, a minute of silence would be a fitting recognition of the athletes’ sacrifice and ultimate display of respect for their memory,” said Lowey. Congresswoman Nita Lowey joins Ms. Ankie Spitzer (left) and Ms. Ilana Romano (right) in the fight to remember the Munich 11 at the Olympics. Ms. Spitzer’s and Ms. Romano’s husbands were among the Israeli athletes killed by Palestinian terrorists at the 1972 Olympics in Munich. # # #
03.30.2016	Investment will Support Diabetes-Related Vision Research White Plains, NY – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (Westchester/Rockland), the Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, today announced a grant totaling $425,000 from the National Eye Institute (NEI), one of the National Institutes for Health (NIH), for the Burke Medical Research Institute to study vascular control in diabetic retinopathy. “It gives me great pride to fight in Congress for medical research dollars that support good jobs and enable groundbreaking and innovative medical research right here in the Lower Hudson Valley, ” said Lowey. “Burke Medical Research Institute is one of many outstanding local facilities whose impressive research is advancing the health of all Americans. Funding for NIH has nearly tripled since I joined the House Appropriations subcommittee that funds medical research, and I will continue working to increase the $2 billion the NIH pumps into New York’s economy each year.” Burke Medical Research Institute officials said that every 23 seconds someone is diagnosed with diabetes, diabetes knows no borders and affects adults and children, and complications of diabetes kill more people than HIV and breast cancer combined. One of the early and most visible manifestations of this disease is vision impairment, called diabetic retinopathy, which can cause eventual blindness. According to the U.S. Centers for Disease Control, nearly half of patients diagnosed with diabetes – both type 1 and type 2 – suffer from diabetic retinopathy, even if they are not aware of it. Altered retinal blood flow is a common characteristic of patients with early stages of diabetic retinopathy, and likely contributes to later complications of the disease. A recent study funded by the NIH and the NEI, carried out by a group of scientists at the Burke Medical Research Institute in White Plains, is aimed at dissecting the mechanisms that cause impaired blood flow control in diabetic eye. This study, led by Dr. Botir Sagdullaev, will continue to explore whether these interactions can be targeted to prevent and treat vision loss during diabetes. NEI supports vision research through approximately 1600 research grants and training awards to scientists at more than 250 medical centers, universities, and other institutions across the country and around the world. NEI-funded research has established many treatments for diabetic retinopathy. Lowey fought to include a $2 billion increase in NIH funding in the December 2015 year-end omnibus government spending bill. ###
03.30.2016	Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY) today issued the following statement on the Justice Department unsealing indictments against seven individuals linked to Iran regarding cyber-attacks, including targeting infrastructure in Westchester County: “Today’s unsealing of indictments against seven individuals linked to the Iranian government is another reminder of the importance of securing our cyber networks against attacks. On the heels of recent ballistic missile launches, it is also more evidence of the dangerous character of the Iranian regime. The fact that these individuals allegedly attempted to take control of critical infrastructure in Westchester County – within the nation’s most populous metropolitan area –is extremely disturbing. “Congress and the Administration should work immediately to add and strengthen existing sanctions to prevent further attacks on our economy and critical infrastructure and to ensure offenders are brought to justice. “I offer my thanks and praise for the intelligence personnel and the Justice Department for their continued work to hold accountable those who would do us harm, and I will continue working to ensure our law enforcement agencies have the resources they need to protect our communities.” ###
03.30.2016	White Plains, NY – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (NY17-Westchester/Rockland) today said Entergy’s discovery of problems with bolts at the Indian Point Energy Center is one more indication that its operations are not up to par. “If we can’t trust that the bolts that hold the reactors together are secure, how can we trust that the plant is safe and secure?” Lowey asked. “In the last year, there have been unplanned shutdowns due to various causes including fire and power loss, tritium leaks that threaten public health, and this latest news that bolts in Unit 2 at Indian Point are missing or degraded. These are all indications that this facility simply isn’t operated as safely and securely as it should be. It’s too dangerous for Entergy to let maintenance fall behind at this nuclear facility that is situated in the middle of the most densely populated area of the country just miles from New York City.” Lowey’s statement followed Entergy’s announcement that 11% of the baffle bolts in the lining of the reactor of Indian Point Unit 2 require further analysis after recent inspection. According to Entergy, this evaluation was part of the facility’s Aging Management Process, which is related to its license renewal process. “The NRC simply must consider the many lapses in maintenance, operations, and safety when considering Indian Point’s relicensing application,” said Lowey. “While the problems with these bolts may not immediately threaten public safety, they reflect a long history of challenges at this facility that cannot be underestimated when it comes to protecting the surrounding communities.” Lowey introduced a measure to require the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) to evaluate old power plants seeking license renewals with the same stringent criteria used to license new plants today. She has also proposed requiring NRC to award grants for emergency preparedness when the agency collects safety-related fines from nuclear facilities. # # #
03.22.2016	Washington, DC - Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (Westchester/Rockland), the Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, released the following statement in reaction to the attacks in Brussels on Tuesday, March 22, 2016: “The news out of Brussels is simply heartbreaking. My thoughts and prayers are with the victims and their families, and with the emergency personnel responding to this brutal and cowardly attack. “Early indications that this was a terrorist attack coming on the heels of Istanbul, Paris, and San Bernardino, are another reminder of the need to remain vigilant against violent extremism, and to aggressively root out and defeat those who would kill and maim innocent civilians simply going about their lives. “I urge President Obama to provide any assistance necessary to Belgian and European authorities as they investigate this inhuman attack and bring to justice anyone else involved.” ###
03.16.2016	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (Westchester/Rockland) released the following statement today after President Barack Obama nominated Judge Merrick Garland to fill the vacancy on the Supreme Court: “Merrick Garland, Chief Judge of the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit, has the independence coupled with the credentials to be an excellent Supreme Court Justice. Now that the President has fulfilled his constitutional duty by nominating Judge Garland to fill the vacancy on the Supreme Court, it's time for the Senate to do its job and quickly consider this qualified nominee. It's what the Constitution instructs, and it's what the American people deserve. Anything less would blemish the prestige of our democracy.” ###
03.10.2016	WHITE PLAINS/NEW CITY, NY – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (Westchester/Rockland), the Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, released the following statement on Iran’s ballistic missile tests: “Iran has once again proven itself to be the leading state-sponsor of belligerent behavior. Test firing long-range missiles capable of reaching our closest ally, inscribed with Hebrew letters calling on Israel's destruction, represents a concerted effort by the Iranian regime to purposely provoke the international community. Iran's actions pose a direct threat to American national security interests and those of our allies, particularly as the country continues to benefits from sanctions relief under the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action. “Such behavior must be universally condemned, and Iran must be punished by the world community. As the Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee, I remain firmly committed to Congress' role in holding Iran accountable for all of its international commitments.” ###
03.09.2016	WHITE PLAINS/NEW CITY, NY – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (Westchester/Rockland), the Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, released the following statement in reaction to terrorist attacks in Israel on Tuesday, March 8, 2016: “I condemn in the strongest terms possible yesterday’s terrorist attacks in Jaffa, Petah Tikvah, and Jerusalem against innocent civilians. My thoughts and prayers are with the family of Taylor Force, an American veteran who served our country in Iraq and Afghanistan and was visiting Israel to learn about global entrepreneurship as a first year Vanderbilt business student. Taylor was only 28 years old. Taylor’s senseless and barbaric murder is beyond all comprehension. “President Abbas must immediately condemn the perpetrators behind Taylor’s murder and do everything in his power to prevent additional attacks. The recent series of Palestinian violence against innocent victims is deplorable and threatens to spiral out of control. Palestinian Authority leaders must take immediate responsibility to diffuse tensions and end all incitement.” ###
03.08.2016	Scams include threats of arrest, deportation, license revocation, or other legal action to trick unsuspecting victims into making payments More than 5,000 victims across the country have collectively been scammed out of $26.5 million since October 2013 WHITE PLAINS, NY – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (Westchester/Rockland), the Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, today was joined by federal and state officials at the Internal Revenue Service’s (IRS) White Plains office to warn residents about phone scams and other types of fraudulent activity plaguing taxpayers across the nation during tax season. “Fraudsters impersonating IRS agents over the phone have tricked thousands of people across the nation into handing over millions of dollars,” said Lowey. “Even I have received calls from these scam artists, claiming I owe money to the government, and if it goes unpaid that I will face consequences. I hope everyone will recognize, avoid, and report attempts by criminals seeking to steal your hard-earned money. As Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee, I will continue working with federal, state, and local officials to protect families in Westchester and Rockland from scams that cause financial and emotional hardship.” At today’s event, Lowey outlined the most recent, prevalent, and effective phone scams. Criminals impersonate IRS agents or other officials and threaten taxpayers with arrest, deportation and license revocation, among other things, to terrify unsuspecting taxpayers into making a payment. The IRS has seen a surge of phone scams, particularly during tax season, which runs from Tuesday, January 19, 2016, through tax day on Monday, April 18, 2016. Most recently, in January, the IRS Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration (TIGTA) announced they have received reports of roughly 896,000 contacts since October 2013, and have been made aware of over 5,000 victims who have collectively been scammed out of $26.5 million. Phone scams are just one type on the IRS’s “Dirty Dozen” list of tax scams released each year. The full list includes phishing emails, return preparer fraud, offshore tax avoidance, inflated refund claims, fake charities, falsely padding deductions on returns, excessive claims for business credits, falsifying income to claim credits, abusive tax shelters, and frivolous tax arguments. In June 2014, Lowey warned area seniors about the basic “grandparent scam,” in which a scammer will impersonate a senior citizen’s grandchild, often describing a situation in which the child is in a foreign country, has gotten into trouble, and is asking for immediate cash payments to escape a bad situation. RECOGNIZING A SCAM Residents should know that the IRS will never: Call and demand immediate payment (the IRS will never call without first having mailed you a bill); Demand you pay taxes without giving you the opportunity to appeal; Require specific types of payment for your taxes; Ask for your credit card number over the phone; or Threaten to bring in law enforcement to arrest you for lack of payment. REPORTING A SCAM If residents think they are victims of a scam, or know they do not owe taxes or have no reason to think that they owe any taxes, they should not give callers any information. They should call and report the incident to the Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration at 1-800-366-4484. Residents can also file a complaint using the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) Complaint Assistant; choose “Other” and then “Imposter Scams.” If the complaint involves someone impersonating the IRS, include the words “IRS Telephone Scam” in the notes. New Yorkers can also see the Attorney General’s IRS Phone Scam brochure or call the New York State Attorney General’s Hotline at 1-800-771-7755. Lowey was joined by IRS New York Field Office Special Agents in Charge Shantelle Kitchen and Robert O’Malley, and New York Assistant Attorney General Gary Brown to spread information on how to recognize, avoid, and report attempted scams. “With tax season upon us, shameful scam artists will be on the prowl looking to use scare tactics and false threats to con New Yorkers out of their hard-earned money,” said Attorney General Eric Schneiderman. “But you can protect yourself and your family by following a few basic tips – like never giving your personal or financial information to anyone who contacts you, no matter who they claim to represent.” “If you are paying someone to prepare your tax return, a useful piece of advice is to choose your return preparer carefully,” said Special Agent in Charge Shantelle P. Kitchen of the IRS New York Field Office. “You should take the same care that you would take to select any other professional you hire. Ask the preparer questions, check references, and most importantly, listen to your common sense. I encourage all taxpayers to explore the Internal Revenue Service’s website – irs.gov – to learn about tax scams and tax related identity theft, and to find all kinds of information about preparing and filing your tax return and our nation’s tax system.” “It is critical that all taxpayers continue to be wary of unsolicited telephone calls and e-mails from individuals claiming to be IRS and Treasury employees,” said Special Agent in Charge Robert O’Malley of the IRS TIGTA New York Field Division. Congresswoman Lowey has been fighting for consumers’ rights both on the national and local levels. She knows that even the most vigilant consumers sometimes find themselves the victims of fraud. She has helped hundreds of constituents with consumer protection problems and scams. For further assistance with any of these consumer problems, please contact the Congresswoman’s White Plains District Office (914-428-1707), New City District Office (845-639-3485), or her website at https://lowey.house.gov/contact. ###
02.24.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (Westchester/Rockland), the Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, released the following statement in response to NRC issuing a license amendment to Indian Point Energy Center (Indian Point) Unit 2 that reduces the frequency of the containment integrated leak rate test from once every 10 years to once every 15 years: “The Nuclear Regulatory Commission should not ease any type of testing requirement at Indian Point. Recent, alarming leaks at this aging facility make clear that Indian Point requires more safety tests, not fewer. It’s particularly concerning that NRC is loosening testing requirements for Indian Point while the facility seeks renewal of currently expired licenses for its Units 2 and 3 reactors. “I’ve introduced a measure to require the NRC to evaluate old power plants to be re-licensed with the same stringent criteria used to license new plants. I have also introduced a proposal requiring NRC to award grants for emergency preparedness when the agency collects safety-related fines from nuclear facilities. As Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee, I will continue to be laser-focused on ensuring that the NRC puts public health and safety first.” Lowey released a statement on the recent tritium leak at the Indian Point Energy Center and submitted a letter to the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) calling on the agency to take steps to address the leak problems at Indian Point, and expedite improvements to the aging facility’s pumping system. On Wednesday, February 10, 2016, Lowey at a NRC hearing before a House Appropriations Subcommittee questioned NRC Chairman Stephen Burns about the recent tritium leak at Indian Point. (The video is available here, and a transcript is available here). ###
02.15.2016	WHITE PLAINS/NEW CITY, NY – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (Westchester/Rockland), the Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, released the following statement celebrating Black History Month: “Each February, during Black History Month, we honor the contributions that African Americans have made to this nation. “Since our country’s founding, African Americans have been – and continue to be – a central, binding fabric of our nation, from political and civil rights pioneers, to today’s leaders in education, business, science, and the arts. In the Lower Hudson Valley, we honor the legacies of late community leaders and activists, such as William "Bill" Carter, Dr. Willie Bryant, Dr. Susan Gordon, and Patricia Simmons. “African Americans face grave challenges today, such as high unemployment, health and education disparities, voter disenfranchisement, mass incarceration, and persistent poverty. This Black History Month, let us recommit to working together to find real solutions to these persistent problems that plague African American communities throughout the United States.” ###
02.10.2016	Investments Allow NYMC to Study Chronic Fatigue Syndrome and Illness Caused by Strep VALHALLA, NY – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (Westchester/Rockland), the Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, today announced two National Institutes of Health (NIH) grants totaling $502,939 for New York Medical College (NYMC) to study Chronic Fatigue Syndrome and how common streptococcus bacterium causes severe illness. “The National Institutes of Health contribute approximately $2 billion to the New York economy each year, enabling local medical research companies to study groundbreaking medicines and treatments.” said Lowey. “I’m pleased New York Medical College will use these federal investments to conduct important research that will improve the lives of those suffering from Chronic Fatigue Syndrome and provide better understanding of how streptococcus bacterium causes diseases such as strep throat. Funding for NIH has nearly tripled since I joined the House Appropriations subcommittee that funds medical research, and I will continue fighting for federal investments that fuel this regional engine for growth.” The first grant – $246,000 from the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke – will allow NYMC to study Chronic Fatigue Syndrome in adolescents and young adults. NYMC and others have shown that many younger patients with Myalgic Encephalomyelitis/Chronic Fatigue Syndrome (ME/CFS) cannot tolerate prolonged standing, otherwise known as orthostatic intolerance (OI), which is often accompanied by either excessive heart rate, or a fall in blood pressure and fainting. Intravenous fluids can alleviate these symptoms, but are difficult to administer, and oral fluids fail to provide the same benefit. NYMC will test the effectiveness of an oral rehydration solution to reverse these symptoms. “We are looking forward to finding a simple and safe way to help patients with Chronic Fatigue Syndrome minimize some of their symptoms and improve their quality of life,” said Marvin Medow, Ph.D., Professor of pediatrics and Associate Director of The Center for Hypotension at NYMC. “We are very grateful for this generous grant from The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke, which will support our studies in adolescents and young adults and will allow us to focus much-needed attention on this cause. Grants such as this make it possible to find new treatments and cures that are critical to the advancement of science. ” The second grant – $256,939 from the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases – will allow NYMC to explore how common streptococcus bacterium manifests into serious illness. Group A Streptococcus (GAS) is a bacterium that causes more than 700 million infections each year worldwide, from relatively mild illnesses, such as strep throat, to severe and life-threatening diseases, such as rheumatic fever. Knowledge of the biology of organisms will facilitate a better understanding of the disease processes and aid in better diagnostics, clinical management, and vaccine development. “This grant will help us to understand the underlying basis for how the common streptococcus bacterium causes different diseases. Specifically, we plan to compare strains of the bacterium that cause strep throat to strains that trigger autoimmune diseases, such as rheumatic fever,” said Debra Bessen, Ph.D., professor of microbiology and immunology at NYMC. “With the new knowledge gained, we hope to ultimately improve diagnostics and develop better prevention strategies.” Lowey fought to include a $2 billion increase in NIH funding in the December 2015 year-end omnibus government spending bill. ###
02.09.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (Westchester/Rockland), the Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, highlighted New York and Lower Hudson Valley priorities included in the President’s Fiscal Year 2017 budget proposal released today. “The President’s budget proposal is a responsible plan that helps hardworking Americans and invests in the future of our nation,” said Lowey. “As the economy continues its recovery, the Congress has been presented a bold, forward-looking strategy that would also benefit the state of New York and the Lower Hudson Valley. This includes investments in early and higher education, child nutrition, small business, medical research, transportation infrastructure, and important measures to combat prescription drug abuse and the heroin epidemic. As Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, I will be fighting to fund many of the President’s proposals. Now is the time to secure continued prosperity for American families and businesses.” HIGHER EDUCATION Access to higher education begins with making college affordable for hardworking students. Federal student loans and Pell Grants are essential in making a college education a reality. Many low-income, full-time students at public and private colleges throughout the country – including here in the Lower Hudson Valley – must balance their work and family lives while obtaining a degree to get a better-paying job. More than 20,000 low-income students who attend college in New York’s 17th Congressional District, which includes parts of Westchester and all of Rockland, received Pell Grants worth almost $80 million during the 2014-2015 school year. The President’s budget would: Fully fund the maximum Pell Grant award for low-income students to $5,935 for the 2017-2018 school year and continue to index Pell Grants to inflation. Make Pell Grants to low-income students available year-round, helping an estimated 700,000 students nationwide receive an average of $1,900 in additional Pell Grant support to graduate college faster, accumulate less debt, and enter the workforce more quickly. Provide a $300 “On-Track Pell Bonus” for Pell students who take at least 15 credits per semester. Expand the American Opportunity Tax Credit (AOTC) to be available for up to five years and refundable up to $1,500. In addition, the budget would exempt Pell Grants from taxation and the AOTC maximum calculation. INVESTING IN EDUCATION Access to educational opportunity leads to economic security for children and families. Title I funding improves students’ academic environment and prospects for success while helping offset local tax burdens. Title I funds provided nearly $29.5 million to public schools within New York’s 17th Congressional District in Fiscal Year 2015. The President’s budget would: Increase Title I grants to local school districts by 3 percent, or $450 million, to offset costs of student improvement for students in need and reduce burden on local taxpayers. CHILD CARE & EARLY EDUCATION Access to quality, affordable child care for young children in need is vitally important for working families in New York. Early education programs like Head Start prepare children for school through literacy activities, as well as immunizations, vision screenings, dental care, and more, while allowing parents the flexibility to go to work and provide for their families. In 2014, Head Start programs served almost one million children and their families nationwide, including more than 3,000 in Westchester and Rockland counties and 50,000 across New York. The President’s budget would: Increase federal investments in Head Start by $434 million to maintain enrollment and provide additional full-day, full-year services for more children. Provide an increase of $201 million for Child Care Development Block Grants, allowing low-income working families to access to affordable, high-quality child care while parents are at work. Invest an additional $100 million in Preschool Development Grants to expand universal preschool in states like New York, which received nearly $22.5 million in Preschool Development Expansion Grants announced last year. PREVENTING HEROIN & OPIOID ABUSE Prescription opioid abuse and the heroin epidemic are ravaging communities across the country, including the Lower Hudson Valley. Bending the trajectory of this epidemic downward and keeping our neighborhoods safe and healthy requires a bold plan. The President’s budget includes: $1 billion in new mandatory funding over two years to expand access to treatment for prescription drug abuse and heroin use. This funding would boost efforts to help individuals with an opioid use disorder seek treatment, successfully complete treatment, and sustain recovery. $500 million – an increase of more than $90 million – to continue and build on current efforts across the Departments of Justice (DOJ) and Health and Human Services (HHS) to expand state-level prescription drug overdose prevention strategies, increase the availability of medication-assisted treatment programs, improve access to the overdose-reversal drug naloxone, and support targeted enforcement activities. TRANSPORTATION & INFRASTRUCTURE The Lower Hudson Valley and New York metro region understand the need to upgrade our transportation infrastructure. Investing in roads, bridges, broadband lines, water and sewage treatment facilities, and power grids is critical to keeping people safe, while setting the stage for economic growth and job creation. Congresswoman Lowey supports a comprehensive, long-term transportation funding plan to upgrade our nation’s crumbling infrastructure. The President’s budget would: Increase from $500 million to $1.25 billion the Transportation Investment Generating Economic Recovery (TIGER) grant program, which invests in road, rail, transit, and port projects that promise to achieve national objectives. Provide $1.3 billion for positive train control (PTC), a monumental increase over the current federally funded level of $25 million, to help prevent accidents on our nation’s extensive railway system. Increase funding from $1.39 billion to $2.3 billion for Amtrak, including $700 million for the Northeast Corridor. Include $1.6 million for Pipelines and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration (PHMSA) to conduct expanded research, including work with the Department of Energy on test methods for crude oil, carrying out combustion experiments, and modeling to develop hazard profiles of different crude oils. SUMMER MEALS FOR CHILDREN Hunger doesn’t stop at the end of the school year. Students in Westchester who rely on free or reduced price meals are threatened with food insecurity over the summer. According to the Food Bank for Westchester, approximately 200,000 people are at risk of hunger or are facing food insecurity in Westchester County, including 66,000 children. Families already battling through uncertainty also struggle to provide additional meals for their young children during the summer, when meals for 25,000 Westchester school children disappear. Absence of these meals served during the school year, combined with the need for additional childcare coverage, can stretch budgets to a breaking point. The President’s budget would: Expand the Summer Electronic Benefit Transfer (EBT) program nationwide to provide low-income students with access to meals during the summer months. The Summer EBT nationwide expansion would provide meals for 25,000 students in Westchester and approximately 895,400 throughout New York. SMALL BUSINESS LOANS As our economy improves, the demand for small business loans increases. The Small Business Administration (SBA) loan programs help improve the competitive position of small businesses across the country, including in the Lower Hudson Valley. In 2014, 116 small businesses in Westchester and Rockland benefitted from $24.5 million in SBA 7(a) loans alone. The President’s budget would: Increase the lending authority for SBA 7(a) loans, SBA’s most common loan program for small businesses, by $500 million. Increase Direct Microloans by 26 percent to $44.4 million, helping small businesses and certain not-for-profit childcare centers start up and expand. Provide $7.5 billion in loan guarantees for capital expenses through the 504 Community Development Corporation Program and $7.5 billion in lending authority for the 504 Loan Refinancing program to help small businesses refinance their existing long and medium term debt obligations. MEDICAL RESEARCH Medical research is the lifeblood of the Lower Hudson Valley economy, creates jobs, and improves the quality of life for people suffering from debilitating diseases. According to NIH, every $1 it invests in grants generates $2.21 of economic growth. In the last 10 years, Westchester and Rockland Counties have received roughly $490 million in NIH grants, making the total economic benefit to the Lower Hudson Valley more than $1 billion. NIH provides approximately $2 billion in biomedical research grants to institutions within New York each year that conduct cutting edge research and yield life-saving results. The President’s budget would: Provide an additional $825 million to NIH to support innovative medical research, including the BRAIN Initiative to understand the working of the human brain and identify causes and treatments for diseases and disorders such as Parkinson’s, Alzheimer’s, and Autism, and increase investments in the Precision Medicine Initiative to develop individualized treatments with a higher probability of success. Launch the Vice President’s Cancer Moonshot to better understand the causes of cancer, develop new early detection and prevention measures, and lead the world in finding groundbreaking treatments to save lives and end suffering. CYBERSECURITY Protecting government, businesses, and private citizens from damaging cyberattacks is one of the most important challenges facing the United States today, and requires near-term actions and a long-term strategy to enhance cybersecurity awareness and protections, protect privacy, maintain public safety as well as economic and national security, and empower Americans to take better control of their digital security. The President’s plan would: Invest more than $19 billion for cybersecurity, a roughly 35 percent increase from FY 2016 in overall federal resources for cybersecurity, a necessary investment to secure our nation in the future. COMPUTER SCIENCE Our economy is becoming increasingly technology-focused, and it is imperative that we enable opportunity for all Americans to gain the skills and knowledge necessary to obtain a good-paying job. This means the fields of science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM) are playing a central role in high schools and colleges across the country. The President’s budget would: Create a new $4 billion Computer Science for All initiative over the next three years to expand access to computer science instruction to all students. Create a new Teacher and Principal Pathways program to provide $125 million in grants to expand pathways into the teaching profession for high-need schools and high-need subjects, such as STEM. ###
02.09.2016	WHITE PLAINS, NY – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (Westchester/Rockland), the Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, released the following statement on the tritium leak at the Indian Point Energy Center and submitted a letter to the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) calling on the agency to take steps to address the leak problems at Indian Point, and expedite improvements to the aging facility’s pumping system: “The tritium leak at Indian Point is yet another alarming safety lapse at this aging facility. I have called on the Nuclear Regulatory Commission to investigate this leak, and I will ask NRC Chairman Stephen Burns about the tritium leak at a House Appropriations Committee hearing scheduled for later this week. Problems at Indian Point are now a common occurrence, and ensuring health and safety of the public must be a top priority. “Indian Point would never have been licensed in such a highly populated area had it been proposed today. That’s why I’ve introduced a measure to require the NRC to evaluate old power plants to be re-licensed with the same stringent criteria used to license new plants. I have also introduced a proposal requiring NRC to award grants for emergency preparedness when the agency collects safety-related fines from nuclear facilities. As Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee, I will continue to closely monitor Indian Point’s operations and NRC’s oversight. The safety and security of communities in our region cannot be left to chance.” The full letter is below: February 8, 2016 Stephen G. Burns Chairman Nuclear Regulatory Commission 11555 Rockville Pike Rockville, MD 20852 Dear Chairman Burns, As you may be aware, radioactive tritium-contaminated water was recently reported to have leaked into groundwater at the Indian Point Energy Center in Buchanan, NY. Entergy, the plant’s operator, notified the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) last week. This is merely the latest in a long history of safety lapses that pose significant risks to the health and safety of families and businesses in the area. In early 2005, traces of strontium-90 and tritium were detected in the ground under Indian Point and in the Hudson River. In May 2014, two groundwater monitoring wells detected spikes in the tritium levels in groundwater and bedrock under the plant. It is unacceptable that these leaks continue to occur. The NRC must take steps to address these leaks and prevent further contamination. I understand that Entergy has committed to installing a low-flow pumping system to decrease the local concentration of tritium, minimize the spread of tritium, and monitor the presence of tritium in the future. Given the continued tritium leaks and potential health and safety impacts, the NRC must take steps to expedite these improvements so that they are implemented well before the scheduled completion at the end of the summer of 2016. As you know, the licenses for Units 2 and 3 have both expired. Despite decades of problems, which now include multiple tritium leaks, at Indian Point, the NRC continues to approve Entergy’s requests for exemptions of safety regulations, while you consider the renewals of the two Unit licenses. Given this serious situation, I strongly urge the NRC to work with its relevant partners to thoroughly investigate the ongoing leaks at Indian Point to protect the health and safety of the public. I appreciate your attention to this pressing issue and look forward to your response. Sincerely, Nita M. Lowey Member of Congress ###
02.08.2016	Expanding Pell Grants to Include a Third Semester will Help Students Graduate Faster and Reduce College Debt President’s Budget – To Be Released Tomorrow – Includes Proposal to Expand Pell Grant Program VALHALLA, NY – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (Westchester/Rockland), the Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, today at Westchester Community College (WCC) with students and Dr. Belinda S. Miles, WCC President, called on Congress to expand the federal Pell Grant program to cover a third semester. The President’s budget, to be released tomorrow, Tuesday, February 9, 2016, includes a Pell expansion proposal. “Pell Grants are essential for low-income students to make college affordable and obtain a good-paying job,” said Lowey. “Many students are forced to make the difficult choice of taking on even more debt to complete their studies more quickly. That is why I support President Obama’s proposal to extend Pell Grant eligibility for summer classes so students can complete their education faster without dramatically increased costs. As Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee, I will continue working to increase investments in higher education and expand opportunity for all Americans in the new economy.” Currently, low-income, full-time students are eligible for two Pell Grants per year to help finance their education. After two semesters, students must wait until the next academic year to become eligible for Pell again. Expanding Pell to cover a third semester per year would allow students to obtain their degrees more quickly, resulting in fewer costs and, likely, less accumulation of debt. This proposal will provide nearly 700,000 students with an additional $1,915 on average to help pay for college and complete their degrees faster. For the 2014-2015 school year, 20,030 students who attended college in New York’s 17th Congressional District (NY-17), which includes parts of Westchester County and all of Rockland County, received Pell Grants worth just over $79.1 million. Approximately 6,000 WCC students receive $22 million in Pell Grants annually, and 2,488 students at Rockland Community College (RCC) – roughly one-third of the RCC student body – receive more than $8.7 million. About 2,895 Pace University students receive Pell Grants worth $13 million. New York students received approximately $2 billion in Pell Grants. Student loan debt has reached $1.2 trillion nationwide for 40 million borrowers, making the average student loan burden $29,000 upon graduation. This cost is often significantly higher in high cost-of-living areas, like the Lower Hudson Valley. Students and administrators joined Lowey in highlighting the benefits of expanding the federal Pell Grant program. WCC Student Blair Galante, who has received Pell Grants, said, “I have taken summer classes without Pell assistance and I would welcome the opportunity take even more classes in the future if this support is available.” “I fully support the extension of Pell grants to cover a third semester,” said WCC Student Senate President Phil Gigante. “Many of our students are on track to graduate and move on to careers or further study at four-year colleges and universities. This extension of Pell funds would help them achieve their goals more quickly.” “The more I connect with our students, the more I become aware of their need for flexible schedules and increased aid. Students should receive the assistance required to complete their education in a timely way, according to their individual schedules,” says Dr. Belinda S. Miles, President, Westchester Community College. “Extending Pell grants to include summer study is in keeping with our commitment to student success and completion. This extension would result in more graduates who would be able to enter the local workforce or move on to four-year degrees.” The federal Pell Grant program provides need-based grants to low-income undergraduate and certain post-baccalaureate students to promote access to postsecondary education. Lowey has been fighting to ensure opportunity for all Americans to obtain a quality, affordable higher education. In addition to vowing to oppose cuts to Pell Grants, as the Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, Lowey has: Voted for the December 2015 year-end omnibus government spending bill, which provides $22.5 billion for Pell Grants. Combined with mandatory funding, these discretionary funds will enable the maximum grant to increase to an estimated $5,915, an additional $140 for the 2016-2017 school year. Voted for H.R. 529, which improves the 529 College Savings Plans to include the costs of computers, internet access, and related services as qualified expenses, and allows refunds from colleges to be reinvested into a student's 529 account within 60 days of leaving the institution. Co-sponsored the Bank on Students Emergency Loan Refinancing Act of 2015, which would allow borrowers with high interest rates in both the public and private markets to refinance existing student loans to lower rates, similar to those available to new student loan borrowers. ###
02.05.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – Representatives Nita Lowey (D-NY) and Dave Reichert (R-WA) today introduced the Education for All Act of 2016 (H.R. 4481), bipartisan legislation that aims to expand children’s access to school around the world, and improve the quality of education for those currently enrolled. “An education is the fundamental tool with which boys and girls are empowered to increase their economic potential, improve their health outcomes, address cultural biases, participate in their communities, and provide for their families,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “That’s why prioritizing children’s access to education around the world strengthens our national security and global leadership. Simply put, we cannot build the world we want for ourselves, and for future generations, without education at the center of our efforts. As Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on State and Foreign Operations, I will continue working to increase global access to education.” “Today, millions of children, especially in conflict-affected states and sub-Saharan Africa, are desperate for an education, but are denied that opportunity through no fault of their own. Helping these children receive a basic education is not only the right thing to do, but will also give them skills to care for their families, improve their own health outcomes, contribute positively to their communities, and foster more stability in conflict-prone regions and the world,” said Rep. Reichert. “I am hopeful that with this bill, we can better coordinate our efforts with global partners to work toward reaching the 124 million children around the world who are not in school and improve the quality of education for those currently enrolled.” Worldwide, 59 million primary school-age children – more than half of whom are girls – and 65 million adolescents do not attend school. Tens of millions of school-age children who start primary school drop out, and millions more are denied a secondary education. An educated citizenry contributes to sustained economic growth, strengthened democratic institutions, the empowerment of women and girls, and decreased extremism. That is why no country has reached sustained economic growth without achieving near universal primary education. Specifically, the Education for All Act calls for: A comprehensive, integrated U.S. strategy that improves educational opportunities and addresses key barriers to school attendance, retention, and completion for the poorest children worldwide; The creation of a “Senior Coordinator” within the United States Agency for International Development (USAID) responsible for the development, implementation, and coordination of U.S. basic education programs; Partnerships with countries to strengthen national education plans to help promote long-term sustainability; and Engagement with key partners including other donors, civil society, and multilateral global education initiatives, such as the Global Partnership for Education, to leverage U.S. contributions to achieve a greater overall impact. ###
02.05.2016	HARRISON, NY – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (Westchester/Rockland), the Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, today congratulated Harrison High School students Paul Bilotta, Thomas Alvarado, Christine Cardascia, Ricky Harris, Josh Munoz, Ben Struhl, and their teacher, Diane Frawley, for winning ‘Best in Nation’ in the Verizon Innovation App Challenge. Their innovative app, Pay It Forward, would allow consumers purchasing meals to easily be able to buy a meal for a person in need. “I am thrilled that these innovation rock stars from Harrison High School have won 'Best in Nation' for their Pay it Forward app,” said Lowey. “The students’ smarts, hard work, and determination could go a long way to reduce hunger around the country, including right here in Westchester County, where roughly one in five Westchester residents, or about 200,000 people, are hungry or at risk of hunger, with half seeking emergency food regularly. We must continue to encourage students’ participation in STEM education courses, so they can use 21st Century technology to solve persistent problems. As Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee, I will continue fighting to increase federal investments that provide opportunity for girls and boys to develop their skills to make a difference in their communities, while preparing them for today’s technology-driven economy.” ###
02.02.2016	WHITE PLAINS/NEW CITY, NY – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (Westchester/Rockland), the Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, today released the following statement on the President’s budget proposal to address the prescription opioid abuse and heroin use epidemic: “I applaud the President’s announcement today to include over $1.1 billion in his budget proposal to address prescription opioid abuse and the heroin epidemic. This is exactly the type of bold plan we need to prevent further heartache and protect teenagers, young adults, and families here in the Lower Hudson Valley. This scourge is devastating communities throughout the country, regardless of geography or socio-economic status, affecting Red and Blue Congressional districts alike. We must come together to once and for all bend the trajectory of this epidemic downward and keep our neighborhoods safe and healthy. As Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, I will continue the fight against this public health emergency and ensure that the President’s proposals are funded.” On September 12, 2015, Lowey announced 15 grants totaling $1,823,461 from the White House Office of National Drug Control Policy (ONDCP) Drug-Free Communities Program to Westchester and Rockland community coalitions to prevent and reduce youth substance use. On September 22, 2014, Lowey announced that 14 local organizations received a total of $1.7 million in federal grants for youth anti-substance abuse initiatives through the Office of National Drug Control Policy (ONDCP) Drug-Free Communities (DFC) Program. At an event in Cortlandt on May 27, 2014, Lowey announced her co-sponsorship of the Stop Overdose Stat (SOS) Act and vowed to continue fighting in Congress for increased funding for Drug Free Communities grants and the High Intensity Drug Trafficking Areas Program (HIDTA) to help stem the heroin epidemic afflicting the Lower Hudson Valley. In September 2013, she helped secure $1.3 million in Drug Free Communities grants for ten local organizations to prevent youth substance abuse. ###
02.01.2016	Lowey and Maloney Measures Supporting Crossing Safety: Additional Resources to States, a National High-Visibility Paid Media Campaign Anniversary of Metro-North Valhalla Accident is Wednesday, February 3, 2016 WHITE PLAINS, NY – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (Westchester/Rockland), the Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, Congressman Sean Patrick Maloney, Member of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, and Federal Railroad Administration (FRA) Administrator Sarah Feinberg today highlighted actions at the federal level to improve grade crossing safety issues affecting the Hudson Valley as well as communities nationwide. The anniversary of the Metro-North crash in Valhalla is Wednesday, February 3, 2016. “One year ago, the Metro-North crash in Valhalla shocked our entire region,” said Lowey. “Most troubling is that the people involved could have been anyone’s family member or loved one, commuting back from work and looking forward to getting home. That’s why I have been working extremely hard at the federal level to enable upgrades and improvements that make rail crossings safer. As Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, I was successful in passing additional resources for states to improve safety and for the federal government to conduct a public awareness campaign to help avoid another unspeakable rail crossing tragedy. Officials at all levels of government will continue working together to ensure our communities are safe and secure.” “Accidents like last year’s horrific Metro-North accident are all too common in New York – that’s why I immediately introduced legislation to invest in positive train control and improve safety at grade crossings. Installing positive train control systems on commuter rail systems like Metro-North is the single most important step we can take to reduce human error and save lives,” said Maloney. “Working together with folks like Congresswoman Lowey, Administrator Feinberg, state, and local officials, we were able to pass critical provisions in the Highway bill that will not only prevent accidents, but will improve safety for the millions of New Yorkers traveling by rail every day.” Lowey’s measures in the Fiscal Year 2016 omnibus spending bill included: Lowey’s amendment to increase to $350 million the set-aside for grade crossing improvements in the Highway Safety Improvement Program, giving state highway departments additional resources to make upgrades and safety improvements at dangerous crossings. Lowey’s provision to set aside $6.5 million for the National Highway Transportation Safety Administration (NHTSA) to develop a high-visibility enforcement paid-media campaign that supports highway-rail grade crossing safety. Lowey had called on the federal government shortly following the crash to bolster education and enforcement campaigns. New railroad safety grants funded at $50 million: $25 million of which available for Positive Train Control (PTC) and $25 million for rail infrastructure. Immediately following the Metro-North accident, Maloney introduced the Rail Crossings Safety Improvement Act, which would invest in state and local governments' efforts to build bridges, tunnels, or otherwise relocate roads in order to improve the safety of grade crossings for passengers, motorists, and pedestrians. Lowey is a co-sponsor of this measure. This legislation was passed by the House of Representatives on March 4, 2015, as part of the Passenger Rail Reform and Investment Act (PRRIA). In addition, Maloney wrote several key measures to improve rail safety, which were included in the Fixing America’s Surface Transportation Act, also known as the Highway Transportation bill and signed into law. The Passenger Train Derailment Prevention Act, which would require passenger railroads and freight lines on which passenger rail travels to identify curves with a speed reduction of 20 mph or greater, and take actions to enhance safety, including: modifying existing ATC or other signal systems, increasing crew size, installing signage, installing alert systems in cabs, and increasing crew communication. This legislation also gives railroads an incentive to implement positive train control (PTC). “Railroad crossing safety is a top priority of mine and Representatives Lowey and Maloney because we know that, working together, we can save lives,” said Administrator Sarah Feinberg, Federal Railroad Administration. “To get to a point where we have zero railroad crossing deaths means everyone has to do their part – the FRA, the railroads, states, law enforcement, and even motorists who drive over the more than 200,000 railroad crossing across the country every day.” After asking Feinberg about effective approaches to increasing safety at crossings during a House Appropriations Committee hearing on March 25, 2015, Lowey then hosted Feinberg and local officials for a visit to the Metro-North crossing at Roaring Brook Road in Chappaqua, which has faced great safety challenges, to demonstrate the danger posed by grade crossings. ###
01.26.2016	WHITE PLAINS/NEW CITY, NY – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (Westchester/Rockland), the Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, released the following statement on the Houston, TX, grand jury decision that cleared Planned Parenthood of criminal wrongdoing and instead indicted anti-abortion activists who created the misleading and heavily-edited videos: “The grand jury indictment exposes Planned Parenthood opponents’ willingness to obfuscate the truth in an effort to deny essential health services for millions of Americans. This follows seven state investigations that have cleared Planned Parenthood of any wrongdoing. Yet, Republicans in Congress continue to play for political points: threatening government shutdowns, and wasting unprecedented amounts taxpayer dollars ‘investigating’ Planned Parenthood. It must stop. As Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee, I will continue protecting safe, vital, and effective health care services.” ###
01.26.2016	First Competitive Federal Community Development Awards to Westchester Local Governments Since 2010 WHITE PLAINS, NY - Congresswoman Nita Lowey (Westchester/Rockland), the Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee, today with Governor Andrew M. Cuomo and Congressman Eliot Engel announced that $4.3 million in federal grants have been awarded to 10 local governments in Westchester County to support 14 projects that address critical housing, public infrastructure, public facilities and economic development needs. These targeted high-need communities were previously prohibited from receiving funds from the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development because of the county's non-compliance with federal Fair Housing laws. In February 2015, Congresswoman Lowey worked with Governor Cuomo to broker a deal to allow the state to award competitive Community Development Block Grant funds to eligible Westchester localities. "I'm pleased 10 communities in Westchester County will receive federal Community Development Block Grant money for excellent projects to improve residents’ quality of life,” said Lowey. “From senior center and housing rehabilitation to sidewalk and sewer repairs, these investments will provide vital infrastructure and service upgrades, while reducing the burden on local municipalities. The Governor was a great partner with me in reaching an agreement to award substantial federal CDBG funds to Westchester municipalities who lost this valuable resource in recent years. As Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, I will continue working with Governor Cuomo and local officials to ensure the needs of our communities are met." The $4.3 million will support community investments that include: redeveloping blighted property into new affordable housing; rehabilitating seven buildings to upgrade the apartments of low-income tenants; creating Americans with Disabilities Act-compliant accessibility for a senior center; creating sidewalk infrastructure for a public housing building; creating a crosswalk and other public structures to provide access for residents of public housing; and funding an Americans with Disabilities Act-compliant bus for seniors, among others. New York State Homes and Community Renewal will administer the funding. Governor Cuomo said, "This funding allows more than a dozen crucial development projects in Westchester to get off the ground, and ultimately improve the local communities. I want to thank Representatives Lowey and Engel for their partnership and unwavering dedication to ensuring that these critical projects get the attention and funding they deserve."Congressman Eliot Engel said, “I applaud Governor Cuomo for using these federal dollars for valuable projects that will strengthen local communities throughout Westchester. I am pleased that Rye and Greenburgh especially will benefit from the allocation of more than $600,000 for improved handicap accessibility for elderly or disabled residents. We need to do all that we can to ensure our communities are well-equipped for everyone regardless of one’s physical limitations."United States Department of Housing and Urban Development Regional Administrator for New York and New Jersey Holly Leicht said, "HUD welcomes the opportunity to work with the State of New York to award Community Development Block Grant funds to communities in Westchester County that are committed to affirmatively furthering fair housing. We applaud Governor Cuomo and Congresswoman Lowey for their leadership in forging a path that allows federal funds to pay for critically important housing, infrastructure and economic development projects in ten Westchester localities."New York State Homes and Community Renewal Commissioner/CEO James S. Rubin said, "This is an example of government, on all levels working in sync to serve communities, expand opportunities for affordable housing and improve the quality of life for New Yorkers. With the Governor’s leadership and Secretary Castro's responsiveness, we were able to release vital HUD CDBG funding that would otherwise have been out of the reach of these localities. The impact of these grants in communities across Westchester will positively affect thousands of lives, making a real difference for decades to come." The Community Development Block Grants announced today were awarded to:Town of Bedford $421,050 to renovate a deteriorated church and finance four affordable one-bedroom units as part of a new twelve-unit development in the hamlet of Bedford Hills. The initial rents will be set at levels affordable to one person households whose incomes do not exceed 50 percent of the Westchester area median income. Village of Elmsford $255,300 to address accessibility issues at the Village's Community and Senior Center, serving over 1,800 individuals. The proposed rehabilitation includes constructing Americans with Disabilities Act-compliant ramps with solid foundations, preventing the build-up of ice by improving roof drainage, constructing level front stairs and improving additional access to the building near the parking lot. Town of Greenburgh $247,220 to the town for the installation of Americans with Disabilities Act-compliant sidewalks in and around the existing public housing at 65 Secor Road. The complex currently has no sidewalks to connect the main street thoroughfare to facilities and services. The town seeks to eliminate the barriers that disconnect portions of the existing sidewalk infrastructure. Town/Village of Mount Kisco $200,000 to build a staircase and crosswalk across Preston Way to provide greater access to the shopping area and a more direct and safer route for pedestrians across an adjacent road. Currently, residents of the Mount Kisco Housing Authority must walk well out of their way to reach the supermarket and businesses in the area on foot. The project will benefit 1,055 individuals with low to moderate incomes. $30,000 to purchase an Americans with Disabilities Act-compliant bus for seniors to meet the critical transportation needs of the village's elderly population and provide access to vital Village services. Village of Ossining $295,845 to renovate residential structures owned by the Interfaith Council for Action to help improve the health, welfare and safety of the low income tenants. City of Peekskill $313,000 to renovate three multifamily homes and one single-family home, which house eight low to moderate income tenants. $750,000 to replace three dilapidated and outdated pump stations with new, modern, above-ground pump stations which will ensure reliable consistent service to 23,080 residents, while eliminating health and safety hazards. Slightly more than 64 percent of these residents have low to moderate incomes. Village of Port Chester $106,745 to replace kitchen appliances and the bus that services the village's Senior Community Center, which are at the end of their useful life. New appliances, equipment and bus services will allow the village to continue providing meals and transportation to approximately 1,300 seniors and individuals with low to moderate incomes. $750,000 to inspect and repair deteriorated sewer mains throughout the village with Cured-In-Place piping. This project is Phase III of a multi-phase sewer rehabilitation program in the Village and will benefit 37,105 residents in the villages of Port Chester and Rye Brook, 54 percent of whom are individuals with low to moderate incomes. Town of Rye $398,326 to make a series of handicap accessibility improvements to Crawford Park. Work includes improvements to the community center (elevator, bathrooms, and ramp), accessible bathrooms in the outdoor pavilion, accessible playground and 'sensory garden,' and an accessible parking area and pathway. The project will benefit the approximately 9,600 residents who are either elderly and/or disabled. Village of Sleepy Hollow $62,292 to purchase an accessible van to transport seniors to essential services and recreational events. This will benefit 1,263 people. $340,925 to replace 47 dilapidated and unsafe streetlights on Beekman Avenue, the business district of the community, upgrading base footings, conduit, wiring, poles, and LED lights. The project will benefit the 9,560 Village residents, over 51 percent of whom have low to moderate incomes. Village of Tarrytown $203,400 to make improvements to the village's Senior Center, including: heating, ventilation, air conditioning, electrical, plumbing, and fire protection systems. The project will benefit the 297 members of the Tarrytown Senior Center, all of whom have low to moderate incomes. New York State Homes and Community Renewal's Office of Community Renewal held three public education sessions on the application process and eligibility requirements in Mount Kisco, the Town of Mamaroneck and Sleepy Hollow. In addition, staff held over a dozen face-to-face meetings with local officials and an equal number of conference calls to assist municipalities with their applications. Once submitted, staff scored and ranked the applications. The recommended awards were then reviewed by the agency's Fair and Equitable Housing Office. ###
01.20.2016	Lowey Secured Measure in Recent Government Spending Bill to Examine Methods to Reduce the Volatility of Crude Oil Prior to Shipment Lowey Introduced Bill to Immediately Ban Interstate Shipment of High-volatility Crude Oil by Rail NEW CITY, NY – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (Westchester/Rockland), the Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, today applauded the U.S. Federal Railroad Administration’s (FRA) dramatic increase in enforcement of rail safety rules on routes carrying passengers or shipments of crude oil and hazardous materials. FRA’s actions revealed 6,485 violations carrying civil penalties against railroads in the fiscal year ending on September 30, 2015, up 23 percent from the previous year. “Strict safety standards exist for a reason, and I’m glad the Federal Railroad Administration is holding railroads accountable for adhering to these regulations,” said Lowey. “Tank cars carry highly volatile crude oil through American communities each day, including through Rockland County. No one should have to live with dangerous explosive materials rumbling through their back yards. As Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, I will continue working to protect homeowners, schools, and businesses from the dangers of hazardous materials shipped by rail.” The National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB) announced recommendations in April 2015 after Lowey sent letters to U.S. Department of Transportation Secretary Foxx and President Obama urging stronger regulations for crude oil transport. Lowey’s actions resulted in DOT’s issuance of a final rule for stronger crude oil transport regulations. Lowey successfully included an amendment in the recent government spending bill signed into law in December 2015 to direct the Department of Energy (DOE) to examine methods to reduce the volatility of crude oil prior to shipment. Lowey also introduced a proposal in the U.S. House of Representatives that would immediately ban interstate shipment of high-volatility crude oil via rail, and direct federal agencies to set a national standard for crude volatility when shipped on the nation’s rail networks. Her legislation would: Immediately prohibit the interstate rail shipment of crude oil with an average Reid Vapor Pressure volatility level greater than 8.5 pounds per square inch (psi). Reid Vapor Pressure (RVP) is a common measurement of how quickly a liquid fuel evaporates and emits gasses, and a higher number means a more combustible liquid fuel. Bakken crude has an RVP of 8.56 psi or higher, compared to the lower volatilities of Eagle Ford Shale (8 psi), Brent (6.17 psi), and Basrah Light (4.8 psi), among other oil varieties. Direct the U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT), in consultation with DOE, to establish a national standard for the maximum volatility of crude to be shipped by rail. Only crude oil below that standard could be shipped. Lowey is also an original co-sponsor of the Crude-by-Rail Safety Act that would authorize $40 million for first responder training programs, establish grants for local communities to update emergency response plans, and improve emergency notification procedures. ###
01.17.2016	WHITE PLAINS/NEW CITY, NY – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (Westchester/Rockland), the Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, released the following statement on the Iran Nuclear Agreement and the release of American Prisoners: "It is essential that the United States and the international community remain vigilant and aggressively enforce consequences if Iran fails to comply with its agreements and international law. "I applaud the Administration for securing the safe release of Jason Rezaian and the four other Americans unjustly held in Iran, and I pray for the same outcome for Bob Levinson. "Yet, as the U.S. provides sanctions relief in exchange for Iran taking a number of steps to roll back its nuclear program, we cannot forget Iran's long history of deception, state support for terrorism, and human rights abuses. "That's why I called for punishment for Iran's ballistic missile testing last fall, and I'm pleased the President has announced new sanctions today. We must also work with our partners in the region to mitigate the negative impact from the influx of cash likely to start entering Iran in the coming weeks and months. "As the Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee, I remain firmly committed to Congress' oversight of the Iran nuclear agreement and to holding Iran accountable to all of its international commitments." ###
01.12.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (Westchester/Rockland), the Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, released the following statement in response to the President’s final State of the Union before a Joint Session of Congress: “The President’s speech tonight inspired us to harness the American spirit and work together to ensure peace, well-being, and opportunity for all. We’ve made great progress since the depths of the Great Recession, but there is still much more work to be done to help hardworking families. “The American people – and certainly New Yorkers – want commonsense solutions to the long-term challenges our country faces: reducing gun violence, leaving future generations with a greener planet, ensuring quality education for all students, protecting our communities and our national security, and helping Americans who are working hard, but not reaping enough in return. “I look forward to continuing to work with the Administration, my colleagues, and local officials to ensure prosperity for the Lower Hudson Valley for years to come.” ###
01.12.2016	Widow of Fallen Hero Joseph Lemm to attend State of the Union Rockland Pastor to Deliver Opening Prayer on House Floor on Sixth Anniversary of Haiti Earthquake WHITE PLAINS/NEW CITY, NY – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (Westchester/Rockland), the Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, announced key roles two constituents will have in Congress today, Tuesday, January 12, 2016. Christine Beth DeGuisto-Lemm of West Harrison, widow of 15-year New York Police Department (NYPD) veteran and Air National Guard member Joseph Lemm, who was killed along with five other Americans in Afghanistan in December, will be Lowey’s honored guest for the President’s 2016 State of the Union speech before a Joint Session of Congress in Washington, DC. In the morning, Reverend Nathaniel Demosthene, pastor at First Timothy Christian Church in Spring Valley, NY, will serve as guest chaplain and lead the opening prayer on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives, marking the sixth anniversary of the Haiti earthquake. “The sacrifices Staff Sgt. Joseph Lemm made to protect our communities here in New York and to defend our freedom are the deepest forms of service, deserving the highest recognition,” said Lowey. “Mrs. DeGuisto-Lemm’s strength and grace are reminders of the sacrifices that military families endure each day and the debt we owe our veterans and military families.” “I am honored to represent the families of all United States service members, especially those who have lost loved ones in service to our country,” said Mrs. DeGuisto-Lemm. “We must never forget our fallen heroes.” NYPD Detective and Staff Sergeant Joseph Lemm of West Harrison, a 15-year veteran of the NYPD and Air National Guard member, was killed along with five other Americans in Afghanistan on December 21, 2015, when a suicide bomber on a motorcycle targeted a patrol near a U.S. airbase in Bagram, 34 miles north of Kabul. Lemm is survived by his wife and their two children. Reverend Nathaniel Demosthene will serve as guest chaplain and perform the opening prayer on the House floor, marking the 6th anniversary of the Haiti earthquake of January 12, 2010. “Pastor Nate,” as he is often called, was born in Nyack, NY, and has been lead pastor for nearly five years at First Timothy Christian Church. He is also a volunteer chaplain with the Rockland County Jail and Sheriff’s Office. “I’m honored that Reverend Nathaniel Demosthene will lead the opening prayer in the U.S. House of Representatives,” said Lowey. “Under Pastor Nate’s leadership, the First Timothy Christian Church has been a source of support for the large Haitian-American community in Rockland, especially after the devastating earthquake that struck Haiti six years ago. I am proud to represent many Haitian Americans in my district, and I will continue to work with my constituents on our shared goals of democracy, prosperity, and success for the Haitian people.” “The world looks up to the United States, and we must use our resources to help the most deserving among us, both domestic and abroad,” said Reverend Demosthene. “Our nation has the ability to help those in need, and I’m hopeful that we can continue doing just that. I thank Congresswoman Lowey for the opportunity to lead the opening prayer today.” After moving with family for several years to Chicago, he returned to the area to graduate from Spring Valley High School and go on to attend Yale University where he received an undergraduate degree in Economics as well as a Joint Master’s degree in Philosophy and Business Ethics from Yale Divinity School with courses at the School of Management and Law. Soon after, Pastor Nate began a career as an educator and pastor in Rockland County. He has taught for nearly 15 years in the East Ramapo Central School District and eight years at Rockland Community College. ###
01.12.2016	WHITE PLAINS, NY – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (Westchester/Rockland), the Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, released the following statement on the sixth anniversary of the earthquake that struck Haiti on January 12, 2010: “Every year on January 12th we pause to remember the devastating earthquake that struck Haiti in 2010 and the 200,000 Haitian lives claimed by the disaster. The United States has stood firmly with the people of Haiti as they have endeavored to recover and rebuild. “As the Ranking Member of the State and Foreign Operations Appropriations Subcommittee, I remain deeply committed to the close relationship between our two countries and to economic development, democratic governance, and the promotion of human rights on the island. “For these objectives to be achieved, the people of Haiti must have their voices heard through free, fair, and transparent elections. The current political impasse serves no one. Haiti’s leaders and its people must work together to complete the electoral process and ensure a peaceful transfer of power next month. “I am proud to represent many Haitian Americans in Rockland and Westchester Counties, and I will continue to work with my constituents on our shared goals of democracy, prosperity, and success for the Haitian people.” ###
01.07.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (Westchester/Rockland), the Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, released the following statement on North Korea’s nuclear test. “I condemn in the strongest terms North Korea’s nuclear test, which threatens to intensify tensions on the Korean Peninsula and unacceptably violates UN Security Council resolutions. It is yet another in a series of the despotic regime’s attempts to provoke the international community at the expense of the North Korean people. “Members of the Security Council and the United Nations must hold North Korea’s leaders responsible for their actions. As the Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee, I stand ready to work with the majority in Congress and the Administration to uphold international agreements, defend our allies, and protect regional security and economic engagement.” ###
01.06.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Representatives Nita Lowey (NY-17), Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23), Eliot Engel (NY-16), Albio Sires (NJ-8), Gerry Connolly (VA-11), Susan Davis (CA-53), and Jerrold Nadler (NY-10) today sent a letter to President Barack Obama calling for immediate punitive sanctions in response to Iran’s recent violation of international law by test-firing medium-range ballistic missiles in October and November 2015. The lawmakers issued the following joint statement: “We condemn Iran’s blatant violation of international law, and urge the Administration to act immediately with punitive measures. Iran’s destabilizing behavior in the region and continued support for terrorism represent an unacceptable threat to our closest allies as well as our own national security. As the international community prepares for implementation of the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA), Iran must understand that violating international laws, treaties, and agreements will have serious consequences. We call on the Administration to immediately announce new, U.S. sanctions against individuals and entities involved in Iran’s ballistic missile program to ensure Iran is held accountable for its actions.” The full letter is available below: January 6, 2016 President Barack Obama The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue Washington, D.C. 20500 Dear Mr. President: We write to express our serious concern with Iran’s recent violation of international law by test-firing medium-range ballistic missiles in October and November 2015. As you know, the United Nations (UN) Security Panel of Experts concluded that the October test was a blatant violation of United Nations Security Council Resolution 1929. While the UN Panel has yet to characterize Iran’s second medium range ballistic missile test in November as a violation, both exercises foster insecurity in surrounding countries about Iran’s military capabilities and intent. Additionally, an Iranian rocket—fired by Iran’s Islamic Revolutionary Guards Corps during live-fire exercises—came within just 1,500 feet last week of the U.S. aircraft carrier USS Harry S. Truman that was operating in the Strait of Hormuz. Such aggressive and destabilizing behavior is deeply troubling, particularly preceding implementation of the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA), and demands a U.S. response. While not all of us share the same opinion on the JCPOA, we are united in our desire to ensure it is vigilantly enforced and to prevent Iran from developing nuclear weapons. For this reason, the United States and our allies must take immediate, punitive action and send a clear message to Iran that violating international laws, treaties, and agreements will have serious consequences. We understand the Administration is preparing sanctions against individuals and entities involved in Iran’s ballistic missile program, and we urge you to announce such sanctions without further delay. Inaction from the United States would send the misguided message that, in the wake of the JCPOA, the international community has lost the willingness to hold the Iranian regime accountable for its support for terrorism and other offensive actions throughout the region—including in Syria, Yemen, Lebanon, and the Gaza Strip. This behavior—including these ballistic missile tests—poses a direct threat to American national security interests and those of our allies. As Members of Congress committed to regional and international security and stability, we stand ready to assist you in holding Iran accountable for its actions. Thank you for your attention to this critical matter, and we look forward to your response. Sincerely, NITA M. LOWEY DEBBIE WASSERMAN SCHULTZ ELIOT L. ENGEL ALBIO SIRES GERALD E. CONNOLLY SUSAN DAVIS JERROLD NADLER ###
01.05.2016	Lowey has supported numerous measures to prevent innocent loss of American life caused by guns WHITE PLAINS/NEW CITY, NY – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (Westchester/Rockland), the Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, issued the following statement in reaction to the President’s executive actions to prevent gun violence: “We must stop the gun violence epidemic in the United States. The President is acting to prevent mass shootings and innocent loss of American lives, something the NRA-backed Republican majority in Congress refuses to do. The patchwork of state measures and porous federal laws are costing thousands of innocent American lives each year, with more than 90 people dying from firearms every day. I support the President’s executive actions and, as Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, I will fight to fund his commonsense proposals. It is my priority to ensure families can live in safe and secure communities in the Lower Hudson Valley, throughout New York, and across the country.” Lowey has been a leading voice urging Congress to take action on gun safety: Ending the CDC Ban on Gun Violence Research With more than 30,000 gun deaths every year in the United States, Congress should enable federal agencies to study this epidemic. However, for nearly 20 years Congress has prohibited the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) from studying gun violence and strategies to mitigate it. Lowey has offered amendments to remove this damaging policy rider from government spending bills. Closing the ‘Terror Gap’ Currently, suspects on the terror watch list in the United States are allowed to purchase firearms under federal law. The Government Accountability Office found that between 2004 and 2014, suspects on the terror watch list attempted to purchase guns from licensed firearms dealers in the United States at least 2,233 times, and were successful 2,043 times, a 91 percent success rate. Lowey co-sponsored the Denying Firearms and Explosives to Dangerous Terrorists Act of 2015 (H.R. 1076) that would give the Attorney General the authority block suspects on the terror watch list from purchasing firearms. Expanding Background Check Wait Time On July 17, 2015, a mass shooting during a prayer service at the Emmanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church in Charleston, SC, claimed the lives of nine innocent people. In the wake of this tragedy, Lowey introduced the National Instant Criminal Background Check System Community Protection Act (H.R. 3375) to increase the three-day wait time to 14 business days for federal examiners more time to perform thorough background checks. Lowey’s measure could have prevented the tragic Charleston event from happening. Closing the Gun Show Loophole Approximately 5,200 traditional gun shows are held annually across the United States, attracting thousands of attendees per show and hundreds of Federal firearms licensees and unlicensed firearms sellers. This provides a convenient and centralized commercial location where criminals and other prohibited persons obtain firearms without background checks and without records that enable firearm tracing. Lowey is a cosponsor of the Gun Show Loophole Closing Act of 2015 (H.R. 2380), which would require criminal background checks on all firearms transactions occurring at gun shows. Limiting Assault Weapons and Large Capacity Magazines Weapons that were designed to kill or injure as many people as possible in the shortest amount of time do not belong on our streets and in our communities. Lowey is an original co-sponsor of the Assault Weapons Ban of 2015 (H.R. 4269), which would ban the manufacture of semi-automatic and other military-style assault weapons for consumer use and place restrictions on the sale of existing assault weapons. Lowey also cosponsored the Large Capacity Ammunition Feeding Device Act (H.R. 752), which would ban the importation, sale, manufacture, transfer, or possession of magazines that hold more than 10 rounds of ammunition. ###
12.22.2015	WHITE PLAINS/NEW CITY, NY – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (Westchester/Rockland), the Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, issued the following statement on NYPD Detective and Staff Sergeant Joseph Lemm: “I’m deeply saddened that NYPD Detective and Staff Sergeant Joseph Lemm of West Harrison, a 15-year veteran of the NYPD and Air National Guard member, was killed along with five other Americans in Afghanistan yesterday. His commitment and dedication to protecting others made him a true patriot. My thoughts are with his wife and children as well as the loved ones of all six Americans who lost their lives in this horrific attack.” ###
12.18.2015	Rail and Public Safety, Early- and Higher Education, Child Care, and Biomedical Research Funding Increases Benefit Westchester and Rockland Health Care Benefits for 9/11 Survivors Reauthorized WHITE PLAINS/NEW CITY, NY – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (Westchester/Rockland), the Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, today highlighted items included in the Fiscal Year 2016 omnibus spending bill (omnibus), a $1.1 trillion year-end measure passed by the U.S. House of Representatives to fund the federal government, that benefit Westchester, Rockland, and New York State. “New Yorkers send more than our fair share of tax dollars to Washington,” said Lowey. “As Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee with responsibility for negotiating this year-end government spending package, I fought hard to ensure Lower Hudson Valley priorities were included. Increased federal investments in rail and public safety, early- and higher education, and medical research will strengthen our region. I will continue fighting each and every day to keep our economy strong, create local jobs, and improve the quality of life for residents in Westchester and Rockland.” Rail Safety In the omnibus, new railroad safety grants are funded at $50 million, $25 million of which available for Positive Train Control (PTC) and $25 million for rail infrastructure. The new Northeast Corridor Capital Grants are funded at $19.2 million in addition to $1.39 billion for Amtrak. Lowey also fought to reverse a $251 million cut to Amtrak. “We must invest in the safety of our commuter railways to avoid fatal accidents. This is especially true for the heavily-traveled Northeast Corridor.” Rail Grade Crossing Safety The omnibus includes Lowey’s amendment to increase to $350 million the set-aside for grade crossing improvements in the Highway Safety Improvement Program, giving state highway departments additional resources to make upgrades and safety improvements at dangerous crossings. The spending bill also includes a Lowey provision to set aside $6.5 million for the National Highway Transportation Safety Administration (NHTSA) to develop a high-visibility enforcement paid-media campaign that supports highway-rail grade crossing safety. “The tragic Metro-North accident in Valhalla and subsequent near misses make clear we simply weren’t doing enough to protect travelers at dangerous railroad crossings. I’ve been working with federal officials to find solutions to what has become a recurring safety threat in my district and nationwide.” Crude by Rail Oil Safety Lowey successfully included an amendment in the omnibus to direct the Department of Energy to examine methods to reduce the volatility of crude oil prior to shipment. “Dozens of tank cars carrying explosive crude oil pass through Rockland County each day, threatening homes, schools, and businesses near the tracks. No one should have to live with dangerously explosive materials rumbling through their back yards.” Biomedical Advanced Research and Development Authority The Biomedical Advanced Research and Development Authority (BARDA), an agency within the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) that facilitates the development and purchase of vaccines and therapies to combat public health emergencies, will receive an increase of $96.7 million in the omnibus. Companies in the Lower Hudson Valley have benefitted from BARDA: The agency entered into a $38 million agreement with Regeneron Pharmaceuticals in Tarrytown to develop, test, and manufacture a therapy for the treatment of Ebola virus infection; and Protein Sciences has invested millions of dollars through a partnership with BARDA to manufacture a modern flu vaccine. Protein Sciences is expected to hire upwards of 70 new employees to support increased production resulting from FDA approval earlier this year to manufacture the vaccine at the company’s Pearl River facility. “This is a serious investment in our public health infrastructure that could benefit Lower Hudson Valley biomedical research companies.” Ebola Reimbursement Lowey secured language in the omnibus directing HHS to work with local hospitals that shouldered the costs of preparing for Ebola patients, but were not reimbursed for their financial sacrifice. Under her provision, hospitals will be eligible to receive partial reimbursement for the costs of renovations and alterations in preparation for Ebola patients. “During the Ebola outbreak, area hospitals worked around the clock to prepare for the worst case scenario. Not only must we ensure our public health community has the resources to prevent and respond to any outbreak, but we should also help local hospitals cover the costs of being prepared to combat deadly diseases.” James Zadroga 9/11 Health and Compensation Reauthorization Act There are more than 30,000 responders and survivors who have an illness or injury caused by the 9/11 terrorist attacks. After a lapse in authorization, the James Zadroga 9/11 Health and Compensation Reauthorization Act – on which Lowey was an original co-sponsor – was included in the omnibus, reviving two programs: The World Trade Center (WTC) Health Program and the September 11th Victim Compensation Fund. “There’s no reasonable explanation for the shameful delay in extending health care and benefits to survivors and first responders who risked their lives to save others on 9/11. I will continue working to deliver the treatments these brave men and women deserve.” Child Care and Early Education The omnibus provides more working families with access to child care services by increasing child care funding by $326 million, and invests in early education for students in need by increasing Head Start by $570 million. Last year, Head Start programs served almost one million children and their families nationwide, including more than 3,000 in Westchester and Rockland counties and 50,000 across New York. “Access to quality, affordable child care for young children in need is vitally important for working families in New York, and the federal Head Start and Early Head Start programs give children the best opportunity to prepare for school and build a foundation for healthy and successful lives.” Higher Education The omnibus provides $22.5 billion for Pell Grants. Combined with mandatory funding, these discretionary funds will enable the maximum grant to increase to an estimated $5,915, an additional $140 for the 2016-2017 school year. More than 20,000 students who attend college in New York’s 17th Congressional District, which includes parts of Westchester and all of Rockland, received Pell Grants worth almost $80 million during the 2014-2015 school year. New York students received approximately $2 billion in Pell Grants. “Pell Grants are essential for students seeking to finance their college education and obtain a good-paying job. Some students work two or three jobs to help pay for college, while supporting a family. We must continue investing more in our students.” National Institutes of Health The omnibus funds the National Institutes of Health (NIH) at $32 billion, which is $2 billion above the 2015 enacted level, and includes specific research increases for a host of diseases, such as Alzheimer’s disease. It also provides a general increase to all NIH Institutes and Centers to continue basic biomedical research and translational research. NIH contributes approximately $2 billion to the New York economy each year by funding biomedical research grants that conduct cutting edge research and yield life-saving results. “The Lower Hudson Valley has a high concentration of biomedical research companies that are working on groundbreaking medicines and treatments for some of the most horrible diseases. Funding for the National Institutes of Health has nearly tripled since I joined the subcommittee that funds medical research. I will continue fighting for federal investments that fuel this regional engine for growth.” Countering Violent Extremism/Terrorist Attacks The omnibus includes a general provision for Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) to make available $50 million in new grants to state and local governments to combat terrorist activity. Ten million dollars in grants will be set aside to counter violent extremism, and $39 million in grants will support preparedness for complex, coordinated terrorist attacks. “The terrorist attacks in Paris and San Bernardino underscored the need to ensure states and localities are prepared and vigilant. We must do all we can to prevent the next tragedy on our soil, especially a high-value target like our metro region.” ###
12.17.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Representatives Nita Lowey (D-NY), Peter Roskam (R-IL), Eliot Engel (D-NY), and Ed Royce (R-CA) today introduced a resolution (H.Res. 567) expressing opposition to new guidelines issued by the European Commission to start labeling certain Israeli products imported into European Union (EU) countries as “product from the West Bank (Israeli settlement)” and issued the following joint statement: “New European Commission guidelines to single out Israeli products manufactured in the West Bank and other areas only encourage and prompt consumers to boycott all Israeli goods. This is counterproductive to the Israeli-Palestinian peace process, harmful to U.S. national security interests, and contributes to the deeply misguided anti-Israel Boycott, Divestment, and Sanctions (BDS) movement. Boycotts chip away at economic integration, which negatively affects Israelis and Palestinians alike. The establishment of the European Economic Community was predicated on the notion that peace and security are achieved through trade, economic cooperation, and job creation - not boycotts and isolation. The same is true for Israelis and Palestinians. “As Israel’s largest trading partner, the European Union should play a constructive role to help bring the parties back to the negotiating table and resolve their differences, not try to extract one-sided concessions and feed into politically-motivated acts to boycott Israel. This resolution expresses our opposition to the EU labeling decision and all other boycott, divestment, and sanctions efforts directed against Israel or Israeli-controlled territory.” The full text of the resolution is available online and below: RESOLUTION Expressing opposition to the European Commission interpretive notice regarding labeling Israeli products and goods manufactured in the West Bank and other areas, as such actions undermine efforts to achieve a negotiated Israeli-Palestinian peace process. Whereas the United States supports a negotiated solution to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict resulting in two states, a democratic, Jewish State of Israel and a viable, democratic, Palestinian state, living side-by-side in peace, security, and mutual recognition; Whereas a true and lasting peace between Israel and the Palestinians can only be established through direct negotiations regarding outstanding issues between Israel and the recognized leadership of the Palestinian people, the Palestinian Authority; Whereas a true and lasting peace between Israel and the Palestinians is in the national security interests of the United States and necessary to ensure the safety and security of Israel; Whereas the anti-Israel Boycott, Divestment, and Sanctions (BDS) movement has called on the European Commission to go beyond labeling guidelines and implement a ban on the import of products of Israeli companies that operate in the West Bank and other areas; Whereas politically motivated acts of boycott, divestment from, and sanctions against Israel represent a concerted effort to extract concessions from Israel outside of direct negotiations between the Israelis and Palestinians, and undermines efforts to achieve a negotiated two-state solution; Whereas the United States has long opposed efforts to impose solutions to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict outside of direct negotiations between the two parties; Whereas the United States has historically been at the forefront of combatting economic pressure against Israel and has enacted legislation to counter both the Arab League Boycott of Israel and the BDS movement; Whereas one-sided actions, such as singling out Israeli products, serves to encourage and prompt consumers to boycott Israeli products and goods manufactured in the West Bank and other areas; Whereas U.S. law (P.L. 114-26) states that the United States should discourage potential trading partners from adopting policies to limit trade or investment relations with Israel when negotiating the Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership with European countries; Whereas the United States and the European Union have historically worked in coordination to bring an end to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict; Whereas multiple United States State legislatures have enacted measures to confront politically motivated acts of boycott, divestment from, and sanctions against Israel including Tennessee, Indiana, Illinois, South Carolina and New York: Now, therefore, be it Resolved, That the House of Representatives— Expresses opposition to the European Commission interpretive notice regarding labeling Israeli products and goods manufactured in the West Bank and other areas, as such actions undermine efforts to achieve a negotiated Israeli-Palestinian peace process. Opposes politically motivated acts of boycott, divestment from, and sanctions against Israel or Israeli-controlled territory; Calls upon the European Commission, the Council of the European Union, and the European Parliament to oppose any boycott, divestment, or sanctions initiatives aimed at singling out Israel, to refrain from actions counterproductive to resolving the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, and to work on bringing the parties back to the negotiating table; Encourages European Union member states to exert prudence in the implementation of the European Union labeling guidelines; Urges the Administration to increase the use of its voice, vote, and influence in international organizations and other appropriate international forums to actively oppose political motivated acts of boycott, divestment from, and sanctions against Israel; Supports efforts by United States’ State legislatures to enact measures that oppose politically motivated acts of boycott, divestment from, and sanctions against Israel; and Reaffirms its strong support for a negotiated solution to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict resulting in two states, a democratic, Jewish State of Israel and a viable, democratic, Palestinian state, living side-by-side in peace, security, and mutual recognition. ###
12.03.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (Westchester/Rockland), the Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, issued the following statement on the International Atomic Energy Agency’s (IAEA) report on Iran’s nuclear program. “The IAEA’s latest report that Iran continued to develop nuclear weapons until 2009 is deeply troubling and deserves considerable scrutiny by Congress and our international partners. “Though Iran’s long-suspected illicit work has been confirmed, Iran cannot be permitted to pursue covert nuclear activities in the future. The IAEA must continue its investigation with Iran’s full cooperation. Iran’s willingness to provide access to people, places, and documents is a critical test of their overall commitment to transparency going forward.” ###
11.23.2015	Terror Suspects Have Legally Purchased 2000+ Guns in One Decade in U.S., Dangerous Loophole Must be Closed WHITE PLAINS, NY – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (Westchester/Rockland), the Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, was joined today at the White Plains Public Safety Headquarters by local elected officials, law enforcement, and gun safety advocates to call on Congress – in the wake of the terror attacks in Paris – to immediately pass legislation prohibiting suspects on the terror watch list from purchasing firearms. “It should be absolutely impossible for suspects on the terror watch list to buy guns in this country,” said Lowey. “Unfortunately, suspects on the terror watch list have purchased guns from dealers in the United States with alarming success. The despicable acts of terrorism in Paris should be a wake-up call: Congress must immediately close this terror gap to prevent an unspeakable tragedy on our soil. As Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee, I will be fighting aggressively to prevent suspected terrorists from exploiting our weak gun safety laws to buy deadly firearms they could use against Americans.” Currently, suspects on the terror watch list in the United States are allowed to purchase firearms under federal law. The Government Accountability Office found that between 2004 and 2014, suspects on the terror watch list attempted to purchase guns from licensed firearms dealers in the United States at least 2,233 times, and were successful 2,043 times, a 91 percent success rate. At today’s event, Lowey urged immediate passage of the Denying Firearms and Explosives to Dangerous Terrorists Act of 2015 (H.R. 1076), a bill that Lowey co-sponsored, which would give the U.S. Attorney General the authority block suspects on the terror watch list from purchasing firearms. This proposal could prevent several hundred gun purchases by suspected terrorists in the country per year. Individuals would be able to challenge the denial if they feel they were placed on the list in error. The legislation, introduced by Republican Peter King of New York, has bipartisan support. But the majority leadership in the House has failed to bring it to a vote. Over the last five years, Lowey has repeatedly introduced a similar measure as an amendment to the House Homeland Security Appropriations bill in Committee, where it has been defeated. “Right now federal law prohibits nine categories of dangerous persons from purchasing or possessing firearms,” said Rep. King. “Remarkably, persons on the terror watch lists are not among these prohibited purchasers. It makes no sense that the federal government cannot stop gun sales to suspects on the terrorist watch list.” “I would like to thank our representative, Congresswoman Nita Lowey, for drawing attention to this issue with this press conference today,” said White Plains Mayor Tom Roach. “This is a commonsense measure, worthy of our support, to help prevent dangerous weapons from getting into the hands of terrorists. I would also like to recognize and thank the sponsors of the bill, Senator Feinstein and Representative King, as well as our White Plains Federal Delegation members who co-sponsor the legislation, Representative Lowey and Senators Schumer and Gillibrand.” “This legislation would provide additional protections and give law enforcement additional resources in ensuring that dangerous weapons do not end up in the hands of terrorists - domestic or international,” said White Plains Public Safety Commissioner David Chong. “I support this measure and thank Representative Lowey for calling attention to it and working so hard for its passage.” ###
11.16.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (Westchester/Rockland), the Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, released the following statement in response to ISIS terrorist attacks in Paris, France and Beirut, Lebanon: “Our hearts are broken in the wake of the despicable acts of terrorism in Paris as well as the recent and deplorable loss of life in Beirut. Such evil affects us all. My thoughts and prayers are with the victims of these horrific attacks and the families who have lost loved ones. “The United States will continue to stand in total solidarity with France – our oldest ally – during this difficult time and will help bring to swift justice anyone involved in the heinous attacks. “Together with our international partners, the United States must continue to aggressively target and combat ISIS. More than ever before, this vicious terrorist organization is a global security threat that must be defeated.” ###
11.11.2015	WHITE PLAINS/NEW CITY, NY – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (Westchester/Rockland), the Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, released the following statement marking Veterans Day: “On Veterans Day, we salute all those who have served our country in the armed forces. With more than 890,000 veterans across New York State, today is an important day of reflection to express our sincere appreciation for their sacrifice. “We must deliver the benefits, care, and training that our veterans deserve. While there is more work to do, I’m proud to have voted for the Clay Hunt Suicide Prevention for American Veterans Act, enacted in February, to expand access to mental health care for our veterans, and to be a cosponsor of the Manufacturing Jobs for Veterans Act to increase veterans’ access to training, educational opportunities, and certification courses needed to secure good jobs. In addition, a new therapeutic pool facility is under construction at the Montrose VA Hospital, made possible with federal funds I fought to secure. “We owe a debt of gratitude to veterans and their families for their service in defense of our freedom. I will continue to work in Congress to ensure that we live up to the promises we have made to those who have bravely served.” Congresswoman Lowey can help veterans from New York’s 17th Congressional District access health, education, or disability benefits, or replace lost service medals. Please contact the Congresswoman’s White Plains District Office at (914) 428-1707, New City District Office at (845) 639-3485, or by visiting https://lowey.house.gov/contact. ###
11.04.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey, the Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, released the following statement on the 20th anniversary of the assassination of Israeli Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin: “Today we pause to remember former Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin, Israel’s courageous and visionary leader who spent his entire life championing the causes of co-existence, cooperation, and peace. Rabin’s bold efforts were cut short by a despicable act of extremism twenty years ago today, but the groundwork he built through the Oslo Accords and the peace treaties with Egypt and Jordan remain fundamentally critical to Israel’s future. “Prime Minister Rabin will forever remain one of my personal heroes and one of the world’s most inspiring leaders. On this painful day, to truly honor Rabin’s legacy, let us redouble our efforts to achieve a lasting peace between Israel and the Palestinians, based on two states for two peoples, resulting in security, prosperity, and peace for both sides.” ###
10.29.2015	WHITE PLAINS/NEW CITY, NY – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (Westchester/Rockland), the Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, issued the following statement today regarding the third anniversary of Superstorm Sandy: “Three years ago, Superstorm Sandy caused devastating damage to homes and businesses throughout New York. We joined together in the aftermath, determined to rebuild and enhance the resilience of our communities for future generations. “I’m proud to have helped lead the fight to secure the $60 billion in relief for New York, which has helped rebuild communities across Westchester and Rockland Counties while relieving local taxpayers of footing the full recovery cost. As the Ranking Democrat on the Appropriations Committee, I will continue fighting to ensure that all families and businesses receive the assistance they need to fully recover.” If you are experiencing issues with a federal agency, please contact Congresswoman Lowey’s White Plains District Office (914-428-1707), New City District Office (845-639-3485), or website for help: https://lowey.house.gov/contact-nita/. ###
10.26.2015	TIGER grant will allow NYSDOT to provide enhanced transportation options and service for Rockland and Westchester residents Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey, Governor Andrew M. Cuomo, and Senator Kirsten Gillibrand today announced that the New York State Department of Transportation has been awarded a $10 million federal grant to help develop bus rapid transit service between Rockland and Westchester Counties. “This $10 million TIGER grant from the U.S. Department of Transportation is critical to increase public transportation options on the New New York Bridge,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “By helping to implement bus rapid transit on the bridge, this federal investment will improve access to reliable, safe, and affordable east-west transportation for Westchester and Rockland residents. As Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee, I will continue working with federal, state, and local officials to ensure our region’s transportation needs are met.” “Today is another major step forward in our efforts to improve transportation in the lower Hudson Valley,” said Governor Cuomo. “This funding will help us give commuters more mass transit options and ultimately reduce traffic congestion in the region. I thank our federal partners for working with us on this crucial project, especially Congresswoman Lowey for her steadfast support, and look forward to seeing mass transit along the New NY Bridge for years to come.” “This federal funding through the U.S. Department of Transportation will allow New York State to make critical upgrades for public transit and pedestrians in Westchester and Rockland Counties across the New New York Bridge,” said Senator Gillibrand. “Investing in our transportation infrastructure helps to create jobs now, and lay the foundation for more jobs tomorrow. Hudson Valley will be able to continue the development momentum generated by these investments.” Hudson Links is a set of interrelated improvements that will support the development and operation of an East-West BRT service along I-287 and adjacent roads between Westchester and Rockland counties. The project will construct new Bus Stations; create an ITS “Smart Corridor” on Route 59 (Connects/parallels I-287) ; develop a Transit Boulevard in White Plains that will be served by the BRT; install Ramp Metering along I-287 to manage congestion and increase transit speed, reliability, and efficiency. This funding is being administered through the Transportation Investment Generating Economic Recovery (TIGER) grant program, which funds capital investments in surface transportation infrastructure projects. In June of this year, the Governor’s administration led a variety of elected officials and other regional stakeholders in urging the federal government to support the Hudson Link’s TIGER grant application. Additionally, Senator Gillibrand and Congresswoman Lowey sent a letter to DOT Secretary Anthony Foxx on July 15, strongly supporting New York’s application. Congresswoman Lowey has personally advocated for this award with the Secretary of Transportation and other DOT officials since the letter was sent. "This grant is integral to the improvement of travel options and gives "legs" to the recommendations in the final Report of the Mass Transit Task Force,” said Rockland County Legislator Harriet Cornell who served on the Governor's New NY Bridge Mass Transit Task Force and is the Chairwoman of the Rockland County Legislature's Special Committee on Transit. “How better to encourage people to use mass transit when advanced traffic management systems with traffic signal priority will be utilized, when transit stations will be upgraded, and intersections and pedestrian facilities will be improved. Yes, Route 59 will be part of this exciting change as will the I-287 corridor, and residents will be happy to leave their cars at home while enjoying the benefits of commuting by Bus Rapid Transit." "The BCW is so pleased to learn of this significant TIGER grant which will enhance mobility in the region and create new opportunities for smart growth and economic development,” said Dr. Marsha Gordon, President /CEO, The Business Council of Westchester and member of the Task Force. “Senator Gillibrand's commitment to creating a region with multiple transit options...and securing the funding to do so...shows her leadership and vision for the Hudson Valley.” The Hudson Links program will respond to unmet needs for better east-west travel options that residents and employees in the region seek, enhance the existing transit service across the Hudson River, and lay the foundation for Bus Rapid Transit on the New NY Bridge. Specifically, this grant will enable the development of: · New, well-lit, weather-protected bus stations with Wi-Fi, real-time bus arrival information, and off-board ticket vending/fare collection; · Signal upgrades along Route 59 and 119 with technology-focused improvements, including transit signal priority and intelligent signal control, helping drivers predict, adapt, and respond to changing traffic conditions; · Comprehensive intersection improvements to increase pedestrian safety and access to bus stops; · Ramp metering/queue jump lanes along I-287 to stabilize mainline vehicle flows and allow buses to move past vehicle queues, thereby increasing transit speed and reliability; and · Integrated Corridor Management (ICM) technology and systems along I-287 in Rockland County, Route 59 and Route 119, including enhanced traveler information and advanced monitoring and control equipment to give the operators a greater awareness of what is happening along the enhanced transit corridor and the ability to rapidly respond to changing conditions.
10.19.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Representatives Nita M. Lowey (D-NY) and Ted Deutch (D-FL) today sent a letter urging United States Ambassador to the United Nations Educational, Scientific, and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) Crystal Nix-Hines to block a draft UNESCO resolution asserting, among other things, that the Western Wall is part of al-Aqsa Mosque. The UNESCO Executive Board may consider the draft resolution tomorrow. The full letter is available here and below: October 19, 2015 The Honorable Crystal Nix-Hines United States Ambassador to the United Nations Educational, Scientific, and Cultural Organization 2, avenue Gabriel 75382 Paris, Cedex 08 France Dear Ambassador Nix-Hines: It has come to our attention that tomorrow the UNESCO Executive Board may consider a draft resolution asserting, among other things, that the Western Wall is part of al-Aqsa Mosque. As members of the United States Congress committed to promoting peace in Israel and the Palestinian territories through direct, bilateral negotiations aimed at a achieving a two-state solution, we urge you to use the voice and vote of the United States to prevent this draft resolution from advancing. The Palestinian draft – to be sponsored by the six Arab members on the Executive Board of UNESCO – also condemns Israel for measures taken by Israeli security forces following the recent escalation of violence in Israel and the West Bank, accuses Israel of violating the status quo on the Temple Mount in Jerusalem, and asserts that the Cave of the Patriarchs and Rachel's Tomb are part of the alleged Palestinian state. Over the past three weeks, appalling acts of terrorism have been committed by Palestinians against innocent Israeli citizens. While this upsurge of violence has been characterized as “lone wolf attacks,” the perpetrators have been influenced by the incitement of violence promoted by Palestinian leadership at the highest levels. The government of Israel has shown restraint in responding to the current crisis, but it cannot be expected to endure repeated attacks, some fatal, against its citizens. As you know, the 1994 Jordan-Israel Peace Treaty reaffirmed Jordan’s role in day-to-day administration of the Temple Mount. In accordance, Israel has insisted on the protection of religious freedom for all Muslim, Jewish, and Christian holy sites. Prime Minister Netanyahu has fervently and publicly committed to maintaining the status quo. Therefore, Palestinian leadership who falsely report violations of the status quo on the Temple Mount do so with the intent of fomenting hatred and inspiring violence. Palestinian efforts to claim exclusive ownership of religious sites such as the Western Wall, the Cave of the Patriarchs, and Rachel’s Tomb – and their denial of any Jewish claims to these sites, although Jews have prayed in them for thousands of years, reveal a central obstacle to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict - Palestinian refusal to acknowledge the very existence of Jews in the ancient Jewish homeland. The Israeli-Palestinian conflict is a political conflict between two peoples with competing national goals, and it should be addressed as such. By proactively working to morph it into a religious conflict – through actions such as the recent burning of Joseph’s Tomb in Nablus by Palestinian extremists and now the attempt to claim ownership over the Western Wall and other holy sites – the Palestinians are rendering the conflict all the more difficult to resolve. We object to this proposed resolution and its potential ramifications on the already tenuous political reality in the region. We respectfully request that, as United States Ambassador to UNESCO, you use the influence of the United States to urge other Executive Board members not to adopt this resolution and to remove it from the agenda. We thank you for your attention to this matter. Respectfully, Nita M. Lowey Ted Deutch Member of Congress Member of Congress cc: The Honorable Bathsheba Nell Crocker Assistant Secretary, Bureau of International Organization Affairs ###
10.19.2015	$5.5 Million in federal funds to support upgrade of indoor pool and rebuild damaged areas following 14-year closure due to disrepair Pool will provide year-round therapy options for VA patients MONTROSE, NY – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (Westchester/Rockland), the Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, was at the VA Hudson Valley Health Care System’s Montrose Campus today with VA Hudson Valley HCS Director Margaret Caplan, Cortlandt Supervisor Linda Puglisi, and local veterans to break ground on a $5.5 million federally-funded upgrade to the Montrose VA facility indoor pool. “We will never be able to fully repay veterans who risked their lives defending the American way of life, but we can and must help them recover from injuries sustained during their service,” said Lowey. “I’m proud to break ground for an upgraded Montrose VA facility pool, which will offer therapeutic options to help veterans heal the wounds of war. I will continue working to ensure veterans in the Lower Hudson Valley get the benefits and care they deserve.” Funding will allow for upgrades to the Montrose VA facility’s indoor pool and reconstruction of damaged parts of the pool building, enabling year-round, physician-recommended therapy options for veterans enrolled in VA health care. Upgrades and reconstruction are projected to be completed in spring/summer 2017. The pool facility has been closed for 14 years. The original, regular temperature indoor pool at the Montrose VA facility was converted to a therapy pool in 1999. However, the pool closed in 2002 because it needed major upgrades and repairs. Lowey voted in July 2014 for the Veterans Access, Choice and Accountability Act, which provided a surge of funding for veterans health care initiatives, and has worked as the Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee to ensure robust funding for VA construction accounts. As a result, construction is beginning two years earlier than originally scheduled. “Veteran care is our first priority at VA Hudson Valley. So, we’re excited this project is moving forward, and we are looking forward to further enhancing the quality of care for our Veterans in the Hudson Valley,” said VA Hudson Valley Health Care System Director Margaret B. Caplan. “Congresswoman Lowey has been a tremendous advocate for seeing this project through, and I am grateful for her support and commitment to the veterans of the Hudson Valley.” “On behalf of all of our Veterans, men and women, who have and will use the new FDR VA facility/hospital pool, I thank Congresswoman Nita Lowey for working to secure funding to make this needed renovation happen,” said Cortlandt Town Supervisor Linda Puglisi. “The pool building on the VA campus in the hamlet of Montrose in the Town of Cortlandt has been closed for over a decade. Our Veterans Committee, other Veterans groups, and many interested residents, along with our town board and I have sent petitions, letters, e-mails, and held rallies on the front lawn of the VA to renovate the pool, as well as to keep services at this VA facility. Congresswoman Lowey has supported our efforts and has delivered on her promise to secure funds to renovate the indoor pool for physical therapy purposes as well as for recreation for our Veterans. We are all grateful for the Congresswoman's efforts.” Created in 1997, the VA Hudson Valley Health Care System serves approximately 150,000 Veterans in an area covering 3,500 square miles through two main campuses in Castle Point and Montrose, NY, and several Community Based Outpatient Clinics. The system treats about 25,000 patients each year. The Montrose campus offers a number of health and mental health services, including the treatment of post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) and substance abuse. Lowey is proud to represent more than 20,000 veterans and many more families of service members who answered the call to serve our country. She has directly helped more than 2,100 veterans in New York’s 17th Congressional District seeking services, medals, and benefits they have earned. Congresswoman Lowey can help constituents of New York’s 17th Congressional District who need help with the federal government. Veterans experiencing issues with federal agencies, including the Department of Veterans Affairs, should contact Lowey’s White Plains District Office (914-428-1707), New City District Office (845-639-3485), or visit her website for more information. ###
10.15.2015	Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY), Ranking Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee and the State and Foreign Operations Subcommittee, today issued the following statement on recent terror attacks in Israel: “The recent and vicious attacks against innocent Israelis are unacceptable and must be stopped. They are a tragic reminder of the constant threat of terrorist attacks that face the Israeli people. All Palestinian leaders must take immediate steps to condemn these senseless acts of violence and prevent further incitement. “Violence and any additional loss of life threaten years of progress toward stability and coexistence. The aspirations of the Palestinian people can only be achieved through peaceful means. “I call on President Abbas to do everything in his power to reduce tensions and restore calm.” ###
10.14.2015	U.S. Department of Justice funding will allow for enhanced case management, lab testing, and training NEW CITY, NY – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (Westchester/Rockland), the Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, today announced $200,000 to the Rockland County District Attorney's Office from the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) to expand the county’s drug court to include individuals convicted of driving a vehicle while under the influence of alcohol or drugs (DWI). “It is critical that we enhance programs that have proven to be successful in reducing recidivism and improving community safety,” said Lowey. “I’m pleased Rockland County will use this grant to expand their drug court, serve people with misdemeanor DWI offenses, and help put the brakes on drunk driving. I will continue working as Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee to secure federal investments that help keep the Lower Hudson Valley safe and secure.” "We are very excited to have received this grant award,” said Rockland County District Attorney Thomas P. Zugibe. “This will give us the opportunity to offer eligible Rockland County residents charged with Misdemeanor DWIs the alternative of Misdemeanor Drug Court. We know that treatment courts have been extremely successful in assisting those with alcohol and drug problems while making our community safer for all." The grant is from DOJ’s Adult Drug Court Discretionary Grant Program, which provides funding to implement or enhance local drug courts, or to implement, enhance, or expand drug court services statewide. Rockland County will use the funds to expand the Misdemeanor Drug Court participant population to include those with DWIs who meet the county’s eligibility criteria. According to Rockland county officials, the Misdemeanor program will be modeled after the Felony Drug Court DWI Track, a program with proven success. The grant budget includes case management, lab testing – including assistance with the cost of Secure Continuous Remote Alcohol Monitor (SCRAM) for eligible participants – and training. “MADD thanks Representative Lowey for being a true champion in the fight to eliminate drunk driving in New York and across the nation,” said Mothers Against Drunk Driving New York State Executive Director Richard Mallow. “Through high visibility law enforcement, the use of technology to prevent a drunk driver from starting his or her vehicle, and by holding all drunk drivers accountable for their actions, we will see a day when there are no more victims of this senseless, completely preventable crime.” Lowey has a long history of working to reduce drunk driving. She has introduced a bill that would increase the federal investment to $10 million for the Driver Alcohol Detection System for Safety (DADSS) research program, a public-private partnership between the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration and 17 automobile manufacturers. This advanced technology could be widely used to quickly determine whether a driver is drunk when he or she starts a car, and could potentially save more lives a year than airbags. The technology includes a touch-based and a breath-based system: The breath-based system measures the alcohol levels in a driver’s exhaled breath unobtrusively, rather than requiring the deep lung sample of standard breathalyzers. The system will be designed to take instantaneous readings as the driver breathes normally and to accurately and reliably distinguish between the driver’s breath and that of any passengers. The touch-based system measures blood alcohol levels under the skin’s surface by shining an infrared-light through the fingertip. This technology will be integrated into current vehicle controls, such as the start button or steering wheel, and take multiple, accurate readings in less than a second. She is currently working to include it within legislation that would reauthorize the nation’s primary highway and infrastructure funding. Congresswoman Lowey is a leader in enacting strong laws to keep unsafe drivers off the road. In 2000, Lowey successfully passed legislation requiring states to enact a maximum Blood Alcohol Content (BAC) level of .08 as a condition of receiving federal transportation assistance, which prompted all 50 states and the District of Columbia to implement this commonsense policy. Congresswoman Lowey is also working to: Enact minimum penalties for repeat drunk drivers; and Mandate ignition interlock devices to prevent repeat offenders from getting behind the wheel impaired. ###
10.05.2015	Flavored tobacco products marketed to children and teens contain nicotine and unregulated chemicals; Nicotine exposure can harm the adolescent brain and cause cognitive impairment, attention deficits, and other health issues CDC: use of e-cigarettes among American youth has tripled in just one year and now exceeds youth use of regular cigarettes WHITE PLAINS, NY – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (Westchester/Rockland), the Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, today sent a letter to Stephen Ostroff, Acting Commissioner of the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA), and Sylvia Matthews Burwell, Secretary of the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS), urging finalization of regulations on new tobacco products, such as e-cigarettes, flavored hookahs, and flavored cigars. “We must protect consumers, especially youth, from harmful unregulated chemicals in e-cigarettes, which are marketed to children with flavors like bubble gum, gummy bear, and Swedish fish,” said Lowey. “Research overwhelmingly shows nicotine exposure can harm the adolescent brain and cause cognitive impairment, attention deficits, and other health issues. That is why I submitted a letter to the leaders of the FDA and HHS today urging finalization of a regulation – without delay – to protect youth from nicotine addiction and harmful chemicals, and to provide reliable information to adults about the health risks associated with these products. I will continue working to ensure consumers know what is in the products they consume.” The full letter is available here. Congress passed the Family Smoking Prevention and Tobacco Control Act (TCA) in 2009, which provided the FDA with authority to pass a deeming regulation to regulate new tobacco products yet to be on the market, such as e-cigarettes, flavored hookahs, and flavored cigars. Lowey announced her action during a local kick-off event in White Plains, NY, for Red Ribbon Month 2015, a national celebration during the month of October to promote a drug free life for youth and adults. Tobacco and its related products continue to remain the “gateway” to the use and abuse of other drugs among youth. In a recent national survey, over 90% of adult cocaine users between the ages of 18 and 34 had smoked cigarettes before they began using cocaine. The United States suffers from more than 400,000 tobacco-related deaths each year. During a House Appropriations Committee markup on July 8, 2015, Lowey offered an amendment to remove a reckless policy provision from the FY 2016 Agriculture spending bill that would exempt e-cigarettes from FDA pre-market review, calling the crass maneuver to protect the tobacco industry “a wolf in sheep’s clothing.” The full letter is available below: October 5, 2015 Secretary Sylvia Matthews Burwell Department of Health and Human Services 200 Independence Avenue, S.W. Washington, D.C. 20201 Acting Commissioner Stephen Ostroff Food and Drug Administration 10903 New Hampshire Avenue Silver Spring, MD 20993 Dear Secretary Burwell and Acting Administrator Ostroff: I write to urge the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to finalize the deeming regulation on tobacco products without delay. In 2009, Congress passed the Family Smoking Prevention and Tobacco Control Act (TCA) with overwhelming bipartisan support. The TCA provided the FDA with authority to pass a deeming regulation to regulate new tobacco products yet to be on the market, such as e-cigarettes, flavored hookahs and flavored cigars. In the six years since enactment of the TCA, youth use of these new tobacco products, in particular e-cigarettes, has exploded. According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), the use of e-cigarettes among American youth has tripled in just one year from 2013 to 2014 and now exceeds youth use of regular cigarettes. Despite this dramatic increase, the FDA seems to have sat on the sidelines. Reducing youth smoking was one of the most significant public health successes in recent decades. And yet, I am deeply concerned that this legacy is at risk, and that FDA’s inaction has left many teens, and even some parents, to assume that these products do not pose a health risk, even though scientific evidence proves otherwise. Studies show that nicotine is highly addictive and that exposure can harm the adolescent brain, causing cognitive impairment, attention deficits, and other long-term health issues. Additionally, because e-cigarettes and other new tobacco and nicotine delivery products are unregulated, consumers do not know what chemicals and ingredients are in the products they inhale. Inhalation and ingestion of these products can have dangerous results. Tragically, last year a child in New York died after exposure to liquid nicotine; the rate of calls to poison control centers from e-cigarette chemicals rose from one report in 2010 to 215 cases in 2014; and there have been reports of more than two dozen explosions or fires involving e-cigarettes. There is no excuse for a six-year delay in rulemaking when the public health of our youth is at risk. I urge the FDA to finally release a deeming regulation on new tobacco products to protect youth from nicotine addiction and harmful chemicals, and to provide reliable information to adults about the risks associated with these products. Sincerely, Nita M. Lowey Member of Congress ###
10.01.2015	Federal grant enables renovation of recently-acquired Nyack site to serve 3,000 low-income individuals and support 14 new, full-time jobs NYACK, NY – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (Westchester/Rockland), the Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, today announced a $1,095,355 Health Resources and Service Administration (HRSA) Health Infrastructure Investment Program grant to Hudson River HealthCare (HRHC) to expand primary care services to Nyack. “Access to essential health care services for all residents reinforces the wellbeing of entire communities,” said Lowey. “This grant will allow Hudson River HealthCare to make primary care services available for 3,000 people in the Nyack area, and I’m proud that this federal investment will have immense local benefit. I will continue working as Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee to improve quality of life in the Lower Hudson Valley.” Peekskill-based HRHC will use the grant to renovate a recently-acquired building and establish a community health center to serve low-income individuals in Nyack and the surrounding communities. The health center will be located in a 3,700 square foot space less than half a block away from Nyack Hospital and one block off Main Street in the heart of the target service area. Services offered at the new health center will include comprehensive, full life cycle primary, preventive, and behavioral health care. There will be significant access for unscheduled walk-in appointments. HRHC is projecting to add an additional 14 staff with the creation of their Nyack health care facility, including physicians, nurses, medical assistants, social workers, patient navigators, patient representatives, and outreach workers. Rockland County was included in a needs assessment of an eight-county region of New York, which revealed Nyack as a “hotspot” for health issues and gaps in services, with disproportionally high rates of chronic conditions, including heart disease, cancers, high rates of alcohol abuse and suicide, and a large percentage of residents who lack a primary care provider. “This grant makes possible the renovation of the recently purchased Nyack site that will allow us to expand primary care services to Rockland County residents in Nyack and surrounding communities,” said Anne Kauffman Nolon, MPH, President and CEO of HRHC. “This also strengthens the partnerships with our sister health center, Refuah, and Nyack Hospital in delivery system reform.” The U.S. Department of Health and Human Services’ (HHS) HRSA Community Health Center Health Infrastructure Investment Program seeks to support existing Health Center Program grantees’ efforts to increase their patient capacity and to provide additional comprehensive primary and preventive health services to medically underserved populations through the alteration/renovation, expansion, or construction of a facility. Lowey is a strong supporter of Community Health Centers, and in March 2015 worked to secure an additional $7.2 billion in funding for Community Health Centers to continue providing access to affordable healthcare nationwide over the next two years. Lowey, in her position as Ranking Member of the House Committee responsible for federal spending, has been working to protect funding that benefits the Lower Hudson Valley’s health industry and drives the regional economy. Since she joined the subcommittee that funds medical research, Congresswoman Lowey fought successfully to nearly triple funding to the National Institutes of Health. Lowey also recently: Announced a U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) decision to grant a commercial manufacturing license for Protein Sciences’ Pearl River facility to produce Flublok influenza vaccine. To accommodate the production of Flublok, which will ramp up this year, the 30-employee Protein Sciences facility in Pearl River plans to hire upward of 70 new employees; and Applauded the $38 million agreement between Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and the Biomedical Advanced Research and Development Authority (BARDA) to develop, test, and manufacture a therapy for the treatment of Ebola virus infection. Lowey has fought to increase federal investments in BARDA, enabling the development of life-saving treatments. ###
09.30.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey, Ranking Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee and the State and Foreign Operations Subcommittee, released the following statement on Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas’ speech today before the United Nations General Assembly: “Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas’ provocative declarations today at the United Nations threaten to further destabilize the region and risk years of efforts to bring about an independent Palestinian state, existing side-by-side, in peace and security, with Israel. “I am extremely disappointed by President Abbas’ abandonment of direct negotiations and his turning to the international community to make the tough decisions that he himself won’t make. Such efforts move the goal of a lasting peace even further away. A retreat from long-standing agreements with Israel simply will not turn the aspirations of the Palestinian people into a reality. “Intransigence should not be rewarded. Nor should the international community attempt to impose a timeframe or borders on a future Palestinian state. A resolution to all outstanding issues, however tough, can only be resolved through direct negotiations with Israel. “The United States must continue to stand firmly in support of a negotiated settlement that brings about two states for two people.” ###
09.27.2015	Callous defunding tactic jeopardizes access for 19,000 women, men, and teens in the Lower Hudson Valley FEDERAL GOVERNMENT COULD SHUT DOWN IN JUST THREE DAYS WHITE PLAINS, NY – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (Westchester/Rockland), the Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, today at Planned Parenthood Hudson Peconic’s (PPHP) White Plains health center led a rally with PPHP President & CEO Reina Schiffrin, PPHP Vice President Joan Rosen, teen participant in PPHP's Comprehensive Adolescent Pregnancy Prevention program Louise Olay, local elected officials from Westchester and Rockland, and dozens of supporters against defunding Planned Parenthood in a must-pass government spending bill. “It is disappointing, but not surprising, that Republicans in Congress would risk a damaging government shutdown rather than support safe, high-quality women’s health care services,” said Lowey. “Planned Parenthood health centers play an irreplaceable role in the U.S. health care system. We simply cannot cut their federal reimbursements and grants, which would jeopardize safe, vital, and effective health care services for millions of Americans, including more than 19,000 women, men, and teens in the Lower Hudson Valley. ” With only three legislative days remaining before the federal budget deadline on September 30, the Republican Congress is yet again manufacturing a politically-driven, national fiscal crisis by threatening to shut down the federal government for the second time in two years. As extremists in the House of Representatives advocate shutting down the government unless Planned Parenthood is denied federal funding, the U.S. Senate failed to pass a similar measure. The President has issued a veto threat for such legislation, which would strip vital health services from millions of women, men, and teens, including cancer screenings, birth control, sexually transmitted disease testing and treatment, well-woman exams, and advice on family planning. Defunding Planned Parenthood would jeopardize access for 19,000 women, men, and teens in the Lower Hudson Valley who depend on its services. In 2014 alone, Planned Parenthood Hudson Peconic health centers in the Lower Hudson Valley handled 17,300 family planning visits and enabled 11,700 Pregnancy Tests; 2,600 pap tests; 7,250 HIV tests; and 30,000 other STI tests for patients. Nationally, 2.7 million Americans rely on nearly 700 Planned Parenthood centers around the country for preventive health services each year. Planned Parenthood centers provide family planning counseling and contraception for 2.1 million patients, preventing an estimated 516,000 unintended pregnancies every year; more than 1.1 million pregnancy tests; nearly 400,000 Pap tests; and nearly 500,000 lifesaving breast exams. Preventive care accounts for more than 90 percent of Planned Parenthood health care services. Sadly, cutting funding to Planned Parenthood would have a disproportionate impact on low-income women. Nearly 80 percent of women using Planned Parenthood clinics have incomes at or below 150 percent of poverty. In addition, the non-partisan Congressional Budget Office has estimated that defunding Planned Parenthood would increase the deficit by $130 million over the next ten years. Despite these facts, the House Republicans announced yesterday that they will waste taxpayer dollars to carry out another witch hunt of Planned Parenthood by setting up a House Select Committee to investigate the organization. “These vicious, unfounded attacks take away attention from the real work we do—provide vital health care to women, men, and teens,” said Reina Schiffrin, President & CEO of PPHP. “Now we face the threat of losing federal funding to provide these services. We can’t, and we won’t, let that happen.” “If Planned Parenthood were defunded at the federal level, Planned Parenthood Hudson Peconic stands to lose up to $12 million annually in combined state and federal funding, which includes Medicaid and Title X funding,” said Joan Rosen, Vice Chair of the Board of Directors at PPHP. “This funding pays for such critical care as pregnancy testing, contraception, testing for sexually transmitted infections and HIV, and breast and cervical cancer screenings.” Louise Olay, a peer advocate at PPHP’s Comprehensive Adolescent Pregnancy Prevention Program (CAPP) program, said, “At Planned Parenthood, not only have I learned so much about my safety and my options, but I can help educate my peers as well.” Milinda from White Plains said, “When I was told to get tested by a past partner for an STD, I knew that Planned Parenthood would be able to provide me with same day service. Thank you for being there for me in my moment of panic and uncertainty.” In her role as the top Democrat on the House committee responsible for funding the federal government, Lowey has been calling for months on Republicans in Congress to come to the negotiating table to construct a bipartisan spending plan that invests in the country’s future, instead of advancing radical Tea Party priorities that Americans and residents in the Lower Hudson Valley simply do not want. Lowey closed, “I will continue working as Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee to defeat these deeply misguided, ideologically-driven stunts, and return to responsibly investing in hardworking Americans’ futures.” Congresswoman Lowey is a leader in Congress on protecting women’s health services and access to family planning. Congresswoman Lowey: Authored the Breast Cancer and Environmental Research Act, enacted in 2008, to increase research on the links between breast cancer and the environment; Passed coverage of contraceptives for federal employees in 1998 and supports President Obama’s decision to require contraceptive coverage for health insurance while exempting churches and places of worship from requirements to which they are morally opposed; Successfully fought to ensure clinical trials at National Institutes of Health include females in order to understand gender differences in benefits and risks of medications and treatments; and Strongly supports the HHS WISEWOMAN program that screens women for heart disease, stroke and other cardiovascular disease, the leading cause of death among women. ###
09.25.2015	Stroke is the leading cause of disability in the United States, but treatments to reduce post-stroke impairment are limited WHITE PLAINS, NY – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (Westchester/Rockland), the Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, today announced a $421,094 U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS) grant for Burke Medical Research Institute in White Plains to study stoke recovery. “Recovering from a debilitating stroke is vital for a patient’s ability to lead a healthy and productive life,” said Lowey. “I’m pleased this grant will allow Burke to study post-stroke recovery so patients can one day regain full physical and cognitive functionality and improve quality of life for themselves and their loves ones. I’ve worked tirelessly to nearly triple the amount of federal medical research funding so we can better prevent, treat, and cure serious health problems. As Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, I will continue fighting for increased investments in medical research that improve lives, while supporting the Lower Hudson Valley economy.” Stroke is the leading cause of disability in the United States, yet treatments that reduce post-stroke impairment are very limited due to lack of understanding of the repair and remodeling process in chronic stroke. Burke will study whether and how CD36, a common inflammatory mediator in vascular diseases and obesity, is involved in functional recovery in chronic stroke. Burke has several findings supporting the hypothesis that CD36 facilitates stroke recovery by the action of peripheral immune cells. Burke will test the function of CD36 in the immune cells relevant to the repair and remodeling process after stroke. Defining the underlying events will provide a potential strategy for promoting functional recovery in stroke patients. “I am so pleased that NINDS is recognizing the importance of research on stroke recovery,” said Dr. Sunghee Cho of Burke Medical Research Institute. “We hope that this funded study will advance our understanding of stroke recovery processes so that we can make a difference in the lives of patients who are suffering from this devastating disease.” Medical research investments improve quality of life and also help the Lower Hudson Valley economy. According to NIH, every $1 it invests in grants generates $2.21 of economic growth. In the last 10 years, Westchester and Rockland Counties have received roughly $490 million in NIH grants, making the total economic benefit to the Lower Hudson Valley more than $1 billion. Congresswoman Lowey, as Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee, has fought to increase investments in medical research. She is a longtime member of the subcommittee that funds medical research, and funding to National Institutes of Health has nearly tripled since she joined the committee. ###
09.24.2015	Research funding important for understanding the growth and spread of cancer cells YORKTOWN HEIGHTS, NY – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (Westchester/Rockland), the Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, today announced a $265,240 U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) National Institute of General Medical Sciences grant for IBM Thomas J. Watson Research Center in Yorktown Heights, NY, to study bacterial chemotaxis: the movement of an organism in response to a chemical stimulus. “Better understanding of how cells behave can lead to better health outcomes,” said Lowey. “I’m proud this federal investment will allow IBM researchers in Yorktown to move us closer to one day unlocking solutions to the world’s deadliest diseases. I will continue working as Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee to fight for sustained and aggressive investments in biomedical research that improve quality of life.” Studying chemotaxis is important to better understanding the role of bacterial pathogens in human health. The process also is essential to multicellular organisms' development and immune responses, and plays a central role in the growth and spread of cancer cells. IBM scientists, in collaboration with experimental biologists from academia, aim to understand the molecular mechanisms of bacterial chemotaxis by using quantitative modeling approaches to analyze information processing and motility in biological systems. “IBM is pleased to play a role in advancing knowledge of fundamental biological processes that are relevant for human health," said Dario Gil, vice president of science and technology at IBM’s Thomas J. Watson Research Center. “This research aims to understand the principles of information processing in biological networks, and it exemplifies our efforts in helping medical science by leveraging IBM's unique capabilities in IT, high performance computing, and data analysis.” Since she joined the subcommittee that funds medical research, Congresswoman Lowey fought successfully to nearly triple funding for the National Institutes of Health. ###
09.24.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey, the Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, released the following statement on Pope Francis’ address today to a Joint Session of Congress: “It was an honor to hear His Holiness, Pope Francis address a Joint Session of Congress today. In his historic speech, he underscored the pressing need to address all forms of poverty. His commitment to providing a voice for the voiceless transcends faiths and party lines, reminding us that we must all work together to lift up the poor, provide care to the sick, and ensure opportunity for all to lead healthy, fulfilling lives.” Among Lowey’s guests to the Pope’s address were Judith Aucar and Isabel Villar, the Deputy Director and Executive Director, respectively, of El Centro Hispano in White Plains, NY. American University student Aisling McGinley from Pearl River, NY, attended his address on the West Front of the U.S. Capitol. Photos of Lowey and these local residents can be found here. ###
09.22.2015	Grant helps WIHD trainees develop knowledge and skills to take a leadership role working with children with special health care needs and their families Graduate: Program “provided me with the tools necessary to be a more effective advocate for individuals and families and increased my passion to do so” VALHALLA, NY – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (Westchester/Rockland), the Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, today announced a $683,301 Leadership Education in Neurodevelopmental and related Disabilities (LEND) grant from the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) to the Westchester Institute for Human Development (WIHD) to support an interdisciplinary leadership training program. “Every person should have the ability to lead a productive life,” said Lowey. “I’m proud this grant will help the Westchester Institute for Human Development provide training and leadership skills for people seeking to make a real difference in the lives of children with disabilities and their families. I will continue working as Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee to protect federal investments that help improve the quality of life for all residents in the Lower Hudson Valley.” “We are thrilled,” said Karen Edwards, M.D., M.P.H., director of the Institute’s LEND program. “The money is used for interdisciplinary training for health-profession students, for family members, and for people with disabilities who are working to become leaders with and on behalf of children with disabilities and their families.” WIHD will carry out the LEND Program in academic collaboration with the School of Health Sciences and Practice at New York Medical College (NYMC). At different times, WIHD has run the LEND Program under the auspices of NYMC or Westchester Medical Center, but now it will be the direct recipient of the LEND grant funding. Many trainees complete the two-semester LEND program as a component of full-time graduate training at an affiliated university. Trainees from many disciplines participate: audiology; psychology; pediatric dentistry; family specialist (parent or sibling of a person with a disability); genetic counseling; health advocacy; health administration; law; medicine; nursing; nutrition; occupational therapy; public health; pediatrics (general); physical therapy; self-advocates; social work; special education; and speech language pathology. “The LEND program prepared me to be a leader in my field today, both in the work that I do as a psychologist and the mentoring and training I provide to others,” said Jenean Castillo, PhD, the Assistant Director of Child Welfare Services at WIHD and a past WIHD LEND Program graduate. “Its interdisciplinary approach offers insights and perspectives from a wide variety of professionals resulting in effective team-building and cross-systems collaborative efforts to bring about change. The program continues to grow and expand and it’s my privilege to be a part of it.” “LEND provided myriad opportunities to understand the joys and challenges in the day-to-day lives of individuals with disabilities,” said Kehli Harding Woodruff, who recently completed the LEND Program at WIHD while earning a master’s degree in Speech/Language Pathology. “It provided me with the tools necessary to be a more effective advocate for individuals and families and increased my passion to do so. I will be forever strengthened and inspired by my experiences at LEND.” To help families provide necessary care for individuals with disabilities or those in need of long-term care, Congresswoman Lowey supports: Tax deductions for long-term care premiums and Social Security credits for those acting as a family caregiver; and Increased access to medical diagnostic equipment, wellness grants, and physician and dental training on working with patients with disabilities. ###
09.21.2015	Lowey fought to protect funding for federal government agency that is enabling critical life-saving therapies for deadly diseases TARRYTOWN, NY – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (Westchester/Rockland), the Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, today applauded the $38 million agreement between Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and the Biomedical Advanced Research and Development Authority (BARDA) to develop, test, and manufacture a therapy for the treatment of Ebola virus infection. Lowey has fought to increase federal investments in BARDA, enabling the development of life-saving treatments. “The recent Ebola outbreak claimed the lives of nearly 5,000 people,” said Lowey. “I’m proud that scientists and staff at Regeneron will be at the forefront of saving lives and preventing a future outbreak. One of my top priorities in Congress has been increasing funding for biomedical research and development, and as the highest-ranking Democrat on the House committee responsible for providing the funding, I have fought to increase the federal investment in BARDA. I will continue working hard in Congress to protect investments that benefit local companies contributing to the health and safety of the United States.” Congresswoman Lowey, as Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee, successfully fought to prevent a cutoff of BARDA funding and secure $413.5 million in annual appropriations in Fiscal Year 2014. With Congresswoman Lowey’s assistance, federal investments in BARDA totaled $473 million in Fiscal Year 2015, and she is fighting to continue to increase investments in biomedical research. BARDA, an agency within the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS), announced the agreement with Regeneron to develop, test, and manufacture a monoclonal antibody therapy for the treatment of Ebola virus infection. BARDA will provide up to a total of $38 million over the next 23 months to support development as well as manufacturing of the experimental monoclonal antibody therapeutic drug for use in studies. In addition, since she joined the subcommittee that funds medical research, Congresswoman Lowey fought successfully to nearly triple funding to National Institutes of Health. ###
09.21.2015	City of White Plains and Village of Spring Valley receive U.S. Department of Justice grants WHITE PLAINS/SPRING VALLEY, NY – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (Westchester/Rockland), the Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, today announced two U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) grants totaling $43,543 to the City of White Plains and the Village of Spring Valley law enforcement for body-worn cameras. Of that total, White Plains will receive $31,638, and Spring Valley will receive $11,905. “It is imperative that we provide our local law enforcement personnel with the equipment necessary to keep our communities safe and secure, while fostering accountability,” said Lowey. “I’m pleased these DOJ grants will allow White Plains and Spring Valley to implement body camera technology. As Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee, I will continue working to protect investments to build trust between police and the communities they serve.” Today’s grant is part of DOJ’s Body-Worn Camera Pilot Implementation Program (BWC PIP), which supports the implementation of body-worn camera programs in law enforcement agencies across the country. The program helps agencies develop, implement, and evaluate a BWC program as one tool in a law enforcement agency’s comprehensive problem solving approach to enhance officer interactions with the public and build community trust. Elements of such an approach include: Implementation of a BWC program developed in a planned and phased approach; Collaboration that leverages partnerships with cross-agency criminal justice stakeholders including prosecutors and advocacy organizations; Implementation of appropriate privacy policies; Implementation of operational procedures and tracking mechanisms; Training of officers, administrators, and associated agencies requiring access to digital multimedia evidence (DME); and Adoption of practices and deployment of BWC programs appropriately addressing operational requirements. “This grant will allow the White Plains Department of Public Safety to expand its Body-Worn Camera Implementation Pilot Program, which began in 2014,” said White Plains Mayor Tom Roach. “Our ultimate goal with this program has been to add enough cameras to outfit all police officers who have first line encounters with citizens. This grant funding will enable us to meet that goal and I would like to thank Representative Lowey, and all the members of our federal delegation, for their critical assistance in securing this funding for the City of White Plains.” Congresswoman Lowey believes it is critical to ensure police officers, firefighters, and emergency medical personnel are properly trained and equipped to prevent emergencies and respond effectively if they occur. That is why she: Has helped secure more than $85 million in federal security funds for first responders in Westchester and Rockland Counties; Created a grant program to improve interoperability of first responder communications systems; and Works to increase security of transportation networks like the airports, railways, nuclear facilities, and ports in the greater New York City area and throughout the country. ###
09.21.2015	Grant will improve capacity of Westchester County’s Forensic Science Services to process, record, screen, and analyze forensic DNA samples, reducing the amount of time required to complete casework WHITE PLAINS, NY – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (Westchester/Rockland), the Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, today announced a $280,430 U.S Department of Justice (DOJ) grant for Westchester County’s Forensic Science Services (FSS). The grant, provided through the DOJ’s DNA Capacity Enhancement and Backlog Reduction Program, assists state and local governments in increasing the capacity of existing crime laboratories so they can analyze DNA samples more efficiently and cost effectively to reduce backlogs of DNA evidence. “Sexual assault has no place in our society, and offenders must be prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law,” said Lowey. “Unfortunately, there is a staggering amount of DNA evidence waiting to be processed across the country. We cannot delay justice for the victims of sexual assault any longer. I’m pleased this grant will help Westchester County reduce its DNA backlog, and I will continue working as Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee to protect federal investments that keep our communities safe and secure.” According to the most recent national statistics, the number of yearend backlog cases increased from about 30,000 in 2005 to nearly 112,000 in 2009. Year Beginning Backlog New Requests Completed Ending Backlog 2005 24,030 67,009 52,812 38,227 2007 54,021 137,408 122,895 68,543 2008 70,693 176,919 150,510 97,102 2009 100,628 207,438 196,419 111,647 Source: NIJ.gov The grant will increase FSS’s capacity to perform DNA analysis and reduce the backlog created by open cases by enabling the purchase of new laboratory supplies and equipment. Additionally, the grant will increase access to training opportunities and travel monies, provide a Quality Assurance Standards audit, and allow FSS to hire temporary laboratory technician support staff. Backlogs consist of two kinds of DNA samples: first, forensic evidence collected from crime scenes, victims, and suspects in criminal cases that often contain DNA, and second, DNA samples taken from the criminally convicted and suspects under arrest in accordance with federal and state laws. The National Institute of Justice defines a backlogged DNA case as one that goes untested for 30 days or more once it has been submitted to a crime laboratory. ###
09.18.2015	Northern Westchester Hospital Serves 350,000 Residents, But is Vulnerable During Major Storms; Hospital’s 45-Year Old Emergency Power System Failed During Superstorm Sandy, Cutting Off Power for 70 Hours & Leaving Doctors & Patients Scrambling – Failure During a Future Storm Could Leave Residents Without Emergency Care In March, Lowey, Schumer, and Gillibrand Pushed FEMA to Approve Funding That Would Enable Hospital to Rebuild Emergency Power System With Three Separate Switches; Current System Has One, Outdated Switch, Which Violates Safety Codes – Now, $5.4 Million in FEMA Funding Will Help Get Critical Project Underway Lowey, Schumer, Gillibrand: Northern Westchester Residents Rely On This Hospital To Function in Good Times & Bad; And It Will Finally Have The Upgrades It Needs U.S. Senators Charles E. Schumer and Kirsten Gillibrand and Congresswoman Nita Lowey today announced that the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) has approved $5.4 million in federal funding for the Northern Westchester Hospital. These funds were allocated through FEMA’s Hazard Mitigation Grant Program (HMGP), and will enable the hospital to strengthen and increase the reliability of its emergency electrical system. Improvements are necessary because, during Superstorm Sandy, the hospital lost power for 70 hours due to having an outdated system that relies on one switch to keep the electricity running, which is a violation of safety codes. The hospital was able to secure a generator on day three of the outage, providing necessary power until full restoration. However, if the hospital’s electrical infrastructure were to fail again, it could leave local residents without emergency care. Schumer, Gillibrand and Lowey said this federal funding will help ensure these critical infrastructure improvements are made and will help the hospital better withstand future storms. In March, Schumer, Gillibrand and Lowey called on FEMA Administrator Craig Fugate to expedite Northern Westchester Hospital’s application. Today, the Senators and Congresswoman celebrated FEMA’s decision, citing that the funding would finally allow the hospital to completely modernize its system, creating three separate power branches that would help it withstand the impact of future storms as well as two increased capacity generators. The total project cost is $7,227,511; FEMA will cover 75 percent of the cost, at $5,420,633. “It’s imperative that our region’s hospitals can provide care when it's needed most. As the Ranking Member of the committee that provided the funds, I’m pleased that FEMA is helping Northern Westchester Hospital upgrade its equipment, strengthen its power grid, and withstand future adverse weather events. I will continue working with Senators Schumer and Gillibrand as well as local officials to ensure the Lower Hudson Valley’s resiliency needs are met,” said Congresswoman Nita Lowey. “This is great news for the Northern Westchester Hospital and the thousands of patients who rely on it every day for emergency medical care. With this funding, and with the lessons learned from Superstorm Sandy, this hospital will be able to upgrade their electrical system so it can better withstand future storms,” said Senator Schumer. “It is scary to think that one switch could mean the difference between being able to provide emergency care and going completely dark. With this $5.4 million, the Hospital will finally be able to overhaul its emergency power system to eliminate the nightmare scenario and better prepare for handling the next storm.” “This critical FEMA funding will help provide much needed resources to facilitate electrical system improvements at Northern Westchester Hospital,” said Senator Gillibrand. “Superstorm Sandy devastated our communities and these funds will help secure the hospital, giving peace of mind to the thousands of New Yorkers that it will be ready for an emergency and can withstand the next storm.” Northern Westchester Hospital is a 233 bed facility in a community setting with an extensive staff, including 600 physicians, which serves about 350,000 people in the region on an emergency, inpatient and outpatient basis. Infrastructure failure during a storm would leave residents without any emergency care, which would stretch resources of first responders and the larger disaster response system, with an overwhelming cost to the hospital and community. During Superstorm Sandy, Northern Westchester Hospital faced a 70-hour electrical grid power loss due to an outdated 45 years old power transfer switch, which is outdated in respect to national and state regulatory code requirements. The hospital has a plan in place to rebuild the emergency power system so that there are three branches with independent switches. With major disasters and power disruptions becoming more common in the region, this improved emergency power system is necessary for the hospital to operate during major weather events. A copy of the original letter to FEMA is included below: Dear Administrator Fugate, We write in support of the application submitted by Northern Westchester Hospital for funding from the Hazard Mitigation Grant Program through the Federal Emergency Management Agency. This funding will help provide infrastructure improvements to mitigate the effects of major storms and disasters on the hospital’s critical operations. In recent years, Northern Westchester Hospital has faced serious threats to the essential health, medical and surgical services they provide to the region. Northern Westchester Hospital is a 233 bed facility in a community setting with an extensive staff, including 600 physicians, which serves about 350,000 people in the region on an emergency, inpatient and outpatient basis. Infrastructure failure during a storm would leave residents without any emergency care, which would stretch resources of first responders and the larger disaster response system, with an overwhelming cost to the hospital and community. The requested funding will be used to make improvements to the hospital’s disaster response infrastructure and workforce training. In the event of a disaster, it is crucial for this hospital to remain accessible and functioning at maximum capacity to provide services to the community when they are most needed. The hospital’s current emergency power system is 45 years old and relies on one outdated automatic power transfer switch, which violates national and state regulatory code requirements. The hospital has a plan in place to rebuild the emergency power system so that there are three branches with independent switches, as well as Critical Care for essential medical patient equipment, Life Safety with lighting for safe working conditions, and Equipment for non-life threatening injuries. The facility faced a 70 hour electrical grid power loss during Superstorm Sandy with the system fortunately remaining operational until they were able to secure rented generators from another facility. With major disasters and power disruptions becoming more common in the region, this improved emergency power system is necessary for the hospital’s operability during adverse events. This funding will better prepare Northern Westchester Hospital to protect and respond to the needs of their community. We ask that you please give this application your full consideration. If you have any questions, or desire further information, please do not hesitate to contact our staff. ###
09.17.2015	Federally-funded YouthBuild program will provide instruction and skills training for in-demand occupations to 16-24 year-olds WESTCHESTER COUNTY, NY – Congresswoman Nita Lowey, the Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, and Congressman Eliot Engel, the Ranking Member on the House Foreign Affairs Committee, today announced a $1,100,000 U.S. Department of Labor (DOL) YouthBuild grant to the Westchester County Department of Social Services (DSS) in White Plains, NY, to support additional academic and occupational skills training for 80 at-risk youth in Westchester. Of that total, 20 youth will be in Peekskill, 20 in Mt. Vernon, and 40 in Yonkers. “We must invest in at-risk youth to provide the skills and training that will lead to productive, independent lives,” said Lowey. “I’m pleased federal funds from YouthBuild will support second chances and help 80 at-risk youth gain instruction and job training in the construction and home building fields. As Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, I will continue fighting to protect investments that improve quality of life of all residents in the Lower Hudson Valley.” “I believe it is a moral imperative for us to do all that we can to invest in our at-risk youth populations here in Westchester,” said Engel. “Supporting these young men and women has the potential not only to change their lives, but also to revitalize the communities in which they live. As the Representative for both Mt. Vernon and Yonkers, I am excited to hear that these federal funds will be used to provide additional academic and occupational skills training to so many in those communities, and I am confident they will make the most of this wonderful opportunity.” YouthBuild is a non-residential, community-based alternative education program that provides classroom instruction and occupational skills training in construction and other in-demand occupations to 16-24 year-olds who have been in the juvenile justice system, are aging out of foster care, have dropped out of high school, or are otherwise at-risk of failing to reach key educational and career milestones. The U.S. Department of Labor announced the award of nearly $76 million in YouthBuild grants to fund 72 programs in 31 states and the District of Columbia. The grants will serve an estimated 4,800 participants nationally over the course of the next three years. This is the first round of YouthBuild grants awarded under the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act. The law, which went into effect on July 1, 2015, led to several changes to YouthBuild including putting a greater focus on improving the quality and energy efficiency of buildings serving low-income and homeless individuals and families; enabling students who leave the program to re-enroll more easily; and supporting further program alignment with the Department of Housing and Urban Development. ###
09.16.2015	WHITE PLAINS/NEW CITY, NY – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (Westchester/Rockland), the Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, today released the following statement marking Hispanic Heritage Month (Sept. 15, 2015 – Oct. 15, 2015). A video of this statement can be found here. “September 15 to October 15 marks Hispanic Heritage Month, when we recognize the contributions that Hispanic Americans have made to enrich our nation. From defending the causes of freedom and liberty during World War II, to starting small businesses that drive economic growth, the indelible mark left by the Hispanic community on American society has been remarkable. “Congress must reciprocate these contributions by making sure all Americans – including Hispanic Americans – have the ability to own a home, send their kids to college, and enjoy a secure retirement. This includes bringing peace of mind to millions of families by expanding immigration programs that work, while fixing outdated systems that emphasize division over unity – something that business leaders, the faith community, and law enforcement all support. “We must continue working together to ensure Hispanic culture remains a vibrant part of the fabric of American society.” En Español: “Desde el 15 de septiembre hasta el 15 de octubre, celebramos el Mes de Herencia Hispana y reconocemos todas las contribuciones que los hispanoamericanos han hecho para enriquecer este gran país. Desde su defensa de la causa de la libertad y la democracia durante la Segunda Guerra Mundial hasta el establecimiento de pequeños negocios que producen prosperidad y estabilidad económica, la comunidad hispana ha dejado una huella indeleble en la sociedad estadounidense. “El Congreso debe de reconocer estas contribuciones asegurando que todos los estadounidenses-incluyendo los hispanoamericanos-tengan la oportunidad de comprar una casa, de enviar sus hijos a la universidad y de tener una jubilación segura. Esto incluye extendiendo tranquilidad a millones de familias con la expansión de programas inmigratorios que funcionan mientras que arreglamos sistemas anticuados que enfocan en dividir en vez de unir-algo que líderes empresariales, comunidades religiosas y cuerpos policiales apoyan. “Tenemos que seguir trabajando para asegurar que la cultura hispana sigue siendo una parte brillante del tejido estadounidense.” ###
09.12.2015	Drug-Free Communities announcement includes 4 new and 11 continuing grants to community coalitions in Westchester and Rockland DFC-funded communities have seen reductions in alcohol, tobacco, and marijuana use among middle and high school students nationally WHITE PLAINS/NEW CITY, NY– Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), the Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, today announced 15 grants totaling $1,823,461 from the White House Office of National Drug Control Policy (ONDCP) Drug-Free Communities Program to Westchester and Rockland community coalitions to prevent and reduce youth substance use. “Substance abuse can have disastrous effects on individuals, families, and entire communities,” said Lowey. “I’m pleased these grants will help stem youth substance abuse in the Lower Hudson Valley using a proven method: enabling local coalitions to solve local problems. As Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, I will continue fighting to protect investments that keep communities safe and secure.” Three Drug-Free Communities (DFC) grants totaling $375,000 were new, while 11 DFC grants totaling $1,373,461 were continuations. One new DFC-Mentoring (DFC-M) grant of $75,000 was also awarded. DFC grants fund community coalitions formed to address youth substance use. For the two-year DFC-M grants, mentee coalitions aim to meet all of the statutory eligibility requirements of the DFC Program and compete for DFC grants independently. Dobbs Ferry Youth Services Council and Pleasantville STRONG (Safe Teens, Real Opportunities, New Goals) have each been awarded a new $125,000 DFC grant to implement coalition meetings, a new grantees meeting, a Coalition Academy, and quarterly trainings; networking with other coalitions and updated by-laws; youth Leadership Council and training for youth; community scans, a website, a social media campaign, email blasts, a quarterly newsletter, and a Town Hall Meeting; school policy change; policies for alcohol outlets, alcohol compliance checks, Responsible Beverage Server Training, a student social norms campaign, and a sticker shock campaign; focus on areas known for underage drinking and marijuana use, marijuana prevention campaign for parents, and prescription drug disposal efforts; and mailings to healthcare providers, partnership with houses of worship, and training for parents and youth on prescription drug prevention. Pleasantville STRONG will also conduct a "Health of the Coalition" survey. Suffern United Coalition Against Substance Abuse (SUCASA) has been awarded a new $125,000 DFC grant to conduct compliance checks as well as training and education. “We’re thrilled,” said Superintendent of Dobbs Ferry Union Free School District Lisa Brady. “We believe we will be able to make a difference in the lives of more kids and more families because we have access to a high level of service. The issues around drugs and alcohol are an ever-moving target. Having access to this professional support is important for schools.” The South Orangetown Community Awareness of Substance Abuse (SOCASA) has been awarded a $75,000 DFC-M grant to train and mentor the Prevention Education for East Ramapo (PEER) Coalition. SOCASA will achieve the objectives by increasing active PEER Coalition membership; assisting PEER Coalition members to create organizational documents; enhancing PEER Coalition member’s cultural competence, media literacy, and communication skills; increasing the PEER Coalition’s participation in Rockland county-wide youth prevention Meetings; enhancing leadership skills for the PEER Coalition’s Director and teen leaders; and conducting a comprehensive community needs assessment. “We are elated because every community needs the funds to raise awareness of the epidemic of drugs and alcohol throughout this country,” said Victoria Shaw, an Executive Director at Wellcore, Inc. of West Nyack, which helps community stakeholders secure funding opportunities that improve the quality of health throughout local communities. Names and grant amounts of DFC Continuation awardees are below: Alliance for Safe Kids, Inc. in Yorktown Heights: $125,000 Blind Brook Community Coalition: $125,000 Cortlandt Community Coalition: $125,000 Croton Community Coalition: $125,000 Irvington Community Advisory Board: $125,000 Mount Kisco Drug & Alcohol Prevention Council: $125,000 Our Community Against Drug Abuse (OCADA, Inc.) in Blauvelt: $123,461 Peekskill Agencies Together (P.A.T.): $125,000 Port Chester Cares Community Coalition: $125,000 South Orangetown Community Awareness of Substance Abuse in West Nyack: $125,000 Westchester Coalition for Drug and Alcohol Free Youth: $125,000 According to the White House, among all DFC grantees ever funded, DFC-funded community coalitions have achieved significant reductions in youth alcohol, tobacco, and marijuana use. For middle school youth living in DFC-funded communities, data from the DFC National Evaluation indicate a 24.4% reduction in alcohol use, 29.4% reduction in tobacco use and 15.1% reduction in marijuana use. High school-aged youth have reduced their use of alcohol by 15.5%, tobacco by 23.7% and marijuana by 4.9% in DFC-funded communities. ###
09.11.2015	WASHINGTON, DC - Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (Westchester/Rockland), Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, today issued the following statement marking the 14th anniversary of the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001: “We will never forget the thousands of Americans who perished or the courage of the first responders who ran into crumbling buildings to save countless others on September 11, 2001. “Today, 14 years later, we stand in support of the families and friends who tragically lost loved ones and for whom the pain of that day remains ever-present. “We must also ensure that first responders and those who risked their lives at Ground Zero receive the health care they deserve. I’m proud to be a cosponsor of the James Zadroga 9/11 Health and Compensation Reauthorization Act, which would extend health care and benefits for the more than 30,000 responders and survivors who have an illness or injury caused by the attacks. “While we may be unable to shake from memory the unfathomable loss of that day, we must stand united – as one nation – in our efforts to bolster our national security and safeguard the American way of life.” ###
09.04.2015	Instances of impaired driving accidents spike during holidays Driver Alcohol Detection System for Safety (DADSS) uses breath- and touch-based systems to measure blood alcohol content before allowing vehicles to start WHITE PLAINS, NY – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (Westchester/Rockland), the Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, today was joined by White Plains Mayor Tom Roach, Mothers Against Drunk Driving (MADD) Westchester Chapter President Carole Sears, Director of the Driver Alcohol Detection System for Safety Bud Zaouk, recent Ossining HS graduate Ana Priego, and local law enforcement at the White Plains Public Safety Headquarters to urge responsible driving during Labor Day Weekend. Lowey also highlighted her legislation to increase federal investments in promising new technology called the Driver Alcohol Detection System for Safety (DADSS) research program, and demonstrated the technology using a simulation vehicle at the event. “Labor Day Weekend means celebration with family and friends, but also heightened instances of drinking and driving,” said Lowey. “I urge residents to drive responsibly during the long holiday weekend. I have made a priority during my time in Congress to reduce drunk driving. Since successfully passing legislation that enacted a maximum Blood Alcohol Content level of .08, I have continued to support investments in promising anti-drunk driving technologies to make them unobtrusive, reliable, and affordable. As Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, I will continue working to prevent drunk drivers from ever getting behind the wheel.” According to available statistics compiled by New York State, 3,427 alcohol-related tickets were issued in Westchester County in 2013, down from 3,673 in 2012. In neighboring Rockland County, 1,374 alcohol-related traffic tickets were issued in in 2013, down from 1,444 in 2012. In 2013, Westchester County saw 359 total alcohol-related crashes, including 14 fatal accidents, while in the same year Rockland had 158 alcohol-related crashes with five of those proving fatal. The number of traffic accidents and fatalities often increases around holidays. Lowey has introduced a bill that would increase the federal investment to $10 million for the Driver Alcohol Detection System for Safety (DADSS) research program, a public-private partnership between the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration and 17 automobile manufacturers. This advanced technology could be widely used to quickly determine whether a driver is drunk when he or she starts a car, and could potentially save more lives a year than airbags. The event featured a demonstration vehicle cabin that is used to evaluate the DADSS sensors currently being researched: a touch-based and a breath-based system. The breath-based system measures the alcohol levels in a driver’s exhaled breath unobtrusively, rather than requiring the deep lung sample of standard breathalyzers. The system will be designed to take instantaneous readings as the driver breathes normally and to accurately and reliably distinguish between the driver’s breath and that of any passengers. The touch-based system measures blood alcohol levels under the skin’s surface by shining an infrared-light through the fingertip. This technology will be integrated into current vehicle controls, such as the start button or steering wheel, and take multiple, accurate readings in less than a second. Attendees viewed early-stage prototypes of the DADSS technologies – housed inside a vehicle “buck”, which is a functioning car model without standard wheels. The prototype of the early-stage breath-based system sits atop the driver-side visor and will simulate a blood alcohol content reading via a small screen inside the vehicle dashboard. The mockup of the touch-based system is integrated with a prototype of the vehicle start button that will simulate a reading from the skin surface. DADSS is supported by a broad coalition of organizations including the automotive industry, safety and children’s advocates, bipartisan leaders in Congress and government entities, and members of the medical community. It is also supported by members of the alcohol industry, including the Distilled Spirits Council of the United States, the National Beer Wholesalers Association and the Wine and Spirits Wholesalers of America. "Drive safely. Don't drink and drive. It is said often but it bears repeating as we approach Labor Day, the traditional end of the summer season, when we know many people will be traveling,” said White Plains Mayor Tom Roach. “We have been successful in reducing incidents of drunk driving through this kind of repetitive messaging and through awareness-raising events such as this one held by Congresswoman Lowey. We must keep at it and utilize new technologies to help us even more in this effort." “MADD is proud to work with partners in the government and auto industry to support development of this life-saving technology that will lead us to No More Victims of drunk driving,” said Carole Sears, president of the Westchester chapter of MADD. “As we have seen with other safety features, we believe this technology will be extremely popular with new car customers once it becomes available.” “So many young people are making healthy decisions, but alcohol and drug impaired driving remains a serious concern for youth and adults,” said Ana Priego, a recent Ossining graduate who was a leader in her local Youth to Youth club. “Student leadership groups empower young people to become part of the solution, and I’m glad Congresswoman Lowey has taken the lead in Congress in preventing impaired driving.” Congresswoman Lowey has been a leader in enacting strong laws to keep unsafe drivers off the road. In 2000, Lowey successfully passed legislation requiring states to enact a maximum Blood Alcohol Content (BAC) level of .08 as a condition of receiving federal transportation assistance, which prompted all 50 states and the District of Columbia to implement this commonsense policy. In July 2014, Lowey introduced Alisa’s Law, a bill that would encourage states to require the use of ignition interlock devices for a minimum of six months for all convicted drunk driving offenders. This type of approach has proven successful in New York since the state passed “Leandra’s Law” in 2010. ###
09.03.2015	Local women- and minority-owned companies praise the Procurement Technical Assistance Center for helping expand and create jobs Lowey fighting to increase investments that support small businesses in the Lower Hudson Valley NYACK, NY – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (Westchester/Rockland), the Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, today highlighted the success of Rockland County Economic Development Corporation’s (REDC) Procurement Technical Assistance Center (PTAC), a free resource to small businesses seeking to compete in the government contracting marketplace, during a roundtable discussion with PTAC representatives and three local companies which have benefitted from the program. “Small business is the lifeblood of our community,” said Lowey. “I’m pleased that PTAC assistance is enabling economic growth in the Lower Hudson Valley. As Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, I will continue fighting to protect federal investments that allow entrepreneurs to access government contracts, expand their business, and create local jobs.” REDC’s PTAC program assists Westchester, Rockland, and Orange businesses seeking to expand through government procurement at the federal, state, and local level by providing access to and technical assistance with government contracts – at no cost to the business. Services include individual counseling, webinars, and workshops; assistance with registrations and certifications for minority-, woman-, veteran-, or service-disabled veteran-owned businesses; help with SBA certifications; a daily email digest of bid opportunities specific to a particular business; and help creating targeted marketing plans, bid preparation and submission assistance, and post award compliance. Last year, PTAC helped their clients support more than 1340 jobs. The program is made possible by matching federal funding from the U.S. Department of Defense’s Defense Logistics Agency. Congress increased funding for PTACs in FY2015 by 52 percent above the President’s request, bringing the total funding to over $35 million for the more than 300 local PTAC offices nationwide. Lowey will work to increase that amount for 2016. “PTAC counselors across the country who are in the trenches helping businesses maneuver through the maze of government contracting understand the essential need for the PTAC program. Small companies, especially, lack the personnel and knowledge to do this on their own. We are grateful to Congresswoman Nita Lowey for her support – she gets it!” said Liz Kallen, REDC PTAC Program Manager. Lowey convened the roundtable at Berry Industrial Group of Nyack, NY, a certified Women’s Business Enterprise (WBE), that has worked closely with PTAC for more than 15 years. The program helped the company save on research costs, and enabled participation in programs of which Berry was previously unaware. “PTAC has been a dedicated partner in our growth as both a business and leader in our industry,” said Debra Berry, CEO of Berry Industrial Group. “They are a great tool for businesses to utilize their expertise in the journey through federal and state procurement, so that companies can focus their energies on their core business.” PTAC helped Biofeedback Resources International Corporation (BRI) of Ossining, NY, a certified Minority Business Enterprise (MBE), develop sales and marketing strategies to position the company for growth. PTAC was able to help BRI maintain two staff positions with plans to add one to two new jobs within the next year. “PTAC is a great solution for getting assistance with breaking into the vast area of doing business with the government as well as increasing your business in the private sector,” said Harry L. Campbell, President of Biofeedback Resources International. “They know what it takes to help you to make your business successful. Even better, all of their services are free. I have paid for similar programs and not received better service. As a small business with limited resources I have to say that working with PTAC just makes sense. When small businesses get the help they need they are able to keep the employees they have and create new jobs. PTAC is a big help for small business.” PTAC has provided Arch Street Communications (ASC) of White Plains, NY, a certified WBE, Woman-Owned Small Business (WOSB), and Disadvantaged Business Enterprise (DBE), with the resources it needs to successfully compete for federal contracts in a highly competitive market. ASC has added six employees due to the federal contracts won with the help of PTAC. “I applaud Congresswomen Lowey’s continued efforts to support services that level the playing field for small business,” said Nora Madonick, President and CEO of ASC. “PTAC has supported my business with mentorship that has resulted in our certification as a federal Women-Owned Small Business, a General Services Administration schedule, and work with the U.S. Department of Transportation and U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, among others.” Congresswoman Lowey is committed to improving the competitive position of small businesses through: Targeted relief of tax burdens and health care costs; Increasing access to affordable capital and technical assistance; and Protecting small businesses from unfair credit practices. ###
09.03.2015	WEST NYACK, NY – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (Westchester/Rockland), the Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, today announced a new, three-year $375,000 U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) Mental Health & Substance Abuse Services grant to Wellcore of West Nyack to train adults to identify youth who are struggling with mental health issues. “I’m pleased to announce this $375,000 federal investment to improve mental health,” said Lowey. “This grant will enhance the ability of youth-serving adults to quickly and accurately identify mental health issues in children so they can offer the appropriate care and improve quality of life. As Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, I will continue working to support the wellbeing of children throughout the Lower Hudson Valley.” HHS’s Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration awarded the "Now is the Time" Project Aware Community Grant that will allow Wellcore to support the training of teachers and a broad array of adults who interact with youth through their programs at the community level – including parents, law enforcement, faith-based leaders, and others – in Mental Health First Aid or Youth Mental Health First Aid. Implementation of the program is expected to increase the mental health literacy among youth-serving adults, policy-makers, and administrators of services serving youth. “It is Wellcore's hope to train adults to identify students and youth who are struggling with mental health issues and provide them with the access and resources they need to facilitate mental health wellbeing,” said Susan Maher, Executive Director of Wellcore. “This grant couldn't have come at better time! There are so many teens today suffering from stress and other mental health disorders that need to know there is help and treatment available to them.” Congresswoman Lowey has made children’s health and well-being a priority because it is critical to children’s ability to grow and lead productive lives. This is why Lowey has worked to: Successfully increase federal funding for mental health programs and research; Combat childhood obesity through access to proper nutrition and physical education; and Protect children from food allergies through clear labeling and helping schools prevent and respond to reactions. ###
09.01.2015	White Plains Police Chief: Bulletproof vests still the number one way to protect officers from serious bodily harm WHITE PLAINS/NEW CITY, NY – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (Westchester/Rockland), the Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, today announced $79,389.24 from the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) to local law enforcement agencies within New York’s 17th Congressional District to purchase 201 bulletproof vests. “We must ensure local law enforcement have the resources necessary to protect themselves and our communities,” said Lowey. “This federal funding will enhance police officers’ safety when patrolling our neighborhoods. As Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, I will continue working to ensure law enforcement personnel have the safety equipment they need.” The Bulletproof Vest Partnership (BVP), created by the Bulletproof Vest Partnership Grant Act of 1998, is a DOJ initiative designed to provide bulletproof vests to state and local law enforcement. New York’s 17th Congressional District includes parts of Westchester County and all of Rockland County. Below is a breakdown of the funding by municipality and how many bulletproof vests the funding will purchase: Clarkstown: $16,090.66 for 33 vests Croton on Hudson: $2,892.62 for 6 vests Dobbs Ferry: $4,750.43 for 11 vests Greenburgh: $3,698.10 for 12 vests Harrison: $1,113.11 for 3 vests Mount Pleasant: $1,852.01 for 5 vests New Castle: $5,345.86 for 15 vests Piermont: $694.23 for 2 vests Port Chester: $3,382.73 for 10 vests Rye Brook: $795.78 for 2 vests Spring Valley: $8,860.94 for 22 vests Tarrytown: $5,307.19 for 15 vests White Plains: $18,747.11 for 50 vests Yorktown: $5,858.47 for 15 vests A total of 180 jurisdictions in New York are receiving $877,586.49 to purchase 2,336 bulletproof vests. Referring to bulletproof vests, White Plains City Police Department Chief James M. Bradley said, “In this day and age, they are still the number one way to protect your officers from serious bodily harm. We are very happy to have them.” “Any time we receive equipment we are more than thrilled to get assistance,” said Clarkstown Police Department Lieutenant Daniel Weisberg. “The safety of our officers is the top priority. We certainly appreciate the efforts of our elected officials to secure funds for needed equipment like this.” According to DOJ, since 1999, the BVP program has awarded more than 13,000 jurisdictions a total of $393 million in federal funds for the purchase of over 1 million vests (1,197,348 as of December, 2014). BVP is a critical resource for state and local jurisdictions that saves lives. Based on data collected and recorded by BJA staff, in FY 2012, protective vests were directly attributable to saving the lives of at least 33 law enforcement and corrections officers, in 20 different states, an increase of 13.7% over FY 2011. At least 14 of those life-saving vests had been purchased, in part, with BVP funds. Congresswoman Lowey believes it is critical to ensure police officers, firefighters, and emergency medical personnel are properly trained and equipped to prevent emergencies and respond effectively if they occur. That is why she: Has helped secure more than $85 million in federal security funds for first responders in Westchester and Rockland Counties; Leads Congress in ensuring federal FEMA and Homeland Security grants are distributed on the basis of risk to ensure high-risk areas like New York are not short-changed; Created a grant program to improve interoperability of first responder communications systems; and Works to increase security of transportation networks like the airports, railways, nuclear facilities, and ports in the greater New York City area and throughout the country. ###
08.27.2015	An individual’s secure retirement is jeopardized when leaving the labor force or reducing hours to care for a loved one The Social Security Caregiver Credit Act aims to increase retirement payments for caregivers who care for others during their working years NANUET, NY – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (Westchester/Rockland), the Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, today announced the introduction of the Social Security Caregiver Credit Act during an event at Meals on Wheels of Rockland in Nanuet, NY, alongside local caregivers, senior citizens, elected officials, and advocacy organization representatives. The proposal would provide a Social Security earnings credit to caregivers who have to leave the labor force or reduce their hours to care for a loved one. “Sacrificing a paycheck to care for a loved one shouldn’t jeopardize a secure and enjoyable retirement,” said Lowey. “My proposal would provide caregivers with a Social Security earnings credit when they take unpaid time off from their job to provide care. This would be particularly helpful for women, who make up 66 percent of unpaid caregivers who, on average, lose $324,000 in wages and retirement benefits in their lifetime. As Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, I will continue working to ensure Americans receive the retirement benefits they’ve earned after a lifetime of hard work.” Roughly 65 million Americans sacrifice their job or reduce their hours during their careers to provide care to family members. The Social Security Caregiver Credit Act (H.R. 3377) would create a credit that would be added to earnings to calculate future Social Security benefits. The credit is progressive and varies on an income-based sliding scale. As an example, someone who is a full-time caregiver would receive a credit worth around $22,000 a year, while someone who is able to work and earns $33,000 would receive a credit worth around $5,500. It phases out when the caregiver makes more than the average national earnings. The amount credited would be used by the Social Security Administration to calculate future benefits. Because women earn less than men and average ten fewer years in the workforce, which lowers Social Security benefits, they often have far less saved for retirement than men. Providing assistance with an increase in Social Security benefits will make them more financially stable when they retire. A national study on women and caregiving found that: 33 percent of working women decreased their working hours; 20 percent left full-time jobs for park-time work; and Nearly 30 percent were forced to quit their jobs or retire early to care for a loved one. For millions of American women, unpaid caregiving becomes a financial emergency, and on average accounts for $324,000 in lost wages and Social Security benefits in a caregiver’s lifetime. Lowey’s proposal has been endorsed by 19 national organizations, including the National Committee to Preserve Social Security and Medicare, the National Organization for Women (NOW), and the National Alliance for Caregiving. (A full list is at the bottom of this release.) Siobhan O’Grady is a Rockland resident and was a caregiver of her late father who passed away in 2013 after a four-year battle with Alzheimer’s. Siobhan and her mother, with the help of a live-in aide, provided nearly 24-hour supervision to care for her father, causing financial and emotional pain. At today’s event, Siobhan said, “To this day, being one of the caregivers for my father was the absolute hardest thing I've ever done. Taking time off work, my mother and spouses in her situation are not able to recoup financial loss at their age. They put their heart and soul into caring for their spouse for what can be years and years, and when it's all said and done, they are financially depleted and emotionally wrecked. The system has to do something to help them, because the job they're doing is one of the hardest jobs there is.” “Hospice care includes the care and support from family caregivers, which is crucial to individuals and their families facing a serious illness,” said Donna Branca, Director of Marketing and Public Relations at United Hospice of Rockland. “Most families can’t afford to pay for private care so the Social Security Caregiver Credit Act would help alleviate some of the lost wages by providing an earnings credit to those caring for loved ones. At United Hospice of Rockland, we see many families struggling to ensure their loved ones are cared for and this credit would help a family caregiver.” Assemblymember Ellen Jaffee said, “In America in 2015 we still rely primarily on women to provide the bulk of hands-on care for ill or aging family members. Cutting back work hours or leaving the workforce, even temporarily, means lost wages and less retirement income over a caregiver’s lifetime. I applaud Congresswoman Lowey and strongly support the Social Security Caregiver Credit Act, because no one who chooses to take care of a loved one should be economically penalized, especially women who already earn less than men for performing the same work and who are far less financially secure at retirement.” Rockland County Legislator Harriet Cornell said, “Because of hearings I’ve held and recommendations made concerning care for the dependent elderly as well as others, I know that family care is given out of love but also exacts a great physical and mental toll, as well as a financial one. I applaud Congresswoman Lowey for seeking to find ways through the Social Security system to enhance retirement benefits for caregivers.” National Committee to Preserve Social Security and Medicare President and CEO Max Richtman said, “The truth is -- as our nation ages and retirement income continues to decline for millions of Americans – Congress should be talking about the adequacy of Social Security’s benefits rather than searching for ways to cut them. We’ve urged Congress to examine the inequities that have created a poverty rate for senior women and widows that is 50% higher than other retirees 65 and older. Congresswoman Lowey’s caregiver credit legislation is one way to break this Social Security glass ceiling. It’s a critical step in preserving the economic security of generations of American women and their families.” In addition to her efforts to ensure family caregivers are treated fairly, Lowey has been committed to senior citizens in Westchester and Rockland Counties and ensuring they receive their Social Security and Medicare benefits from a lifetime of hard work by: Strongly opposing efforts to privatize Social Security; Supporting cost-of-living increases that have provided an additional $50 a month for the average retiree in the Lower Hudson Valley in the last two years; and Voting to shield Social Security from cuts in deficit reduction proposals. The Social Security Caregiver Credit Act has been endorsed by: AFSCME Alliance for Retired Americans The Arc of the United States B’nai B’rith International Black Women United for Action Caring Across Generations Center for Community Change Action Make It Work National Alliance for Caregiving National Committee to Preserve Social Security and Medicare National Council on Aging National Domestic Workers Alliance National Council of Women’s Organizations National Organization for Women National Partnership for Women & Families OWL – The Voice of Women 40+ Social Security Works Strengthening Social Security Coalition Women’s Institute for a Secure Retirement ###
08.14.2015	WHITE PLAINS/NEW CITY, NY - Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (Westchester/Rockland), the Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, today submitted a letter to U.S. Housing and Urban Development Secretary Julián Castro in support of Governor Cuomo’s request to waive the Duplication of Benefits requirement for homeowners affected by Superstorm Sandy. The full letter is below: August 14, 2015 Secretary Julián Castro U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development 451 7th Street S.W. Washington, D.C. 20410 Dear Secretary Castro: I write in strong support of Governor Andrew Cuomo’s request to waive the Duplication of Benefits requirement for homeowners affected by Superstorm Sandy. Without this waiver, New Yorkers who have been affected will be subject to additional hardship. In the wake of Superstorm Sandy, I toured the devastating damage in Rockland and Westchester counties, met with local leaders, and examined recovery efforts. I saw firsthand how critical federal assistance is to helping homeowners get back on their feet. As you know, Sandy recovery funds granted through HUD are regulated by the Stafford Act, which ensures that homeowners do not receive a duplication of benefits. The Stafford Act permits a waiver of the Duplication of Benefits requirement by the head of an agency. Without a commonsense waiver, the recoupment to New York State through the Duplication of Benefits requirement will potentially be less than the cost of administering the process, an estimated $1.5 million in staff time and resources. The additional hardship on those who would be forced to repay recovery benefits they received years ago is unnecessary, particularly when weighed against the cost to the government. I strongly support Governor Cuomo’s request and hope you will take it into serious consideration. Thank you for your continued support of the region, and I look forward to working with you to further help New Yorkers rebuild and recover. Sincerely, Nita M. Lowey Member of Congress ###
08.12.2015	Five-year Department of Education grant will expand RCC’s support services and help 140 students complete their postsecondary education SUFFERN, NY – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (Westchester/Rockland), the Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, today announced a new five-year, $1.1 million U.S. Department of Education TRIO Student Support Services (TRIO) Program grant for Rockland Community College (RCC) to assist 140 underserved students in the successful completion of their postsecondary education. “Higher education opens the door to greater economic opportunity,” said Lowey. “These federal investments will help underserved students at Rockland Community College fulfill their academic and career goals. As Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee, I will continue working hard to protect higher education funding that makes college accessible and affordable for Lower Hudson Valley students.” Rockland Community College will implement a support services program to assist 140 students, of whom 93 students are low-income or first-generation college students, and 47 students are disabled and low-income. Students who are veterans are also encouraged to apply. According to RCC, there is an urgent need to provide support services to the increasing population of individuals targeted for TRIO services: roughly 5,040 students – or 72 percent of RCC’s current student population – fall into one or more of the TRIO categories for eligibility. “The student population of Rockland Community College is becoming more and more diverse, both in terms of race and ethnicity as well as socio-economic status,” said RCC President Dr. Cliff L. Wood. “This grant will help ensure that we are able to develop expanded services and systems to ensure the success of all of our students.” The aim of RCC’s TRIO program is to strengthen student participants’ experiences of learning, empower them to advocate for their own education, and enable them to acquire the skills to achieve academic and personal success. RCC will offer targeted recruitment and enrollment; participant orientation; early and ongoing assessment; professional and peer tutoring; individualized academic, career, and personal advisement, counseling, and planning; coaching/mentoring; financial aid counseling; financial and economic literacy; career and transfer counseling and workshops; college skills and ESL courses as needed; intensive academic intervention; specialized services for participants with disabilities and student veterans; and cultural activities and college trips. Lowey recently announced TRIO grants for Westchester Community College and Mercy College. Higher education is critical for students to meet the needs of the global and competitive workforce they will enter. That is why Congresswoman Lowey has been working to increase college access and affordability for hardworking students. She has: Voted for the largest investment in college financial aid since the passage of the GI bills; Supported cutting the interest rate on student loans in half over five years, saving borrowers thousands of dollars; Supported allowing students with old loans to refinance to the lower rates that new borrowers receive; Authored the DIPLOMA Act to make college tuition, fees, room and board, and books fully tax-deductible; and Supports increases in the maximum Pell Grant award to help financial aid keep up with the rising cost of college. ###
08.11.2015	Three Cases in Rockland Require Action Beyond NYC NEW CITY, NY – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (Westchester/Rockland), the Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, sent a letter to Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) Director Tom Frieden on August 10, 2015, asking him to extend the CDC’s expertise to and respond expeditiously to any requests for assistance from Rockland County and other suburban health departments to ensure that the spread of Legionnaire’s disease is stemmed. Since the letter was sent, additional cases have been reported, making clear a regional response is essential. The full letter is below: August 10, 2015 Director Tom Frieden Centers for Disease Control and Prevention 1600 Clifton Road Atlanta, GA 30329 Dear Director Frieden: As New York battles the recent outbreak of Legionnaire’s disease, I ask that you swiftly use the powers of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) to coordinate with State and local health professionals in New York to combat this illness beyond New York City. Since the recent Legionnaire’s outbreak began in the South Bronx on July 10, 2015, ten New Yorkers have lost their lives and over 100 have contracted the illness. I was alarmed to learn that another case of Legionnaire’s disease was recently confirmed in Rockland County, and that the patient, who thankfully received treatment, appears not to be connected with the contaminated areas suspected of causing this illness in the South Bronx. As a result, it is now clear that CDC’s assistance should extend outside of New York City to the surrounding counties to provide information to physicians on how to identify and treat Legionnaire’s disease, conduct surveillance of cases to identify potential causes, and coordinate with local health officials, including the Rockland County Health Department, on best practices and recommendations to stop the spread of this disease. The outbreak of Legionnaire’s disease has been the largest in New York City’s history, and it is imperative that steps be taken to protect the health and safety of New Yorkers so the number of illnesses does not continue to climb statewide. I ask that you extend the CDC’s expertise to and respond expeditiously to any requests for assistance from Rockland County and other suburban health departments to ensure that the spread of this deadly illness is stemmed. Sincerely, Nita M. Lowey Member of Congress ###
08.06.2015	“Today is the 50th anniversary of the signing of the Voting Rights Act, landmark civil rights legislation. It has secured the right to vote for millions of Americans and struck down voter discrimination in places where it was most prevalent. “Despite the Voting Rights Act’s success in enabling greater access to the voting booth for every American, the Supreme Court’s decision in Shelby County v. Holder dismantled critical portions of the Act. Congress should not only take action to restore these protections, but also improve them and ensure the right to vote will never be infringed. That is why I have cosponsored the Voting Rights Amendment Act to restore the powers the Voting Rights Act held prior to the Supreme Court decision. “I also believe that, over time, our laws must be updated and improved upon if we want to truly protect American citizens' right to vote. That is why I am an original cosponsor of the Voter Empowerment Act, which would initiate much-needed modernization of our voter registration system. It would prevent states from enacting restrictions that may limit voter participation, including overly-strict voter identification requirements and early voting restrictions. The bill would also provide incentives to states to provide enough voting machines to accommodate population increases and authorize studies to improve access to voting for disabled citizens. “As we strive to achieve a more just and democratic system, we must vigilantly work to remove burdens that limit citizens' ability to exercise their core Constitutional right. I will continue to do everything I can to protect every American's right to vote.” ###
08.06.2015	Funding to Thomas J. Watson Research Center to develop custom models for methane leak detection and source localization Methane leaks contribute to atmospheric warming at a rate 80 times greater than that of carbon dioxide, and can affect a business’ bottom line YORKTOWN HEIGHTS, NY – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (Westchester/Rockland), the Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, today announced a $4.5 million U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) Advanced Research Projects Agency-Energy (ARPA-E) grant for the IBM Thomas J. Watson Research Center in Yorktown Heights, NY, to develop a highly sensitive and reliable system for monitoring methane levels in the air. “Safeguarding our planet for future generations starts with greater awareness of greenhouse gases like methane in our atmosphere,” said Lowey. “I’m pleased this federal funding will leverage IBM’s technology and analytics to improve detection of potent methane in the air in an effort to improve the environment while helping businesses save money. As Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee, I will continue supporting research investments that help our regional economy and improve our environment.” IBM will work closely with Princeton and Harvard universities to develop An Intelligent Multi-modal Methane Measurement System (AIMS), designed to facilitate energy efficient and low-cost methane sensing – two crucially important breakthroughs in the field. Today’s methane sensors require large amounts of power in order to operate, and standard practices for methane leak detection and repair involve costly yearly, biannual, or quarterly site visits. The AIMS disruptive technology and real-time monitoring solution will have the ability to help prevent significant air pollution and revenue loss. The system will feed data from a network of ground-based sensors into a collection of advanced analytics algorithms, allowing for rapid response to any emissions on the ground. The technology could prevent revenue loss by helping businesses mitigate greenhouse gas emissions, minimize the loss of valuable products due to methane leaks, and better address maintenance and safety situations. “IBM’s researchers are excited that this technological breakthrough will be able to help monitor and protect the health of our environment. The AIMS methane sensing system represents an innovative range of new technologies supporting sustainability coming out of IBM Research's global labs,” said Dario Gil, vice president of science and technology at IBM’s Thomas J. Watson Research Center. “We are grateful to Congresswoman Nita Lowey for her support of research efforts and investments here in the Hudson Valley that also benefit communities across the country.” Methane is a principal component of natural gas found below ground and under the sea floor. If methane is able to leak into the air— often as a result of human activities such as leakage from natural gas and petroleum exploration efforts — it absorbs the sun’s heat, warming the atmosphere. For this reason, it is considered a greenhouse gas, like carbon dioxide, except that methane is 80 times more potent than carbon dioxide in the short term. The Advanced Research Projects Agency-Energy (ARPA-E) advances high-potential, high-impact energy technologies that are too early for private-sector investment. APRA-E awardees are unique because they are developing entirely new ways to generate, store, and use energy. ARPA-E projects have the potential to radically improve U.S. economic prosperity, national security, and environmental wellbeing. Congresswoman Lowey is a leader in the fight to protect America's air, land, and water, and to stop global climate change. She is consistently among the Members of Congress rated most highly by the League of Conservation Voters (LVC). As former Co-Chair of the Long Island Sound Caucus and a founder of the Hudson River Congressional Caucus, Lowey has secured tens of millions of federal dollars to protect and rehabilitate these fragile ecosystems. ###
08.06.2015	Funding will allow WestCOP to provide Head Start and Early Head Start services to more than 1,400 children and their families Organization: Lowey is the “Champion of Children” ELMSFORD, NY – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (Westchester/Rockland), the Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, today announced $14,680,408 for Westchester Community Opportunity Center (WestCOP) in Elmsford, NY, to provide Head Start and Early Head Start services to more than 1,400 children and their families in Westchester County. “Head Start and Early Head Start give a child the best opportunity to prepare for school and build a foundation for a healthy and successful life,” said Lowey. “I’m pleased this federal funding will allow WestCOP to continue delivering quality Head Start and Early Head Start services. As Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee, I will continue fighting to increase this funding that invests in the mental, social, and emotional development of our young children.” The funding will enable WestCOP to provide Head Start services to 1,313 children and their families as well as Early Head Start services to 112 children and their families. “We thank Nita Lowey every day because she has kept us going all these years,” said Ellen Farrar, the director of WestCOP's early childhood programs. “We call her the Champion of Children.” The U.S. Department of Health and Human Services’ (HHS) Office of Head Start (OHS) administers the Head Start and Early Head Start programs that support the mental, social, and emotional development of children from birth to age 5. Early Head Start provides children ages birth to three and low-income pregnant women with family-centered services that facilitate child development, support parental roles, and promote self-sufficiency. 2015 marks the 50th Anniversary of Head Start, whose programs served almost one million children and their families nationwide last year, including more than 3,000 in Westchester and Rockland counties. WestCOP is the largest provider of Head Start and Early Head Start programs in Westchester County, while Family Services of Westchester runs the same programs in White Plains. ###
08.05.2015	NEW CITY, NY – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (Westchester/Rockland), the Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, today announced $246,317 in FY2015 Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) emergency preparedness grants for the Rockland County Sheriff’s Department. “This federal emergency preparedness investment will be used to purchase a new all-weather boat for law enforcement operations on the Hudson River, including patrolling near the New NY Bridge Project,” said Lowey. “We must do everything we can to reduce risks associated with terrorist attacks, and funding like this is a step in the right direction. As Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee, I will continue fighting to ensure that New York receives its fair share of emergency preparedness funding.” The Port Security Grant Program (PSGP) assists ports in obtaining the resources required to support the local development and sustainment of core capabilities for a stronger and safer community. New York is the nation’s metropolitan area at highest risk of terror attack. Congresswoman Lowey has a strong record of fighting to ensure the region receives its fair share of federal homeland security funding. ###
08.04.2015	Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey today announced her opposition to the P5+1 agreement with Iran in the following statement: “Preventing Iran from developing a nuclear weapon is an essential national security imperative. Since the nuclear agreement was reached between Iran and the P5+1 countries, I have reviewed its details and consulted with officials in the Obama Administration, regional experts, foreign leaders, Congressional colleagues, and my constituents. “In my judgment, sufficient safeguards are not in place to address the risks associated with the agreement. Relieving UN sanctions on conventional arms and ballistic missiles and releasing billions of dollars to the Iranian regime could lead to a dangerous regional weapons race and enable Iran to bolster its funding of terrorists. The deal does not explicitly require Iran to fully disclose its previous military work to the IAEA’s satisfaction before sanctions relief is provided, and inspectors will not have immediate access to the most suspicious facilities. There are no clear accountability measures regarding punishment for minor violations, which could encourage Iran to cheat. “This agreement will leave the international community with limited options in 15 years to prevent nuclear breakout in Iran, which will be an internationally-recognized nuclear threshold state, capable of producing highly enriched uranium. I am greatly concerned that the agreement lacks a crystal clear statement that the international community reserves the right to take all military, economic, and diplomatic measures necessary during the course of the deal and beyond to deter Iran from ever developing a nuclear weapon. “Since the U.S. and Iran severed relations in 1980, the Iranian regime has become increasingly aggressive, openly anti-America and anti-Israel, extremely anti-Semitic, and the largest sponsor of terrorism in the world. Even today, the regime has made no good-faith demonstration toward bringing home four Americans who are held prisoner or missing in Iran. Given these realities, the negotiating process alone was a diplomatic feat of tremendous proportion. I commend President Obama, Secretary Kerry, Wendy Sherman, and our entire team. They have worked tirelessly to bring about this agreement, and I continue to have confidence in their service to our country. “Congress’s role has been invaluable, in partnership with the Administration, in implementing the crippling sanctions that brought Iran to the table. I remain hopeful that the Administration and Congress, in concert with our P5+1 and regional allies, can prevent Iran from obtaining a nuclear weapon. However, I cannot support this agreement before Congress.” ###
07.28.2015	Funding increase of $11 million will benefit MTA and NY/NJ Port Area WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (Westchester/Rockland), the Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, today announced $42,895,811 million in FY2015 Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) emergency preparedness grants for the Metropolitan Transit Authority (MTA) and the New York/New Jersey Port Area, an increase of $11,055,336 over last year’s allocation. “These federal emergency preparedness investments will enhance resiliency of our region and save lives,” said Lowey. “I’m pleased New York is receiving an increase in funding for security activities. We must do all we can to strengthen the nation’s critical infrastructure against risks associated with potential terrorist attacks. As Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee, I will continue fighting to ensure New York receives its fair share of emergency preparedness funding.” MTA will receive $22,347,341 from FEMA’s Transit Security Grant Program, an increase of $4,246,037 over last year, to directly support transportation infrastructure security activities. This funding helps protect critical surface transportation infrastructure and the traveling public from acts of terrorism and to increase the resiliency of transit infrastructure. The New York/New Jersey Port Area will receive $20,548,470 from FEMA’s Port Security Grant Program, an increase of $6,809,299 over last year, to directly support maritime transportation infrastructure security activities. This funding is intended to improve port-wide maritime security risk management; enhance maritime domain awareness; support maritime security training and exercises; and maintain or reestablish maritime security mitigation protocols that support port recovery and resiliency capabilities. New York is the nation’s metropolitan area at highest risk of terror attack. Congresswoman Lowey believes strongly that the region must receive the largest share of federal homeland security funding, and will not allow New York to be short-changed in order to fund areas facing little to no risk. That is why she has worked successfully to: Limit the number of Urban Area Security Initiative (UASI) grant recipients to avoid diluting the share for high-risk areas like New York; and Amend the PATRIOT Act to increase the percentage of dollars allocated on the basis of risk, which The New York Times called “the only acceptable approach that meets the recommendations of the 9/11 Commission.” ###
07.16.2015	Department of Education grants will help 415 Westchester Community College and Mercy College students complete their postsecondary education WHITE PLAINS, NY – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (Westchester/Rockland), the Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, today announced a total of $532,338 in new U.S. Department of Education TRIO Student Support Services (SSS) Program funding for Westchester Community College and Mercy College to assist underserved students in the successful completion of their postsecondary education. “Higher education can chart a student on the path to economic opportunity,” said Lowey. “I’m pleased these federal investments will help hundreds of underserved students at Westchester Community College and Mercy College fulfill their academic and career goals. As Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee, I will continue working hard to protect higher education funding that makes college accessible and affordable for Lower Hudson Valley students.” Westchester Community College (WCC) in Valhalla, NY, will receive $247,584 to implement a support services program to assist 165 first-year developmental students who are low-income, first-generation and/or disabled in completing their college programs successfully. Services to be offered by WCC’s program will include: Individual counseling, academic advising, and coaching focused on strengthening non-cognitive skills; a series of connected activities including a Successful Start Workshop to strengthen academic behaviors and perspectives; financial aid assistance, innovative career planning assistance, and transfer assistance; tutoring; mentoring; and registration. “Westchester Community College is delighted to be a recipient of the highly competitive TRIO Student Support Services grant,” said Westchester Community College President Dr. Belinda S. Miles. “This essential source of funding enables us to provide enhanced services to low-income, first-generation and disabled college students so they can achieve their educational goals. Students eligible to participate in this program will receive individualized counseling and coaching focused on their personal, career and academic needs to increase their retention, graduation rates and transfer to a four-year college or university.” Mercy College, whose main campus is in Dobbs Ferry, NY, will receive $284,754 to support 250 underserved students through a student support services program aimed at increasing the rates of retention, good academic standing, and graduation of eligible students. According to Mercy, two-thirds of the participants will be low-income and first-generation college students or individuals with disabilities; and one-third will be low-income, first-generation or individuals with disabilities. Not less than one-third of individuals with disabilities will be low-income. All students in the program will have academic need. “These federal dollars will help Mercy College students who need a little extra personalized support to get to graduation day,” said Mercy College President Tim Hall. “The grant funds the TRIO Student Support Services program at Mercy, which serves 250 undergraduates who are low-income and first generation college students, and also those with disabilities. The grant allows us to provide support services such as specialized freshman orientation, financial literacy, tutoring, mentoring and cultural activities. This is a proven program that assists with retention, student academic success and graduation. Thank you to Congresswoman Nita Lowey for helping Mercy College students succeed.” Higher education is critical for students to meet the needs of the global and competitive workforce they will enter. That is why Congresswoman Lowey has been working to increase college access and affordability for hardworking students. She has: Voted for the largest investment in college financial aid since the passage of the GI bills; Supported cutting the interest rate on student loans in half over five years, saving borrowers thousands of dollars; Supported allowing students with old loans to refinance to the lower rates that new borrowers enjoy; Authored the DIPLOMA Act to make college tuition, fees, room and board, and books fully tax-deductible; and Supports increases in the maximum Pell Grant award to help financial aid keep up with rising cost of college. ###
07.14.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (Westchester/Rockland), the Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, released the following statement on the nuclear agreement reached by P5+1 and Iran: “The international community entered into negotiations with Iran with one united goal: prevent the regime from obtaining nuclear weapons. Congress will now begin a comprehensive review of the agreement to determine whether this goal can be fulfilled under the deal’s parameters. “There’s no question that Secretary Kerry has worked tirelessly to bring about this agreement, and his efforts are to be commended. However, I continue to have long-standing concerns about the enforcement and verifiability of any agreement with Iran, given their long history of deception and well-documented illicit activity in the region. “As we thoroughly examine the proposal, I hope to hear directly from the IAEA that their inspectors will have unfettered access to any site in order to verify compliance. The UN Security Council resolution on specific consequences for any violations of the deal is vital, and any relief for arms and ballistic missile-related sanctions requires serious scrutiny. Most importantly, I do not support providing any economic relief until Iran has indisputably met their obligations and demonstrated their sincerity. “While this is only an agreement about Iran’s nuclear program, the Administration must concurrently work to bolster our allies in the region and counter Iran’s support of terrorist groups. For a new era of engagement to ever truly take hold, Iran must stop threatening to annihilate Israel and safely return the four Americans missing or held captive inside Iran. “Congress has played, and will continue to play, an indispensable role in bringing about and reviewing any deal. There is no greater national security challenge than the threat of a nuclear-armed Iran, and we should approach this challenge in close coordination with our allies who also have so much at stake.” ###
07.10.2015	Indoor pool will provide year-round recreation and therapy options for VA patients overcoming health issues MONTROSE, NY– Congresswoman Nita Lowey (Westchester/Rockland), the Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, today announced $5.5 million in federal funds to upgrade the Montrose VA facility indoor pool and rebuild damaged portions of the pool building. “We will never be able to fully repay veterans who risked their lives defending the American way of life, but we can help them recover from injuries sustained during their service,” said Lowey. “This pool at the Montrose VA facility will offer recreational and therapeutic options to help veterans heal the wounds of war. I will continue working to ensure veterans in the Lower Hudson Valley get the benefits and care they deserve.” Funding will allow for upgrades to the Montrose VA facility’s indoor pool and reconstruction of damaged parts of the pool building, enabling year-round recreation and therapy options for long-term care patients at the facility. Upgrades and reconstruction will start in the fall, with a projected completion date of spring/summer 2017. The pool facility has been closed for more than 10 years. The original, regular temperature indoor pool at the Montrose VA facility was converted to a therapy pool in 1999. However, the pool closed in 2002 as it needed major upgrades and repairs. “Veteran care is our first priority at VA Hudson Valley. So, we’re excited this project is moving forward, and we are looking forward to further enhancing the quality of care for our Veterans in the Hudson Valley,” said VA Hudson Valley Health Care System DirectorMargaret B. Caplan. “Congresswoman Lowey has been a tremendous advocate for seeing this project through, and I am grateful for her support and commitment to the veterans of the Hudson Valley.” “On behalf of all of our Veterans, men and women, who have and will use the new FDR VA facility/hospital pool, I thank Congresswoman Nita Lowey for working to secure funding to make this needed renovation happen,” said Cortlandt Town Supervisor Linda Puglisi. “The pool building on the VA campus in the hamlet of Montrose in the Town of Cortlandt has been closed for over a decade. Our Veteran's Committee, other Veteran's groups, and many interested residents, along with our town board and I have sent petitions, letters, e-mails, and held rallies on the front lawn of the VA to renovate the pool, as well as to keep services at this VA facility. Congresswoman Lowey has supported our efforts and has delivered on her promise to secure funds to renovate the indoor pool for physical therapy purposes as well as for recreation for our Veterans. We are all grateful for the Congresswoman's efforts.” Created in 1997, the VA Hudson Valley Health Care System serves approximately 150,000 Veterans in an area covering 3,500 square miles through two main campuses in Castle Point and Montrose, NY, and several Community Based Outpatient Clinics. The system treats about 25,000 patients each year. The Montrose campus offers a number of health and mental health services, including the treatment of post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) and substance abuse. Lowey is proud to represent more than 25,000 veterans and many more families of service members who answered the call to serve our country. She has helped more than 2,100 veterans in New York’s 17th Congressional District directly get the services, medals, and benefits they have earned. Congresswoman Lowey can help constituents of New York’s 17th Congressional District who need help with the federal government. Veterans experiencing issues with federal agencies, including the Department of Veterans Affairs, should contact Lowey’s White Plains District Office (914-428-1707), New City District Office (845-639-3485), or visit her website for more information. ###
07.07.2015	Families in need struggle to provide additional meals for young children when school is out, stretching budgets to a breaking point 66,000 children in Westchester County are food insecure, including 25,000 students who receive free or reduced lunch when school is in session Lowey is fighting to protect federal programs that help feed children during the hungriest months of the year ELMSFORD, NY – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (Westchester/Rockland), the Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, today was joined by Food Bank for Westchester (FB4W) President and CEO Ellen Lynch, Superintendent of Ossining Union Free School District Raymond Sanchez, and Ridgeway Alliance Church’s Jeff Meyer as well as FB4W volunteers to highlight the problem of childhood hunger during the summer. “Hunger doesn’t stop at the end of the school year,” said Lowey. “Students in Westchester who rely on free or reduced price meals are threatened with food insecurity over the summer. We need to do all we can to call attention to this problem and help organizations like the Food Bank for Westchester feed children during the hungriest months of the year. As Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, I will do everything I can to reduce childhood hunger and ensure that children are able to eat nutritious meals year-round.” According to FB4W, approximately 200,000 people are at risk of hunger or are facing food insecurity in Westchester County, including 66,000 children. Families already battling through uncertainty also struggle to provide additional meals for their young children during the summer, when meals for 25,000 school children disappear. Absence of these meals served during the school year, combined with the need for additional childcare coverage, can stretch budgets to a breaking point. Nationally, more than 21 million children rely on free or reduced price meals on a given school day, but only 3.7 million children receive meals when school is not in session, meaning roughly 80 percent of kids who rely on school meals are threatened with hunger over the summer. Lowey is fighting to protect child nutrition programs threatened by budget cuts in the Fiscal Year 2016 Agriculture spending bill currently making its way through the House of Representatives. The bill would cut the National School Lunch program and equipment grants for schools. The Summer Electronic Benefit Transfer (EBT) pilot program, which helps families with children who qualify to receive free or reduced price meals to purchase healthy food during the summer months, is also threatened. Right now, the spending bill would cut the Summer EBT from $16 million to $12 million, well below the President’s request of $67 million. Tomorrow (Wednesday, July 8, 2015), Lowey will offer an amendment to increase the investment in the Summer EBT program to reach up to 200,000 families next summer. “One in five people in Westchester County are food insecure and 33 percent of those people are children,” said Ellen Lynch, President and CEO of the Food Bank for Westchester. “We are grateful for Congresswoman Lowey’s efforts to get funding to support children’s feeding programs when the school year ends. With the Congresswoman’s help, we look forward to expanding our summer feeding programs and getting more of our children the nutritious food they need and deserve.” “The statistics around childhood hunger are staggering. It's heartbreaking to know that 66,000 children suffer from hunger right here in Westchester County today and a total of 200,000 of our neighbors may not know where their next meal will come from. It's critically important that we do all we can to raise awareness and tackle this problem. I'm very thankful to Congresswoman Lowey for her leadership on this issue and to the Food Bank for Westchester for their significant efforts to eradicate childhood hunger,” said Senator Andrea Stewart-Cousins, the Democratic Conference Leader. The Food Bank for Westchester’s mission is to lead, engage and educate the Westchester community in creating a hunger-free environment. FB4W acquires, warehouses, and distributes food to over 265 front-line hunger-relief programs throughout the county, including food pantries, soup kitchens, shelters, senior facilities and child care centers, distributing roughly 14 tons of food a day. In Congress, Lowey has supported healthier school meals and voted against cuts to food assistance for those in need. She is fighting for additional investments in nutrition and wellness initiatives in her role as the Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee. ###
07.01.2015	Funding supports two full-time jobs and 72 Senior Corps volunteers to serve as mentors and role models to more than 200 children 2015 marks 50th Anniversaries for the Foster Grandparent Program and Head Start Lowey fighting to protect federal investments that deliver positive local impact as government spending bills make way through Congress NYACK, NY– Congresswoman Nita Lowey (Westchester/Rockland), the Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, today announced a three-year $949,878 Senior Corps Foster Grandparent Program grant for Head Start of Rockland, Inc., to provide mentorship to Rockland children. The grant is provided by the Corporation for National and Community Service (CNCS), the federal agency that administers Senior Corps programs, and this year marks the 50th anniversaries of both the Foster Grandparent Program and Head Start nationally. “Foster grandparents have a lifetime of experience to offer children in need,” said Lowey. “I’m proud this federal grant will have a positive impact for grandparents and children in our community. We should be celebrating the 50th anniversary of these mission-driven organizations, but we must instead defend them against reckless cuts by House Republican Leadership. It’s not right to balance our federal budget on the backs of those in need. As Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee, I will do all I can to protect federal investments that support community service programs and improve quality of life in the Lower Hudson Valley.” The grant will allow Head Start of Rockland to support 72 Senior Corps volunteers to mentor roughly 216 children in Rockland County each year for the next three years. Head Start of Rockland will hire two people to help administer the grant. This year across New York’s 17th Congressional District (NY-17), which includes parts of Westchester County and all of Rockland County, organizations on both sides of the Hudson receive $1,340,714 in Foster Grandparent Program grants that support more than 419 volunteers. Foster Grandparents, a Senior Corps program, are individuals 55 years or older who are role models, mentors, friends and tutors to children with exceptional needs. Volunteers serve at thousands of local organizations like Head Start of Rockland that help children learn to read and provide one-on-one tutoring, mentor troubled teenagers and young mothers, care for premature infants or children with disabilities, and help children who have been abused or neglected. The program also provides a way for volunteers to stay active by serving children and youth in their communities. Lowey made the Foster Grandparent Program grant announcement today at Nyack Head Start, where she was joined by CNCS CEO Wendy Spencer, Head Start of Rockland, Inc., Executive Director Ouida Foster Toutebon, Town of Orangetown Supervisor Andy Stewart, and Nyack Deputy Mayor Don Hammond, who highlighted the program’s success. “For generations, seniors have been making a powerful impact in their communities, and their service is more important now than ever,” said Wendy Spencer, CEO of the Corporation for National and Community Service. “With so many people in need, senior volunteers are making a difference in the lives of children, veterans, elderly, and disaster survivors. Leading the way are more than 270,000 Senior Corps volunteers – dedicated Americans using a lifetime of skills and experience to tackle pressing challenges in their communities. I’m proud to announce that with this new Senior Corps grant, the children of Head Start of Rockland will be among those who receive the one-on-one support only a Foster Grandparent can provide.” “Head Start of Rockland is grateful to receive this grant which will help us connect grandparents with children in need. We are grateful for Congresswoman Lowey’s steadfast support for programs that help us deliver quality services to families in Rockland County,” said Head Start of Rockland Executive DirectorOuida Foster Toutebon. “The Foster Grandparent Program is a major asset to the youth of Rockland County,” said Orangetown Supervisor Andy Stewart. “By providing caring and dedicated mentors to children in need, this program helps make our community a better place. I thank Congresswoman Lowey for her work to secure federal support for Head Start of Rockland.” Assemblymember Ellen Jaffee (D-Suffern) said, “Thank you Congresswoman Lowey for securing this crucial funding. I am grateful that the Foster Grandparent Program continues to remain in Rockland County and pleased to know that Head Start of Rockland will be hiring two positions to administer the grant. The Foster Grandparent Program not only helps children with exceptional needs build social and emotional confidence while improving their literacy skills but also puts to good use the broad range of expertise and experience of our older adults. This wonderful program is truly the perfect way to foster the intergenerational relationships that are so vital in our community.” “There is no more important time in a child’s life than the early years," said Rockland County LegislatorHarriet Cornell. "How a child develops, socializes, and learns is affected by the adults in his or her young life. This Foster Grandparent grant which will provide loving adult mentors will transform the present and the future for Rockland Head Start children. Thank you, Congresswoman Lowey.” The Foster Grandparent program is just one example of the positive impact that federal investments from CNCS have on local communities here in the Lower Hudson Valley. Currently, NY-17 receives $2,187,640 in CNCS program funding, mobilizing more than 1,800 volunteers through the Foster Grandparent,AmeriCorps, and RSVP programs. CNCS faces significant budget cuts in a government spending bill currently making its way through Congress that would slash community service initiatives when families need assistance most. The Fiscal Year 2016 House Labor-HHS-Education Appropriations bill would cut $367 million from CNCS below the enacted 2015 level, and $497 million below the President’s budget request. Lowey vows to protect CNCS and other important community service programs from reckless cuts that hurt local families. CNCS is a federal agency that helps more than 5 million Americans improve the lives of their fellow citizens through service. Today, more than 270,000 Americans participate in service opportunities through Senior Corps programs, and their contributions of skills, knowledge, and experience make a real difference to individuals, nonprofits, and faith-based and other community organizations throughout the United States. ###
06.29.2015	Ex-Im Bank has supported more than 14,000 jobs at 22 local companies Local business: “Without the Export-Import Bank, we would be in a much weaker position” Ex-Im Bank charter expires Wednesday at midnight WHITE PLAINS/NEW CITY, NY– Congresswoman Nita Lowey (Westchester/Rockland), the Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, is calling on Congress to pass a long-term reauthorization of the U.S. Export-Import Bank (Ex-Im Bank) charter, which is set to expire Wednesday at midnight. Failure to renew the agency’s charter would remove a useful tool that helps local companies with export financing and could jeopardize jobs in the Lower Hudson Valley. “The Ex-Im Bank helps American companies export the best brand in the world – ‘Made in America,’” saidLowey. “The agency’s guaranteed financing has helped dozens of companies throughout the Lower Hudson Valley, and failure to reauthorize the Ex-Im Bank’s charter could mean job losses not only for those exporters, but also their extensive supply chains. We simply cannot put American workers at a disadvantage by allowing dozens of foreign export banks to siphon U.S. jobs to distant shores. I urge my colleagues in Congress to join me in supporting a long-term reauthorization of the Ex-Im Bank.” The Ex-Im Bank charter expires on June 30, 2015, and the Republican Leadership in the U.S. House of Representatives currently has no plan to provide a long-term extension of this vital, job-growing, self-sustaining agency. Ex-Im Bank supported $2.2 billion worth of exports and 14,150 jobs at 22 exporters – including nine small businesses – from 2007-2014 in New York’s 17th Congressional District, which includes parts of Westchester County and all of Rockland County. The Ex-Im Bank is an independent agency within the federal government that provides direct loans, financing, and loan guarantees to U.S. companies seeking to do business in international markets when private sector financing is excessively expensive or simply unavailable. In 2014 alone, the Ex-Im Bank supported $27.5 billion worth of U.S. exports and 164,000 American jobs, resulting in a $675 million surplus to help reduce the federal deficit. Nearly 90 percent of the agency’s transactions (more than 3,340) last year directly supported American small businesses. The Ex-Im Bank receives no annual appropriations from Congress. Over the past two decades, the agency has generated nearly $7 billion more than the cost of its operations to help reduce the federal deficit. Re-authorization of the Ex-Im Bank is supported by the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, National Small Business Association, the National Association of Manufacturers, the AFL-CIO, and the Machinist and Aerospace Union. Local companies and business groups have also urged their support. “Many U.S. manufacturers can’t compete with foreign manufacturers armed with elaborate government subsidies and trade assistance,” said Edward S. Dorian Jr., president of White Plains-based export management company Dorian Drake International, which uses Ex-Im Bank support. “The Ex-Im Bank is one of the only ways our government can level the playing field. The Ex-Im Bank programs help thousands of U.S. manufacturers—big and small— grow their export sales, which in turn creates tens of thousands of U.S. manufacturing jobs. We applaud Congresswoman Lowey’s support of re-authorizing the Ex-Im Bank.” “It is vital for U.S. exporting companies, such as Curtis Instruments, Inc., to be able to conduct business globally in an intensively competitive marketplace where many of the players are backed by subsidies and other safeguards by their governments,” said Frank Matheis, Director of Corporate Marketing Communications at Mount Kisco-based Curtis Instruments, Inc. “We assume large risks in order to export our green technology, and the Export-Import Bank is the one U.S. governmental service that gives us the confidence and strength to be able to confidently hold our own against the global competition. Without the Export-Import Bank, we would be in a much weaker position. We fully support the continuation of this powerfully important organization, which significantly boosts U.S. exporters.” “Businesses in Westchester and throughout the region are constantly looking for ways to expand and tap new markets overseas,” said Westchester County Association President Marissa Brett. “That is why it is important to provide companies with all options to achieve their business goals. The Export-Import Bank fills an important role of providing financing to companies when the commercial market can’t, which is a very good reason for Congress to reauthorize the Bank’s charter.” “The Ex-Im Bank has helped businesses in Westchester compete in an increasingly global marketplace,” said Business Council of Westchester President and CEO Dr. Marsha Gordon. “Companies need certainty that the export financing they require will be there. Allowing the Ex-Im charter to expire doesn’t hit the mark and works against the interests of businesses large and small in the Lower Hudson Valley.” Congresswoman Lowey is a co-sponsor of the Promoting U.S. Jobs through Exports Act of 2015 (H.R. 2031), which extends Ex-Im’s charter until the end of 2022 and ensures the Bank has the capacity to continue creating jobs and meeting the financing needs of U.S. exporters. She also signed a discharge petition to force a vote in the U.S. House of Representatives to renew the agency’s charter. ###
06.26.2015	WASHINGTON, DC- Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) released the following statement today, after the United States Supreme Court ruled that the U.S. Constitution requires states to perform same-sex marriages. “Today, the United States Supreme Court upheld one of the fundamental principles of our country: equal treatment under the law. “On the anniversary of other important decisions, this is an exciting day for all of us who believe in equality and justice. For too long, LGBT couples have been restricted from exercising their fundamental rights. Now, all men and women have equal protection and are free to marry whomever they love regardless of what state they call home. “Millions of Americans now know that the government values their bond, their commitment, and their family. I applaud the Court for standing with the Constitution and on the right side of history.” ###
06.24.2015	Funds will help NYMC postdoctoral students specialize in population-based dentistry to improve oral hygiene and public health locally NYMC: Need for dentists is especially acute in Westchester County and the Hudson Valley region VALHALLA, NY– Congresswoman Nita Lowey (Westchester/Rockland), the Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, today announced a $460,591 grant from the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) for New York Medical College’s (NYMC) General Dental Practice Residency program to train postdoctoral students in public health dentistry. “Investments in dental health will leave more people in the Lower Hudson Valley smiling,” said Lowey. “I’m pleased New York Medical College will be able to use this grant to train postdoctoral students specializing in public health dentistry. As Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, I will continue fighting to protect funding that allows local medical institutions to improve public health.” The grant, which is administered by the Health Resources and Services Administration within HHS, will help NYMC train postdoctoral students in public health dentistry, a specialty that concentrates on improving the dental health of populations as opposed to individuals. Training will focus on improving oral health care in the Lower Hudson Valley. According to NYMC, the growing need for dentists is especially acute in Westchester County and the Hudson Valley region, which is home to nearly three million people, including a number of underserved populations. Many New Yorkers cannot afford to obtain routine, preventive, non-emergency, or cosmetic dental care. Yet, untreated dental problems result in infections and poor nutrition, missed work and school, and a decline in overall health status, all of which pose health, economic, and societal strain. Federal labor statistics and New York State dental registration numbers show a persistent barrier to dental care for the underserved. This problem is projected to deepen in the near future as more than 10 percent of New York’s dentists retire or close their practices. Nationally, the number of dentists declined from 58 to 55 per 100,000 people from 2011-2013. “We are very thankful for this vital support from the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, Health Resources and Services Administration,” said Robert W. Amler, MD, MBA, vice president for government affairs at New York Medical College. “With this grant from the federal government, our General Dental Practice Residency will train tomorrow's dentists in a patient-centered medical home model, to address the oral health care needs and disparities of the Hudson Valley, and encourage them to pursue a career in public health dentistry,” said Joseph F. Morales, DDS, FACD, professor and chairman of the Department of Dental Medicine and program liaison, General Dental Practice Residency. Lowey, as Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee, has fought to increase investments in medical research. She has worked to protect the HHS budget from cuts, and she is a longtime member of the subcommittee that funds medical research. Funding to National Institutes of Health has nearly tripled since she joined the committee. ###
06.23.2015	Funds for important regional transportation hub will rehabilitate an access road and improve drainage WHITE PLAINS, NY – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (Westchester/Rockland), the Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, today announced $549,000 in federal grants from the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) to Westchester County Airport for road rehabilitation and drainage improvements. “Improvements to Lower Hudson Valley transportation hubs help guarantee access to our region’s economy,” said Lowey. “These FAA grants to Westchester County Airport will improve overall airport operation while enhancing safety. As Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, I have fought to protect critical transportation infrastructure investments that would improve our nation’s crumbling roads, railways, and bridges, including upgrades to airports. I will continue working to make sure our region’s infrastructure needs are met. ” The FAA awarded two grants to Westchester County Airport, an important hub for the Lower Hudson Valley. A $234,000 grant will fund the design to rehabilitate 2,950 feet of the airport's existing access road. A $315,000 grant will fund improvements to airport drainage necessary to adequately handle storm water runoff. Lowey has been fighting for increased funding to upgrade our nation’s crumbling transportation infrastructure. Investing in roads, bridges, broadband lines, water and sewage treatment facilities, and power grids is critical to creating jobs as well as repairing aging infrastructure networks. To this end, Lowey: Supports creating a National Infrastructure Bank, which would provide loans and bonds to finance the rehabilitation and rebuilding of critical infrastructure assets; Helped secure federal funding to widen and repair local roads and highways like Short Clove Road in Haverstraw and the Route 120 Bridge in Chappaqua; and Helped secure federal funding to construct and consolidate the fresh water supply for the Villages of Briarcliff Manor, Tarrytown, and Sleepy Hollow. ###
06.23.2015	WASHINGTON, DC– Congresswoman Nita Lowey (Westchester/Rockland), the Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, released the following statement on the UN Human Rights Council inquiry on the Gaza conflict: “The UN Human Rights Council continues its longstanding practice of making unfair allegations against Israeli forces. Such reckless behavior attempts to discredit Israel before the international community while giving a pass to the instigators of last summer’s conflict – Hamas. “The Commission of Inquiry Report fails to condemn Hamas’ terrorist tactics – particularly the indiscriminate firing of rockets into Israel, the labyrinth of underground tunnels from which Hamas launched attacks, and the use of schools and hospitals to store Hamas rockets – many of which are root causes of the conflict. “The Council has missed yet another opportunity to credibly assess the real violations of human rights and other crimes of war. I urge the Administration to strongly oppose such biased accounts against Israel and to continue to defend Israel’s legitimate right to defend itself in all international organizations.” ###
06.23.2015	Increased ESEA Title I funding seeks to offer all children a fair, equal, and significant opportunity to obtain a high-quality education Funding helps offset costs of student improvement and reduces burden on local taxpayers WHITE PLAINS/NEW CITY, NY – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (Westchester/Rockland), the Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, today announced $29,498,111 in FY2015 Elementary and Secondary Education Act (ESEA) Title I program funding for schools in New York’s 17th Congressional District (NY-17), which includes parts of Westchester County and all of Rockland County. This year’s funding is an increase over the previous year’s allocation. “Access to educational opportunity leads to economic security for children and families,” said Lowey. “This Title I funding improves students’ academic environment and prospects for success while helping offset local tax burdens. As Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee, I am fighting to increase Title I grants and have opposed cuts to the Department of Education that threaten student development and assistance for students most in need, including cuts to literacy programs, math and science partnerships, and Pell grants. I will continue protecting federal investments that benefit students most in need.” The FY2015 amount is an increase over the FY2014 amount ($29,403,135) and FY2013 amount ($23,141,276). ESEA Title I grants are formula driven and based on the number of at-need students in public schools. Funds are given directly to local education agencies to provide supplemental education funding, especially in high-poverty areas, for local programs that provide extra academic support to help raise the achievement of eligible students or, in the case of school-wide programs, help all students in high-poverty schools meet challenging state academic standards. The federal spending bill that includes U.S. Department of Education funding currently making its way through the House of Representatives would not meet the growing needs of programs like Title I and contains cuts that would jeopardize funding for literacy programs, and partnerships for important subjects like math and science that would prepare students for our increasingly technology-driven economy. Lowey has been fighting to protect this spending bill from cuts that would eliminate essential programs and funding for local schools. Title I funding to school districts within New York’s 17th Congressional District also helps reduce the burden on local taxpayers, and partially offsets the costs of making these much-needed improvements that benefit students. A full list of school districts within NY-17 with their FY2015 Title I funding amount is below: School District 2015 Funding Blind Brook-Rye $84,082 Briarcliff Manor $128,124 Byram Hills $60,861 Chappaqua $222,216 Clarkstown $578,562 Croton-Harmon $55,238 Dobbs Ferry $393,153 East Ramapo $16,909,499 Elmsford $181,176 Greenburgh Central 7 $315,306 Harrison $369,359 Haverstraw-Stony Point $1,248,699 Hendrick Hudson $154,150 Irvington $61,552 Lakeland $375,364 Mount Pleasant $76,076 Nanuet $170,165 Nyack $648,085 Ossining $1,130,836 Pearl River $231,225 Peekskill $1,047,327 Pleasantville $377,597 Pocantico Hills $28,027 Port Chester-Rye $1,417,727 Ramapo $469,456 South Orangetown $397,100 Union Free School District of Tarrytowns $547,479 Valhalla $98,095 White Plains $1,572,881 Yorktown $148,694 TOTAL $29,498,111 As a mother of three, a grandmother of eight and a former PTA president, Lowey believes improving education is critical to our economic recovery and our children’s futures. Because economic competitiveness is directly linked to our ability to prepare students for the needs of the global economy, she has led efforts to: Reduce class size by hiring new teachers; Provide professional development programs for principals and superintendents; Invest in school modernization so students can learn in 21st century classrooms; Increase students’ access to safe and educational afterschool activities when the school day is over; and Increase access to higher education. ###
06.22.2015	WHITE PLAINS/NEW CITY, NY – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (Westchester/Rockland), the Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, released the following statement on the Emanuel A.M.E. Church shootings in Charleston, SC: “Our heartfelt thoughts and prayers continue to be with the families of the victims of the shooting at the Emanuel A.M.E. Church and the entire Charleston community. “Last week’s senseless, unimaginable violence on peaceful worshipers was rooted in racism, hate, and gun violence that are absolutely unacceptable in the United States of America. “Bigotry anywhere is a threat to tolerance and coexistence everywhere. We must recommit ourselves to championing equality, freedom, and peace for peoples of all races and faiths. One positive step in this direction is the growing call to remove the confederate flag from South Carolina’s capitol grounds. “We must also join together to end gun violence by implementing sensible gun safety laws before more innocent Americans’ lives are lost. In the wake of this tragedy, we cannot let our outrage simply subside until the next tragedy but instead must address this national crisis head-on and imminently. “I am greatly inspired by the unfathomable grace and forgiveness of the families of the victims. They are America at its best, and we must honor their selfless courage by standing together against hate and violence.” ###
06.15.2015	Protein Sciences plans to hire upward of 70 additional employees at Pearl River facility to support manufacturing of FlublokLowey worked to protect funding for programs that helped facilitate groundbreaking Flublok flu vaccine developmentPEARL RIVER, NY– Congresswoman Nita Lowey (Westchester/Rockland), the Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, today joined Protein Sciences and Rockland business representatives to announce a U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) decision to grant a commercial manufacturing license for Protein Sciences’ Pearl River facility to produce Flublok influenza vaccine.“FDA’s approval of the Protein Sciences Pearl River facility to produce Flublok not only enhances our ability to help families stay healthy during many flu seasons to come, but also enables local job creation,” said Lowey during a visit to the facility today. “As Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee, I will continue to fund critical priorities that safeguard public health and support engines of economic growth in Lower Hudson Valley.”FDA recently granted Protein Sciences a license to manufacture Flublok, the company’s seasonal flu vaccine, at a facility at 401 North Middletown Road in Pearl River. Protein Sciences acquired the facility at the end of 2012 and has invested millions of dollars through a partnership with the federal Biomedical Advanced Research and Development Agency (BARDA), which facilitates the development and purchase of vaccines, drugs, therapies, and diagnostic tools for public health emergencies. The Pearl River production facility offers four times the manufacturing capacity as their Meriden, CT-based headquarters alone.To accommodate the production of Flublok, which will ramp up this year, the 30-employee Protein Sciences facility in Pearl River plans to hire upward of 70 new employees. Protein Sciences also recently announced that FDA awarded a regulatory exclusivity period of 12 years for Flublok, meaning no similar products will be approved by FDA before January 16, 2025.Congresswoman Lowey worked to protect funding for FDA and BARDA.“We are extremely pleased to once again have the opportunity to host Congresswoman Lowey,” said Daniel D. Adams Executive Chairman and Global Head of Business Development at Protein Science Corporation. “She has been tireless and amazing in her support of the acceptance and growth of our Company and our wonderful product, Flublok influenza vaccine. Congresswoman Lowey is a strong and extremely effective supporter of New York State business and it has been our pleasure to work with her.”Assemblymember Ellen Jaffee (D-Suffern) said, “Congratulations to Protein Sciences Corporation (Protein Sciences) for securing an FDA license to manufacture Flublok seasonal influenza vaccine, the only flu vaccine made in America by an American company and the only flu vaccine manufactured right here in Pearl River, New York. According to the Centers for Disease Control, 90% of influenza associated deaths occur among adults 65 years and older. It is my hope that our older adults may now be protected from influenza with this groundbreaking, home-grown in New York product. Instead of outsourcing to foreign companies for seasonal influenza vaccine, New York State has an opportunity to build jobs, boost our local economy and the success of Protein Sciences' reactivated manufacturing facility.”“The FDA’s approval for Protein Science to produce its Flublok vaccine at its Pearl River site is a major step forward for the Bio Science community in Rockland County and the region,” according to Al Samuels, President/CEO of the Rockland Business Association and voting member of the Mid-Hudson Regional Economic Development Council. “The resulting expansion will add scores of well-paying positions so vitally needed in our area. We are all grateful to Congresswoman Lowey for the assistance she provided in this endeavor.”“Protein Sciences is an early stage life sciences firm we attracted to the Pfizer Pearl River Campus in 2013. The combination of world class bio-tech lab space, clean rooms, and a smart work force enhanced the expansion from Connecticut,” said Michael J. DiTullo, President and CEO of Rockland Economic Development Council. “Congresswoman Lowey has been with us every step of the way as she was the pivot in expediting FDA approvals to produce Flublok, the next generation seasonal flu vaccine. Working together, we are creating tomorrow's jobs today, here in Rockland County and proving once again that smart money follows smart people.”“As Supervisor, I want to see good, clean business development at the Pfizer site, development like Protein Science that will help attract other great businesses,” said Town of Orangetown Supervisor Andrew Y. Stewart.“The growth of the biopharmaceutical industry in the Mid-Hudson region has helped foster economic growth throughout the entire area,” said Empire State Development President, CEO & Commissioner Howard Zemsky. “Three years ago, we welcomed Protein Sciences - and the jobs they would create - to the Empire State and now with FDA approval, we congratulate them on the accomplishment and look forward to the company’s continued success into the future.”The U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) awarded Protein Sciences $34.5 million in 2009 to develop Flublok, which was subsequently approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration in 2013 for use by individuals 18-49 years old. Flublok is the first egg-free flu vaccine, meaning that it can be made more quickly and accurately without the infectious risk traditionally associated with vaccine manufacturing. An Assistant Secretary of Health has called the approval of Flublok by the FDA a “landmark in influenza vaccine history.”According to the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), influenza (flu) is a serious disease that can lead to hospitalization and sometimes even death. Over a period of 31 flu seasons, which begin as early as October and last as late as May, between 1976 and 2007, estimates of flu-associated deaths in the United States range from a low of about 3,000 to a high of about 49,000 people per year.Influenza activity for the 2014-2015 season started early and had a relatively long duration. People 65 and older were especially impacted by last flu season, accounting for more than 60 percent of all reported hospitalizations.Congresswoman Lowey has worked successfully to triple the budget for the National Institutes of Health to better detect, cure, and prevent debilitating diseases.###
06.05.2015	WHITE PLAINS/NEW CITY, NY – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (Westchester/Rockland), the Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, today released the following statement commemorating lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender (LGBT) Pride Month:“June is LGBT Pride Month, when we honor the tireless determination and enduring struggle of our lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender community. “In the face of bigotry, discrimination, and violence, the LGBT rights movement has persevered to make remarkable progress in bringing equality to all parts of our country. Today 37 states and the District of Columbia enjoy marriage equality, encompassing 70% of the American population. “But, the pursuit for nationwide marriage equality continues.“Currently, the Supreme Court is considering a case that may result in the Court finding that the right for a same-sex couple to marry is guaranteed under the Constitution. I was proud to join an amicus brief in support of marriage equality in this case because I believe equal treatment under the law is a bedrock principle of our Republic.“I will continue working hard to ensure that all Americans have the right to marry the ones they love.”This LGBT Pride Month statement can be found in video format here.###
05.29.2015	Westchester Group’s 15th Anniversary Celebration of Million Mom March Highlights the Importance of Gun Violence Prevention Recent Incidents Involving Domestic Terrorists Accessing Guns, Gun-Running on Metro-North, and a Four-Year-Old Westchester Girl Accidentally Shooting Herself Demonstrate the Need for Improved Gun Safety Measures Lowey Called a ‘True American Hero’ for Her Work Protecting Families from Gun Violence WESTCHESTER COUNTY, NY– Congresswoman Nita Lowey (Westchester/Rockland), the Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, today at a Million Mom March/Brady Campaign Northern Westchester Chapter event celebrating the 15th Anniversary of the Million Mom March received the Apple Pie Award for her efforts in Congress to advance gun safety measures. “Sensible gun laws should be as simple as apple pie,” said Lowey. “It’s crystal clear that we have a problem with gun violence in this country, and there is so much more that Congress should be doing. I have supported numerous gun control measures that take steps toward keeping our children, our neighbors, and our communities safe. Moms and families across the United States are fed up with the inaction on gun violence prevention, and I will continue working with national and local groups to ensure all Americans have the right to live in communities free from senseless gun violence.” The Million Mom March, a national grassroots movement to call attention to the need for improved gun safety measures, held its first rally on the National Mall in Washington, DC, on Mother's Day 2000 with nearly 750,000 participants, including Congresswoman Lowey, Secretary Clinton, and former Rep. Carolyn McCarthy (photo). Approximately 200,000 additional activists in more than 70 cities across the country also participated. The Northern Westchester Chapter of the Million Mom March/Brady Campaign held a special 15th Anniversary event today with mothers who have lost their children to gun violence and representatives from the Brady Campaign, national Million Mom March, New Yorkers Against Gun Violence, Moms Demand Action for Gun Sense, and The Newtown Action Alliance. The Apple Pie Award goes to outstanding elected officials who promote sensible gun laws to keep families safe, but has not been given out since 2002. The Million Mom March/Brady Campaign is bringing the award back for the 15th Anniversary event, and presented the Apple Pie Award to Congresswoman Lowey. Also honored during the event were three individuals central to the first Million Mom March in Washington, DC: Donna Dees-Thomasesestablished the original Million Mom March in 2000 after she was deeply affected by coverage of the Los Angeles Jewish Community Center day camp shooting in Grenada Hills, CA, in which five people, including three small children, were killed; Jill Brooke, author of "The Need to Say No," and the editor in chief of Premier Traveler, was an original Million Mom March organizers; and Elise Richmanwas an original organizer of the Million Mom March. “Prior to the Million Mom March, elected officials who voted to protect families and children from gun violence mostly heard from the other side of the issue -- a small extremist minority who oppose background checks for even for criminals and the violently mentally ill,” said Donna Dees-Thomases, founder of the Million Mom March. “Our Apple Pie Awards have been a way for us moms -- the majority who support common sense gun laws -- to show our appreciation for the courageous votes in Congress for gun safety.” “Congresswoman Nita Lowey was voting to protect our communities from senseless gun violence long before the Million Mom March and now, 15 years later, she continues to be one of the strongest champions in Congress for gun violence prevention. She is a true American hero. The Northern Westchester Chapter of the Million Mom March/Brady Campaign overwhelmingly voted to honor Rep. Lowey with the Apple Pie Award,” Dees-Thomases added. “It's great to recognize our leaders across a broad spectrum — from Capitol Hill to our local stomping grounds — for their service in this important movement,” said Kim Russell, regional organizing manager for Brady Campaign to Prevent Gun Violence. “Events like this show how we all have an important role to play to help reduce injury and death by gun violence. Determined activists like Donna Dees, founder of Million Mom March, and Congresswoman Nita Lowey are proof that we can and will make a difference.” “Congresswoman Lowey understands that gun violence is a public health crisis which is why she has devoted her career to championing gun safety legislation,” said Leah Gunn Barrett, executive director of New Yorkers Against Gun Violence. “She knows that smart gun laws save lives. She is co-sponsoring bills to limit ammunition magazine size, require background checks on all gun sales, regulate internet sales of ammunition and deny firearms to individuals on the terrorist watch list. New York State's strong gun laws are a major reason why New York gun deaths have declined 19 percent from 2003-2013 whereas nationally they have risen 11 percent. New Yorkers Against Gun Violence applauds Congresswoman Lowey's determined efforts to enact common sense federal regulations to keep guns out of dangerous hands. Only when Congress acts will we finally begin to address the nation's appalling gun violence epidemic.” Gun violence prevention and gun control are important issues for the New York City area. Suspects on the terrorist watch list tried to buy guns from licensed dealers 2,233 times between 2004 and 2014, threatening national security. Gang members used Metro-North trains to engage in a gun-running scheme to bring weapons bought in Port Chester into New York City for resale. A four-year-old Westchester girl recently accidentally shot herself in the face with a handgun. In the 114th Congress, Lowey is a cosponsor of: The Large Capacity Ammunition Feeding Device Act (H.R. 752) that would ban the importation, sale, manufacture, transfer, or possession of magazines that hold more than 10 rounds of ammunition; The Stop Online Ammunition Sales Act (H.R. 2283) that would require federally licensed dealers to confirm the identity of individuals who arrange to purchase ammunition over the internet by verifying a photo I.D.; and The Denying Firearms and Explosives to Dangerous Terrorists Act of 2015 (H.R. 1076) that would give the Attorney General the authority block suspects on the terror watch list from purchasing firearms. ###
05.22.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (Westchester/Rockland), Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, released the following statement ahead of the Friday, May 22, 2015, Solidarity Sabbath that joins leaders from North America and Europe to promote religious freedom while sending a strong message against anti-Semitism:“It is an honor to join political leaders from around the world in support of Solidarity Sabbath. I congratulate the Lantos Foundation for Human Rights and Justice for organizing this impressive, international effort to combat anti-Semitism and promote religious freedom. My late colleague, the Honorable Tom Lantos, devoted his life and career to these causes, and it’s critically important that we carry on his work.“The devastating anti-Semitic attacks in Kansas City, Brussels, Paris, and Copenhagen during this past year have made it painfully clear that the scourge of anti-Semitism is as dangerous as ever. The increasing need for security at so many Jewish institutions around the world should serve as a much-needed call to action. The Solidarity Sabbath is an important step in urging all nations to take firmer action to defend Jewish communities and guarantee religious freedom.“I’m proud to take part in this initiative, and I remain fully committed to combating all forms of discrimination wherever they occur. That is why I recently worked with several of my House colleagues to form the Bipartisan Taskforce for Combating Anti-Semitism in the 114th Congress. Our goal is to ensure that Congress continues to play an integral role in denouncing anti-Semitic incidents, evaluating current law enforcement efforts, and promoting Holocaust remembrance and education around the world. “Until we reach our shared goal – the eradication of anti-Semitism – it is imperative that we continue to work across regions, religions, and party lines to combat intolerance and injustice and leave a better world for generations to come.”###
05.22.2015	WHITE PLAINS/NEW CITY, NY – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (Westchester/Rockland), the Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, today released the following statement commemorating Memorial Day on Monday, May 25, 2015:“This Memorial Day, we pause to pay special recognition to the men and women of the Armed Services who gave their lives in defense of this nation, fighting for democracy and freedom. Their acts of valor and heroic efforts protecting American ideals are the highest form of public service.In their honor, we are charged with the care of their families, who continue to make sacrifices each day.”“I am proud to represent more than 25,000 veterans and many more families of service members who answered the call to serve their country. It has been a great honor to have helped more than 2,100 veterans in New York’s 17th Congressional District directly get the services, medals, and benefits they have earned. I will continue to ensure veterans receive the support they deserve, because no veteran should be left behind.”Congresswoman Lowey can help constituents of New York’s 17th Congressional District who are experiencing issues with federal agencies, including the Department of Veterans Affairs. If you or a veteran you know needs help, please contact Lowey’s White Plains District Office (914-428-1707), New City District Office (845-639-3485), or visit her website.###
05.19.2015	Grant Will Support Westhab’s 20 AmeriCorps Members who Tutor At-Risk Children and Help Families Find Housing and JobsWASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (Westchester/Rockland), the Ranking Member on the Appropriations Committee, today announced a $121,917 Corporation for National and Community Service (CNCS) AmeriCorps grant to Westhab, Inc. to support the organization’s 20 AmeriCorps members as they work to help homeless families find housing, to prepare unemployed individuals to find jobs, and improve literacy.“We must do all we can to support those struggling to achieve independence,” said Lowey. “Westhab has an excellent record of improving the quality of life for thousands of families and individuals throughout Westchester County, and I will continue working in Congress to ensure organizations like Westhab have the resources to fulfill their selfless, service-oriented missions.”"The AmeriCorps program has been an absolute blessing for Westhab; infusing our programs with high-quality, inspiring volunteers,” said Westhab President and CEO Richard Nightingale. “We are grateful to the Corporation for National and Community Services, New Yorkers Volunteer, and the AmeriCorps program for the continued partnership. Whether teaching a 2nd grader literacy skills, preparing someone who is unemployed to ace a job interview, or helping a family secure affordable housing, AmeriCorps members make deep, lasting impact on the communities that we serve."Westhab is the largest nonprofit provider of affordable housing and supportive services in Westchester County, NY, and is dedicated to building communities and changing lives.AmeriCorps members are working to improve schools, fight poverty, rebuild after disasters, provide health services, preserve the environment, and support veterans and military families. Since the program’s inception, more than 900,000 men and women have taken the AmeriCorps pledge, serving more than one billion hours and improving the lives of countless Americans. ###
05.18.2015	Fed share of bridge, infrastructure funding could be jeopardized if Congress fails to enact long-term reauthorization of Highway Trust FundLowey: 660,000 jobs, economic growth, and public safety are at stake nationallyDOBBS FERRY, NY– Congresswoman Nita Lowey (Westchester/Rockland), the Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, today was joined by elected, labor, and business representatives to highlight how Congressional failure to enact a long-term reauthorization of the Highway Trust Fund, which is set to expire May 31, would adversely impact the Ashford Avenue Bridge construction project in Dobbs Ferry and thousands of transportation projects throughout the country.“Making improvements to the transportation networks families and local businesses depend on every day should be common sense,” said Lowey. “Jobs, economic growth, and public safety are at stake, but, unfortunately, there’s no plan to permanently reauthorize the Highway Trust Fund, which set to expire at the end of the month. I’m urging Congress to immediately pass a long-term Highway Trust Fund reauthorization, so that federal funding for local construction projects like the Ashford Avenue Bridge is not jeopardized. As Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee, I vow to fight for critical investments in our nation’s crumbling infrastructure.”Lowey is calling for a long-term reauthorization of the Highway Trust Fund, which is the primary funding source for state, local, and national projects across the country. Failure to enact a long-term reauthorization by the end of the month means federal funds would stop flowing to states in the middle of construction season. According to the American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials, 660,000 good paying construction jobs are at risk, and uncertainty is cast on 6,000 critical construction projects across the country.The federal government has allocated approximately $5 million for the Ashford Avenue Bridge, which is in the final stages of contracting approval. Expiration of the Highway Trust Fund on May 31, 2015, would terminate New York’s contract authority, meaning the state could not receive the funding that has already been set aside for the bridge. Without these federal funds, local taxpayers would be on the hook for construction costs.The Ashford Avenue Bridge goes over the Saw Mill River Parkway and New York State Thruway, connecting Dobbs Ferry to Ardsley in Westchester County. The construction project consists of removing and replacing the existing bridge deck and bearings, replacing a traffic signal, repairing and strengthening wing walls, piers, and abutments, and repainting the steel superstructure.Local officials, business representatives, and labor leaders joined Lowey in calling for adequate transportation investments to end the perpetual cycle of uncertainty that prevents states and businesses from planning and budgeting effectively."The Ashford Avenue Bridge brings thousands of my and Congresswoman Lowey’s constituents between Ardsley and Dobbs Ferry every day. It is literally a concrete example of the critical infrastructure projects that will be jeopardized if Congress fails to extend the government’s ability to finance transportation projects, which expires on May 31st," said Congressman Eliot Engel, a senior member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee. "We can no longer afford to ignore the problem of our country's crumbling infrastructure. We must enact a long-term surface transportation measure before projects are halted, jobs are lost and – most importantly – our constituents’ safety is put at risk." "I applaud Congresswoman Lowey's leadership on public works projects and in meeting the needs of our community,” Assemblyman Tom Abinanti. “Improving our infrastructure not only creates a bridge from one side of the river to the other but also a bridge to a better future."“The Ashford Avenue Bridge is Westchester County's poster child for crumbling infrastructure, and has been for several years,” said Westchester County Legislator Maryjane Shimsky. “I salute Congresswoman Lowey and her many colleagues who understand that this country's economy cannot long survive without a major infusion of funds into our transportation infrastructure. I call on her less rational colleagues to do the right thing and fully fund the Highway Trust Fund forthwith.”“The businesses that fuel our area’s economy risk becoming less competitive if our transportation infrastructure falls by the wayside,” said Westchester County Association President Marissa Brett. “Upgrading our roads and bridges improves safety, creates jobs, and boosts the customer base for local businesses, creating an attractive environment for investing in Westchester County. I’m grateful for Congresswoman Lowey’s efforts to seek a long-term reauthorization of the Highway Trust Fund.”“We applaud Congresswoman Lowey’s efforts on this important matter for New York State,” said John Ravitz, Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer of The Business Council of Westchester. Providing a strong infrastructure is vital to continue to bring economic development to Westchester County.”“First and foremost, it is essential that the Congress creates a predictable, multi-year funding program so that our New York State Department of Transportation and the MTA can plan capital improvements to maintain and improve the state’s aging and overtaxed transportation resources,” said George Drapeau, Director of Public Affairs for the Construction Industry Council of Westchester & Hudson Valley, Inc. “Major long-term highway, bridge and commuter transit projects require more than one year to design and construct. We support a six-year reauthorization of our national transportation bill along with rational formula distributions that put money where the need is.”In addition to urging a long-term reauthorization of the Highway Trust Fund, Lowey believes that investing in roads, bridges, broadband lines, water and sewage treatment facilities, and power grids is critical to creating jobs as well as repairing aging infrastructure networks. To this end, Lowey:Supports creating a National Infrastructure Bank, which would provide loans and bonds to finance the rehabilitation and rebuilding of critical infrastructure assets;Helped secure federal funding to widen and repair local roads and highways like Short Clove Road in Haverstraw and the Route 120 Bridge in Chappaqua; andHelped secure federal funding to construct and consolidate the fresh water supply for the Villages of Briarcliff Manor, Tarrytown, and Sleepy Hollow.###
05.14.2015	National Endowment for the Arts grants to support an art exhibit, documentary film, and interactive community projectWHITE PLAINS, NY – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (Westchester/Rockland), Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, today announced $75,000 in federal grants from the National Endowment for the Arts (NEA) to three arts organizations in Westchester County. Westchester Arts Council, Inc. (ArtsWestchester) of White Plains will receive $35,000; Hudson West Productions, Inc. of Croton-On-Hudson will receive $20,000; and Hudson Valley Center for Contemporary Art (HVCCA) of Peekskill will receive $20,000.“The arts are an important part of our regional identity,” said Lowey. “I’m pleased these federal investments will allow local artists to tell amazing stories that enrich the Lower Hudson Valley. As Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee, I will continue to support funding for the National Endowment for the Arts.”ArtsWestchester will use the $35,000 grant to support an exhibition called “SHE: Deconstructing Female Identity,” which will feature new and commissioned work created by Westchester and Hudson Valley regional artists who address ideas of gender and femininity in the 21st century. The selected works will transform everyday objects associated with traditional notions of femininity, and showcase emerging artists alongside those with established careers.“I think one of the things ArtsWestchester does well is support individual artists,” saidArtsWestchester Deputy Director of Programs and Policy Joann Mongelli. “This kind of grant allows us provide honorariums and commissions to artists as well as to bring their work to a broader public. We are exceedingly grateful. We think the arts are important and the work the NEA does to fund not only major institutions but arts projects throughout the country is critically important.”Hudson West Productions will use its $20,000 grant to support production and post-production costs for a documentary film by Dave Davidson. Intended for broadcast on public television, the film will explore the determination of singer-songwriter and poet Rob Morsberger to complete his life's work after a diagnosis of terminal brain cancer. The catalogue of contemporary music written by Morsberger will be incorporated into the film.Hudson Valley Center for Contemporary Art will use its $20,000grant is for a specific ongoing interactive project by artist Lana Yu of Peekskill. The project asks people in the community what matters to them. Yu sees it as a way for people to take a break and think about what’s really important in life. The initial phase resulted in a mural on the Park Street parking garage in Peekskill.“This grant is a vote of confidence from the government. It is a statement that people can see why arts contribute to the community, that they make a community successful in many ways,” said HVCCA Co-Founder and Director Livia Straus. “This is a statement from the government that ‘we know what you are doing is important.’ ”Congresswoman Lowey has been stalwart in her defense of the National Endowment for the Arts (NEA) and served on the prestigious National Council for the Arts in recognition of her leadership. Each year, Lowey celebrates local artistic talent through the Congressional Art Competition, a nationwide high school visual art competition to recognize and encourage artistic talent in the nation and in each congressional district.###
05.13.2015	Despite a long history of safety lapses, Indian Point has been provided with exemptions for certain fire safety standards Lowey demands NRC provide detailed list and justifications for all Indian Point safety exemptions WASHINGTON, DC– Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (Westchester/Rockland), the Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, today called on the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) to conduct an investigation of the Indian Point Energy Center and release information pertaining to fire safety exemptions that have been provided. “The long list of concerns at Indian Point weighs heavily on the minds of families and businesses in the Lower Hudson Valley,” said Lowey. “The Nuclear Regulatory Commission must conduct its own thorough investigation into the factors that led to the most recent fire, and release details of safety exemptions provided to Indian Point. It is vital that everything be done to ensure the safety of the surrounding area.” Lowey is submitting a letter to NRC calling for a thorough investigation of the most recent transformer fire at Indian Point on the evening of Saturday, May 9, 2015, that caused a shutdown of one of the facility’s reactors. The letter also points out Indian Point’s history of safety lapses, which now includes three transformer fires. NRC has granted exemptions to Indian Point for certain fire safety standards, and Lowey’s letter asks NRC to provide a detailed list and justifications for all safety exemptions provided to Indian Point. In addition, Lowey has called on NRC to not renew Indian Point's license for their reactors, and recently re-introduced two pieces of legislation that would: Require NRC to award grants for emergency preparedness when the agency collects safety-related fines from nuclear facilities. Require the NRC to evaluate aging power plants to be re-licensed with the same stringent criteria used to license new plants. The full letter is available below: May 13, 2015 Stephen G. Burns Chairman Nuclear Regulatory Commission 11555 Rockville Pike Rockville, MD 20852 Dear Chairman Burns, As you may be aware, on May 9 a transformer caught fire at the Indian Point Energy Center in Buchanan, NY, causing the shutdown of one of Indian Point’s reactors. Entergy, the plant’s operator, issued a Notification of an Unusual Event, which is the lowest emergency classification, to the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC). This is merely the latest in a long history of safety lapses. Some of the most egregious examples include: In 2000, a leak in a steam generator released radiation and officials forced Con Edison, the previous operator, to shut down the reactor and declare an alert. Con Edison had knowledge that the steam generator leaked radiation for several weeks but did not take corrective action. In April 2003, a fire broke out in the main turbine of the non-nuclear area of the plant within hours of a power failure and caused the shutdown of both reactors. In December 2003, the NRC reported that Indian Point had three times as many unplanned shutdowns in a 12-month period as any other plan in the nation. The report cited insufficient quality control and poor contractor oversight. In April 2007, the NRC downgraded the safety assessment of Indian Point 3 after a transformer fire forced the second shutdown in a one week period and the fourth in a one year period. In August 2007, new sirens repeatedly failed to sound during tests. The following year, a report by outside experts hired by Entergy stated that the “entire siren upgrade program was not conducted with the rigor demanded of a regulatory-driven major nuclear plant project.” In November 2010, a transformer at Indian Point 2 exploded, causing a fire and automatic shutdown of the reactor. Despite these problems, which now include three transformer fires, the NRC has provided Indian Point with exemptions for certain fire safety standards. I implore the NRC to work with its relevant partners to conduct a thorough investigation to study the factors that led to the May 9 fire and the safety risks the fire created, including environmental health impacts, as well as provide a detailed list and justification for all safety exemptions the NRC has provided Indian Point. As the NRC considers relicensing both Indian Point reactors, it is vital that everything possible be done to ensure the safety of the surrounding area. Sincerely, Nita M. Lowey Member of Congress ###
05.13.2015	Amendment would increase funding for grade crossing improvements at dangerous intersectionsLocal crashes and near misses underscore need for Lowey measureWASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (Westchester/Rockland), Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, today successfully included an amendment during the FY2016 Transportation, Housing, and Urban Development appropriations bill markup that would increase federal funding for grade crossing improvements.“Fatal crashes and near misses in recent months make clear we simply aren’t doing enough to protect travelers at dangerous railroad crossings,” said Lowey. “With more than 250,000 public and private grade crossings around the country, we must tackle this important safety challenge with all means available. As Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee, I will continue fighting to protect and increase funding for rail crossing safety initiatives so we can avoid fatal accidents.”Lowey’s amendment would increase the set-aside for grade crossing improvements included in the Highway Safety Improvement Program from $220 million to $350 million. If signed into law, state highway departments would have additional resources to make upgrades and safety improvements at dangerous crossings.Since the fatal Metro-North crash in Valhalla on February 3, 2015, Lowey has led a moment of silence on the House floor to honor the victims, and has been working with federal officials to find solutions to what has become a recurring issue in New York’s 17th Congressional District and nationwide. Lowey has:Asked Federal Railroad Administration (FRA) Acting Administrator Sarah Feinberg about effective approaches to increasing safety during a House Appropriations Committee hearing on March 25, 2015;Co-sponsored HR 705, which passed the House on March 4, 2015 as part of the Passenger Rail Reform and Investment Act (PRRIA), to improve grade crossing safety; andSpoken with NTSB Board Member Robert Sumwalt on February 4, 2015, about exploring investments in new technologies to detect objects on tracks.###
05.12.2015	Croton-on-Hudson student to travel to Washington, DC, meet with Congresswoman Lowey, and have art displayed in U.S. CapitolWASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (Westchester/Rockland), the Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, announced that Emma Cheshire, a junior at Croton-Harmon High School in Croton-on-Hudson, NY, is the winner of the 2015 Congressional Art Competition for New York’s 17th Congressional District. Emma’s piece, “Hand Shadow,” was judged to be first of 21 entries.“I congratulate Emma on winning this year’s Congressional Art Competition,” said Lowey. “New York’s 17th Congressional District will be well represented in Washington, DC, by her outstanding artwork on display in the United States Capitol, where millions of visitors will be able to see it.”“The Croton-Harmon School District and Croton Community couldn’t be more proud and excited for Emma. Her portrait is a wonderful representation of her amazing technical ability, creative spirit and dedication to her art,” said Croton-Harmon Art Teacher Jodi Burger. “We appreciate the efforts of Congresswoman Nita Lowey’s office in recognizing high school artists, and join in celebrating Emma, whose commitment to the field of visual arts has been evident throughout her time in the Croton schools. She is a gem!”Heeyeon Kim, a Harrison resident and junior at Harrison High School, came in second place for her painting entitled “On the Edge of Opportunity;” Alice Luo, New City resident and sophomore at Clarkstown High School South, came in third for her “Brooklyn Bridge” drawing; and Barbara Letizia, a New City resident and junior at Clarkstown High School South, received an honorable mention for her piece “Building of Boroughs.”“Our region is fortunate to be home to so many excellent young artists,” said Lowey. “I’m proud of Heeyeon, Alice, Barbara, and all of the participants in this year’s Congressional Art Competition. Their artistic talents are excellent contributions to the Lower Hudson Valley’s cultural identity.”The Congressional Art Competition is a nationwide high school visual art competition to recognize and encourage artistic talent in the nation and in each congressional district. Each spring, students submit entries to their representative’s office, and panels of district artists select the winning entries. Winners are recognized both in their district and at an annual awards ceremony in June in Washington, DC. The winning works are displayed for one year at the U.S. Capitol.The awards ceremony was held at the Nanuet Public Library on Monday, April 27, 2015. The three judges who chose the winners were Daly Flanagan, Art School Director at Rockland Center for the Arts; Carol Perry, Executive Artistic Director at the Edward Hopper House, and Karen Edelmann, Visual Artist & Adjunct Professor at St. Thomas Aquinas College.In addition to promoting arts through the annual Congressional Art Competition, Congresswoman Lowey has been stalwart in her defense of the National Endowment for the Arts (NEA) and served on the prestigious National Council for the Arts in recognition of her leadership.###
05.10.2015	Transformer explosion highlights nuclear facility's extreme danger to one of the most densely-populated areas of the planetLowey urges NRC to reject re-licensing of Indian Point reactorsLowey legislation would create an emergency preparedness grant program and stringent criteria for re-licensing old plantsBUCHANAN, NY - Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (Westchester/Rockland), the Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, released the following statement on the transformer explosion at the Indian Point Nuclear Facility (Indian Point) on Saturday, May 9, 2015, and announced measures she is pursuing to ensure safety of nuclear facilities.“This latest episode proves that Indian Point remains a serious threat to public health and safety,” said Lowey. “We are extremely fortunate that a catastrophic scenario did not unfold, and I urge officials to conduct a swift and thorough investigation. I remain deeply skeptical that Indian Point's continued operation is in the best interests of families and businesses in our densely-populated region. As Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee, I will continue working to help prevent a worst case scenario for the Lower Hudson Valley and New York City metro area.”Lowey is once again calling on the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) to not renew Indian Point's license for their reactors. Lowey recently re-introduced two pieces of legislation. The first would require NRC to award grants for emergency preparedness when the agency collects safety-related fines from nuclear facilities. The second is the Nuclear Power Licensing Reform Act, which would require the NRC to evaluate aging power plants to be re-licensed with the same stringent criteria used to license new plants. In particular, this bill would:Ensure a nuclear facility not pose an unreasonable threat to persons or the environment, including vulnerability to terrorist attacks;Require adequate evacuation plans for emergency events with approval from Federal agencies and states within 50 miles of the facility;Require that any re-licensing be subject to the same stringent criteria that would be used in an original application for initial construction; andInstruct the NRC to determine whether changes in the size or distribution of the surrounding population have resulted in the facility utilizing a site on which a new facility would not be allowed.Lowey has repeatedly cautioned about the dangers the Indian Point facilities pose to families, businesses, and the environment in the New York City metro area. To address safety concerns, Lowey has:Called on NRC to not consider re-licensing Indian Point reactors 2 and 3 in 2013 and 2015 after NRC ranked Indian Point as the nation's most at-risk facility from earthquake failure;Pushed for additional congressional hearings on the re-licensing of nuclear facilities;Urged NRC to evaluate all possible threats, including terrorism and natural disasters, as well as safety and evacuation procedures in determining the re-licensing of the Indian Point;Brought then-NRC Chairman Gregory Jaczko for a tour of the Indian Point facility in May 2011 to highlight the need for improved safety;Introduced legislation to require NRC to award grants for emergency preparedness when it collects safety related fines from plants; andSent a letter to the NRC Chairman calling for expanded NRC evacuation plan requirements to include areas within 50 miles of a nuclear facility, which would be evacuated in the event of a Fukushima-level nuclear emergency.###
05.07.2015	WASHINGTON, DC– Congresswoman Nita Lowey (Westchester/Rockland), the Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, released the following statement on Senate passage of the Iran Nuclear Agreement Review Act:“I am pleased the Senate passed the Iran Nuclear Agreement Review Act. I look forward to working with my colleagues to quickly pass the measure in the House and send it to the President’s desk. Congress has, and must continue to play, an indispensable oversight role so that we can be assured any final deal permanently and verifiably prevents Iran from obtaining nuclear weapons.”###
05.07.2015	WASHINGTON, DC– Congresswoman Nita Lowey (Westchester/Rockland), the Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, released the following statement on the formation of the new Israeli government:“I congratulate Prime Minister Netanyahu on his successful formation of a new coalition. I look forward to working with the new Israeli government to advance our common interests and protect our shared security needs.“As the Ranking Member of the Appropriations Subcommittee on State and Foreign Operations, I will continue to do everything in my power to make sure Israel continues to receive our support and to strengthen the steadfast relationship between our two great countries.”###
05.07.2015	WHITE PLAINS/NEW CITY, NY– Congresswoman Nita Lowey (Westchester/Rockland), the Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, has nominated 28 Westchester and Rockland County high school seniors and recent graduates for admission to the nation’s Service Academies: the U.S. Military Academy (West Point), U.S. Naval Academy, U.S. Air Force Academy, and the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy. “There is no greater public service than defending the American way of life, and I’m proud of these promising young men and women from New York’s 17th Congressional District for answering that call,” said Lowey. The students were honored by Lowey and local veterans at the Congresswoman’s annual Recognition Ceremony in the presence of their families and loved ones. A photo of the nominees with Congresswoman Lowey can be found here (photo IDs can be found the end of this release). Lowey made the nominations in December 2014 in consultation with her Service Academy Review Board, a non-partisan committee comprised of veterans, educators, and community leaders from Westchester and Rockland Counties. A full list of the nominees, including their high schools and the Service Academy or Academies to which they were nominated, is below: WESTCHESTER COUNTY: Armonk Nicholas Cioffoletti, Byram Hills High School, currently attends Texas A&M, nominated to the United States Military Academy Briarcliff Manor Frank Medici, Hackley School, nominated to the United States Military Academy Chappaqua Douglas Alpuche, Hackley School, nominated to the United States Naval Academy Cortlandt Manor Nicholas Anapol, Hendrick Hudson High School, nominated to the United States Air Force Academy Croton-on-Hudson Shannon McKeon, The Ursuline School, nominated to the United States Naval Academy Elmsford Peter Elmlinger, Fordham Preparatory School, nominated to the United States Military Academy Hartsdale Robert Bellantoni, Iona Preparatory School, nominated to the United States Naval Academy Spencer Balson, Solomon Schechter School of Westchester, nominated to the United States Merchant Marine Academy Hawthorne Gahyun (Helen) You, Westlake High School, nominated to the United States Military Academy Irvington Edward Natkin, Regis High School, nominated to the United States Naval Academy Mohegan Lake Isabel Perry, Yorktown High School, nominated to the United States Military Academy Sydney Katz, Yorktown High School, nominated to the United States Air Force Academy Shrub Oak James Schwerner, Lakeland High School, nominated to the United States Air Force Academy White Plains Matthew Desjardin, Archbishop High School, nominated to the United States Naval Academy Nick Wadden, White Plains High School, nominated to the United States Merchant Marine Academy ROCKLAND COUNTY: Chestnut Ridge: Marie Guerrero, Paramus Catholic High School, nominated to the United States Air Force Academy Congers Meaghan McGovern, Clarkstown Senior North High School, nominated to the United States Military Academy and the United States Air Force Academy Garnerville Adam Lee, North Rockland High School, nominated to the United States Naval Academy Randill De Asis, North Rockland High School, nominated to the United States Air Force Academy New City Marshad Huq, Clarkstown High School North, nominated to the United States Naval Academy Nyack India June, Dwight-Englewood School, nominated to the United States Naval Academy Pearl River Domenic Fortino, Pearl River High School, nominated to the United States Military Academy Spring Valley Brandon Hernandez, Paramus Catholic High School, currently attends U.S. Military Academy Prep School, nominated to the United States Military Academy Suffern Jonathan Feingold, Suffern High School, nominated to the United States Naval Academy Valley Cottage Andie O’Sullivan, Nyack High School, nominated to the United States Naval Academy West Haverstraw Michael Mercado, North Rockland High School, nominated to the United States Merchant Marine Academy West Nyack Kevin Klassen, Clarkstown High School South, nominated to the United States Military Academy and the United States Air Force Academy John Kelly, Clarkstown South High School, currently attending Valley Forge Prep School, nominated to the United States Military Academy Photo IDs: Back Row (L-R): Marshad Huq, Meaghan McGovern, Nick Cioffoletti, Nicholas Anapol, James Schwerner, Shannon McKeon, Marie Guerrero, Jonathan Feingold, Randill De Asis. Front Row (L-R): Edward Natkin, Robert Bellantoni, Peter Elminger, Congresswoman Nita Lowey, Doug Alpuche, Frank Medici, Sydney Katz, Michael Mercado, Adam Lee. Photo Credit: Office of Congresswoman Nita Lowey. ###
05.06.2015	Loan for positive train control technology will help MTA avoid tragic accidents that have plagued the commuter rail systemFinal approval comes after Lowey called for positive train control following December 2013 Metro North accidentWHITE PLAINS, NY– Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (Westchester/Rockland), the Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, today announced that the Federal Railroad Administration has given final approval of the New York Metropolitan Transit Authority’s (MTA) application for a $967 million loan to install positive train control (PTC) technology for Long Island Railroad and Metro-North Commuter Railroad. This loan will allow MTA to install life-saving safety improvements on commuter rail lines. “Final approval of this loan helps put us on track to ensuring we avoid the tragic accidents that have plagued our commuter rail system,” said Lowey. “I’m pleased MTA finally has the resources it needs to utilize this life-saving technology, and I urge expeditious implementation to guarantee safety for riders. As Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee, I will continue working with federal, state, and local officials to ensure rail safety.”The loan application was given final approval by the Federal Railroad Administration's (FRA) Railroad Rehabilitation and Improvement Financing Program (RRIF) program. Under this program, the loan funding can be used to acquire, improve, or rehabilitate intermodal or rail equipment or facilities, including track, components of track, bridges, yards, buildings and shops; refinance outstanding debt incurred for the purposes listed above; and develop or establish new intermodal or railroad facilities.Direct loans can fund up to 100% of a railroad project with repayment periods of up to 35 years and interest rates equal to the cost of borrowing from the government. Eligible borrowers include railroads, state and local governments, government-sponsored authorities and corporations, joint ventures that include at least one railroad, and limited option freight shippers who intend to construct a new rail connection.By law, railroads are expected to implement PTC systems, which prevent collisions and derailments by ensuring that trains are not travelling at excessive speeds, by December 31, 2015. In the aftermath of the December 1, 2013, Metro-North crash, the Federal Railroad Administration launched a “Deep Dive” safety assessment of Metro-North's operations. In a January 2014 spending bill, Lowey required DOT to release its report to Congress, which highlighted deficiencies in Metro-North's safety protocols and training.As Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee, Lowey has also repeatedly highlighted the need for additional funding for PTC installation, raising the issue with her colleagues on the Committee during hearings and markups and with U.S. DOT Secretary Foxx. During the markup of the FY 2015 Transportation, Housing and Urban Development (THUD) bill, she offered an amendment in support of the President’s budget request to include $825 million in the bill to help with positive train control implementation.###
05.06.2015	Legislation would also require federal agencies to establish a national standard for the maximum volatility of crude oil shipped by railOne week after new tank car safety rules released, crude oil train derails in North Dakota, forcing town to evacuateLowey says rules not enough, introduces bill to stop rail transport of highly volatile crudeWEST NYACK, NY – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (Westchester/Rockland), Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, today was joined by local elected officials, law enforcement, and environmental leaders to announce new legislation in the U.S. House of Representatives that would immediately ban interstate shipment of high-volatility crude oil via rail, and direct federal agencies to set a national standard for crude volatility when shipped on the nation’s rail networks.“No one should have to live with dangerously explosive materials rumbling through their back yards,” said Lowey. “Progress is being made on the safe transport of crude oil, but we need to act faster to guarantee the security of Americans – including my constituents in Rockland County – who live near America’s extensive railways. My proposal would immediately ban interstate shipment of the most volatile forms of crude oil so that we can prevent the next tragic crude oil event.”Lowey’s legislation would immediately prohibit the interstate rail shipment of crude oil with an average Reid Vapor Pressure volatility level greater than 8.5 pounds per square inch (psi). Reid Vapor Pressure (RVP) is a common measurement of how quickly a liquid fuel evaporates and emits gasses, and a higher number means a more combustible liquid fuel. Bakken crude has an RVP of 8.56 psi or higher, compared to the lower volatilities of Eagle Ford Shale (8 psi), Brent (6.17 psi), and Basrah Light (4.8 psi), among other oil varieties.Upwards of 80 rail tank cars carry the highly-volatile form of crude oil through Rockland County each day, endangering homes, schools, and businesses near the tracks.Lowey’s bill would permit rail shipments of Bakken crude that has been treated to make it less volatile and would also direct the U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT), in consultation with the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE), to establish a national standard for the maximum volatility of crude to be shipped by rail. Only crude oil below that standard could be shipped."CSX trains with 100 tanker cars loaded with highly volatile Bakken crude oil pass within 100 feet of Lake DeForest, Rockland's sole reservoir, threatening our water supply," said Rockland County Legislator Harriet Cornell. "I thank Congresswoman Lowey for introducing this federal legislation that would make crude oil less volatile before being put into freight rail tank cars. Crude oil that is transported by pipeline is stabilized to reduce volatility, but that process is not currently required for rail transport--and that is an unacceptable hazard."“We applaud Congresswoman Lowey for taking a bold stand on this critical issue and call on the rest of our congressional delegation to support her on this important bill,” said Riverkeeper President Paul Gallay. “The National Transportation Safety Board says that the accidents involving crude oil shipments are going to continue at a rate of five to 15 derailments a year, with potentially fatal consequences. We must do everything we can to prevent such disasters and Congresswoman Lowey’s bill would be a big step in the right direction.”“The dramatic increase in the volume of crude oil being transported down the Hudson River makes our communities and natural resources far more vulnerable to serious accidents. A crude oil spill into the Hudson River would be catastrophic for the public health and environment of our region,” said Scenic Hudson Environmental Advocacy Attorney Hayley Carlock. “The rule announced by the U.S. Department of Transportation last week fails to protect our communities and the Hudson River. We must get deficient tank cars off the tracks as quickly as possible.” Lowey has been taking action to prevent the next crude oil rail accident. She is an original co-sponsor of theCrude-by-Rail Safety Act that would authorize $40 million for first responder training programs, establish grants for local communities to update emergency response plans, and improve emergency notification procedures.The National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB) recently announced recommendations after Lowey sent letters to U.S. Department of Transportation Secretary Foxx and President Obama urging stronger regulations for crude oil transport. Lowey also passed provisions encouraging more expeditious implementation of stricter rules, and her actions today follow DOT’s recent issuance of a final rule for stronger crude oil transport regulations.To improve rail safety locally, Lowey has:Secured funding for the construction of the overpass at the dangerous railroad crossing at Short Clove Road in Haverstraw,Obtained federal funds for Quiet Zones in Rockland County, andFought for increased investments in the nation's crumbling infrastructure, including better maintenance and upkeep of rail networks. ###
05.05.2015	Campus Accountability and Safety Act and increased funding for programs throughout the federal government would support survivors and prevent sexual crimesPLEASANTVILLE, NY– Congresswoman Nita Lowey (Westchester/Rockland), the Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, today – during a roundtable discussion with New York Lt. Governor Kathy Hochul and Pace University administrators and students on Governor Andrew Cuomo’s "Enough is Enough" campaign – announced actions she is taking at the federal level to prevent sexual assault among college students.“No student should have to fear sexual assault on a college campus,” said Lowey, “and parents deserve peace of mind that children away at college are as safe as possible. We must work together to make sure that institutions of higher learning have the resources to protect students. I’m proud to join Lt. Governor Hochul in supporting the Governor’s ‘Enough is Enough’ campaign and, as Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee, I will continue working at the federal level to ensure that students have the ability to study in safe environments.”During the roundtable, Lowey announced that she will cosponsor the Campus Accountability and Safety Act (CASA) in the U.S House of Representatives. This bill seeks to empower students by providing Confidential Advisors in the event of a sexual assault, to give students and administrators more information by requiring biennial surveys of sexual assaults on campus, and to improve training for campus personnel. It would also create a new competitive grant program to improve prevention and response.Additionally, as Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee, Lowey will fight to increase resources for federal initiatives to support survivors and prevent sexual crimes, such as the Campus Violence program within the Department of Justice, Department of Education investigations into crimes on and near college campuses, and the National Institutes of Health, which just two weeks ago announced a $150,000 grant for a White Plains-based research project to test innovative strategies to prevent sexual violence on college campuses.Congresswoman Lowey believes citizens have the basic right to live in communities free from fear and violence. In addition to helping prevent sexual violence on college campuses, she is working to:Advance commonsense gun safety initiatives;Protect children from predators;Eliminate drunk driving; andEnsure law enforcement officers, firefighters, and EMTs are trained and equipped to keep our community safe.###
05.04.2015	FEMA Assistance to Firefighters Grant will be used to purchase new cardiac monitors and compression devicesGREENBURGH, NY – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (Westchester/Rockland), Ranking Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, today announced a $277,273 grant from the Federal Emergency Management Agency’s (FEMA) Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) program to the Greenburgh Police Department Emergency Medical Services (EMS) to replace the department’s cardiac monitors and defibrillators.“We must do all we can to support EMS personnel so they can save lives,” said Lowey. “I’m pleased the Greenburgh Police Department will use this federal investment to upgrade their EMS equipment. As Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee, I will continue fighting for increased funding that improves the performance of our emergency responders.”"We will replace our old cardiac monitors/defibrillators with new ones, which will bring us above the standard of care. We are also purchasing four Lucas compression devices which will increase CPR survival rates up to 73 percent, because the machine applies even pressure while the human arm fatigues," saidJared Rosenberg, Paramedic Supervisor of the Greenburgh Police DepartmentThe Greenburgh Police Department has 122 police officers, all of whom have received certification to provide basic first aid and cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR), regardless of rank or position. The department currently has 23 certified Paramedics and 19 Emergency Medical Technicians (EMT). The Department has been providing medical treatment/transport since the early 1950s.AFG is a program of the Department of Homeland Security (DHS), Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), and an important component of the larger, coordinated effort to strengthen the nation’s overall level of preparedness and ability to respond to fire and related hazards. AFG grants are awarded directly to fire departments and non-affiliated Emergency Medical Services (EMS) organizations to enhance their ability to protect the health and safety of the public, as well as that of first-responder personnel.Throughout her career, Lowey has fought to ensure law enforcement officers, firefighters, EMT, and similar organizations are trained and equipped to keep our community safe. To this end, she has:Helped secure more than $77 million in federal security funds for first responders in Westchester and Rockland counties;Created a grant program to improve interoperability of first responder communications systems; andWorked to increase security of transportation networks such as airports, railways, nuclear facilities, and ports in the greater New York City area and throughout the country.###
05.04.2015	Grant will help Peekskill organization provide quality care to 400 HIV patientsPEEKSKILL, NY – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (Westchester/Rockland), Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, today announced a $925,975 Health Resources and Services Administration (HRSA) Ryan White HIV/AIDS Program grant to Hudson River HealthCare, Inc. (HRHC) of Peekskill to provide quality care to people living with Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV).“We have made great strides in combating HIV, but much more must be done” said Lowey. “This grant will allow Hudson River HealthCare to offer early intervention and quality health care for people living with HIV. I’m pleased this local organization will be able to help those in need and, as Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee, I will continue to fight for investments that help patients live longer and healthier lives.”The Ryan White program grants seek to assist people living with HIV by supporting primary medical care and essential support services. The program helps an estimated 536,000 people nationally each year.“The amount initially was small but we’ve grown and now cover a 10-county region with more than 400 people in the HIV program, so the awards have increased. We are very proud to say that we had our performance review from HRSA recently and met 19 of the 19 standards. This money allows us to provide the highest quality of care to HIV patients and their families, including early intervention, outreach, peer support, primary care services, care management, strong nursing support and a family approach,” said Anne Nolon, President and CEO of Hudson River HealthCare. The Ryan White HIV/AIDS Program, first authorized in 1990, is funded at $2.32 billion in fiscal year 2015. The Program is administered by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS), Health Resources and Services Administration (HRSA), HIV/AIDS Bureau (HAB).###
05.01.2015	Upwards of 80 rail cars carrying dangerous crude oil through Rockland County each day put families, schools, and businesses at riskSafety rule finalized after Lowey urged Transportation Department and President Obama to act on stronger regulations for crude oil transportRanking House Appropriator passed provisions encouraging more expeditious implementation of stricter rules, today passed measure to reduce crude volatilityWASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (Westchester/Rockland), the Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, today applauded the issuance of a final rule for stronger crude oil transport regulations. The rule issued today by the U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) would require enhanced design standards and braking systems for new and existing tank cars, updated operating speed limitations, and thorough analysis of risks associated with the routing of crude trains.“These rules are encouraging steps, but if you live, work, or send your child to a school near railways on which these antiquated tank cars travel, they do little to ease your mind", said Lowey. "The timeline is too long, the speeds too fast, and the information-sharing requirements too lax to guarantee the level of safety that residents – like my constituents in Rockland – expect.” Details about the final rule can be found on the DOT website.As the Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee, Lowey included language in the FY15 Transportation, Housing, and Urban Development spending bill urging DOT to have a final rule on tank car standards as soon as possible. In addition to efforts to finalize this rule, she included language in the FY16 Department of Energy (DOE) spending bill, passed in the House of Representatives today, directing DOE to examine methods to reduce the volatility of crude oil prior to shipment.In April 2014, Lowey sent a letter to President Obama urging him to direct all federal agencies responsible for the oversight of crude oil transport to make more expansive use of their emergency authority in order to immediately mitigate the dangers that crude oil transport poses to communities across the country. In February 2014, Lowey and Rep. Paul Tonko (D-NY) penned a letter to DOT asking the agency to strengthen and enforce safety standards for the transport of crude oil by rail following a derailment that same month of a locomotive hauling 97 empty oil tankers near Kingston, New York, after passing through Rockland County, and a December 2013 freight train collision with a truck at a crossing near West Nyack.To improve rail safety locally, Lowey secured funding for an overpass at a dangerous railroad crossing at Short Clove Road in Haverstraw, obtained federal funds for Quiet Zones in Rockland County, and helped secure funding to widen and repair local roads and bridges like the Route 120 Bridge in Chappaqua in Westchester County.Lowey applauded a July 2014 announcement by DOT that it will embark on a comprehensive rulemaking process to help ensure the safety of rail cars that transport energy products.Lowey has been fighting for increased investments in the country’s crumbling infrastructure – including better maintenance and upkeep of rail networks – in her role as Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee. ###
04.24.2015	Grant will be used for mechanical CPR devices to perform cardiac compressions, allowing staff to focus on other lifesaving techniquesVALHALLA, NY – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (Westchester/Rockland), Ranking Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, today announced a $29,080 grant from the Federal Emergency Management Agency’s (FEMA) Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) program to the Valhalla Volunteer Ambulance Corps for two mechanical CPR devices.“Having the right equipment aboard ambulances can mean the difference between life and death,” said Lowey. “This federal grant will allow Valhalla Volunteer Ambulance Corps staff to perform multiple lifesaving techniques during emergencies. We must ensure our first responders have the equipment necessary to perform their critical public service. As Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, I will continue protecting investments that improve the ability of emergency personnel to save lives.”Valhalla Volunteer Ambulance Corps will use the grant to acquire two mechanical CPR devices – one for each of its ambulances – that perform cardiac compressions, allowing the ambulance staff to perform other lifesaving techniques. In 2014, the Corps received more than 700 calls."We are pleased to be the recipient of this lifesaving equipment," said Valhalla Volunteer Ambulance Corps Captain Steven Marello.AFG is a program of the Department of Homeland Security (DHS), Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), and an important component of the larger, coordinated effort to strengthen the nation’s overall level of preparedness and ability to respond to fire and related hazards. AFG grants are awarded directly to fire departments and non-affiliated Emergency Medical Services organizations (EMS) to enhance their ability to protect the health and safety of the public, as well as that of first-responder personnel.Throughout her career, Lowey has fought to ensure law enforcement officers, firefighters, EMT, and similar organizations are trained and equipped to keep our community safe. To this end, she has:Helped secure more than $77 million in federal security funds for first responders in Westchester and Rockland Counties;Led efforts in Congress to ensure federal FEMA and Homeland Security Grants are distributed on the basis of risk to ensure high-risk areas like New York are not short-changed;Created a grant program to improve interoperability of first responder communications systems; andWorked to increase security of transportation networks such as airports, railways, nuclear facilities, and ports in the greater New York City area and throughout the country.###
04.24.2015	Award establishes an office at Lamont-Doherty to support U.S. scientists aboard scientific drilling vessels studying world’s ocean bedsScientific ocean exploration provides context to Earth’s changes and to the understanding of largely unknown ecosystems that may one day have wide-ranging applicationsLamont-Doherty office will undertake extensive education and outreach program aimed at teachers, students, and the general publicPALISADES, NY– Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (Westchester/Rockland), the Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, today announced that Columbia University’s Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory (Lamont) in Palisades has signed a $35 million, five-year cooperative agreement with the National Science Foundation (NSF) to manage scientific support services for U.S. scientists conducting oceanic research.“Researching our natural world today yields the important discoveries of tomorrow,” said Lowey. “This National Science Foundation agreement will allow Lamont-Doherty’s scientists to continue advancing our understanding of the natural world around us, and their work will provide the foundation to one day solve some of the globe’s most pressing problems. As Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee, I will continue to fight for increased federal investments that benefit the scientific research community in the Lower Hudson Valley.”Lamont will use the $35 million award to establish a U.S. Science Support office to manage scientific support services for the International Ocean Discovery Program (IODP), a collaboration among 26 nations to explore the earth’s geologic history and dynamics. The office will be headed by Carl Brenner, a Lamont scientist who has had extensive experience with IODP and its predecessor programs. The office will have a staff of five.“Observatory scientists, engineers, and students have been participating in IODP programs and its predecessor programs for more than four decades,” said Lamont director Sean Solomon. “Our proposal built on that work in offering a unique and efficient management plan for this important and complex program. We are honored that NSF has entrusted the Observatory with this responsibility.”With input from a national advisory panel, the new office at Lamont will provide monetary support for U.S. scientists participating in IODP research. The office will also run an extensive education and outreach program aimed at teachers, students and the general public, promoting science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM) education. Lamont has a long history of interacting with local teachers and students primarily through annual Open House events where visitors learn about IODP and other activities at Lamont, and local teachers have been introduced to IODP science through the Earth2Class program. With the new U.S. Science Support office now located at Lamont, the opportunities for local educators to be exposed to IODP science and to use it in their classrooms will increase.Lamont will help U.S. scientists utilize drilling vessels that retrieve samples of subseafloor sediments and rocks, and monitor the seabed. Scientific ocean sampling has revealed the story of profound changes in earth's environment and climate in the past, and it also provides context to understand changes now unfolding. It has been fundamental to the theory of plate tectonics, which affect everything from the locations of earthquakes and volcanoes, to the formation of ore deposits. Scientific drilling has also revealed the existence of huge, still largely unknown ecosystems extending nearly a mile below the seabed. This mysterious environment may help us understand the evolution of life on earth, and the possibility of life in the extreme conditions of other planets. Genetic material from these environments may also someday have medical or industrial applications.The Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory, a core component of the Earth Institute - Columbia University, seeks fundamental knowledge about the origin, evolution and future of the natural world. Its scientists study the planet from its deepest interior to the outer reaches of its atmosphere, on every continent and on every ocean, providing a rational basis for the difficult choices facing humanity.Congresswoman Lowey has been a strong advocate for supporting investments in basic research, public health, and biomedical research. In November 2013, Congresswoman Nita Lowey was presented the “Champion of Science” award by The Science Coalition in recognition of her steadfast support for research that keeps the State of New York and the nation global leaders in science, medical discoveries, and technological innovation.###
04.24.2015	Historic U.S. Department of Transportation loan will bring positive train control to MTA rail systemApproval comes after Lowey called for positive train control technology following December 2013 Metro North accidentWHITE PLAINS, NY– Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (Westchester/Rockland), the Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, today applauded the Federal Railroad Administration’s impending approval of the New York Metropolitan Transit Authority’s (MTA) application for a $967 million loan to install positive train control (PTC) technology for Long Island Railroad and Metro-North Commuter Railroad. This loan will allow MTA to install life-saving safety improvements on commuter rail lines. “I’m pleased that MTA’s application to install positive train control technology will be approved by the Federal Railroad Administration,” said Lowey. “Securing this funding will help ensure that disastrous events like the December 2013 Metro North accident never happen again. Over the last year, I have worked tirelessly to highlight the need for additional resources to help commuter railroads install PTC, and I will continue to work with federal and state officials to ensure that MTA gets the resources it needs to keep its riders safe.”The loan application was approved by the Federal Railroad Administration's (FRA) Railroad Rehabilitation and Improvement Financing Program (RRIF) program. Under this program, the loan funding can be used to acquire, improve, or rehabilitate intermodal or rail equipment or facilities, including track, components of track, bridges, yards, buildings and shops; refinance outstanding debt incurred for the purposes listed above; and develop or establish new intermodal or railroad facilities.Direct loans can fund up to 100% of a railroad project with repayment periods of up to 35 years and interest rates equal to the cost of borrowing from the government. Eligible borrowers include railroads, state and local governments, government-sponsored authorities and corporations, joint ventures that include at least one railroad, and limited option freight shippers who intend to construct a new rail connection.By law, railroads are expected to implement PTC systems, which prevent collisions and derailments by ensuring that trains are not travelling at excessive speeds, by December 31, 2015. In the aftermath of the December 1, 2013, Metro-North crash, the Federal Railroad Administration launched a “Deep Dive” safety assessment of Metro-North's operations. In a January 2014 spending bill, Lowey required DOT to release its report to Congress, which highlighted deficiencies in Metro-North's safety protocols and training.As Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee, Lowey has also repeatedly highlighted the need for additional funding for PTC installation, raising the issue with her colleagues on the Committee during hearings and markups and with U.S. DOT Secretary Foxx. During the markup of the FY 2015 Transportation, Housing and Urban Development (THUD) bill, she offered an amendment in support of the President’s budget request to include $825 million in the bill to help with positive train control implementation.###
04.23.2015	National Health Promotion Associates of White Plains will research, develop, and test innovative programWHITE PLAINS, NY – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (Westchester/Rockland) today announced a $150,114 grant from the National Institutes of Health’s (NIH) Drug Abuse and Addiction Research Program to National Health Promotion Associates (NHPA) in White Plains to develop and evaluate a new program to prevent sexual violence on college campuses.“Sexual assault has no place in our society, especially on college campuses where students are building their futures,” said Lowey. “I’m pleased that National Health Promotion Associates will receive this funding so we can verifiably know which strategies are most effective at preventing these violent and criminal acts. During my tenure on the House Appropriations Committee I have worked hard to nearly triple the funding for NIH, and as Ranking Member I will continue working to increase these vital funds so we can protect the health and safety of students in the Lower Hudson Valley and throughout the country.”NHPA will develop and test an innovative new program designed for incoming college students to prevent sexual violence – anchored in an evidence-based prevention program called Life Skills Training (LST) that will use a combination of web-based and small group methods. Because sexual violence often occurs along with alcohol and drug abuse, the program will focus on both sexual violence and alcohol/drug abuse prevention.“We are excited about receiving this funding from NIH, and look forward to this opportunity to develop and test an innovative program that will stop sexual violence before it ever begins,” said Dr. Gilbert J. Botvin, professor emeritus of Cornell University’s Weill Medical College and president of NHPA.During the first phase of this NIH-funded project, the funding will be used to develop and test sample materials to determine their relevance, utility, and appeal among college students, faculty and administrators. This feedback will be used in a second phase of the project to guide the development of the full program and test its effectiveness in a large-scale national study.Congresswoman Lowey, as Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee, has fought to increase investments in medical research. She is a longtime member of the subcommittee that funds medical research, and funding to National Institutes of Health has nearly tripled since she joined the committee.###
04.23.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (Westchester/Rockland), the Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, released the following statement on Israeli Independence Day:“Today, I join the Israeli people in celebrating 67 years of independence and more than six decades of steadfast support by the United States.“Israel remains unquestionably our strongest ally in the region - a key supporter in our fight against terrorism and the only country in the region in which the voice of its citizens is regularly heard through the ballot box.“Not only are our security interests inextricably linked, but the U.S. - Israeli relationship is firmly rooted in democratic values, common goals, and the unbreakable bond between our people. “As the former Chairwoman and current Ranking Member on the Appropriations Subcommittee on State and Foreign Operations, I will continue to advocate for U.S. assistance to Israel, which helps our ally secure its borders and protect its citizens, as well as unequivocally support efforts to stand with Israel in international fora. “This year’s Yom Ha'atzmaut is an opportunity to celebrate the ties that unite us and recommit ourselves to working together on the many challenges currently facing both our great countries.”###
04.22.2015	Recent accidents involving crude oil highlight the need to reduce Bakken volatility Other wins in spending bill: $400,000 flood study to benefit Hudson River, and $703,000 Byram River Basin study to benefit Port Chester WASHINGTON, DC– Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (Westchester/Rockland), the Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee, today advanced provisions during the full committee markup of the FY 2016 Energy and Water Appropriations bill that would benefit the Hudson Valley. Lowey was successful in including a provision that directs the U.S. Department of Energy to examine methods to reduce the volatility of crude oil prior to shipment. “The volatility of Bakken crude oil poses extreme danger to neighborhoods in Rockland County,” said Lowey. “That’s why I worked with my colleagues on the Appropriations Committee to include this provision aimed at reducing the risk of crude oil explosions in accidents. I won’t stop fighting until families in my district, throughout New York, and across America can live without fear of explosive crude oil catastrophes in their communities.” Lowey also secured $400,000 for a study of New York-New Jersey Harbor and Tributaries, including the Hudson River, and $703,000 for a flood control survey of the Byram River Basin, which includes Port Chester. “Concerns about flooding have historically been front and center for families and businesses on both banks of the Hudson River, especially since Superstorm Sandy hit more than two years ago,” said Lowey. “This money aims to help avoid worst case scenarios and bring peace of mind to communities with the threat of flooding.” The provisions in the Energy and Water spending report, detailed below, passed the House Appropriations Committee today, and the bill is expected to be considered in the full House next week: Crude Oil Volatility The language Lowey secured during the markup of the Energy and Water spending bill would direct the Department of Energy to examine methods to reduce the volatility of crude oil prior to shipment. North Atlantic Coast Comprehensive Study Focus Areas Lowey also urged the inclusion of $1 million for the North Atlantic Coast Comprehensive Study, which stems from Superstorm Sandy and seeks to reduce flood risk to vulnerable coastal populations and promote coastal resilient communities to ensure a sustainable and robust coastal landscape. $400,000 of this total would be directed to studying the New York-New Jersey Harbor and Tributaries, which includes the Hudson River. Byram River Basin Survey of Flood Control Lowey worked to include $703,000 for a survey of flood control for the Byram River Basin, which includes the Village of Port Chester. The funding level is a $3,000 increase above FY 2015. Lowey has been taking action to prevent the next crude oil rail accident. She is an original co-sponsor of theCrude-by-Rail Safety Act that would establish new, commonsense federal safety standards for rail cars transporting oil across the country. The National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB) recently announced recommendations after Lowey sent letters to U.S. Department of Transportation Secretary Foxx and President Obama urging stronger regulations for crude oil transport. She also passed provisions encouraging more expeditious implementation of stricter rules, for which the process is currently under way and should be completedin the coming months. As the top Democratic appropriator in the House, Congresswoman Lowey helped lead the bipartisan effort to pass the full Sandy assistance package totaling $60 billion. ###
04.21.2015	More than 2,500 unfilled positions in Westchester in health care and software engineeringSTEM Research Center renovation made possible with federal grant Lowey helped secure for Mercy CollegeDOBBS FERRY, NY– Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (Westchester/Rockland) today joined Mercy College President Timothy Hall, Dean Alfred Posamentier, cybersecurity graduate student Robert Monteleone as well as other faculty and staff to celebrate the opening of Mercy College’s STEM Research Center, which was made possible through a federal grant that Lowey helped secure in 2011.“I am proud to have helped secure this $3.7 million federal STEM grant for Mercy College,” said Lowey. “Lower Hudson Valley health care and biotech employers report more than 2,500 jobs are going unfilled because of the lack of trained workers. This federal funding will help provide Mercy College students with the skills critical to obtaining the jobs of today and tomorrow and will strengthen the area economy. As Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee, I will continue fighting for increased education funding to ensure hardworking New Yorkers can find jobs.”In the United States, more than half of the five million currently open jobs involve information technology. In Westchester County, there are more than 2,500 unfilled positions in fields that require a science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM) education, such as health care and software engineering.The STEM Research Center, located on the first floor of historic Maher Hall, is equipped with 20 workstations and four servers to accommodate 20-25 students. The equipment and software in the new lab are used by students in the Computer Science, Computer Information Systems, CyberSecurity, and Mathematics programs for various courses. The center will also be used to conduct undergraduate research and student-faculty collaborations.“The STEM Research Center would not be possible without funding from the U.S. Department of Education’s Title V STEM and Articulation programs,” said Grant Coordinator Carolina Hernandez. “The lab will help our students strengthen skills in database design and development, programming, software engineering, computer forensics and mathematical modeling. The forecast of the current job market along with our technology-driven society put these skills in high demand and providing our students with hands-on opportunities will give them the edge they need to succeed in STEM careers.”The Department of Education Title V grant is providing approximately $3.7 million over five years (2011-2016) to support Mercy College’s STEM Research Center. Title V STEM grants provide Hispanic-Serving Institutions, like Mercy College, with funding to improve the academic quality of STEM programs, faculty development, and research opportunities in STEM fields.“I am fighting for funding for the Department of Education’s Title V STEM and Articulation program, which is responsible for funding the STEM Research Center,” said Lowey. “I will work with my colleagues to make sure that these important federal investments continue.”###
04.17.2015	DOT today announced several safety measures to improve the safety of transporting hazardous materials via rail Actions are a step in the right direction, but much more must be done to ensure safety of families and businesses in the Lower Hudson Valley NEW CITY, NY– Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (Westchester/Rockland) today applauded the announcement that the U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) will undertake several actions to improve crude oil transport safety, but said the agency must do more to ensure the safety of families and businesses living alongside railways used for transporting hazardous materials. “While I am pleased DOT is acting to make transport of crude oil via rail more safe, much more must be done,” said Lowey. “Upwards of 80 rail cars carrying crude oil pass through Rockland County each day. DOT needs to expedite implementation of stricter safety regulations to prevent the next tragic accident and, as Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, I will be laser-focused on enhancing safety measures to keep families safe.” DOT announced that it will be taking the following measures to improve the safe transport of hazardous materials via rail: PHMSA Safety Advisory:PHMSA’s safety advisory reminds hazardous materials shippers and carriers that current, accurate, and timely emergency response information must be immediately available to first responders. This is currently a legal requirement, and PHMSA is using this opportunity to reemphasize how important compliance with this requirement is to aid in emergency response. PHMSA & FRA Safety Advisory:PHMSA’s and FRA’s joint safety advisory recommends that carriers and offerors make available certain information to agency investigators as soon as practicable after a flammable liquid (e.g., crude and ethanol) train derailment or accident, including train consist information, number and type of tank cars, and the owner of the product. While carriers and offerors are required to provide this information during an investigation, this safety advisory makes clear the specific information that FRA and PHMSA will request that carriers and offerors make timely available. Letter to AAR:FRA’s letter to the Association of American Railroads asks it and its members to create a process to make the information available to FRA within a certain period of time after a crude oil derailment or accident. This is a companion piece to the information safety advisories mentioned above and would specify the information that FRA expects the railroads to make available to FRA to assist in our investigatory process and to assist emergency responders. It also requests that AAR meet with FRA within 30 days to discuss the process for implementation. Accident Report Form Update:FRA’s notice would update its accident reporting form to expand the information collected on certain required accident reports, so that information specific to accidents involving trains transporting crude oil is reported (e.g., the number of those tank cars that were damaged or derailed, and the number of those cars that released product). Mechanical Inspection Safety Advisory:FRA’s mechanical safety advisory recommends that railroads use highly qualified individuals to conduct mechanical inspections on flammable liquid (e.g., crude and ethanol) trains. It also recommends lowering the threshold for wheel impact load detectors (WILD), which would result in the railroads making more frequent repairs to wheel defects. Speed Emergency Order:FRA’s emergency order limits the speed of high hazard flammable liquid trains to 40 miles an hours an hour in high-threat urban areas. This is similar to the voluntary agreement AAR and DOT reached in February 2014, however, it applies to all flammable liquid trains rather than just crude trains. It also makes the requirement mandatory rather than voluntary. Lowey has been taking action to prevent the next crude oil rail accident. She is an original co-sponsor of theCrude-by-Rail Safety Act, introduced this week to help protect communities living along railway networks. This bill would establish new, commonsense federal safety standards for rail cars transporting oil across the country. A similar version of this legislation was filed in the Senate in March 2015. The National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB) recently announced recommendations after Lowey sent letters to U.S. Department of Transportation Secretary Foxx and President Obama urging stronger regulations for crude oil transport. She also passed provisions encouraging more expeditious implementation of stricter rules, for which the process is currently under way and should be complete in the coming months. To improve rail safety locally, Lowey has: Secured funding for the construction of the overpass at the dangerous railroad crossing at Short Clove Road in Haverstraw, Obtained federal funds for Quiet Zones in Rockland County, and Fought for increased investments in the nation's crumbling infrastructure, including better maintenance and upkeep of rail networks. ###
04.16.2015	Today, we pause to remember the six million innocent Jewish men, women, and children who perished during the Holocaust - the darkest chapter of human history. While we rededicate ourselves to the meaning of the words “Never Again,” we are still reeling from the devastating anti-Semitic attacks that took place in Kansas City, Brussels, Paris, and Copenhagen during this past year. At a time when security is increasingly needed at so many Jewish institutions around the world, it’s clear that the scourge of anti-Semitism remains painfully present. Even seventy years after the Holocaust, the right of Jews to live as Jews freely and without fear is not universal. That is why we must continue to call on all government officials around the world to take firmer action to defend Jewish communities and guarantee religious freedom. I recently co-founded the Bi-Partisan Taskforce for Combating Anti-Semitism in the House of Representatives with the goal of providing a legislative platform to denounce anti-Semitic incidents; evaluate current law enforcement efforts; promote Holocaust education; and make recommendations on confronting hatred around the world.This week, the Taskforce convened its first meeting with the Ambassadors from the United Kingdom, Germany, and France to discuss those countries’ efforts to bolster the security of Jewish communities and respond to the recent spike of verbal and physical anti-Semitic threats. On this year’s Yom Hashoah, let us all commit to working across regions, religions, and party lines to identify effective strategies to combat intolerance and injustice, eradicate human brutality, and leave a better world for generations to come. Today, we pause to remember the six million innocent Jewish men, women, and children who perished during the Holocaust - the darkest chapter of human history. While we rededicate ourselves to the meaning of the words “Never Again,” we are still reeling from the devastating anti-Semitic attacks that took place in Kansas City, Brussels, Paris, and Copenhagen during this past year. At a time when security is increasingly needed at so many Jewish institutions around the world, it’s clear that the scourge of anti-Semitism remains painfully present. Even seventy years after the Holocaust, the right of Jews to live as Jews freely and without fear is not universal. That is why we must continue to call on all government officials around the world to take firmer action to defend Jewish communities and guarantee religious freedom. I recently co-founded the Bi-Partisan Taskforce for Combating Anti-Semitism in the House of Representatives with the goal of providing a legislative platform to denounce anti-Semitic incidents; evaluate current law enforcement efforts; promote Holocaust education; and make recommendations on confronting hatred around the world.This week, the Taskforce convened its first meeting with the Ambassadors from the United Kingdom, Germany, and France to discuss those countries’ efforts to bolster the security of Jewish communities and respond to the recent spike of verbal and physical anti-Semitic threats. On this year’s Yom Hashoah, let us all commit to working across regions, religions, and party lines to identify effective strategies to combat intolerance and injustice, eradicate human brutality, and leave a better world for generations to come. Today, we pause to remember the six million innocent Jewish men, women, and children who perished during the Holocaust - the darkest chapter of human history. While we rededicate ourselves to the meaning of the words “Never Again,” we are still reeling from the devastating anti-Semitic attacks that took place in Kansas City, Brussels, Paris, and Copenhagen during this past year. At a time when security is increasingly needed at so many Jewish institutions around the world, it’s clear that the scourge of anti-Semitism remains painfully present. Even seventy years after the Holocaust, the right of Jews to live as Jews freely and without fear is not universal. That is why we must continue to call on all government officials around the world to take firmer action to defend Jewish communities and guarantee religious freedom. I recently co-founded the Bi-Partisan Taskforce for Combating Anti-Semitism in the House of Representatives with the goal of providing a legislative platform to denounce anti-Semitic incidents; evaluate current law enforcement efforts; promote Holocaust education; and make recommendations on confronting hatred around the world.This week, the Taskforce convened its first meeting with the Ambassadors from the United Kingdom, Germany, and France to discuss those countries’ efforts to bolster the security of Jewish communities and respond to the recent spike of verbal and physical anti-Semitic threats. Today, we pause to remember the six million innocent Jewish men, women, and children who perished during the Holocaust - the darkest chapter of human history. While we rededicate ourselves to the meaning of the words “Never Again,” we are still reeling from the devastating anti-Semitic attacks that took place in Kansas City, Brussels, Paris, and Copenhagen during this past year. At a time when security is increasingly needed at so many Jewish institutions around the world, it’s clear that the scourge of anti-Semitism remains painfully present. Even seventy years after the Holocaust, the right of Jews to live as Jews freely and without fear is not universal. That is why we must continue to call on all government officials around the world to take firmer action to defend Jewish communities and guarantee religious freedom. I recently co-founded the Bi-Partisan Taskforce for Combating Anti-Semitism in the House of Representatives with the goal of providing a legislative platform to denounce anti-Semitic incidents; evaluate current law enforcement efforts; promote Holocaust education; and make recommendations on confronting hatred around the world.This week, the Taskforce convened its first meeting with the Ambassadors from the United Kingdom, Germany, and France to discuss those countries’ efforts to bolster the security of Jewish communities and respond to the recent spike of verbal and physical anti-Semitic threats. On this year’s Yom Hashoah, let us all commit to working across regions, religions, and party lines to identify effective strategies to combat intolerance and injustice, eradicate human brutality, and leave a better world for generations to come. Today, we pause to remember the six million innocent Jewish men, women, and children who perished during the Holocaust - the darkest chapter of human history. While we rededicate ourselves to the meaning of the words “Never Again,” we are still reeling from the devastating anti-Semitic attacks that took place in Kansas City, Brussels, Paris, and Copenhagen during this past year. At a time when security is increasingly needed at so many Jewish institutions around the world, it’s clear that the scourge of anti-Semitism remains painfully present. Even seventy years after the Holocaust, the right of Jews to live as Jews freely and without fear is not universal. That is why we must continue to call on all government officials around the world to take firmer action to defend Jewish communities and guarantee religious freedom. I recently co-founded the Bi-Partisan Taskforce for Combating Anti-Semitism in the House of Representatives with the goal of providing a legislative platform to denounce anti-Semitic incidents; evaluate current law enforcement efforts; promote Holocaust education; and make recommendations on confronting hatred around the world.This week, the Taskforce convened its first meeting with the Ambassadors from the United Kingdom, Germany, and France to discuss those countries’ efforts to bolster the security of Jewish communities and respond to the recent spike of verbal and physical anti-Semitic threats. On this year’s Yom Hashoah, let us all commit to working across regions, religions, and party lines to identify effective strategies to combat intolerance and injustice, eradicate human brutality, and leave a better world for generations to come. ""Today, we pause to remember the six million innocent Jewish men, women, and children who perished during the Holocaust - the darkest chapter of human history. While we rededicate ourselves to the meaning of the words “Never Again,” we are still reeling from the devastating anti-Semitic attacks that took place in Kansas City, Brussels, Paris, and Copenhagen during this past year. "At a time when security is increasingly needed at so many Jewish institutions around the world, it’s clear that the scourge of anti-Semitism remains painfully present. Even seventy years after the Holocaust, the right of Jews to live as Jews freely and without fear is not universal. That is why we must continue to call on all government officials around the world to take firmer action to defend Jewish communities and guarantee religious freedom. "I recently co-founded the Bi-Partisan Taskforce for Combating Anti-Semitism in the House of Representatives with the goal of providing a legislative platform to denounce anti-Semitic incidents; evaluate current law enforcement efforts; promote Holocaust education; and make recommendations on confronting hatred around the world."This week, the Taskforce convened its first meeting with the Ambassadors from the United Kingdom, Germany, and France to discuss those countries’ efforts to bolster the security of Jewish communities and respond to the recent spike of verbal and physical anti-Semitic threats. "On this year’s Yom Hashoah, let us all commit to working across regions, religions, and party lines to identify effective strategies to combat intolerance and injustice, eradicate human brutality, and leave a better world for generations to come."At a time when security is increasingly needed at so many Jewish institutions around the world, it’s clear that the scourge of anti-Semitism remains painfully present. Even seventy years after the Holocaust, the right of Jews to live as Jews freely and without fear is not universal. That is why we must continue to call on all government officials around the world to take firmer action to defend Jewish communities and guarantee religious freedom. I recently co-founded the Bi-Partisan Taskforce for Combating Anti-Semitism in the House of Representatives with the goal of providing a legislative platform to denounce anti-Semitic incidents; evaluate current law enforcement efforts; promote Holocaust education; and make recommendations on confronting hatred around the world.This week, the Taskforce convened its first meeting with the Ambassadors from the United Kingdom, Germany, and France to discuss those countries’ efforts to bolster the security of Jewish communities and respond to the recent spike of verbal and physical anti-Semitic threats. On this year’s Yom Hashoah, let us all commit to working across regions, religions, and party lines to identify effective strategies to combat intolerance and injustice, eradicate human brutality, and leave a better world for generations to com
04.10.2015	WHITE PLAINS/NEW CITY, NY– Today, five days before our nation’s annual tax day, New York Representatives Nita Lowey, Jerrold Nadler, and Steve Israel announced the re-introduction of the Tax Equity Act, designed to adjust federal tax brackets to reflect the elevated cost of living in major metropolitan areas. The lawmakers represent districts which, respectively, span the counties of Westchester and Rockland, New York City, and Long Island, and are home to constituents who both pay higher taxes and contend with higher basic living costs than most Americans. In areas where living costs are higher than the national average, this bill would require the IRS to adapt tax brackets accordingly. It would not affect the taxes of those with living costs below the national average.“Hardworking families in New York need a tax code that works for them,” said Lowey. “Residents of the New York metropolitan area, including the counties of Westchester and Rockland, pay more for housing, food, and utilities, not to mention some of the highest property taxes in the country. Making ends meet is difficult in our region even for those with good jobs, and it’s only fair for the tax code to reflect that reality. I will continue to fight to make it easier for hardworking New Yorkers to own a home, send kids to college, and have a secure and enjoyable retirement.”“It is common knowledge that a dollar in New York buys you less than a dollar elsewhere,” said Nadler. “The Tax Equity Act is a practical approach to making tax burdens more fair, based on the actual local costs of living in New York, Houston, Miami, or wherever. The goal is simply to ensure that hard-working New Yorkers and others – the vast majority of whom are not wealthy – are treated fairly by the income tax system.”“New Yorkers and folks on Long Island pay some of the highest taxes in the country while also paying some of the highest housing, food and gas costs. It’s true - a dollar just doesn’t go as far in Huntington, NY as it does in Huntsville, AL. Hardworking families in New York are taxed as if they were the richest, when so often they are some of the hardest hit,” said Israel. “The Tax Equity Act is a commonsense bill that makes our taxes reflect our reality. I’m proud to join Congressman Nadler and Congresswoman Lowey in reintroducing this legislation.”Many residents of the nation’s most expensive areas are taxed at the same rate as the rest of the country, yet must spend a greater portion of their incomes on basic necessities such as food and housing. This results in an unfair burden on New Yorkers and residents of other expensive metropolitan areas, including San Francisco, Los Angeles, Honolulu, Washington and others. The Tax Equity Act of 2015 would ensure that this burden is eliminated and would require people to pay only their fair share of taxes.###
04.02.2015	More than $257 million to help state and local first respondersLowey’s provisions in final 2015 DHS spending bill direct additional money to New YorkNEW YORK CITY, NY – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (Westchester/Rockland), the Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, today joined U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) Secretary Jeh Johnson to announce $257,875,000 in fiscal year 2015 homeland security grants for New York.“I’m pleased about this increase in homeland security money for New York,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “This funding will protect people during their daily commutes, reinforce vital infrastructure in our region, and give first responders the training and equipment upgrades they need to save lives in the event of a terrorist attack. The DHS funding crisis manufactured by the House Republican majority earlier this year endangered the safety of our regionby threatening these very funds. As Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, I will continue to lead the charge to keep New York communities secure.”After House Republicans held up first responder grants for five months and nearly shut down DHS earlier this year over objections to the President’s executive actions on immigration,Lowey secured additional funding in the final 2015 spending bill that will help New York first responders.Lowey’s legislation to alter the formula that previously directed disproportionate funds to low-risk areas was signed into law in 2006, increasingNew York’s share of funds. Lowey required DHS to place even more of an emphasis on high-risk areas for 2015 grants.“New York understands the threat of terrorism and how important it is for the federal government to invest in protectingour communities. My legislative efforts are helping protect those who work, live, and commute to New York every day by providing training, equipment, and other resources essential to keeping our New Yorkerssafe,” said Lowey.Awards for municipalities and counties will be announced later this year;an estimated $9 million will supportfirst responders in Westchester and Rockland Counties.###
03.31.2015	For the second time in one month, a vehicle broke through the Roaring Brook Road crossing gate to avoid a train collisionThe FRA charged with enabling safe, reliable, and efficient railwaysAs top Democrat on federal spending committee, Lowey will fight to protect and increase funding for rail crossing safety initiativesCHAPPAQUA, NY – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (Westchester/Rockland), the Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, today hosted Federal Railroad Administration (FRA) Acting Administrator Sarah Feinberg and local officials during a visit to the Metro-North crossing at Roaring Brook Road in Chappaqua to demonstrate the danger posed by grade crossings. The Roaring Brook Road crossing was the scene of yet another near-accident yesterday as a van on the tracks broke through the gate to avoid a collision as a train approached – at least the second close call this month.“I’m pleased FRA Acting Administrator Sarah Feinberg is here to see firsthand how dangerous these crossings are,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “With more than 250,000 public and private grade crossings around the country, we must tackle this important safety challenge with a multi-faceted approach. As Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee, I will be fighting to protect and increase funding for rail crossing safety initiatives.”“There are more than 250,000 highway-rail grade crossings across the United States. Safety is a serious issue at everyone one of them. Just yesterday there was an incident here at the crossing in Chappaqua. It is a reminder that we must remain vigilant. Highway grade crossing incidents are a leading cause of rail-related deaths and injuries,” said Sarah Feinberg, Acting Administrator of the Federal Railroad Administration. “After calling for their help, local law enforcement agencies have beefed up their presence at crossings and are rigorously enforcing traffic laws. We are grateful for their response. We are doing and will continue to do everything we possibly can to keep drivers, pedestrians, and train crews and passengers safe at grade crossings.”The FRA is the federal agency charged with enabling safe, reliable, and efficient movement of people on our nation’s railways, and is working on a multi-faceted approach to promote grade crossing safety, including efforts with law enforcement agencies. As the top Democrat on the House committee responsible for funding federal government programs, Lowey will fight to protect funding and work to increase investments that improve grade crossing safety and prevent tragic accidents. In addition, Lowey believes we must work to eliminate the most dangerous grade crossings and has engaged Feinberg in discussions about a proposal for a high-profile public awareness campaign. This effort would build upon the FRA’s enhanced enforcement efforts and be similar to the successful “Click it or Ticket” campaign for seatbelts and the “Drive Sober or Get Pulled Over” campaign for impaired driving. Lowey wants to make sure drivers know what to do and, more importantly, what not to do when they approach a rail crossing. Public awareness campaigns are particularly effective when combined with law enforcement.Lowey will continue to work with federal, state, and local officials to ensure grade crossing safety. Joining Lowey and Feinberg today were President of the Metro-North Railroad Joseph Giulietti, Chief Safety Office of Metro-North Railroad Anne Kirsch, Metro Transit Authority (MTA) Chief of Police Michael Coan, State DOT Planning and Program Manager Tom Weiner, Westchester Board of Legislators Chair Mike Kaplowitz, New Castle Police Chief Charles Ferry, Town of New Castle Comptroller Robert Deary, New Castle Department of Public Works Deputy Commissioner Gerry Moerschell, Mount Pleasant Town Supervisor Carl Fulgenzi, and Mount Pleasant Police Chief Paul Oliva.U.S. Senator Kirsten Gillibrand, who has helped coordinate cooperation among all levels of government, said, “With so many grade crossings in the Westchester area and throughout New York State, we must make every effort to ensure the safety of local drivers, commuters, and the community. I'll continue to push for the resources necessary to prevent accidents, raise public awareness and improve safety around crossings in our area.”“With increasing concerns and awareness regarding the safety of our region’s railroad crossings, it is crucial that leaders of the community on every level of government, as well as the public, come together and work to prevent future tragedies on the tracks,” said New York Assemblyman David Buchwald (Westchester). Since the fatal Metro-North crash in Valhalla on February 3, 2015, Lowey has led a moment of silence on the House floor to honor the victims, and has been working with federal officials to find solutions to what has become a recurring issue in New York’s 17th Congressional District and nationwide. Lowey has:Asked Feinberg about effective approaches to increasing safety during a House Appropriations Committee hearing on March 25, 2015;Co-sponsored HR 705, which passed the House on March 4, 2015 as part of the Passenger Rail Reform and Investment Act (PRRIA), to improve grade crossing safety; andSpoken with NTSB Board Member Robert Sumwalt on February 4, 2015, about exploring investments in new technologies to detect objects on tracks.###
03.27.2015	WHITE PLAINS, NY – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (Westchester/Rockland), the Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, released the following statement on Israel’s release of withheld Palestinian tax revenue:“I commend Prime Minister Netanyahu for his decision to release withheld Palestinian tax revenue. This is a constructive step, and I hope the Palestinian Authority will reciprocate by abandoning unilateral actions against Israel in international organizations.“The unbreakable bond between Israel and the United States, which is based on shared values and mutual challenges, is critical to both nations. Now is the time, in word and deed, to affirm and strengthen the U.S.-Israel relationship.”###
03.27.2015	House Republican budget neglects students in need and would increase the cost of a higher education for more than 20,000 students in Westchester and RocklandFederal grants and loan programs help students afford college and avoid mountains of student debtLowey vows to stand in the way of cuts when negotiations on education spending beginVALHALLA, NY – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (Westchester/Rockland), the Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, today joined administrators and students from Westchester Community College (WCC) and Pace University for a roundtable discussion about the danger posed by cuts to federal programs that help students finance their college education.“Cutting Pell Grants and federal loan programs that help finance a higher education sends a heartbreaking message to students,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “Pell Grants provide nearly $80 million in relief for low-income students in Westchester and Rockland to help cover the cost of going to college. We should be investing more in our students, not less. As Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee, I will protect funding for education programs during upcoming spending negotiations so all Americans can access and afford a higher education.”Lowey opposes the House Republican Budget, passed earlier this week, which would cut Pell Grants, end higher education tax credits, make subsidized federal Stafford loans more costly, and end public service loan forgiveness and income-based repayment. This would have a devastating impact on college students and their families, and make it more expensive to receive a higher education.Lowey is responsible for negotiating federal spending for the Department of Education. When spending negotiations begin, she vows to prevent these cuts and fully fund Pell Grants and student loan programs, and work to make sure each American can receive a first class education.Pell Grants are an important tool for students in need. In 1980, the maximum Pell Grant covered 77 percent of the cost of a four-year university. For the 2015-2016 school year, due to the rising costs of a higher education, Pell Grants will only cover 29 percent, and that number continues to fall. Lowey supports linking Pell Grant increases to the inflation rate.For the 2014-2015 school year, 20,030 students who attend college in New York’s 17th Congressional District (NY-17), which includes parts of Westchester County and all of Rockland County, received Pell Grants worth just over $79.1 million. Approximately 6,000 WCC students receive $22 million in Pell Grants annually, and 2,488 students at Rockland Community College (RCC) – roughly one-third of the RCC student body – receive more than $8.7 million. About 2,895 Pace University students receive Pell Grants worth $13 million.Students attending college in New York receive approximately $2 billion in Pell Grants. It is fourth among the states in total dollar volume for Pell Grants and approximately six percent of the nation’s total. Nationally, more than 8 million students rely on Pell Grants to afford college.In addition, if the Republican budget were enacted into law, approximately 14,500 students in NY-17 would face higher payments on their federal student loans. The budget would also make it more difficult for the loans to be repaid by ending income-based repayment currently capped at 10 percent of discretionary income, and it would end public service loan forgiveness.“These cuts will only make college less affordable and add to the staggering amount of student debt, which prevents people from paying their bills, buying a home, or starting a family,” Lowey said.Joining Lowey for the roundtable discussion were WCC’s President Dr. Belinda S. Miles, Vice President and Dean of Student Affairs Donald Weigand, and Financial Aid Director Anita Cook; Pace University’s Dean of Admissions Donna Grand Pre, Director of Financial Aid Daniel Robinson, and Director of Government & Community Relations Eric Morrissey; WCC students Anna Matias, Carmen Guillen, Kingsley Bernard, and Richard Anderson; and Pace student Sara Voorhees.“Financial aid programs at the federal level greatly benefit our students here locally,” said Dr. Belinda Miles, WCC President. “Students at Westchester Community College are working hard to obtain their college degrees, but cutting programs that enable students to finance their education while avoiding crushing student loan debt would have a severe negative impact on their futures. I urge lawmakers in Washington to continue funding critical programs like Pell Grants and protecting these important investments.”“The House and Senate recently proposed budget resolutions that unfairly target economically challenged students and devastate all college students across the Hudson Valley,” said Stephen J. Friedman, President of Pace University. “The proposals would cut approximately $150 billion in aid, eliminate mandatory funding for the Pell Grant program and roll back student aid. At Pace University, one out of every three degree-seeking Undergraduate students rely on Pell Grants. Countless others depend on federal aid programs to finance their college educations. These programs ensure that students from all socio-economic backgrounds benefit from college educations and are able to embark on successful careers that contribute to our nation’s economic growth and global competitiveness. Any proposal that cuts support for financial aid would be a serious loss for our country.”“Federal Pell Grants provide the foundation for the financial aid programs offered at Rockland Community College,” said Cliff L. Wood, President of Rockland Community College. “In 2013/14, Pell Grants accounted for 51 percent of all the federal and state financial aid funding received by students. More importantly, in light of the national debate on student loan borrowing trends, RCC students receive twice as much Pell Grant funding as federal student loans. One third of the student body at RCC, or 2,488 students, received 13/14 Pell Grants amounting to $8,775,933. Without continued Pell Grant funding and the annual increases in the program that keep up with cost of living increases, our most economically challenged students could not afford to attend college.”The House Republican Budget Resolution passed the House of Representatives on Wednesday, March 25, 2015, with only Republican votes.Lowey has been fighting to ensure opportunity for all Americans to obtain a quality, affordable higher education. In addition to vowing to oppose cuts to Pell Grants as the Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, Lowey has:Voted for H.R. 529, which improves the 529 College Savings Plans to include the costs of computers, internet access, and related services as qualified expenses, and allows refunds from colleges to be reinvested into a student's 529 account within 60 days of leaving the institution.Cosponsored the Bank on Students Emergency Loan Refinancing Act of 2015, which would allow borrowers with high interest rates in both the public and private markets to refinance existing student loans to lower rates, similar to those available to new student loan borrowers.###
03.26.2015	Hurricane Sandy Caused Extensive Damage to the Village Hall, Requiring the Building to be Condemned – Funding from FEMA Will Cover 90 percent of the Costs Incurred by the Village to Replace the Facility and its ContentsGRAND VIEW-ON-HUDSON, NY – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey and U.S. Senators Charles E. Schumer and Kirsten Gillibrand today announced $4,888,354 in federal funding for the Village of Grand View-on-Hudson. The funding will be allocated through the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) and allow the village in Rockland County to replace the Village Hall building that was severely damaged during Hurricane Sandy. Hurricane Sandy caused extensive damage to the Village Hall Office, located on River Road, requiring the building to be condemned. The FEMA grant will cover 90 percent of the costs incurred by the village to replace the facility and its contents, or $4,399,518.During Sandy, the Village Hall had 18 inches of river water flow into its lowest floor. One of two decks was completely ripped off the building, windows broke from the wind, and the building twisted on its foundation. Now the Village Hall will be rebuilt, raised out of the flood zone and will be moved closer to the road, moving it away from sitting directly over the Hudson river.“I’m pleased these federal funds finally arrived to assist Grand View-on-Hudson residents build their new Village Hall,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “These funds will reimburse the village for 90 percent of the costs incurred as a result of the storm, and will protect local taxpayers from having to pay for a new Village Hall. I fought hard to secure the $60 billion Sandy assistance package in Congress, and I will continue to work with communities affected by the storm to get the recovery assistance they need.”"After Village Hall was severely damaged during Superstorm Sandy, I’m pleased to announce that Grand View-on-Hudson is finally getting this long overdue reimbursement from FEMA,” said Senator Kirsten Gillibrand. “I fought for this funding so that local taxpayers aren’t stuck footing the bill alone and I’ll continue to push for the resources our community needs to build back from Superstorm Sandy.”"A Village Hall is an important gathering place and symbol of any community, and it is excellent news that Grand View-on-Hudson will finally be able to replace theirs. I applaud FEMA for recognizing the importance of this project and providing Grand View-on-Hudson the funding it needs to rebuild its Village Hall, which was a victim of Hurricane Sandy’s wrath. The storm completely devastated the building, and this federal disaster assistance will go a long way in taking the cost burden of rebuilding off of taxpayers and reassuring local residents that the federal government will be there as they continue their recovery efforts,” said Senator Schumer.“The citizens of Grand View-on-Hudson are deeply grateful to FEMA for its commitment to helping us rebuild our Village Hall devastated by Hurricane Sandy. We thank all of those who helped us secure this funding, first and foremost our great friends in Washington, Senator Kirsten Gillibrand, Senator Charles Schumer, and Rep. Nita Lowey for their diligent efforts on our behalf. More locally, we thank all our friends in Governor Cuomo’s office, County Executive Ed Day, Orangetown Supervisor Andy Stewart, Assemblywoman Ellen Jaffe, State Senator David Carlucci, and County Legislator Nancy Low-Hogan for their support,” said Grand View-on-Hudson Mayor Larry Lynn. “The lion’s share of the work on this project was done by Village Trustee Catherine Whitney with the assistance of Doris Ulman, Village Attorney, and Julie Pagliaroli, Village Clerk-Treasurer. We could not have gotten this far without the efforts of this team.”Grand View-on-Hudson is a self-governed village of about 300 residents nestled between the cliffs of the Palisades and the west bank of the Hudson River in Rockland County. As Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee, Congresswoman Lowey helped lead the bipartisan effort in the House to pass the full Sandy assistance package totaling $60 billion, while Senators Schumer and Gillibrand played a key role in securing passage in the Senate.###
03.24.2015	WASHINGTON, DC - Today, U.S. Reps. Nita Lowey (NY-17), Chris Smith (NJ-04), Eliot Engel (NY-16), Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (FL-27), Kay Granger (TX-12), Steve Israel (NY-03), Peter Roskam (IL-06), and Ted Deutch (FL-21) announced the launch of the Bipartisan Taskforce for Combating Anti-Semitism in the House of Representatives. Together, these Members will serve as co-Chairs of the Taskforce in the 114th Congress and spearhead initiatives aimed at addressing the alarming rise of anti-Semitism around the world.The Bipartisan Taskforce for Combating Anti-Semitism was formed in order to ensure that Congress plays an integral role in condemning anti-Semitism and promoting tolerance worldwide.The Taskforce will serve as a forum for educating Members on this distinct form of intolerance and to engage with the Executive Branch, foreign leaders, and civil society organizations for the sharing of best practices and cooperating on solutions to rebuff this disturbing trend. It will also promote Holocaust Remembrance in concert with exploring innovative ways to teach tolerance and confront hate.The co-Chairs issued the following joint statement:“Around the world, we are witnessing an alarming rise of anti-Semitism that is dangerous and complex. Over the past few years, Jewish schools, synagogues, and even homes and property have been targets of anti-Semitic violence. Jewish populations are facing increased levels of hatred, frequently under the guise of political differences or other alibis, but in reality it is solely because of their faith. It is the responsibility of everyone who believes in basic universal liberties and freedoms to condemn this trend and work together to root out the hatred which underlies anti-Semitism. We look forward to working with our colleagues in Congress to find innovative solutions that match the 21st century face of this age-old bigotry.”###
03.17.2015	Grants support more than 300 children ages birth to three with family-centered servicesFederal early childhood program funding improves childhood development and provides vital services for low-income working familiesWHITE PLAINS/NEW CITY, NY – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (Westchester/Rockland), the Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, today announcedmore than $3.8 million in new Early Head Start grants from the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) to organizations in the Lower Hudson Valley.“Every child should have the opportunity to grow and learn in a supportive environment,” saidLowey. “I’m thrilled WestCOP and Head Start of Rockland were awarded these competitive federal funds and will now be able to support an additional 300 young children in the Lower Hudson Valley. As Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee, I will continue to fight for increased funding for Early Head Start, because it has a proven history of success in our communities.”A total of $3,818,162 is targeted for new Early Head Start – Child Care (EHS-CC) partnership programs in the Lower Hudson Valley and will provide 301 children under the age of three and low-income pregnant women and families with family-centered services that facilitate child development, support parental roles, and promote self-sufficiency. These federal investments will cover 80% of the cost of the programs, with the remaining cost being covered by in-kind contributions from the grantees.Westchester Community Opportunity Program, Inc. (WestCOP) received $2,383,412 to serve 189 children in child care centers and family day care centers in the counties of Westchester, Putnam and Dutchess. In addition, WestCOP will also receive $185,000 in one-time start-up money for their program.Agency partners for the WestCOP grant include:Child Care Council of Westchester – providing Child Development Associate (CDA) and Medication Administration Training (MAT), as well as operating the family day care program for Westchester CountyChild Care Council of Dutchess and Putnam – CDA and MAT for Dutchess and Putnam countiesAstor Services for Children & Families – providing mental health services and family engagement services in Dutchess CountyFamily Services of Westchester - providing mental health services in Westchester and Putnam countiesEllen Farrar, Coordinator of Early Childhood Programs at WestCOP, said, “We’re excited about this grant because we believe that low income children deserve the best quality early care and education wherever they’re served, whether it’s in child care centers, group family care, Pre-K, or anywhere else. All children deserve a proper head start.”“We are thrilled to be a part of this exciting opportunity to bring rich Early Head Start services and resources to a cohort of licensed group family providers serving economically-disadvantaged children all over the county,” said Kathleen Halas, the Executive Director at Child Care Council of Westchester, Inc. “These standards for quality early care and education will make a positive lifelong impact for not only these children, but the entire community as they develop into successful students and employees. We’re gratified to see so much interest in this new initiative from our providers, and look forward to working collaboratively with all involved to bring about a better future.”Head Start of Rockland, Inc. received $1,434,750 to support 112 children in Rockland County.“Head Start of Rockland is very excited to receive this grant which we will use to collaborate with five early childhood providers in Rockland to help them enhance the quality of their programs,” said Head Start of Rockland Executive Director Ouida Foster Toutebon.HHS’s The Office of Head Start (OHS) administers the Head Start and Early Head Start programs that support the mental, social, and emotional development of children from birth to age 5. Early Head Start provides children ages birth to three and low-income pregnant women and families with family-centered services that facilitate child development, support parental roles, and promote self-sufficiency.###
03.10.2015	WHITE PLAINS/NEW CITY, NY – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (Westchester/Rockland), the Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, today released the following statement marking Women’s History Month:“March is Women’s History Month, when we celebrate the accomplishments and contributions of the millions of women in our great nation.“We have made outstanding progress since 1920, when women won the right to vote. Today, women have reached the upper echelons of government, education, science, and business.“But many American workplaces still haven’t caught up to the new reality, and the fight for equality of rights and opportunity is far from over.“New York women who work the same job as a man, work the same hours, and work just as hard still are still paid on average $7,300 less per year; the United States is currently the only developed country that doesn’t mandate paid sick days or paid maternity leave; and we lack investments in women entrepreneurs – essential for women’s success in our economy. America’s mothers, wives, and daughters deserve the same opportunities as our country’s fathers, husbands, and sons.“This Women’s History Month, as we celebrating the accomplishments of women in the United States, we must continue to fight for an economic agenda that works for women and their families, because when women succeed, America succeeds.”###
03.05.2015	Neighborhood Network of New York will focus on community support that leads to productive, enriched lives with greater independenceLowey was “instrumental in making this possible”WHITE PLAINS, NY – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (Westchester/Rockland), the Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, today announced that the Neighborhood Network of New York (NNNY) will receive $1,083,233 from the New York State Office For People With Developmental Disabilities (OPWDD) to start anewcommunity living programfor Westchester adults with autism. The money is part of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) Balancing Incentive Program.“The right support can make a world of difference,” said Lowey. “This money will help autistic adults in Westchester lead productive, healthy lives. I’m immensely proud of the work NNNY will undertake, and I will continue to support initiatives that help improve the quality of life for individuals in the Lower Hudson Valley.”NNNY will promote a new living paradigm for adults with autism by creating neighborhood support networks that lead to productive, enriched lives with greater independence. Individuals will have the opportunity to live in an apartment alone, with a roommate, or with a trained family. Apartments will be equipped with remote technology tailored to the medical needs of each person. The program will start in Westchester as a prototype for the rest of the state. Locations are currently being chosen.“We are excited to see the program come to fruition as it will offer a unique opportunity for Westchester residents with autism to remain active and engaged in community activities, and live productive lives, just like everyone else,” said Ilene Lainer, President of New York Collaborates for Autism. “A longtime supporter of New York Collaborates for Autism and The New York-Presbyterian Center for Autism and the Developing Brain, Congresswoman Nita Lowey was instrumental in making this possible, and we are grateful for her efforts.”NNNY is a collaboration of New York Collaborates for Autism and Community Living Opportunities. The New York State Office For People With Developmental Disabilities (OPWDD) awarded NNNY the money as part of the HHS Balancing Incentive Program, which was created under the Affordable Care Act to improve home and community-based long-term services. ###
03.04.2015	WHITE PLAINS, NY – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (Westchester/Rockland), the Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, today released the following statement on the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission’s (FERC) decision to approve the Algonquin Incremental Market Expansion (AIM) project:“I am disappointed in FERC’s decision to approve the Algonquin Incremental Market Expansion (AIM) project. This decision was made without independent risk analyses, consideration of existing energy sources and transportation routes, and a comprehensive review of the project’s environmental impact on the Lower Hudson Valley. We must prioritize the health and safety of our communities and environment.”###
03.03.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (Westchester/Rockland), the Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, today released the following statement on Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu’s speech to a Joint Session of Congress:“Prime Minister Netanyahu made a powerful presentation to Members of Congress regarding the threat of a nuclear Iran. “I share the Prime Minister’s concerns regarding the P5+1 negotiations. The ultimate outcome needs to verifiably prevent the regime from ever acquiring nuclear weapons. The United States and Israel must jointly confront the Iranian challenge.” ###
03.02.2015	Bill Includes Significant Investments to Prevent Grade Crossing AccidentsCHAPPAQUA, NY– Congresswoman Nita Lowey (NY-17), Congressman Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18), and Hudson Valley elected officials today at a press conference at a Metro-North railroad crossing site in Chappaqua urged Congress to pass a passenger rail bill that includes significant investments in rail crossing improvements.This week, the House of Representatives is expected to consider the Passenger Rail Reform and Investment Act (PRRIA), which includes Maloney and Lowey’s legislation H.R. 705, the Rail Crossings Safety Improvement Act, which invests in state and local governments' efforts to build bridges, tunnels or otherwise relocate roads in order to improve the safety of grade crossings for passengers, motorists and pedestrians. In addition, Lowey announced she proposed an amendment to PRRIA that would set aside $10 million to build upon existing efforts like Operation Lifesaver for a national high-visibility enforcement and education campaign.“The Valhalla Metro-North collision never should have occurred, but incidents at grade crossings are all too common,” said Lowey. “The Passenger Rail Reform and Investment Act is expected to be considered in the House this week, and I have proposed an amendment that would set aside $10 million for a national high-visibility enforcement and education campaign. As Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, I will continue to work with Congressman Maloney and my colleagues in Congress to employ every tool at our disposal to take on this challenge of improving grade crossing safety.”“By working across the aisle, we’re making significant investments that will save lives with positive train control technology and safer rail crossings,” saidMaloney. “Unfortunately preventable and deadly incidents at rail crossings continue occurring across New York, and this investment for our local and state governments will ensure the resources are available to improve safety at dangerous, high-hazard crossings.”“Every motorist and train passenger should expect that every possible measure is in place to provide for their safety,” said Westchester Board of Legislators Chairman Michael Kaplowitz. “I am happy to work with our representatives in Congress to makes sure we are doing all we can to make sure we never see another tragedy at one of these crossings.”“Every day, members of our community leave their homes to embark on what should always be a safe commute to work along with an uneventful return home,” said Town of New Castle Supervisor Robert J. Greenstein. “Unfortunately, on February 3, 2015, two members of our community did not return home. In the aftermath of the tragic Metro-North accident, the need to eliminate dangerous train crossings became clear. However, when the railroad grade crossing is located within half a mile of a high school with a large percentage of young and relatively inexperienced drivers, the need becomes urgent. We thank Congresswoman Nita Lowey and Congressman Sean Patrick Maloney for their leadership on this critical public safety initiative. We must prevent another tragedy.”Notably, PRRIA reauthorizes a program that expired in 2009, the Rail Line Relocation and Improvement Capital Grant Program (RLR). As part of an annual $300 million reauthorization with the Intercity Passenger Rail Service Program, the RLR program allows state and local communities to invest in local rail line relocation and improvement projects at grade crossings. In the President’s Fiscal Year 2016 budget request, the Department of Transportation listed railroad intersections as one of the “three most pressing rail safety issues.” In the past, the RLR program allowed states and local governments to make lateral and vertical relocation of rail lines in order to improve the safety of grade crossings for train passengers, motorists and pedestrians.Lowey’s amendment to PRRIA would set aside $10 million for a national high-visibility enforcement and education campaign. The amendment is modeled after the successful “Click it or Ticket” campaign for seatbelts and the “Drive Sober or Get Pulled Over” campaign for impaired driving. These campaigns represent an important partnership between the U.S. Department of Transportation and local law enforcement officials to address critical safety risks.Ninety-five percent of deaths involving trains happen at highway-rail crossings. While deaths and accidents have declined steadily nationwide, accidents continue to happen in New York, the home of 5,304 grade crossings. From 2012-2014, there were 81 accidents, 15 deaths and 23 injuries at grade crossings, according to the Federal Railroad Administration.###
02.27.2015	Urban area security, emergency management, state homeland security, transit grants jeopardized for MTA, NYPD, FDNY and localitiesWestchester and Rockland first responders denied more than $8.6 millionLowey: The Republican majority's Homeland Security shutdown is a staggering display of legislative incompetenceWHITE PLAINS/NEW CITY, NY – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (Westchester/Rockland), the Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, released the following statement on the House Republican leadership’s failure this afternoon to pass a clean, full-year U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) funding bill. DHS is set to run out of funding at midnight tonight.“The Republican majority’s failure to pass a full-year Homeland Security funding bill is a staggering display of legislative incompetence,” said Lowey. “There is nothing conservative about forcing critical agencies to rely on outdated funding levels and policies, or preventing a $40 billion cabinet-level department from planning more than three weeks in advance. It is inefficient, irrational, and an abdication of Congress’s Constitutional responsibilities. I once again call on Republican leadership to end this charade and pass a clean Homeland Security funding bill, which Republicans negotiated with Democrats last year and passed the Senate with a supermajority vote.”Lowey and a colleagueintroduced a clean DHS funding bill that provides funds for a full year, is free of poison-pill immigration riders, and has 192 cosponsors.This bill would pass the House, it already passed the Senate, and the President would sign it into law, but House Republicans refused to bring this bill to the floor for a vote.Full-year funding for DHS is critical to New York City and the surrounding suburbs:In 2014, the New York City region received more than $178 million in Urban Area Security Initiative grants, and New York State received $90 million in Emergency Management Performance Grants and State Homeland Security Grants.The Metropolitan Transit Agency (MTA) - which can't afford to lose a single dollar devoted to safety of riders - received more than $18 million in transit grants.To protect ports, the region received $13 million, including awards to Westchester County, the New York City Department of Transportation, FDNY, NYPDOn Monday, February 23, 2015, Lowey was in West Nyack, NY with local elected officials, law enforcement, and a concerned parent to discuss to highlight the consequences that inadequate funding for the U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) would have on local Westchester and Rockland emergency personnel responding to a rail accident or other security incident in the Lower Hudson Valley.“Playing politics with Americans’ security is a dangerous game,” said Loweyon Monday. “Recent and very public rail accidents have highlighted how an inadequate Homeland Security funding bill would have serious consequences for our local emergency personnel who would respond to a catastrophic railway accident. It is time to end this charade, and pass the clean DHS funding bill that I introduced last week in the House of Representatives.”The derailment of train cars carrying crude oil on February 16, 2015, caused massive explosions in West Virginia, and was another example of the danger of transporting crude oil, which occurs on freight lines in Rockland County, and the need to prepare and train first responders for HazMat incidents. Local emergency personnel are the first on the scene to help save lives, but without a full-year funding bill, first responders in Westchester and Rockland will not receive more than the $8.6millionthat was expected to be awarded to them in 2015.Below are estimates of the grants unavailable to each county in 2015.Westchester County:Emergency Management Performance Grant (EMPG): $363,183NYC Urban Area Security Initiative Grant Program (UASI): $5,305,466State Homeland Security Grant Program (SHSP): $1,489,704State Law Enforcement Terrorism Prevention Program (SLETPP): $710,000Rockland County:Emergency Management Performance Grant (EMPG): $122,627State Homeland Security Grant Program (SHSP): $860,009State Law Enforcement Terrorism Prevention Program (SLETPP): $186,250Two weeks ago, two Coast Guard cutters had to rescue a tugboat that got stuck on an iced-over Hudson River near West Point. In the event of a shutdown, the Coast Guard personnel who helped rescue the tugboat will continue working, but would not have any guarantee that they would be paid.###
02.26.2015	RSVP of Westchester volunteers will help local students build their reading and math skillsLowey: There’s no substitute for a lifetime of experienceWHITE PLAINS, NY – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (Westchester/Rockland), the Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, today announced that the Retired and Senior Volunteer Program (RSVP) of Westchester’s Volunteer Center has been awarded a $106,734 Serve America Act grant to continue its programs and step up its efforts to help seniors mentor K-8 children in reading and math throughout Westchester County.“There’s no substitute for a lifetime of experience,” said Lowey. “RSVP of Westchester plays an important role in harnessing all that seniors have to offer to our community’s next generation. I’m glad our seniors have the opportunity to mentor children and enhance their academic experience. As Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee, I will continue to support measures that improve our communities.”RSVP of Westchester will use the money for training volunteers, transportation, and various programs. Director of RSVP of Westchester Rosario Samudio said, “We are also going to enhance the program by recruiting more organizations that focus on children’s education.”Beyond mentoring children, the more than 900 seniors who volunteer at RSVP of Westchester make a positive impact in the community by assisting homebound older adults with transportation, educating people about Medicare, providing job readiness training, assisting with ordering food, and coordinating food drives for veterans and their families at the Montrose VA facility.Lowey voted for the Serve America Act, which was signed into law by President Obama on April 21, 2009. The law expanded national service programs administered by the Corporation for National and Community Service (CNCS), including the Senior Corps RSVP program. RSVP is one of the largest volunteer networks in the nation for people 55 and over to use skills and talents learned over the years – or develop new ones – while serving in a variety of volunteer activities within communities. This year, CNCS is awarding a total of $17,258,417 to 233 organizations across the country to support 84,169 volunteers.Working through such networks as Area Agencies on Aging, Community Action Agencies, Volunteer Centers, United Ways, social services agencies, faith-based organizations, among others, RSVP volunteers in 2014 nationally:Served 329,400 veterans in activities such as transportation and employment service referrals;Mentored nearly 78,000 children;Provided independent living services to 797,000 adults, primarily frail seniors;Provided respite services to 20,300 family or informal caregivers;Engaged 20,100 veterans who served as RSVP volunteers; andLeveraged an additional 18,500 volunteers to support RSVP activities such as delivering meals to those in need and tutoring at-risk children.###
02.23.2015	Local first responders could be denied more than $1 million in grants for training and equipment upgrades that could save lives following a rail accidentDHS Secretary: “Public vigilance, public awareness, and public caution,” needed following announcement that Minnesota mall named as terrorist attack targetLowey introduced clean DHS funding bill in the House to keep our country and communities safe and strongWEST NYACK, NY – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (Westchester/Rockland), the Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, today was joined by Rockland County Legislature Chairman Alden Wolfe, Rockland County Undersheriff Robert Van Cura, Clarkstown Supervisor Alex Gromack, Sloatsburg Mayor Carl Wright, Clarkstown Police Chief Michael Sullivan, and concerned parent Sarah McTasney to highlight the consequences that inadequate funding for the U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) would have on local emergency personnel responding to a rail accident or other security incident in the Lower Hudson Valley.“Playing politics with Americans’ security is a dangerous game,” said Lowey. “Recent and very public rail accidents have highlighted how an inadequate Homeland Security funding bill would have serious consequences for our local emergency personnel who would respond to a catastrophic railway accident. It is time to end this charade, and pass the clean DHS funding bill that I introduced last week in the House of Representatives.”After a bipartisan group of House and Senate negotiators agreed to 2015 spending bill for DHS last year, Republicans refused to allow it to be enacted and insisted that only temporary funding be provided in an effort to dismantle the President’s executive action on immigration. The temporary funding is set to expire on February 27, setting the stage for the possibility of a shutdown or additional temporary funding, both of which would be problematic for firstresponders in Rockland. To ensure assistance quickly flows to communities in New York and elsewhere, Lowey and a colleagueintroduced a clean DHS funding bill that provides funds for a full year, is free of poison-pill immigration riders, and has 192 cosponsors.The derailment of train cars carrying crude oil on February 16, 2015, caused massive explosions in West Virginia, and was another example of the danger of transporting crude oil, which occurs on freight lines in Rockland County, and the need to prepare and train first responders for HazMat incidents. Local emergency personnel are the first on the scene to help save lives, but without a full-year funding bill, first responders in Rockland County will not receive more than the $1 million that was expected to be awarded to them in 2015.In 2014, the County received $122,627 for the Emergency Management Preparedness Grant and $142,000 for HazMat grants. These investments for 2015 are on hold.During the last two years, firefighters and EMTs in New York’s 17th Congressional District received $489,000 from the federalAssistance to Firefighters Grantfor operations and safety. New grants for 2015 couldn’t be awarded without full-yearDHS funding.Last week, two Coast Guard cutters had to rescue a tugboat that got stuck on an iced-over Hudson River near West Point. In the event of a shutdown, the Coast Guard personnel who helped rescue the tugboat will continue working, but would not have any guarantee that they would be paid.DHS Secretary Jeh Johnson this past weekend highlighted that the Mall of America, a sprawling shopping complex outside of Minneapolis, MN, was targeted for a terrorist attack in a video posted by a radical Islamist group. Anything but a full-year DHS funding bill would hamper local first responders if similar attacks were carried out at public places in Rockland, including the Palisades Mall.Rockland County Sheriff Louis Falco said,“We are at a period in time where the threat from terrorism is ever present and the risk from accidents associated with the transportation of crude oil seemingly occurs too often. The funding provided through the United States Department Homeland Security is essential to public safety and the all-hazards approach to emergency management that Rockland’s First Responder community employs to keep our County safe. I implore Congress to pass full year funding for DHS.”“The number of CSX trains transporting crude oil through Rockland County has doubled in the last year, from approximately 40 trains a day to 80 trains a day," said Clarkstown Supervisor Alex Gromack. “The potential damage a crude oil train derailment or accident could have on our community is catastrophic. Our emergency responders need federal funding to prepare and respond to these types of events.”Rockland County Legislature Chairman Alden Wolfe thanked Congresswoman Lowey for her persistent advocacy with the U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) and Sheriff Falco for being ahead of the curve by putting life-saving communication procedures with the railroad in place. Wolfe pointed out that an accident near the Lake Deforest reservoir would devastate the public drinking water supply because in the best case scenario only 15 percent of the crude oil that's lost in an explosion can be recovered. “With miles of CSX track carrying oil trains through Rockland, the recent oil tanker explosion in West Virginia forces us to consider the unimaginable. The loss of one life would be horrific,” said Wolfe. “The U.S. Department of Transportation must require the ultimate in safety standards in order to prevent disasters across our nation, where thousands of communities like ours lay vulnerable to oil train disasters.”“Given that serious train accidents are happening on average of once every seven weeks, and that one rail car of crude oil contains the energy equivalent of two million sticks of dynamite, we need to act now to protect our children, our first responders, and our communities,” said concerned parent Sarah McTasney of West Nyack. “These crude oil trains are passing right through the center of our lives and one derailment, accident, or explosion is one too many. I tell my kids that safety is non-negotiable--how can I explain to them that entire industries don't care about it?”To improve rail safety locally, Lowey secured funding for an overpass at a dangerous railroad crossing at Short Clove Road in Haverstraw, obtained federal funds for Quiet Zones in Rockland County, and helped secure funding to widen and repair local roads and bridges like the Route 120 Bridge in Chappaqua in Westchester County.After sending letters to the U.S. DOT and President Obama, Loweyhas continued to advocate for stronger safety standards for tank cars and the transport of crude oil.Lowey has been fighting for increased investments in the country’s crumbling infrastructure – including better maintenance and upkeep of rail networks – in her role as Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee. ###
02.12.2015	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey, Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee, joined Chairman Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL) and Ranking Member Ted Deutch (D-FL) of the Middle East and North Africa Subcommittee and Chairwoman Kay Granger (R-TX) of the State and Foreign Operations Appropriations Subcommittee to make the following joint statement today after introducing H.R. 907, the United States-Jordan Defense Cooperation Act of 2015 which seeks to strengthen military and economic ties between the United States and the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan. Joint statement by Lowey, Ros-Lehtinen, Granger, and Deutch: “As Jordan ramps up its attacks against ISIL terrorists, it is critical that the United States does everything it can to support the Kingdom in our joint effort to combat radical Islamist terrorists. Jordan has been a key partner in the region for years and is on the front lines of the fight against ISIL, sharing a border with both Syria and Iraq. In order to ensure Jordan has the capabilities to defend itself and fight to eradicate this terrorist threat, we must increase our bilateral military cooperation and expedite military sales to the Kingdom.” H.R. 907 - the United States-Jordan Defense Cooperation Act of 2015 would: Amend the Arms Export Control Act to include Jordan on a list of trusted allies for which Congress may expedite the process so that we sell Jordan much needed military equipment it needs to defend against and fight ISIL; Support a Memorandum of Understanding to increase military cooperation between our two countries, including joint military exercises and personnel exchanges; and Support Jordan in its response to the Syria and Iraq refugee crisis. ###
02.09.2015	Governor Andrew M. Cuomo and Congresswoman Nita Lowey today announced that local governments and non-profits in Westchester County will resume receiving affordable housing, community development and emergency shelter grants from the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development. As a result of their efforts, approximately $5 million in HUD funding will soon benefit local communities in Westchester.“This funding is an important resource for local governments and non-profit organizations in Westchester County that provide everything from affordable housing to public works improvements for their communities,” Governor Cuomo said. “Our administration is proud to be joining with Congresswoman Lowey to make this funding available once again to the groups that need it most.”“The Governor and I have found a creative solution so that going forward, HUD investments will once again be made in projects in Westchester,” said Lowey.HUD reallocated grants from three programs that should have gone to a consortium of Westchester local governments and non-profits because the County was ineligible to receive funding as a result of its non-compliance with a legal settlement. The consortium disbanded at the end of 2014. Under the Governor and Congresswoman’s plan, communities that had previously been in the consortium will now be able to competitively apply to the State for funds, and approximately $5 million will be directed to projects in Westchester in 2015.New York State Homes and Community Renewal will distribute approximately $3.3 million in Westchester County CDBG funds through a competitive application to allow the funding to be distributed quickly and fairly to the most effective initiatives proposed by local community nonprofit organizations and localities. The funding will be made available only to initiatives located in the areas formerly served by the Westchester County Consortium.Activities eligible for this funding include housing improvements for rehabilitation, homeownership, residential water/wastewater projects, structural improvements to public facilities that will serve special-needs populations, and infrastructural improvements to public water/wastewater systems and public works such as sidewalks and streets. This funding will also create jobs through grants and loans that will foster small business development.More than $600,000 will be available from Emergency Shelter Grants, which can fund the renovation of buildings used as emergency shelters or transitional housing for homeless families as well as maintenance, operation, rent, repair, security, food, and utilities. More than $900,000 will be available for the HOME Investment Partnerships Program, which can fund a wide range of activities including building, buying, and/or rehabilitating affordable housing for rent or homeownership.###
02.09.2015	Sandy Aid grant to scour and upgrade critical and flood-prone bridges, improving resiliency during severe weather eventsLowey helped lead bipartisan $60 billion Sandy assistance package in CongressNEW CASTLE, NY – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (Westchester/Rockland), the Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, today announced an $8,680,000 Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) grant for hazard mitigation on a bridge carrying the Saw Mill River Parkway over the Kisco River in the Town of New Castle, connecting to Mount Kisco.“Upgrades to critical pieces of infrastructure are paramount to ensure that our roads, bridges, and main thruways are safe and resilient during severe weather events,” said Lowey. “I’m pleased New Castle will benefit from these federal funds that I fought for in the aftermath of Superstorm Sandy. I will continue to work with communities in the Lower Hudson Valley to ensure that their infrastructure needs are met.”The Hazard Mitigation Grant Program (HMGP) grant was awarded to the New York State Department of Transportation from FEMA’s Sandy Recovery Office within the U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS). The project will remove and replace the existing composite steel girder bridge carrying the Sawmill River Parkway (NY Route 987 D). The bridge also has a hydraulic vulnerability, is in a deteriorated condition, and has a history of scour problems, all of which are causing concern for bridge foundation failure, a significant factor for repeatedly closing the road during extreme weather events.The bridge will be replaced with a new structure on the existing horizontal alignment and an elevated profile more resilient to extreme weather events. The upgraded access, with improved hydraulic openings and enhanced foundation design, will:Ensure more dependable access for first responders and recovery efforts;Strengthen local communities; andKeep New York's economy moving.“It is important that FEMA addresses our failing infrastructure due to recent storms, including Sandy,” said Jill Simon Shapiro, New Castle Town Administrator. “We are still feeling the aftermath. Because of the ravages of the storm water, the bridge foundations are failing. It looks fine, but the structural integrity has been compromised. It is important this is addressed now before it has a chance to fail.”Mount Kisco Interim Village Manager Gennaro J. Faiella said, “It’s great that there is money being put into the infrastructure.”As the top Democratic appropriator in the House, Congresswoman Lowey was an instrumental leader in the bipartisan effort to pass the full $60 billion Sandy assistance package just days after assuming her committee leadership position last year.###
02.06.2015	Education campaigns, exploring new technologies, increased funding for grade crossing safety improvements among Lowey actionsVALHALLA, NY– Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (Westchester/Rockland), the Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, today will join other federal officials at the site of the Metro-North commuter train collision in Valhalla, NY, where she will outline actions she is taking to help prevent tragic grade crossing accidents in the future.Lowey is calling on the federal government to bolster education and enforcement campaigns, which have proven to be successful. Operation Lifesaver is a non-profit that receives a small level of federal assistance for offering free rail safety education programs. Since it began in 1972, the number of collisions between trains and motor vehicles has decreased by 83 percent. She believes more must be done. Approximately every three hours, a person or vehicle is hit by a train. Lowey wants to ensure that all drivers know what to do if they find themselves in the situation that Ellen Brody did when the gate came down behind her car.Lowey has already been in contact with the U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) in the days following the Valhalla accident about immediately boosting public education campaigns so people know what to do in these situations.On Wednesday, February 4, 2015, Lowey spoke with NTSB Board Member Robert Sumwalt about exploring investments in new technologies to detect objects on tracks that might have been able to prevent an accident like this.These efforts build upon Lowey’s previous work on rail safety. As Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee, she:Inserted language in the 2014 spending bill requiring the Federal Railroad Administration to evaluate Metro-North’s operations;Secured $10 million in the 2015 spending bill for grade crossing safety improvements on high-risk routes; andIn December, encouraged preliminary federal approval of MTA’s application for $967 million in assistance to install positive train control technology.Lowey will be looking for areas to increase funding for measures that help prevent grade crossing accidents.Lowey led a moment of silenceon Wednesday with her New York colleagues on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives to honor those who lost their lives in this tragic accident, offer sincere condolences to the families of the victims, pray for the full recovery of those injured, and thank our first responders for quickly arriving at the scene to help others.Immediately following the tragic accident the evening of Tuesday, February 3, 2015, Lowey said, “My thoughts are with the victims of this horrible accident, I offer my deep condolences to their families, and I pray for the recovery of those who were injured tonight. I thank our first responders and have been in contact with the Federal Railroad Administration and the National Transportation Safety Board, which quickly deployed to the scene.”###
02.05.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (Westchester/Rockland), the Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, released the following statement celebrating Black History Month:“February is Black History Month, where we join together to celebrate the significant contributions the African American community has made to our country.African Americans continue to pave the way in high-profile leadership positions in all fields, including public office, the military, health care, and education.“While we have made great strides as a country, there is much more that must be done to ensure opportunity for all Americans.We still see economic inequality, segregated board rooms, problems with the criminal justice system, and an education system that leaves too many children behind.“This year marks 50 years since the passage of the historic Voting Rights Act of 1965. However, a recent Supreme Court Decision invalidated a key portion of that law, and some states have passed restrictive voter identification measures that make it harder for Americans to cast their voteson Election Day.These unpatriotic attempts to prevent citizens from voting must be exposed for what they are and put to an end. That’s why I am working with my colleagues to update and improve the Voting Rights Act this year.“During this Black History Month and each month that follows, I pledge to continue working in Congress for economic and educational opportunity across New York’s 17th Congressional District, in New York State, and for all Americans.”###
02.04.2015	WASHINGTON, DC - Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (Westchester/Rockland), the Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, today led a moment of silence with the New York Congressional Delegation on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives to honor the victims of the Metro-North accident in Valhalla, NY that occurred on Tuesday, February 3, 2015:###
02.03.2015	VALHALLA, NY – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (Westchester/Rockland), the Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, released the following statement in response to the Metro-North accident in Valhalla:"My thoughts are with the victims of this horrible accident, I offer my deep condolences to their families, and I pray for the recovery of those who were injured tonight. I thank our first responders and have been in contact with the Federal Railroad Administration and the National Transportation Safety Board, which quickly deployed to the scene."###
02.03.2015	Subcommittee hearing highlights need to close security loopholeWASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (NY-17), the Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, today released the following statement after a House Committee on Homeland Security Subcommittee on Transportation Security hearing related to airport security:“Whether in the screening line inside the terminal, or protecting the perimeter of the tarmac, security at our nation’s airports is more important than ever,” said Lowey. “Meticulously screening passengers but giving airport workers open access is like installing an expensive home security system but leaving your back door wide open.”Lowey intends to revisit legislation that would build upon a previous pilot program she authored to better screen airport workers. Currently, while passengers are all screened, airport workers with a Secure Identification Display Area badge can bypass security. The recent case in which two individuals used an employee badge to bypass screening and smuggle 153 guns on at least 20 flights from Atlanta to New York is the latest example that illustrates the glaring loophole. Federal legislation is necessary to implement smarter screening procedures for workers.Since the horrific terrorist attack on September 11, 2001, Lowey has been a leader in enhancing security in airports and on airplanes. She has worked successfully to:Enact a pilot program requiring screening of all airport employees with access to secure and sterile areas;Require TSA to work with airport authorities to improve perimeter security and validate promising technologies to improve screening;Bolster the accountability and integrity of covert security tests by prohibiting advance notification of tests by the Department of Homeland Security at screening checkpoints; andFoster a committed, career-oriented screener workforce by providing basic workplace protections and rights to more than 42,000 airport screeners.###
02.02.2015	Lower Hudson Valley benefits from investments in child care, early and higher education, medical research funding, and infrastructureWHITE PLAINS, NY – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (Westchester/Rockland), the Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, today released the following statement on the President’s Budget for Fiscal Year 2016:“Growing the economy and creating opportunity for all families in the Lower Hudson Valley are my top priorities,” said Lowey. “I am pleased the President’s budget request for 2016 will help achieve these goals by increasing investments in higher education, early education, child care, biomedical research, and transportation infrastructure, among others.”Improving access to higher education brings Americans into the middle class, and would greatly benefit Westchester and Rockland. The President’s budget would:Make college more affordable by increasing the maximum Pell Grant by $140 per student ($5,775 to $5,915), ensuring that grants keep pace with inflation;Invest in federal-state partnerships to provide two years of free community college, and to provide an increase of $300 million for job training programs, including $100 million for a new program to boost apprenticeships; andHelp students prepare for jobs in the global market by increasing investments in STEM education, including a new $125 million competitive grant program to expand opportunities for girls and other underrepresented groups in STEM fields.Increasing availability of child care, early education, and funding for high-need students would reduce achievement gaps and give families the support they need. The President’s budget would:Invest $82 billion over the next decade to provide quality child care for an additional 1.1 million children under the age of four by 2025, and provide funds to help States build child care centers;Expand access to Early Head Start, provide an additional $1.5 billion in Head Start funding to support full-day, full-year learning programs; andSupport our students by increasing the largest K-12 grant by over $1 billion for high-need students.Medical researchis the lifeblood of the Lower Hudson Valley economy, creates jobs, and improves the quality of life for people suffering from debilitating diseases. The President’s budget would:Provide the National Institutes of Health with an increase of over $1 billion in funding to support medical breakthroughs; andInvest $215 million for the Precision Medicine Initiative to pioneer new biomedical discoveries that will allow doctors to identify drugs and therapies that are tailored to work best for individual patients.Businesses, families, and the Lower Hudson Valley economy rely heavily on transportation infrastructure, which is in desperate need of repair. The President’s budget would:Invest $478 billion over six years to make critical new investments in our roads, bridges, transit systems, and freight networks;Create an Infrastructure Bank and for a new class of municipal bonds that allow for private-public partnerships to make use of municipal bonds to raise capital; andImprove the Federal permitting process for major infrastructure projects, cutting through red tape and getting more timely decisions on Federal permits and reviews while ensuring that projects lead to better outcomes for communities and the environment.###
02.02.2015	Funds to help Burke develop tests that can pass clinical trials, leading to better recovery for victims of stroke, trauma, or diseaseWHITE PLAINS, NY – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (Westchester/Rockland), the Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, today announced a $93,300 National Institutes of Health (NIH) grant to Burke Medical Research Institute to improve the performance of tests during clinical trials that benefit victims of stroke, trauma, and disease.“Recovery from serious illness is equally as important as prevention,” said Lowey. “This investment in medical research will help victims of stroke experience once again the full-range of motion that many of us take for granted. I will continue to fight for increased investments in medical research that improve lives, and support the Lower Hudson Valley economy.”The grant comes from the Clinical Research Related to Neurological Disorders program within NIH’s National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke. According to Burke, many patients with injury to the brain, such as stroke, trauma, or disease, have difficulty with a hand movement called supination – turning the hand from palm down to palm up. This motion is important in and of itself, for turning a key, for example, but also for manipulating countless objects in everyday life.“The NIH has given us support to develop a test of supination in rats. This will enable us to test this meaningful function,” said Dr. Jason B. Carmel, Director of the Motor Recovery Laboratory at Burke.Many promising therapies from basic science laboratories never make it to the market, creating a so-called “Valley of Death.” One reason that translation fails is that the measures of function in laboratory animals are not related to important human functions.“Our hope is that lab studies that show improvement in supination in rats will more likely cross the ‘Valley of Death' and succeed when the therapy is tested in clinical trial,” Carmel added.Medical research investments improve quality of life, and also help the Lower Hudson Valley economy. According to NIH, every $1 it invests in grants generates $2.21 of economic growth. In the last 10 years, Westchester and Rockland Counties have received roughly $490 million in NIH grants, making the total economic benefit to the Lower Hudson Valley more than $1 billion.Congresswoman Lowey, as Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee, has fought to increase investments in medical research. She is a longtime member of the subcommittee that funds medical research, and funding to National Institutes of Health has nearly tripled since she joined the committee.###
01.31.2015	Personal stories highlight positive impact of Social Security benefits on the lives of area seniorsLowey: Social Security continues to help give peace of mind to Westchester and Rockland retireesWHITE PLAINS, NY– Congresswoman Nita Lowey (Westchester/Rockland), the Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, today joined White Plains Mayor Tom Roach and a group of local senior citizens at The Esplanade Senior Residences in White Plains to celebrate the 75th anniversary of the first Social Security check.“Seventy-five years after the first Social Security check was issued, the program continues to give seniors peace of mind in retirement,” said Lowey. “People who have worked hard their entire lives deserve our support, and efforts that jeopardize retirement benefits run contrary to the American spirit. I’ll stand up to veiled efforts to dismantle this successful program that helps more than 55 million Americans, including more than 125,000 residents in Westchester and Rockland.”Lowey discussed the importance of Social Security benefits for seniors after a lifetime of hard work. More than 55 million Americans – and roughly 125,000 residents in New York’s 17th Congressional District – rely on Social Security to provide financial security for retired workers, widows and widowers, children, and individuals with disabilities. Social Security is critical to reducing poverty for seniors, particularly among women, 65 percent of whom would otherwise live in poverty.In October 2014, the Social Security Administration announced a cost of living increase of 1.7% for all Social Security and Supplemental Security Income beneficiaries, amounting to an average of $26 more per retiree in New York’s 17th Congressional District.Several dozen local seniors joined Lowey and shared personal stories about how Social Security has positively affected their lives. Seniors talked about how Social Security helps families when the breadwinner dies at a young age, and said that the program helped especially back when women stayed home to raise children and did not work outside the home.White Plains Mayor Tom Roach shared a story about his grandfather, who came from Ireland and was the manager of the first A and P in Westchester. He died of cancer at age 42, leaving his wife with five young children to support. Social Security helped with that support.“We have had many improvements in our lifetime, like sliced bread, ATMs and cell phones. But the most important is Social Security,” said George Kaplan. “It not only helps retirees but relieves the burden on our children.”Bessie Levy said, “I remember when President Roosevelt signed the bill. What he did is save people. We didn't have to support our parents.”Paul Yacker, 91, said. “It's the greatest. I have been receiving it since I was 62. It enables us, with our savings, to live like this.”The group then enjoyed a celebratory cake with the words “Happy 75th, Social Security!” written in icing across the top.The federal government cut the first Social Security check numbered 00-000-001 on January 31, 1940 to 65-year-old Ida May Fuller of Ludlow, VT. Social Security has since become one of the most important support programs for seniors in retirement. During working years, taxes are paid into the Social Security system, and upon retirement or disability, eligible Americans receive monthly benefits that are based on reported earnings.With the 114th Congress underway, Lowey said that the House Republican leadership has already shown that it is intent on altering Social Security benefits to seniors. A measure passed on partisan lines during the first week of the new Congressional term could cut Social Security disability benefits for Americans who need it most. This is a disturbing message from House Republicans to seniors and people who cannot work due to disability.“Rest assured, I will fight tooth and nail to ensure that New Yorkers receive the Social Security benefits they earned,” said Lowey.Lowey has been a tireless advocate for protecting Social Security in Congress. She has:Strongly opposed efforts to privatize Social Security,Voted to shield Social Security from cuts in deficit reduction proposals;Led efforts to ensure family caregivers and women who are widows or divorced are treated fairly; andProtected Social Security benefits from unfair taxation.Congresswoman Lowey’s district staff is available to help constituents experiencing problems with federal agencies, including Social Security and Medicare. Constituents can contact her White Plains office (914-428-1707) or New City office (845-639-3485) for help.###
01.27.2015	WASHINGTON, DC - Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), the Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee, co-authored a bipartisan congressional resolution introduced today with Reps. Ted Deutch (FL-21), Chris Smith (NJ-04), Eliot Engel (NY-16), Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (FL-27), Steve Israel (NY-03), and Peter Roskam (IL-06) recognizing the 70th anniversary of the liberation of the Nazi concentration camp at Auschwitz that took place on January 27, 1945. More than 1.1 million people lost their lives in the Auschwitz concentration camps, making it one of the deadliest manifestations of the Nazi’s Final Solution plan to commit genocide against the Jewish people. Today, millions of people around the world remember those who lost their lives in the Holocaust through the United Nations’ designation of January 27th as International Day of Commemoration. The sponsors of H.Res. 49 (available for download here) issued the following joint statement on its introduction:“More than 1.1 million men, women, and children, the vast majority of them Jewish, perished within the walls of the Auschwitz death camps before it was liberated by Soviet troops 70 years ago today. The horrific methods for systematic murder employed at Auschwitz, including mass executions, gas chambers, starvation, and torture, encapsulated the brutality of the Nazi regime that claimed the lives of over 11 million people and successfully exterminated more than 60 percent of the pre-war Jewish population in Europe. “We offer this resolution today out of our shared responsibility to ensure the world knows what evil is possible when hatred and intolerance go unchecked and basic human dignity is denied. In light of the recent anti-Semitic attacks around the world, most recently in France, it is important that on International Holocaust Remembrance Day we memorialize those lost by standing united against anti-Semitism and all forms of bigotry and prejudice.”###
01.21.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), the Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, released the following statement in response to the President’s State of the Union speech to a Joint Session of Congress:“Tonight, the President outlined economic priorities that will provide a strong foundation for the future. We need to ensure that recent progress benefits all Americans. Now is the time for Congress to:Secure bigger paychecks by increasing the take-home pay for middle-class Americans through tax credits;Provide responsible students access to higher education through tuition-free community college; andPromote work-life balance for families – particularly women – with paid leave and paid sick leave.“We’ve come too far to roll back the progress we’ve made, and it’s my sincere belief that bipartisan solutions on the issues outlined in the President’s speech are possible – and essential – to securing economic prosperity for generations to come. Together we can keep our Union strong.”###
01.20.2015	Top Democratic House appropriator led bipartisan Congressional effort for $60 billion Sandy assistance packageWHITE PLAINS, NY – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), the Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, today announced a $1.1 million Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) grant to reimburse Westchester County taxpayers for the removal of debris caused by Hurricane Sandy.“I saw firsthand the damage caused by Sandy, and I worked overtime in the weeks following to secure $60 billion for the recovery effort,” said Lowey. “These funds will reimburse Westchester County for some of the costs incurred as a result of the storm, and will protect local taxpayers from having to cover the majority of the cleanup costs. I will continue to ensure that communities in Westchester, Rockland, and the rest of New York affected by the storm get the recovery assistance they need.”The grant, totaling $1,172,768.35, will reimburse Westchester County for the removal of large downed trees, hanging and leaning branches, and uprooted stumps as well as sedimentary debris deposited on public property in and along roads, parks, and rights-of-way throughout the county as a result of Sandy’s sustained winds and precipitation. The County used equipment and resources from Westchester Community College; the Department of Parks, Recreation and Conservation; the Department of Public Works; and the Department of Environmental Facilities to remove debris. Four contractors were hired for additional labor and equipment needs, including a tub grinder to reduce vegetative debris hazards, transportation of organic yard waste and municipal solid waste, and the removal of debris from basins.The FEMA grant will reimburse Westchester County for work performed at the following sites:Dunwoodie Golf CourseMaple Moor Golf CourseMohansic Golf CourseSaxon Woods Golf CourseSprain Lake Golf CourseBlue Mountain Reservation and George's Island ParkCroton Point Park and Croton Gorge ParkGlen Island ParkTibbetts Brook ParkWard Pound Ridge ReservationWillson's Woods ParkSprain Ridge Park and Ridge Road ParkMuscoot FarmSaxon Woods ParkKensico Dam PlazaLasdon Park, Arboretum and, Veterans MemorialMountain Lakes ParkNorth County Trailway, MeresteadWashington's Headquarters Museum (Miller House)Wampus Pond and Graham Hills ParkSouth County Trail way and Lenoir PreservePlaylandBronx River Parkway and Cranberry Lake PreserveWestchester Community CollegeAs the top Democratic appropriator in the House, Congresswoman Lowey helped lead the bipartisan effort to pass the full Sandy assistance package totaling $60 billion.###
01.19.2015	Clarkstown Police Officer and Army veteran to join Lowey in Washington, DC for President’s address to the nationTown Supervisor: invitation is an “honor and testament” to Officer’s service to community and countryCLARKSTOWN, NY – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), the Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, today announced that Clarkstown Police Officer Patrick Tobin will be her guest for the President’s 2015 State of the Union speech before a Joint Session of Congress in Washington, DC on Tuesday, January 20.“It is an honor to have Officer Patrick Tobin as my guest in our nation’s capital for the State of the Union,” said Lowey. “Officer Tobin has been dedicated to protecting the Clarkstown community, and fighting to protect the American way of life abroad. His story of overcoming adversity and commitment to public service is an inspiration.”“I'm truly honored to have been invited to the State Of The Union Address by Congresswoman Lowey,” said Tobin. “I have had no greater pleasure than serving my country in the United States Army, and I now get to serve the town I grew up in as a Police Officer with the Clarkstown Police Department.”Officer Patrick Tobin joined the Clarkstown Police in February 2014. He is a former Army Ranger who was seriously injured in a training accident while jumping out of an airplane. Doctors told him he would never be able to physically complete the Ranger training. Officer Tobin had other ideas: he overcame his injury and completed his training. After being deployed once to Iraq and three times to Afghanistan, he was honorably discharged from the Army as a certified Ranger."The Town of Clarkstown is proud to have Officer Patrick Tobin, one of our brave and dedicated Clarkstown Police Officers, attend the State of the Union with Congresswoman Lowey,” said Clarkstown Supervisor Alex Gromack. “This is such a wonderful testament and honor to Officer Tobin’s service as an Army Ranger and now Clarkstown Police Officer.” Clarkstown Chief of Police Michael Sullivan said, “We are grateful to Police Officer Patrick Tobin for the sacrifices he made during his enlistment as an Army Ranger. We are equally proud to have him as a member of the Clarkstown Police Department. We are honored that Congresswoman Lowey will have Officer Patrick Tobin accompany her as her guest to the State of The Union.”The President’s State of the Union address will take place at 9 p.m. ET on Tuesday, January 20, 2015, in Washington, DC before a Joint Session of Congress. ###
01.12.2015	WHITE PLAINS – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), the Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, released the following statement on the five year anniversary of the earthquake that struck Haiti on January 12, 2010:“Today, we pause to remember more than 200,000 victims of the devastating earthquake that struck Haiti on January 12, 2010, one of the worst disasters in modern history. During the last five years, the United States has stood shoulder-to-shoulder with the people of Haiti as they have endeavored to rebuild their lives and futures. “As the Ranking Member of the State & Foreign Operations Appropriations Subcommittee, I remain deeply committed to the close relationship between our two countries and to long-term poverty reduction, economic development, and the promotion of human rights on the island. That is why I have supported, and continue to monitor, the more than $4 billion in U.S. assistance since the earthquake for these efforts.“Significant achievements have been made - millions of cubic meters of rubble have been removed, housing has been built for hundreds of thousands of displaced Haitians, and access to healthcare, electricity, and education has improved throughout the country. “Much more remains to be done and we cannot afford to reverse any of these gains, which is why Haiti’s leaders must work together to overcome the current political impasse and ensure that the people of Haiti have a voice through free, fair, and transparent elections. The continued delay in Parliamentary elections in unacceptable. Today and each day moving forward, all sides should focus on achieving lasting security and economic stability by committing to strong and responsible government institutions."###
01.02.2015	WHITE PLAINS, NY– Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), the Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, released the following statement on the passing of former New York Governor Mario Cuomo:“I am deeply saddened by the passing of Mario Cuomo, a friend for more than 40 years and an inspiration to me throughout my years in public service. I worked closely with him during the four years he served as Secretary of State. “Elected governor for three terms, Mario Cuomo led a revival of New York’s economy and increased services to children and families throughout the state.“New Yorkers are fortunate that, while we mourn the loss of a truly great governor, we can be assured that his legacy will continue with the dedicated leadership of Governor Andrew Cuomo.”###
12.22.2014	Federal grants in 2015 spending bill to local organizations help prevent underage drinking and substance abuseLocal law enforcement demonstrate DWI truck used by officers when responding to drunk driving accidentsNEW CITY, NY– Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), the Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, today was joined by local Rockland law enforcement officials, Westchester MADD President Carole Sears, and Rockland MADD representative Sharon Hittman to spread awareness about the dangers of drunk driving during the holidays.“The holidays are a time when many people are attending parties and social events where alcohol is consumed and,unfortunately,this means that there is spike in drunk driving incidents,” said Lowey. “The 2015 spending billI negotiated that wassigned into law last week contained critical funding to help educate teens about the dangers of alcohol and driving drunkas well as efforts to create a new technology for vehicles to prevent drunk driving. I am hopeful that through continued federal government support for these programs, we can put an end to drunk drivingand, in the next Congress, I’ll continue to make combating drunk driving a priority.”Lowey was a lead negotiator during the 2015 spending bill that was signed into law by the President last week. The bill includes funding for federal grants to help educate teens about the dangers of alcohol and driving drunk.Three grantees in Westchester and Rockland Counties will receive over $140,000 through the Sober Truth on Preventing Underage Drinking Act (STOP) Grant program to partner with local schools and community groups to educate teens in our area. The enactment of the spending bill will allow these programs to continue receiving federal assistance. Wellcore, Inc. (South Orangetown) in Rockland County receives $48,258, while Family Services of Westchester (Port Chester) and Student Assistance Services Corporation (Tarrytown) of Westchester County receive $48,258 and $47,250, respectively, under this program.The spending bill supports another important program called Driver Alcohol Detection System for Safety (DADSS) at the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration to work with automakers to create a new technology for vehicles that will instantaneously and passively detect if a driver is drunk. Ideally, this technology would be available one day in brand new cars, potentially saving thousands of lives.Rockland MADD representative Sharon Hittman and Westchester MADD President Carole Sears, who lost her husband, Andy, in a November 2002 car accident with a drunk driver, said, “The pain inflicted on communities by drinking and driving never goes away. We must do all we can to prevent situations where we are putting our neighbors and loved ones in severe jeopardy. I’m grateful for the efforts of our local law enforcement officers and Congresswoman Lowey’s leadership on making sure we keep drunk drivers off the streets.”Rockland County District Attorney Thomas Zugibe, Orangetown Police Sergeant John Purcell, Village of South Nyack Chief of Police Brent Newbury, Haverstraw Police Lieutenant Marty Lund, Stony Point Chief of Police Brian Moore, Rockland County Sheriff’s Police Division Chief William Barbera, and Rockland County Sheriff Louis Falco III discussed prevention and enforcement measures for the holiday season, and Sheriff Falco demonstrated the County’s DWI truck. The truck is a mobile processing van and serves as an efficient, one-stop shop for officers to process drunk driving incidents. Officers can capture breath samples, photos, finger prints, DMV info, and create reports quickly using digital platforms. After processing, drivers are either cleared or released to a third-party to take them home, or they are taken to the police station for further processing. The DWI van is funded through the STOP DWI program, a county-wide initiative that is not funded with taxpayer dollars, but rather the fees collected from drunk driving convictions.In addition to reminding all drivers to drive sober, Rockland County Sheriff Louis Falco III is calling on everyone to be alert. If people see a drunk driver on the road, call the police right away – a life could be saved. If someone you know is about to drive after drinking, take their keys and help them get home safely. “We’ve got to work together to make our roads safer this December and year-round,” Falco said.According to statistics compiled by New York State, 1,444 alcohol-related traffic tickets were issued in Rockland County in 2012, down from 1,945 in 2010. In neighboring Westchester County, 3,673 alcohol-related tickets were issued, down from 4,354 in 2010. In 2012, Rockland County saw 163 total alcohol-related crashes, including six fatal accidents, while in the same year Westchester had 387 alcohol-related crashes with 10 of those proving fatal.Congresswoman Lowey has been a leader in enacting strong laws to keep unsafe drivers off the road. In 2000, Lowey successfully passed legislation requiring states to enact a maximum Blood Alcohol Content (BAC) level of .08 as a condition of receiving federal transportation assistance, which prompted all 50 states and the District of Columbia to implement this commonsense policy. In July 2014, Lowey introduced Alisa’s Law, a bill that would encourage states to require the use of ignition interlock devices for a minimum of six months for all convicted drunk driving offenders. This type of approach has proven successful in New York since the state passed “Leandra’s Law” in 2010.###
12.18.2014	Historic U.S. Department of Transportation loan would bring positive train control to MTA rail systemLowey called for positive train control technology following the aftermath of the December 2013 Metro North accidentWHITE PLAINS, NY– Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), the Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, today applauded the U.S. Department of Transportation’s (DOT) preliminary approval of the New York Metropolitan Transit Authority’s (MTA) application for a $967 million loan to install positive train control (PTC) technology for Long Island Railroad and Metro-North Commuter Railroad. This is an important step forward in the loan approval process, which if ultimately approved will allow MTA to install life-saving safety improvements on commuter rail lines. “I’m pleased that MTA’s application to install positive train control technology has cleared this important hurdle,” said Lowey. “Securing this funding would help ensure that disastrous events like the December 2013 Metro North accident never happen again. Over the last year, I have worked tirelessly to highlight the need for additional resources to help commuter railroads install PTC, and I will continue to work with federal and state officials to ensure that MTA gets the resources it needs to keep its riders safe.”The loan application has been submitted to DOT’s Federal Railroad Administration's (FRA) Railroad Rehabilitation and Improvement Financing Program (RRIF) program. Under this program, loan funding can be used to acquire, improve, or rehabilitate intermodal or rail equipment or facilities, including track, components of track, bridges, yards, buildings and shops; refinance outstanding debt incurred for the purposes listed above; and develop or establish new intermodal or railroad facilities.Direct loans can fund up to 100% of a railroad project with repayment periods of up to 35 years and interest rates equal to the cost of borrowing from the government. Eligible borrowers include railroads, state and local governments, government-sponsored authorities and corporations, joint ventures that include at least one railroad, and limited option freight shippers who intend to construct a new rail connection.By law, railroads are expected to implement PTC systems, which prevent collisions and derailments by ensuring that trains are not travelling at excessive speeds, by December 31, 2015. In the aftermath of the December 1, 2013 Metro-North crash, the Federal Railroad Administration launched a “Deep Dive” safety assessment of Metro-North's operations. In a January 2014 spending bill, Lowey required DOT to release its report to Congress, which highlighted deficiencies in Metro-North's safety protocols and training.As Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee, Lowey has also repeatedly highlighted the need for additional funding for PTC installation, raising the issue with her colleagues on the Committee during hearings and markups and with Secretary Foxx. During the markup of the FY 2015 Transportation, Housing and Urban Development (THUD) bill, she offered an amendment in support of the President’s budget request to include $825 million in the bill to help with positive train control implementation.###
12.17.2014	EPA funds to help Purchase College implement green infrastructure and retrofit campus pavementPURCHASE, NY– Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), the Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, today announced a $765,000 federal grant from the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to Purchase College to implement green infrastructure when retrofitting campus pavement.“We must do all we can to create a sustainable environment and pass along a greener planet to the next generation,” said Lowey. “These federal dollars are helping communities across New York and right here in Purchase maintain our natural surroundings, create safer communities, and reduce our carbon footprint. As Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee, I will continue to protect funding that enhances our ability to create a sustainable future for the Lower Hudson Valley.”Funded by EPA, the grant was awarded through the New York State Clean Water Revolving Fund’s Green Innovation Grant Program, and will allow Purchase College to implement green infrastructure practices as a living laboratory for students and the general public. Bioretention and porous pavement retrofits will be used to demonstrate how green infrastructure can be incorporated through the larger campus and improve water quality of Blind Brook, which flows into the Long Island Sound.“We look forward to the environmental benefits that the grant accrues,” said Tom Kelly, Senior Energy Manager at Purchase College. “We plan to put in two green infrastructure projects. One is porous pavement so that when the water flows, rather than it go down the storm drain, it will permeate the surface, water the grass, alleviating ponding on the sidewalks, and the earth will get much needed water. The other is a bioswale to divert water away from the hardscape and letting the earth take care of it. Everyone here is happy to have the ability to give back to the college and to the environment.”Congresswoman Lowey is a leader in the fight to protect America's air, land, and water, and to stop global climate change. She is consistently among the Members of Congress rated highest by the League of Conservation Voters (LVC). As former Co-Chair of the Long Island Sound Caucus and a founder of the Hudson River Congressional Caucus, Lowey has secured tens of millions of dollars to protect and rehabilitate these fragile ecosystems.###
12.10.2014	HHS grant money will fund study on chemotherapy’s effects on ovaries and treatments to prevent damage and preserve fertilityNine percent of young population may benefit from this researchVALHALLA, NY– Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), the Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, today announced a $571,274 federal grant from the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) to New York Medical College (NYMC) in Valhalla to study the effect of chemotherapy on ovaries.“These federal investments could help put an end to the cycle of suffering caused by cancer,” said Lowey. “I’m immensely proud of the Lower Hudson Valley’s medical research sector, which is hard at work improving the quality of life for people suffering from debilitating diseases while growing our regional economy. As Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee, I will continue to fight for increased medical research funding that helps women and children overcome cancer.”The NYMC research project, led by Professor Kutluk Oktay, M.D., will seek to reveal the mechanisms of chemotherapy-induced ovarian damage and medical treatments to prevent such damage and preserve fertility. Up to nine percent of the young population may potentially benefit from this research.“I am pleased to receive this funding enabling important research to be done on the effects chemotherapy has on fertility," said Dr. Oktay. “By understanding how chemotherapy damages ovaries, medical treatments can be developed to preserve fertility during cancer treatments.”According to NYMC, between two and nine percent of children and reproductive-aged people will be exposed to fertility-damaging side effects of cancer treatment. While various fertility preservation methods have been developed, medical professionals still do not fully understand how chemotherapy damages ovaries. A fuller understanding could lead to the preservation of fertility during cancer treatment without a need for expensive and invasive assisted reproduction techniques later.Congresswoman Lowey, as Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee, has fought to increase investments in medical research. She is a longtime member of the subcommittee that funds medical research, and funding to National Institutes of Health has nearly tripled since she joined the committee.###
12.05.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), the Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, today released the following statement marking the 73rd anniversary of the attacks on Pearl Harbor:“Today, we pause to remember the lives of Americans lost during the attacks on Pearl Harbor 73 years ago that plunged our country into a horrific war on two fronts. We reflect on the bravery, courage, and sacrifice made by all who were affected on this day so many years ago as well as the millions more who have answered the call of duty in the decades since. World War II changed our country forever by modernizing our Armed Forces, reinvigorating manufacturing across our Nation, and asserting the leadership of the United States across the globe.“As we honor members of the greatest generation who protected the American way of life in the face of tyranny, we must also keep in mind a new generation fighting overseas today to defend the cause of freedom and democracy. The courage of our men and women in uniform is an inspiration to us all, and I am deeply committed to ensuring that all those who faithfully defend our nation receive the recognition and the benefits they deserve.”###
12.04.2014	WASHINGTON, DC– Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), the Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, today released the following statement on the Staten Island grand jury decision:“Yesterday’s grand jury decision in Staten Island stirs emotions in communities throughout the United States. My thoughts and prayers are with the Garner family as they grieve, and I hope anger and frustration about the decision will be channeled in a peaceful and constructive way. “I respect the difficult jobs of law enforcement officers, who risk their lives to protect us. We empower officers to use force in certain circumstances and entrust them not to abuse that power. Those who violate regulations, laws, or civil rights must be held accountable. “We must all help foster a climate of community engagement, de-escalation of conflicts, and accountability for wrongdoing. I am pleased the Department of Justice will investigate whether Eric Garner's rights were violated and continue to support community policing to establish and fortify trust between officers and civilians.”###
12.02.2014	Federal grants for film, music, and digital history projectsWHITE PLAINS, NY– Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), the Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, today announced $75,000 in federal grants to three arts organizations in Westchester County. The National Endowment for the Arts (NEA) awarded $35,000 to the Jacob Burns Film Center (JBFC) of Pleasantville for a film series and $10,000 to Copland House, Inc. of Peekskill for a concert series. The National Endowment for the Humanities (NEH) awarded $30,000 to Historic Hudson Valley of Pocantico Hills for a digital arts project.“Fostering our local creative economy is a smart investment,” said Lowey. “These grant dollars will help promote our tremendous arts culture, enable arts education, and support additional tourism for the region. As Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, I will continue to protect funding for programs that celebrate the richness of the Lower Hudson Valley community.”JBFC will use the $35,000 NEA grant for the International Understanding Through Film program, a year-long initiative featuring screenings from various countries as well as opportunities for audience dialog with directors, actors, screenwriters, and filmmakers-in-residence from around the globe.“We are honored to receive this important recognition from the NEA,” said JBFC Executive Director Edie Demas. “Its support helps us deliver unique programming that uses the art of film to promote understanding about cultures other than our own.”Copland House will feature programs with music by such composers as Leonard Bernstein, Marc Blitzstein, John Harbison, Jennifer Higdon, John Musto, and George Perle. Concerts will take place at the historic Merestead estate in Mount Kisco, New York, as well as at Copland's National Historic Landmark home in Cortlandt Manor, New York, and other venues in the region. Educational activities will include commentary during performances and question-and-answer discussions. Concerts will be recorded for future broadcast on WWFM public radio.“We are always thrilled to receive support from the NEA, which we regard as a real vote of confidence in the content and quality of the work we do. And the NEA support helps us to champion America’s rich musical heritage for the people of Westchester and beyond,” said Michael Boriskin, Artistic and Executive Director of Copland House.Historic Hudson Valley will use the NEH grant to build and maintain a website for its “Slavery in the North” project.“We are thrilled to have been awarded this prestigious grant, which will fund planning for a new website devoted to the history of slavery in the colonial North,” said Historic Hudson Valley President Waddell W. Stillman. “This robust digital platform will enable Historic Hudson Valley to bring the powerful history we present at Philipsburg Manor in Sleepy Hollow to the widest possible audience. We are extraordinarily grateful for the NEH’s long-standing partnership and support.”Congresswoman Lowey has been stalwart in her defense of the National Endowment for the Arts (NEA) and served on the prestigious National Council for the Arts in recognition of her leadership. Each year, Lowey celebrates local artistic talent through the Congressional Art Competition, a nationwide high school visual art competition to recognize and encourage artistic talent in the nation and in each congressional district.###
12.02.2014	Federal Funds Will Cover Costs of Repairing Retaining Walls & Bulkhead, Replacing Docks, Electrical System at Memorial Park & MarinaNYACK, NY- Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) and U.S. Senators Charles E. Schumer and Kirsten Gillibrand today announced that the Village of Nyack will receive $1,762,175.82 in federal funds to cover costs for repairs made to Memorial Park and the local marina, which were damaged during Hurricane Sandy. The funding is being allocated through the Federal Emergency Management Agency’s (FEMA) public assistance grant program. As a result of Hurricane Sandy, the Village of Nyack needs to repair many of the retaining walls in Memorial Park, which is an outlet of Nyack Creek. The village also needs to replace many docks and retaining walls at the marina along with the public launch dock. Finally, the village must replace the entire electrical system for the marina, as well as two-thirds of the bulkhead barrier, both of which were destroyed in the storm. The village will also be reimbursed for other small repairs it made throughout the park and marina. The total cost of the project is $1,957,973.13, and FEMA covers 90 percent of the village’s costs.“I’m pleased to see more federal dollars going to reimburse localities for damage caused by Hurricane Sandy,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “We have made much progress, but there is still plenty of work that remains. This grant money will help ease the burden on local taxpayers. As Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee, I fought tirelessly to secure the $60 billion aid package following Sandy, and I will continue to work with communities in Rockland and Westchester until their needs are met.” “I applaud FEMA for recognizing the importance of this project and cutting through the bureaucratic red tape to enable the Village of Nyack to make repairs to its marina and to Memorial Park, both of which were victims of Hurricane Sandy’s wrath,” said Senator Schumer. “These Nyack treasures suffered serious damage during Hurricane Sandy and this federal disaster assistance goes a long way in taking the cost burden off of taxpayers and reassuring local residents that the federal government will be there as they continue their recovery efforts.”“This is great news for the Village of Nyack,” said Senator Gillibrand. “This critical FEMA funding will help provide the village with much-needed resources needed to help in their recovery efforts as they work to restore the marina area and Memorial Park. I will continue to work with my colleagues at every level of government to ensure communities impacted by Superstorm Sandy can rebuild, with even stronger infrastructure that better withstands future storms.” “This funding will allow us to restore a unique and valuable village asset, our waterfront and finally put an end to the devastation left by Hurricane Sandy,” saidJen White, Mayor of the Village of Nyack. “We are so grateful to FEMA and all of our Federal officials.”Through the public assistance program, FEMA provides reimbursement funding for eligible projects including those related to debris removal, emergency protective measures, and the repair, replacement, or restoration of disaster-damaged, publicly owned facilities and the facilities of certain Private Non-Profit (PNP) organizations. The PA Program also encourages protection of these damaged facilities from future events by providing assistance for hazard mitigation measures during the recovery process. This reimbursement program is a cost share program, with the Federal government covering 90 percent of eligible costs.###
11.26.2014	Open Door Family Medical Center to operate free school-based health services, putting quality care within arm’s reach of 1,300 studentsOSSINING, NY– Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), the Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, announced today that Open Door Family Medical Centers (Open Door) will launch a school-based health center at Ossining High School to provide no-cost health services to students. The U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS), which this week announced that it would provide $1,950,387 million in federal funding to Open Door for operating expenses, informed the organization that it could use funding to expand its school-based health care operation to Ossining High School.“We cannot compromise when it comes to the health and well-being of our young people,” said Lowey. “I’m thrilled that Open Door is now able to partner with Ossining High School to put basic health care services within arm’s reach of hundreds of students. We need to do all we can to make it easier for families to access quality health care, and I will continue to protect funding for critical programs that do just that in my role as Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee.”Open Door will provide school-based health care services at Ossining High School, including a nurse practitioner with access to a doctor as well as support staff. With parents’ permission, the health center will provide the school’s 1,300 students the opportunity to access no-cost primary health care services, such as physicals, immunizations, wellness visits, chronic disease management, hearing and vision screenings, and mental health screenings. The health center will also help students and their families manage significant health concerns, like asthma and obesity, before they lead to bigger problems.“We’re very excited,” said Ossining Union Free School District Superintendent of Schools Raymond Sanchez. “We had a committee that explored this opportunity, and we know it will be beneficial to our students. Research shows that wellness influences student achievement. Philosophically, we agree this will have a direct impact. Students who are healthy are better prepared and ready to learn. This helps us achieve a robust level of resources, and, of course, Open Door is a great organization.”Lindsay Farrell, President and Chief Executive Officer of Open Door Family Medical Centers, said, “We recognize the importance of school-based health centers in addressing unequal access to primary care services, particularly for low-income families. This is the ultimate model of preventive care because the children are so receptive, and establish a trusted relationship with the nurse practitioner. We have a fantastic relationship with the Ossining School District, which is so forward-thinking. And, if it weren’t for Nita Lowey’s leadership, we would never have gotten into school health. It will be open soon. We are nearly there.”Congresswoman Lowey believes good health is critical to children’s ability to grow and develop. In addition to protecting initiatives that expand access to quality health care services for students, Congresswoman Lowey has worked to:Combat childhood obesity through access to proper nutrition and physical education; andProtect children from food allergies through clear labeling and helping schools prevent and respond to reactions.###
11.24.2014	Federal funding set to expire during the holiday season, jeopardizing food security for over 1000 Meals on Wheels Rockland participantsAs Congress debates must-pass spending bill, Lowey vows to protect funding for senior nutrition programsNANUET, NY– Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), the Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, today visited Meals on Wheels Programs & Services of Rockland, Inc. (MOW Rockland) to highlight the impact of federal nutrition program funding on the well-being of Rockland seniors during Thanksgiving and the holiday season.“As we prepare for the holiday season, we simply cannot leave the neediest among us out in the cold,” said Lowey. “Meals on Wheels of Rockland provides a vital service to hundreds of seniors throughout the county, and these federal dollars help enable the organization to carry out their noble mission. As the Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee, I’ll be working to protect funding for senior nutrition as Congress debates a must-pass spending bill.”Congress must pass a spending bill by December 11, 2014, to keep the government open. As Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, Lowey will be fighting to protect funding levels for critical programs that help the neediest among us, including senior nutrition programs that benefit hundreds of Rockland seniors who are unable to shop or prepare their own food.“Our seniors count on us to provide them with delicious, nutritionally-balanced meals that help ensure their food security,” said Jim Burton, Vice President for Operations at MOW Rockland. “With more than 9 million meals served during the previous 40 years in Rockland, Meals on Wheels has been giving seniors the peace of mind knowing where their next meal will come from. Approximately 50 percent of our budget comes from government sources and allows us to assist seniors with their greatest need, including many low-income and minority individuals. We applaud Congresswoman Lowey’s vigilant efforts to protect federal funding for Administration on Aging programs that help us shield seniors from premature institutionalization and the loss of independence.”MOW Rockland receives more than $1.3 million in federal money from the Administration on Aging’s Congregate, Home Delivered, and Nutrition Services Incentive Program to help implement its mission. The organization serves roughly 450 homebound residents in Rockland County and, this year, 175 MOW Rockland volunteers are on course to deliver 160,000 meals to homebound residents unable to shop or prepare their own meals, an increase from 122,000 in 2011.Lowey and other participants then visited MOW Rockland’s Clarkstown-Pearl River Senior Center, one of five senior centers in Rockland operated by MOW, to greet a roomful of seniors who were sitting down to a lunchtime meal of potato leek soup, turkey chili with shredded cheese, and pineapple. Throughout the year, 50 volunteers help serve lunch to more than 550 participants at the senior centers. Another 15 volunteers serve 80 clients in MOW Rockland’s Adult Day Care Center of Rockland at the Bobbi Lewis Center.“Volunteerism is one of the most important and rewarding forms of public service, and I’m so proud of the many volunteers helping to prepare and deliver meals for people in need throughout Rockland,” said Lowey.Senator David Carlucci (D-Rockland/Westchester) said, "Meals on Wheels provides critical services to our seniors giving them safety and security through a visit and a hot meal. This holiday season we need to support and prevent critical programs like Meals on Wheels from being on the chopping block. I will continue to work together with Congresswoman Lowey to make sure these programs are supported and expanded."In addition to senior nutrition, promoting healthy diets has been part of Lowey’s larger efforts to ensure healthy communities. In Congress, she has supported healthier school meals and voted against cuts to food assistance for those in need.###
11.21.2014	WASHINGTON, DC– Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), the Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, released the following statement today on the President’s executive action on immigration:“Too many people who are Americans in every way but one have lived and worked in our communities for years facing fear of deportation. Action must be taken to ensure that qualified individuals who pose no risk to public safety should have the opportunity to receive work permits that allow them to contribute to our economy, pay taxes, and avoid fear of deportation as long as they are good standing members of our society.“While far from an ideal solution to a complex and longstanding challenge, this executive order is a good start. I call on Republican leaders to channel their opposition to the President’s action into engagement. Rather than threatening a repeat of last year’s disastrous government shutdown, hold a vote on comprehensive immigration reform, which was written and passed by the Senate on a bipartisan basis last year.”###
11.18.2014	WASHINGTON, DC– Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), the Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, released the following statement on the state-appointed Fiscal Monitor’s review of the East Ramapo Central School District.“I commend Hank Greenberg for his thorough review of the East Ramapo Central School District. All of us including the state, school board, and community must work together to implement the recommendations. "By placing an overseer to ensure that the board acts transparently and in the best interest of the entire district and reforming the state education formula to account for unique challenges the district faces, we can begin to restore investments in our students’ futures. "I also reiterate my call today for the U.S. Department of Education’s Inspector General and Office of Civil Rights to expedite reviews of actions by the school board. All of us have a stake in ensuring that the school district succeeds and must work together to secure a brighter future for our children and community."###
11.18.2014	WASHINGTON, DC– Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), the Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, released the following statement on today’s terrorist attack at a Jerusalem synagogue:“The terrorist attack today in a Jerusalem synagogue was a shocking and horrific act of unadulterated evil. Our hearts and prayers are with the victims’ loved ones. The series of outrageous attacks against innocent Israelis and escalating tensions throughout Israel and the West Bank now threaten to spiral even further out of control. The United States will continue to do everything in its power to help our ally Israel protect its citizens. At the same time, Palestinian and Arab leaders must explicitly condemn terrorism and actively and immediately work to stop the incitement of violence.”###
11.11.2014	WHITE PLAINS, NY– Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), the Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, released the following statement today marking Veterans Day:“Today, we salute current and future veterans across the country – including more than 890,000 veterans in New York State – for their service to our nation. I extend my deepest gratitude to veterans who made sacrifices both at home and abroad in the name of liberty, and we must honor their service with the support they’ve earned.“Throughout the year, I have had the honor and privilege of supporting legislation that strengthens veterans’ health care; improves education benefits for veterans, service members, and their families; and provides troops with a pay raise and veterans with the Cost-of-Living Adjustment benefits they deserve.“In his second inaugural address, President Abraham Lincoln promised to care for those who have borne the battle. I agree wholeheartedly and will continue my work in Congress to ensure that we live up to the promises we have made to those who bravely served.”###
11.05.2014	WASHINGTON, DC– Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), the Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, released the following statement on today’s terrorist attack at a Jerusalem light rail station and Jordan’s decision to recall its Ambassador from Israel:“The recent escalation of violence in Jerusalem is deplorable. There is never cause or justification for turning to terrorism, and the perpetrators of such heinous attacks must be condemned - not hailed as a martyrs or heroes. Instead of calls for incitement and continued violence, the Palestinian Authority must take immediate steps to quell tensions and work to protect innocent civilians throughout the city.“In addition, I am deeply concerned by Jordan’s decision to recall its Ambassador from Israel. Jordan remains integral to regional security and stability, both of which are rooted in strong diplomatic engagement and cooperation. “In the same week that we pause to honor the life and legacy of Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin, the goal of peace between Israel and the Palestinians still remains painfully beyond our grasp. Now more than ever, it is critically important that all sides denounce terror, refrain from inflammatory steps, and recommit to making the tough choices necessary for peace.”###
10.31.2014	WHITE PLAINS, NY– Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), the Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, released the following statement today regarding the second anniversary of Superstorm Sandy:“Two years ago, in the aftermath of Superstorm Sandy, we came together, committed to rebuilding and resolved to strengthen our homes, businesses, and communities. As the top Democratic appropriator in the House of Representatives, I helped lead the fight to secure the Sandy assistance package totaling $60 billion to provide relief for New York. I’m proud these funds have helped rebuild communities throughout Westchester and Rockland and relieved local taxpayers of footing the full recovery bill. Today, I continue fighting to expedite assistance for families and local governments awaiting approval, and I won’t stop until the recovery and resiliency needs of my constituents are met.”###
10.24.2014	WHITE PLAINS, NY– Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), the Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, released the following statement today following the announcement of New York’s first confirmed case of Ebola:“With the first confirmed case of Ebola in New York, I have high confidence in our medical officials and first responders’ ability to contain its spread. After thorough preparation and training for this exact situation, the preparedness of our region’s hospitals to handle major public health issues is second to none.“I urge calm as health officials treat the patient, who was recently working to stop Ebola at its source in West Africa, and conduct contact tracing. Ebola cannot spread through casual contact and spreads only when people show symptoms.“On Monday, I convened a meeting of local chief medical officers to discuss area hospitals’ preparedness for public health emergencies, including Ebola. I have spoken with Obama Administration officials about the response and will continue to coordinate with federal, state, and local officials to ensure that our region has what it needs to respond effectively to public health emergencies.”###
10.23.2014	Attack claimed the life of three-month-old baby with family in Rockland CountyMONSEY, NY– Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), the Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, released the following statement on yesterday’s terrorist attack in Jerusalem that claimed the life of Chaya Zissel Braun, a three-month-old baby girl with family in Monsey, NY:“Our hearts are completely broken by yesterday's terrorist attack in Jerusalem that killed Chaya Zissel Braun. Such indiscriminate hatred and targeted violence against innocent civilians, including this three month old baby girl with family right here in Rockland County, shocks the conscience and must be universally condemned.“My thoughts and prayers are with Chaya's entire family in both Israel and the United States, and all of the defenseless victims who were injured during yesterday's attack. Their grief from this nightmare is felt around the world.“The United States must stand fully behind our ally Israel as the Israeli government works even harder to prevent such senseless violence in the future and to safeguard its citizens from the forces of pure evil.”###
10.20.2014	With potential Congressional response on Ebola, Hospitals relay needs with top Democrat on House Appropriations Committee VALHALLA, NY– Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), the Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, today at Westchester Medical Center convened a meeting of area hospital chief medical officers to discuss area hospitals’ preparedness for public health emergencies, including Ebola.“Every link in the chain from the local hospital to the state and federal government must be able to bear the weight of a public health crisis,” said Lowey. “From Ebola to Enterovirus and seasonal flu, we must ensure the public health community has the resources to prevent and respond to any outbreak. It was great to hear about the work that is taking place at hospitals in our community and discuss their needs today. I have fought to increase resources for the response to the Ebola outbreak, which must be stopped at its source in West Africa, and I will continue to coordinate with local leaders to protect the health of our communities.”With confirmed cases of Ebola in the United States, local hospitals are reviewing their procedures and preparedness to identify and handle potential cases of Ebola. Last week, Lowey called for a House Appropriations Committee hearing on Ebola response, and convened today’s meeting to learn more about local hospital needs in advance of any Congressional action on Ebola response.Lowey stressed that a comprehensive approach is required to ensure that each actor – from local hospitals to every level of government – can carry out its responsibilities during a public health crisis. Medical officials highlighted the need for increased federal funding to bolster preparedness and response to ensure we can protect our communities during major public health episodes, and said that preparedness activities are already underway at local hospitals. Lowey has supported a more than $1.1 billion response to Ebola in the last few weeks, including funding for the Centers for Disease Control, United States Agency for International Development, and Department of Defense to expand efforts in West Africa as well as domestic activities. Lowey told the group that she will be fighting in the coming weeks not only to provide the assistance needed in the near term to address Ebola, but also to restore funding cuts that have been proposed and enacted since the Republicans took control of the House of Representatives four years ago. The director of the National Institutes of Health has argued that the United States' medical research, including on an Ebola vaccine, has slowed because of budget cuts, and the director of the Institute of Allergy and Infectious Disease has outlined the harm to research due to budget cuts.“Those budget cuts have left us less prepared than we should be,” added Lowey.Lowey was joined by Westchester Medical Center Executive Medical Director Dr. Renee Garrick, Hudson Valley Hospital Center Chief Medical Officer Dr. William Higgins, White Plains Hospital Executive Vice President and Medical Director Dr. Michael Palumbo, Bon Secours Charity Health System Chief Medical Officer Dr. Rodney Williams, Blythedale Children's Hospital Chief Medical Officer Dr. Scott M. Klein, Helen Hayes Hospital Chief Medical Officer Dr. John Pellicone, VA Hudson Valley Health Care System Chief of Staff Dr. Joanne Malina, Nyack Hospital Chief Medical Officer Dr. Michael Rader, St. Joseph's Medical Center Medical Director Dr. Barry B. Perlman, Director of New York Medical College’s Center for Disaster Medicine Dr. Michael J. Reilly, Phelps Memorial Hospital Medical Director Dr. Larry Faltz, Northern Westchester Hospital VP for Quality Management Kate O’Keefe and VP for Marketing Mark Vincent, and Burke Rehabilitation Hospital Assistant Medical Director Dr. Barry D. Jordan.“A well prepared hospital is an invaluable investment that safeguards against Ebola, Enteroviruses, or any other threat that may arise.” said Dr. Robert Amler, Dean of New York Medical College's School of Health Sciences and Practice and Institute of Public Health.Congresswoman Lowey secured more than $4.3 million last year for Westchester and Rockland Counties and local hospitals through the Hospital Preparedness and Public Health Emergency Preparedness programs.As Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee, Lowey has fought to increase investments in medical research. She is a longtime member of the subcommittee that funds medical research, and funding to National Institutes of Health has nearly tripled since she joined the committee.###
10.15.2014	Ready to Work program grant will serve more than 400 long-term unemployed workers in the Lower Hudson Valley’s health industryWHITE PLAINS, NY– Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), the Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, today announced a nearly $10 million U.S. Department of Labor (DOL) Ready To Work grant for the Westchester-Putnam Workforce Investment Board (WIB) to help train long-term unemployed workers in middle- to high-skill occupations in the Lower Hudson Valley health industry.“The health industry is an economic engine in the Lower Hudson Valley, and we need to continue investing aggressively to support job creation,” said Lowey. “This Ready To Work grant will help workers develop skills and connect them to open positions in health facilities throughout Westchester and Rockland. As Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee, I will continue to fight for increased funding that helps prevent long-term unemployment, puts people back to work, and supports our region’s health industry.”The Westchester-Putnam WIB of White Plains was the lead applicant for the $9,868,337 workforce development grant, which will focus on the target occupations of radiologic and MRI technicians, medical coders, and nurses. The grant will serve 500 people, including 425 long-term unemployed workers.Primary partners include other regional WIBs, Westchester Community College, Rockland Community College, Dominican College, Berkeley College, White Plains Hospital, Hudson Valley Hospital Center, WestMED Medical Group, Westchester Medical Center, and the Mid-Hudson Regional Hospital Center of Westchester Medical Center.The U.S. Department of Labor’s (DOL) Ready To Work grant program supports high performing partnerships between employers, non-profit organizations, and America's public workforce system that will help provide long-term unemployed individuals with the range of services, training, and access they need to fill middle- and high-skill jobs.Congresswoman Lowey believes the government can play a key role in fostering economic growth and work with businesses to facilitate job creation. To that end, she is working to continue economic recovery through:Investments in our roads, bridges, broadband lines, power grids, and other critical infrastructure to create jobs and build for the future;Meaningful tax relief for hard-working families; andResources to help local businesses create innovative products and services, grow, and hire.###
10.14.2014	FEMA grant money to repair and upgrade bridges in Pleasantville and CortlandtFederal assistance comes from $60 billion aid package secured by Lowey in response to Superstorm SandyPLEASANTVILLE/CORTLANDT, NY– Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), the Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, today announced $27 million in federal hazard mitigation grants for bridges in Pleasantville and Cortlandt to enhance resiliency and ensure the bridges are protected against future threats from repeated flooding. The funding comes from the $60 billion Sandy Aid package that Lowey helped secure in January 2013.“Resiliency is key to helping our first responders do their jobs and keep our families safe in the face of natural disasters,” said Lowey. “These federal dollars will help ensure that roads and bridges can withstand another storm on the magnitude of Superstorm Sandy, while creating jobs and reducing the local infrastructure burden on taxpayers. As the top Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, I fought hard to secure the $60 billion Sandy Aid package to help communities, businesses, and homeowners recover and rebuild. I will continue to make sure that the recovery and resiliency needs in communities throughout New York are met.”The Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) will provide two grants to New York State totaling $19,840,000 to upgrade two portions of the Saw Mill River Parkway that cross bridges in Pleasantville. Another grant of $7,440,000 will improve a Town of Cortlandt bridge on Route 9 over Dickey Brook. The grants are part of more than $151 million in FEMA grants awarded to the New York State Department of Transportation for resiliency upgrades to critical and flood-prone bridges that were affected by Superstorm Sandy.In September, Lowey announced $2.59 billion in Sandy aid to New York transit agencies for recovery and local priority resiliency projects. The Metropolitan Transit Authority (MTA) received $2.3 billion, including $37 million for Metro-North railroad power and signals resiliency improvements. The Port Authority of New York and New Jersey received $124 million, and the New York City Department of Transportation received $191 million.As the top Democrat on the Appropriations Committee in the House, Congresswoman Lowey helped lead the bipartisan effort to pass the full Sandy assistance package totaling $60 billion.###
10.10.2014	Center for Community Change Action and Social Security Works research shows 68% of Americans favor the Caregiver Credit ActBipartisan majority favors Lowey’s billWASHINGTON, DC– Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), the Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, today announced a new poll from the Center for Community Change Action and Social Security Works that shows overwhelming support for the Social Security Caregiver Credit Act, a bill Lowey introduced to provide an earnings credit within Social Security to caregivers who sacrifice wages to care for family members and loved ones.“A majority of Americans agree: Caregivers should not be torn by the impossible choice of taking care of a family member or earning less for themselves and their family,” said Lowey. “Congress can be doing much more to improve women’s economic security, and it’s clear that the Social Security Caregiver Credit Act has the overwhelming bipartisan support of Americans. I hope that when my colleagues return to Washington, they will agree that we need to make sure caregivers get the compensation they deserve.”Majority of Americans Support the Caregiver Credit ActAccording to a memo released by Lake Research Partners commissioned by the Center for Community Change Action and Social Security Works, a national telephone poll revealed that 68 percent of Americans favor the Social Security Caregiver Credit. Seventy-one (71) percent of women and 63 percent of men support the proposal.Caregiver Credit Support is BipartisanLowey’s measure is also receiving support from majorities across party lines. Eighty (80) percent of Democrats, 55 percent of Republicans, and 63 percent of Independents agree that it’s time to give increased Social Security benefits to people caring for small children, aging seniors, or family members with disabilities.About the Caregiver Credit ActThe Social Security Caregiver Credit Act, introduced in the U.S. House of Representatives in July 2014 by Congresswoman Lowey, would provide an earnings credit within Social Security to caregivers, thereby increasing retirement income for those who care for family members and loved ones.The bill would create a credit that would be added to earnings to calculate future benefits. The credit is progressive and varies on an income-based sliding scale. As an example, someone who doesn’t work would receive a credit worth around $22,000 a year, while someone who is able to work and earns $33,000 would receive a credit worth around $5,500. It phases out when the caregiver makes more than the average national earnings. The amount credited would be used by the Social Security Administration to calculate future benefits.Lowey’s proposal would be particularly beneficial to women, who make up 66 percent of unpaid caregivers. Because women earn less than men and average ten fewer years in the workforce, which lowers Social Security benefits, they often have far less saved for retirement than men. Providing assistance with an increase in Social Security benefits will make them more financially stable when they retire.In addition to her efforts to ensure family caregivers are treated fairly, Lowey has been committed to supporting senior citizens and ensuring they receive their Social Security and Medicare benefits from a lifetime of hard work by:Strongly opposing efforts to privatize Social Security;Supporting cost-of-living increases that have provided an additional $50 a month for the average retiree in the Lower Hudson Valley in the last two years; andVoting to shield Social Security from cuts in deficit reduction proposals.###
10.02.2014	Grant to Family Services of Westchester will help educate potential patients and caregivers about the signs of dementia and services available to those with Alzheimer’s and related illnessesPORT CHESTER, NY– Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), the Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, today announced a $902,064 U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) grant to Family Services of Westchester, Inc. (FSW) to educate patients who have or are at risk of Alzheimer’s Disease and Related Dementias (ARD) and their caregivers about the signs of dementia as well as available services and treatments.“As scientists research a cure for Alzheimer’s and dementia, we must provide greater education and resources that can improve the quality of life for older Americans and their caregivers,” said Lowey. “Through this grant, Family Services of Westchester, Inc. will provide crucial dementia services to families in Westchester County, and as Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee, I will continue to help ensure local organizations have what they need to support seniors in the Lower Hudson Valley.”“This will really help us progress in dealing with Alzheimer’s Disease and Related Dementias for the people at highest risk and their caregivers and loved ones,” said Marjorie Leffler, VP of Administration at Family Services of Westchester, Inc.Through its Alzheimer’s Disease and Related Dementias (ADRD) Initiative, FSW seeks to improve access to dementia support services and improve Westchester County’s dementia capability. FSW is partnering with the Alzheimer’s Association, the Westchester County Department of Senior Programs and Services, Fordham University, and the Burke Rehabilitation Center Memory Evaluation and Treatment Service.One-fifth (20%) of Westchester County’s population is 60 or older, and 23 percent of people age 65 and older in Westchester are living alone.Congresswoman Lowey, as Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee, has fought to increase investments in medical research. As a member of the Labor, Health, and Human Services Subcommittee, Lowey has encouraged greater funding to the National Institutes of Health, which will spend $566 million on Alzheimer’s initiatives in 2014.###
10.01.2014	Carrie E. Tompkins Elementary School in Croton-On-Hudson and Franklin Avenue School in Pearl River recognized for academic excellenceCROTON-ON-HUDSON/PEARL RIVER, NY– Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), the Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, today announced that Carrie E. Tompkins Elementary School in Croton-On-Hudson and Franklin Avenue School in Pearl River have been recognized as 2014 National Blue Ribbon Schools for overall academic excellence. The two schools are among 337 schools nationwide to receive this honor.“As a grandmother of eight and a former PTA president, I know that quality education is paramount for our children,” said Lowey. “I’m proud the students, teachers, and administrators at Carrie E. Thompkins Elementary School and Franklin Avenue School have been recognized for their outstanding work. I also congratulate the parents, families, and communities for their support of these schools.”“The faculty and staff of the Carrie E. Tompkins Elementary School are thrilled to be receiving the National Blue Ribbon Award,” said Kelly Maloney, Principal at Carrie E. Tompkins Elementary School. “As a school community, we have maintained a consistent focus on educating the whole child. Like our mission statement says, ‘Together with our community we empower each student to thrive academically, creatively, and socially, and to become responsible citizens.’” Maureen Alaimo, Principal of Franklin Avenue School in Pearl River, said, “I am so proud of our teachers, staff, parents, the community and, of course, our students. This is a wonderful honor.”The National Blue Ribbon Schools Program recognizes public and private elementary, middle, and high schools based on their overall academic excellence or their progress in closing achievement gaps among student subgroups. Every year the U. S. Department of Education seeks out and celebrates great American schools demonstrating that all students can achieve at high levels. More than 7,500 of schools across the country have been presented with this coveted award. The National Blue Ribbon School award affirms the hard work of students, educators, families, and communities in creating safe and welcoming schools where students master challenging content. The National Blue Ribbon School flag gracing an entry or flying overhead is a widely recognized symbol of exemplary teaching and learning.Congresswoman Nita Lowey believes improving education is critical to our children’s futures and our economy. Our economic competitiveness is directly linked to our ability to prepare students for the global economy. That is why she has led efforts to:Reduce class size by hiring new teachers;Provide professional development programs for principals and superintendents;Invest in school modernization so students can learn in 21st century classrooms;Increase students’ access to safe and educational afterschool activities when the school day is over; andIncrease access to higher education.###
10.01.2014	Grants to assist victims of domestic violence, sexual assault, elder abuse, and human trafficking locally as national headlines bring issue to forefrontWHITE PLAINS, NY– Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), the Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, today announced more than $3 million in federal grants to local organizations to assist victims of domestic violence, sexual assault, and dating violence. October 1 marks the beginning of Domestic Violence Awareness Month.“There is no excuse for domestic violence, and we must work together to ensure women and children know that resources are available so that they may live safely without fear of violence,” said Lowey. “These federal grants help us mark the beginning of Domestic Violence Awareness Month with a strong statement against domestic violence in our communities. As Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee, I helped to increase funding for the Office of Violence Against Women grants, and I will continue to secure funding for critical programs that help eradicate the scourge of abuse and assist victims.”Grant recipients include My Sisters’ Place (two grants totaling $999,509), Westchester Hispanic Coalition ($500,000) of White Plains, Westchester County (two grants totaling $712,865), the City of White Plains ($295,700), and The Village of Spring Valley (two grants totaling $492,258). The grants come from the U.S. Department of Justice Office of Violence Against Women (OVAW), Office for Victims of Crime (OVC), and the National Institute of Justice (NIJ).My Sisters’ Place(MSP) received a $500,000 OVAW legal assistance grant to provide quality representation to victims of domestic violence, sexual assault, dating violence, and stalking in Westchester County. MSP also received a $499,509 OVC grant to provide assistance to victims of human trafficking.“This grant money will allow My Sisters’ Place to enhance the work we have been doing to help assist victims of domestic violence, and allow our community to better identify and combat the human rights abuse that is human trafficking,” said Karen Cheeks-Lomax, Esq., CEO, My Sisters’ Place, Inc. “We are grateful for Congresswoman Lowey’s efforts to help fund important grant programs like these, and thank her for her continued support of our mission and overall work of our agency.”The Westchester Hispanic Coalition received $500,000 from OVAW to provide legal assistance for victims of domestic violence.Westchester Countyreceived a $400,000 OVAW grant to collaborate with the Town of Greenburgh Police Department, Westchester County District Attorney's Office, Victims Assistance Services of WestCOP, Pace Women's Justice Center, and the Weinberg Center for Elder Abuse Services & Prevention to develop a multidisciplinary approach to address elder abuse.Jane Aoyama-Martin, Executive Director of the Pace Women’s Justice Center, said, “The impact of the VAWA federal grants in Westchester County is tremendous – these grants enable us to make a significant difference in the lives of so many victims and survivors and their children by increasing safety, support, and much needed legal and social services, and by holding offenders accountable for their actions. The Pace Women’s Justice Center is proud to be part of the coordinated community response with our sister organizations, and we thank Congresswoman Lowey for her unwavering support that she’s given for our work in combating violence against women.”Westchester County also recently received a $312,865 NIJ grant for conducting DNA analysis to reduce the DNA backlog. The City of White Plains received a $295,700 OVAW grant to enhance victim safety and offender accountability in cases of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking by encouraging jurisdictions to implement pro-arrest policies as an effective intervention that is part of a coordinated community response.“The City of White Plains is grateful to receive this funding from the federal Violence Against Women Act,” said White Plains Mayor Thomas Roach. “It will be used to assist our police department in responding to cases of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking in a coordinated way that will also enhance victim safety. Thank you to Mrs. Lowey, who has been a crucial advocate for White Plains in Washington, and was once again our champion on this funding request.”The Village of Spring Valley in Rockland County received two OVAW grants. A $192,258 Justice for Families Program grant will help improve civil and/or criminal court functions, enhance court infrastructure and improve court responses to victims of sexual assault, domestic violence, dating violence, and/or stalking in the Village of Spring Valley. A $300,000 grant will enhance victim safety and offender accountability in cases of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault and stalking by encouraging jurisdictions to implement pro-arrest policies as an effective intervention that is part of a coordinated community response.Congresswoman Lowey believes citizens have the basic right to live in communities free from fear and violence. In response to the recent news about violence against women by professional athletes, Lowey and many of her colleagues have written the commissioners of major league sports leagues requesting reviews of their policies on domestic violence and child abuse as well as reforms that appropriately penalize players for committing these acts to help deter violence by players and raise awareness throughout society. Lowey fought successfully to increase funding for the Office of Violence Against Women grants in the Fiscal Year 2015 Commerce, Justice, and Science appropriations bill. In addition to helping prevent domestic violence, Lowey is working to advance commonsense gun safety initiatives, protect children from predators, eliminate drunk driving, and ensure law enforcement officers, firefighters, and EMTs are trained and equipped to keep our community safe.###
09.29.2014	Concerns about Anti-Israel Bias in Academic Programs Receiving Federal Funds Must be AddressedWASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), the Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, today sent a letter to Education Secretary Arne Duncan urging him to immediately adopt standards to prevent imbalanced higher education programs with anti-Israel attitudes from receiving federal funding.Lowey’s letter to Duncan comes in response to a statement from several education and Jewish advocates proclaiming that institutions are misusing Higher Education Act Title VI funding, which seeks to help colleges and universities enhance instruction in foreign language and international studies. A comprehensive report is available here, including complaints that certain Middle East studies programs have become unfairly anti-Israel.“Anti-Semitism is a scourge on society that has far-reaching and dangerous effects. The Department of Education must address concerns that a number of imbalanced programs of Middle East Studies are disproportionately focused on and are biased against Israel,” said Lowey. “Incidents of anti-Semitism have spiked worldwide in recent months, including many that were borne out of protests against Israel’s acts of self-defense against the terrorist group Hamas. It is vital to ensure that academic programs do not become tilted against Israel in a way that engenders anti-Semitism or criticism of Israel that devolves into the defamation of the Jewish people.”The full letter is below: September 29, 2014Secretary Arne DuncanU.S. Department of Education400 Maryland Ave SWWashington, DC 20202 Dear Secretary Duncan,During a hearing in April, you and I discussed the International Education and Foreign Language Studies program, which advances national security, foreign policy, and economic interests. We agreed that it was necessary to strengthen Title VI of the Higher Education Act.I was alarmed to read the attached statement from several education and Jewish advocates proclaiming a misuse of federal funds and that some recipients “fail to satisfy Title VI’s intended purpose, flout congressional intent, and thwart American national security and foreign policy interests.” The statement mentioned a number of problems with imbalanced programs of Middle East Studies that are disproportionately focused on and are biased against Israel. This could engender anti-Semitism or criticism of Israel that devolves into the defamation of the Jewish people.Over the past year, your Department has revised many Title VI program performance measures. While those measures have focused on quantitative metrics, I strongly urge you to immediately adopt standards to prevent imbalanced programs, particularly those that may spread anti-Semitic attitudes, from receiving funds. Additionally, as Congress considers amendments to the Higher Education Act, I am interested in any proposals you may have to reform Title VI to exclude programs with a strong anti-Israel bias.Thank you for your consideration, and I look forward to working with you to improve Title VI programs. Sincerely, Nita M. Lowey Member of Congress ###
09.29.2014	Grant money to develop neurotoxin poisoning treatments, and determine the best therapies for children with cerebral palsyLocal economy to reap estimated $1.7 million in economic benefitWHITE PLAINS/VALHALLA, NY– Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), the Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, today announced more than $800,000 in National Institutes of Health (NIH) grants to New York Medical College (NYMC) in Valhalla and Burke Rehabilitation Center (Burke) in White Plains. NYMC will receive $402,500 to develop neurotoxin poisoning treatments and Burke will receive $398,879 to determine which hand therapies work best for children with cerebral palsy.“The health industry is part of the lifeblood of the Lower Hudson Valley economy, and these NIH grants will help keep our communities safe and healthy,” said Lowey. “Every $1 in NIH grants generates $2.21 in economic benefit, meaning these grants amount to more than $1.7 million for our economy. This grant money will help us respond to catastrophic scenarios, and determine therapies that improve the quality of life for children and adults living with cerebral palsy. As Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee, I will continue to fight for funding that benefits Lower Hudson Valley families and the economy.”NYMC will use a Countermeasures Against Chemical Threats (CounterACT) program grant to develop models and screen FDA-approved drugs to find the best methods to treat poisoning by a potent neurotoxic rodenticide known as TMDT, which has been implicated in thousands of accidental, intentional, and mass poisonings worldwide. A post-9/11 poisoning in New York City prompted recognition of this chemical agent by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) and other federal agencies as a substance that could be used by terrorists for its lethal effects.“My collaborators and I are very pleased to receive funding for this important effort,” said Dr. Michael P. Shakarjian at NYMC’s School of Health Sciences and Practice. “The results of our work will directly inform U.S. Public Health Service and CDC recommendations regarding the therapeutic response to the threat posed by TMDT.”Burke will use their Eunice Kennedy Shriver National Institute of Child Health & Human Development grant to improve hand function in children with cerebral palsy (CP), a pediatric neurological disorder impairing movement that affects three in 1000 babies. Specifically, the research grant will help Burke determine which CP hand therapies are most effective for children, so that hand movements for most everyday tasks, such as dressing and feeding, improve and increase the quality of life for children living with CP.“By better understanding how rehabilitation changes the brain in people with CP, we hope we will be poised to develop additional therapies that will optimally help individuals maximize their movement capacity,” said Dr. Kathleen Friel, Director of the Clinical Laboratory for Early Brain Injury Recovery at Burke.Congresswoman Lowey, as Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee, has fought to increase investments in medical research. She is a longtime member of the subcommittee that funds medical research, and funding to National Institutes of Health has nearly tripled since she joined the committee.###
09.22.2014	Fourteen local community coalitions in Westchester and Rockland will use federal funds to help prevent substance abuse among Lower Hudson Valley youthWHITE PLAINS, NY– Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), the Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, today announced that 14 local organizations will receive a total of $1.7 million in federal grants for youth anti-substance abuse initiatives through the Office of National Drug Control Policy (ONDCP) Drug-Free Communities (DFC) Program.“Our children deserve the opportunity to grow, learn, and thrive in communities free of harmful substances,” said Lowey. “These Drug Free Communities grants will help prevent youth drug and alcohol abuse and, as Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee, I will continue fighting to ensure this important program receives the federal funding it deserves.”In New York’s 17th Congressional District, 14 local entities awarded grants include:Alliance for Safe Kids (ASK) in Yorktown Heights ($125,000);Blind Brook Community Coalition ($125,000);City of Peekskill Youth Bureau ($125,000);City of White Plains ($125,000);Cortlandt Community Coalition ($125,000);Croton Community Coalition ($125,000);Irvington Community Advisory Board ($125,000);Mount Kisco Drug & Alcohol Prevention Council ($125,000);OCADA, Inc. ($125,000), which serves Central Nyack, Nyack, South Nyack, Upper Grandview, Upper Nyack, and Valley Cottage;Ossining Communities That Care ($125,000);Port Chester Cares Community Coalition ($125,000);South Orangetown Community Awareness of Substance Abuse ($125,000);Westchester Coalition for Drug and Alcohol Free Youth ($125,000); andWestchester Coalition for Drug and Alcohol Free Youth ($75,000), for a mentoring program for the North Castle Community Coalition.“These grants provide an essential community approach to preventing youth substance abuse,” said Ellen Morehouse, Executive Director of the Student Assistance Services Corporation, which works closely with Westchester community coalitions on planning, implementing, and evaluating substance abuse prevention activities. “With more teens using marijuana and the recent tragedies of opiate overdoses, Congresswoman Lowey's leadership in making critical funding available to address these issues couldn't have come at a more important time."Susan Maher, co-Director of Wellcore, Inc., which writes the grant applications for a number of the Rockland coalitions, said, “These Drug Free Communities grants will help the coalitions provide education and prevention programming. We are excited to be able to maintain these programs to see even greater improvement over the next 5 years, and we thank Congresswoman Lowey for efforts to help fund these initiatives at the federal level.”The federal grants totaling $1,700,000 were awarded by the Office of National Drug Control Policy Drug-Free Communities Program, which provides grants to community coalitions that facilitate citizen participation in local drug prevention efforts. Since 1998, ONDCP has awarded more than 2,000 Drug-Free Communities grants to local communities nationwide.###
09.19.2014	Lowey led bipartisan effort with Reps. Nadler, Roskam, and GrangerWASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) joined Reps. Jerrold Nadler (D-NY), Peter Roskam (R-IL), and Kay Granger (R-TX) in authoring a bipartisan resolution condemning the rising tide of anti-Semitism abroad, which passed the U.S. House of Representatives unanimously on September 18, 2014.“Simply put, there is no justification for anti-Semitism,” said Lowey. “As a Member of Congress, I will continue to insist that we maintain a zero-tolerance policy toward hatred and bigotry wherever it occurs even as we address the very pressing international challenges we face.”“Tonight, Congress sent a resounding message to the world about America's resolve to confront this ugly and dangerous hatred. We commend Reps. Jerrold Nadler (D-NY), Peter Roskam (R-IL), Nita Lowey (D-NY), and Kay Granger (R-TX) for their leadership mobilizing action against the upsurge in anti-Semitic attacks in Europe, Latin America, and even in the United States,” said Abraham H. Foxman, National Director of the Anti-Defamation League. “We hope world leaders will echo Congress’s call and will demonstrate the will to ensure that anti-Semitism has no place in their country and that Jews have the right to live in security and free of harassment and the fear of violence solely because they are Jewish.”The resolution was cosponsored by 174 House Members, including House Appropriations Subcommittee on State & Foreign Operations Ranking Member Nita Lowey (D-NY) and Chairwoman Kay Granger (R-TX); House Foreign Affairs Committee Chairman Ed Royce (R-CA) and Ranking Member Eliot Engel (D-NY), and Middle East Subcommittee Chairwoman Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL) and Ranking Member Ted Deutch (D-FL).The following groups supported the resolution: AJC, Anti-Defamation League, American Israel Public Affairs Committee, Association of Jewish Family & Children’s Agencies, Christians United for Israel, J Street, Jewish Council for Public Affairs, Jewish Federations of North America, Jewish United Fund to Jewish Federation of Metropolitan Chicago (JFMC), Lantos Foundation for Human Rights & Justice, National Coalition Supporting Eurasian Jewry, and the Zionist Organization of America (ZOA).Lowey’s work on the resolution comes after hosting a series of Congressional briefings with government officials and experts, such as Ira Forman, State Department Special Envoy to Monitor and Combat Anti-Semitism; Abe Foxman, National Director of the Anti-Defamation League (ADL); and David Harris, Executive Director of the American Jewish Committee (AJC). Lowey is working with these and other advocates to ensure that both domestic and international leaders remain resolute in their condemnation of anti-Semitic incidents wherever they occur.Following passage of the resolution, Lowey, Nadler, Roskam, and Granger released the following statement:“Today’s unanimous passage of our resolution sends a clear and strong message that we condemn the rising tide of anti-Semitism throughout the world and that we will do all we can to prevent its spread. In 2014 alone, we have seen increased incidents of murder at Jewish sites, violent attacks and death threats against Jews, as well as violence, arson, graffiti, and other instances of vandalism at Jewish places of worship,” the lawmakers said. “We must ensure the world views such actions for what they are, the vile and hate-fueled persecution of an entire people, rather than an acceptable expression of frustration with political events in the Middle East or anywhere else. The United States must continue to play an essential role in shining a spotlight on the ugly resurgence of anti-Semitism, as well as all forms of religious discrimination.”###
09.18.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C.– Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), the Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, released the following statement on the passage of an authorization for the Administration to work with an international coalition to train and equip moderate regional forces to combat ISIL:“ISIL, which has committed barbaric beheadings, mass executions, rape, and other crimes against humanity, is a global security threat.“ISIL’s tactics, its movement in territories with weak governance, and the fluid political landscape in the region make confronting this threat uniquely challenging. That is why I voted for narrow authority for the Department of Defense to engage a broad international coalition to train and equip moderate regional forces to combat ISIL.“With partners in the region, the Administration must implement an aggressive, targeted ISIL strategy that does not include a major combat mission for American troops. Congress will continue to exercise oversight of the Administration’s actions to address this rapidly growing threat.”###
09.18.2014	Grants to help Putnam/Northern Westchester BOCES and East Ramapo Central School District train school personnel to detect and respond to mental illness in childrenWHITE PLAINS, NY– Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), the Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, today announced $200,000 in U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) “Now is the Time” Project AWARE grants for Putnam/Northern Westchester BOCES and the East Ramapo Central School District (ERCSD) for the training of school personnel to detect and respond to mental illness in children. Each entity will receive $100,000.“Identifying mental health challenges at an early age can help prevent a lifetime of torment,” said Lowey. “I’m pleased that Putnam/Northern Westchester BOCES and the East Ramapo Central School District will have the ability to enhance their services to identify and assist children who may be struggling with mental illness. As the Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee, I will continue to fight for increased funding to keep our families, schools, and communities safe.”The “Now is the Time” Project AWARE (Advancing Wellness and Resilience in Education) grants help local educational agencies support the training of school personnel and other adults who interact with youth in both school settings and communities to detect and respond to mental illness in children and youth, including how to encourage adolescents and their families experiencing these problems to seek treatment.“This is a great opportunity to spread a safety net through the schools and other public agencies for a better chance of identifying people with mental stress and related problems, and help them find services at the earliest possible moment,” said Putnam/Northern Westchester BOCES District Superintendent James T. Langlois, Ed.D.“This Project AWARE grant will allow ERCSD to offer training to their personnel on how to better recognize mental illness and substance abuse in children,” said Vickie Shaw, co-Director of Wellcore, Inc., which applied for the grant on behalf of ERCSD. “We are grateful for Congresswoman Lowey’s efforts at the federal level to secure funding for these important programs that will allow us to help the community.”Congresswoman Lowey has made children’s health and well-being a priority, and she believes that good health is critical to children’s ability to grow and develop. In addition to helping secure these Project AWARE grants, Lowey has worked to:Combat childhood obesity through access to proper nutrition and physical education; andProtect children from food allergies through clear labeling and helping schools prevent and respond to reactions.###
09.18.2014	New grant totaling $684 million comes in addition to $1.9 billion announced earlier this weekFederal Transit Administration grants for New York City, the Metropolitan Transportation Authority, and the Port Authority of New York and New JerseyLowey’s leadership helped secure $60 billion following Superstorm Sandy devastationWASHINGTON, D.C.– Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), the Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, today announced a $684 million U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) Federal Transit Administration (FTA) grant to the New York Metropolitan Transportation Authority (MTA) for Hurricane Sandy recovery and local priority resiliency projects.This announcement comes in addition to $1.9 billion in FTA grants she announced yesterday to strengthen the resiliency of New York City, the Metropolitan Transportation Authority (MTA), and the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey facilities. These areas and agencies sustained unprecedented damage as a result of Superstorm Sandy.Total Sandy funds announced this week going to New York-area transit agencies amount to $2,599,935,147.00, with portions of funding to make improvements to Metro-North railroad power and signals resiliency.“After leading the fight to secure $60 billion to recover from Sandy, I am pleased these funds are having a real impact on our region,” said Lowey. “New York transit agencies will receive $2.6 billion for resiliency projects to help ensure that the nation’s busiest transit network and largest regional economy can withstand and overcome disasters on the scale of Superstorm Sandy. As Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee, I am proud to have led the fight to secure federal Sandy recovery aid, and I will continue to ensure New York’s recovery and resiliency needs are met.” Damage to New York’s transit agencies caused by Sandy affected the largest regional economy in the United States, putting $1.4 trillion (or 11 percent) of the country’s Gross Domestic Product at risk. When U.S. Transportation Secretary Anthony Foxx announced the availability of approximately $3 billion to strengthen the resiliency of public transportation systems affected by Superstorm Sandy, Lowey strongly urged Foxx to award grants to projects submitted by the MTA and the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey.MTA will now receive roughly $2.3 billion, up from $1.6 billion announced earlier this week, including $37 million for Metro-North railroad power and signals resiliency improvements. The Port Authority of New York and New Jersey will receive $124 million, and the New York City Department of Transportation will receive $191 million.As the top Democratic appropriator in the House, Congresswoman Lowey helped lead the bipartisan effort to pass the full Sandy assistance package totaling $60 billion.###
09.18.2014	Grant money goes toward design phase of runway rehabilitation and airfield lighting improvementsWHITE PLAINS, NY– Congresswoman Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today announced a U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) grant of $1.359 million for the Westchester County Airport. The grant will support the design phase to rehabilitate a runway and to install new lighting that will help enhance safe airfield operations during low visibility conditions.“Safety is priority number one,” said Lowey. “The Westchester Airport is an important piece of infrastructure that helps the area economy. I’m pleased these federal dollars will help maintain the airport and keep passengers and pilots safe. As the Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee, I will continue to make sure the transportation needs of the Lower Hudson Valley are met.”This FAA grant will fund the design phase to rehabilitate approximately 6,549 feet of runway pavement. The grant will also fund the design phase to replace the primary and supplemental lighted wind cones, install new runway edge lighting, new taxiway lighting systems, airfield guidance signs, and a vertical/visual guidance system.Congresswoman Lowey believes investing in roads, bridges, broadband lines, water and sewage treatment facilities, and power grids is critical to creating jobs as well as repairing aging infrastructure networks. That is why Congresswoman Lowey:Helped secure the largest ever federal loan from the Department of Transportation for the construction of the new Tappan Zee Bridge;Supports creating a National Infrastructure Bank, which would provide loans and bonds to finance the rehabilitation and rebuilding of critical infrastructure assets;Helped secure federal funding to widen and repair local roads and highways like Short Clove Road in Haverstraw and the Route 120 Bridge in Chappaqua; andHelped secure federal funding to construct and consolidate the fresh water supply for the Villages of Briarcliff Manor, Tarrytown, and Sleepy Hollow, and to upgrade water treatment facilities in Mamaroneck and New Rochelle.###
09.17.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C.– Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), the Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, released the following statement on the passage of a plan authorizing the Administration to train and equip Syrian rebels to combat ISIL:“Last week, the President spoke forcefully about the need to combat ISIL. This terrorist organization’s brutal tactics have included beheading of two Americans and one British aid worker, taking hostages from various countries, and torturing and raping scores of women and girls. ISIL has evolved into an unacceptable national security threat, and failure to act would leave our allies and our interests in the Middle East vulnerable and could result in ISIL becoming a threat to more Americans and even our homeland.“To support one facet of his strategy, which relies on local combat forces, the President requested that Congress provide the Department of Defense with limited authority to train and equip moderate forces of the Syrian opposition. After discussions and briefings with the President and his national security team, I supported an amendment to authorize this narrow Title X authority, which will facilitate international cooperation.“The amendment specifically states that it should not be construed as a broad declaration of war. In fact, ISIL can only be destroyed if the fight is led by those from the region. That is why the Administration is working with a broad international coalition of partners to confront this threat collaboratively with the assistance of U.S. intelligence, diplomatic support, humanitarian leadership, and airstrikes. This amendment in no way authorizes a major combat mission in Syria for American troops, and Congress will continue to exercise oversight of the Administration’s aggressive, targeted strategy.”###
09.17.2014	Grant helps My Sister’s Place expand services for victims of human traffickingWHITE PLAINS, NY– Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), the Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, today announced a U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) grant from the Office for Victims of Crime (OVC) totaling $499,509 for My Sister’s Place, Inc. (MSP) of White Plains. The grant will help MSP enhance the quality and quantity of services available to assist victims of human trafficking.“Exploiting the most vulnerable among us for profit is an abomination, and victims of human trafficking deserve our full support,” said Lowey. “These federal dollars will help My Sister’s Place assist men, women, and children who have been forced or coerced into unwanted labor, sexual acts, or other service situations. As Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, I will continue to fight for federal resources to protect victims from these criminal acts and keep our communities safe.”This grant will enable MSP to assist more trafficking victims in and around Westchester County with comprehensive, timely services to recover and restore more stability in their lives. This includes providing specialized education and skills-building professional development to service providers, law enforcement officials, and faith-based organizations to improve their ability to identify, assess, investigate, and refer or provide services to human trafficking victims; increasing the number of collaborative partners who provide critical services to human trafficking victims in Westchester; and developing an evaluation plan that will assist MSP and partner agencies to improve service delivery and outreach efforts.“My Sisters’ Place is delighted to receive this funding from OVC to enhance the work we have been engaged in for years to support survivors of all forms of human trafficking, and to help those in our community better identify and combat this human rights abuse,” said Karen Cheeks-Lomax, Esq., CEO of My Sisters’ Place. “As awareness of human trafficking has increased, My Sisters’ Place has seen a significant rise in the number of identified victims each year. With this funding, My Sisters’ Place will be able to expand our efforts to combat human trafficking in Westchester County, assist more victims in seeking safety, self-determination and justice, and increase training opportunities and collaborative efforts throughout the county. We thank Congresswoman Lowey for her continued support of this important issue and the overall work of our agency.”Ensuring safe and secure communities is a priority for Congresswoman Lowey, and she believes citizens have the basic right to live in communities free from fear and violence. That is why Lowey is working to:Advance commonsense gun safety initiatives;Protect children from predators;Eliminate drunk driving; andEnsure law enforcement officers, firefighters, and EMTs are trained and equipped to keep our community safe.###
09.17.2014	Millions of lives are improved each year because of U.S. programs to provide safe drinking water, sanitation, and hygieneWASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), the Ranking Member of both the House Appropriations Committee and Appropriations State and Foreign Operations Subcommittee, today was honored for her strong support for U.S. programs that help raise global safe drinking water, sanitation, and hygiene (WASH) standards. The “WASH Advocate” award recognizes Lowey’s strong leadership in improving U.S. efforts to efficiently provide safe and affordable WASH to impoverished people around the world.“Access to safe water and sanitation is critical to improving health standards and preventing disease and poverty throughout the globe,” said Lowey. “While we have made progress, the challenges are still great: more than 750 million people currently do not have access to safe drinking water, and 2.5 billion people still lack access to proper sanitation. This heavily impacts women and girls and causes preventable deaths for millions of children under five years of age each year. As Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee and of the Appropriations State and Foreign Operations Subcommittee, I will continue to prioritize global access to safe and affordable water.”Congresswoman Kay Granger also received this year’s WASH Advocate award. Lowey and Granger worked to secure funding for the Senator Paul Simon Water for the Poor Act, which made WASH an objective of U.S. foreign assistance programs. The House FY2015 State and Foreign Operations Appropriations bill included $365million for these purposes.John Oldfield, CEO of WASH Advocates, noted, “We are honored to present these well-deserved awards. Our awardees work hard to save and improve the lives of millions of people through the provision of safe drinking water, sanitation, and hygiene across Africa, Asia, and Latin America. The 2014 WASH Advocate Awards honor their current leadership, and the WASH community looks forward to continuing to work together to save and improve millions more lives over the coming years.”Every year, U.S. WASH programs bring better WASH access to millions of people across Africa, Asia, and Latin America. In FY11 and FY12, USAID provided almost 7 million people with improved access to drinking water supply, and almost 3 million with improved access to sanitation. This work is now supported and reinforced by USAID’s first-ever Water and Development Strategy, launched in October 2013.###
09.17.2014	Federal Transit Administration grants to strengthen resiliency of New York City, the Metropolitan Transportation Authority, and the Port Authority of New York and New JerseyPortion of funding to make improvements to Metro-North railroad power and signals resiliencyWASHINGTON, D.C.– Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), the Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, today announced $1.9 billion in U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) Federal Transit Administration (FTA) grants to strengthen the resiliency of New York City, the Metropolitan Transportation Authority (MTA), and the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey. These areas and agencies sustained unprecedented damage as a result of Superstorm Sandy.“The shutdown of facilities that service the nation’s largest transit network and regional economy caused unprecedented harm to families, communities, and businesses,” said Lowey. “New York has made substantial progress since Superstorm Sandy, but there is still much work to be done. Federal aid like these FTA grants are essential to not only helping our area recover and rebuild, but also in ensuring that our regional transit system is better prepared to withstand the impact of future disasters. As Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, I will continue to ensure New York’s recovery and resiliency needs are met.” Damage to New York’s transit agencies caused by Sandy affected the largest regional economy in the United States, putting $1.4 trillion (or 11 percent) of the country’s Gross Domestic Product at risk. When U.S. Transportation Secretary Anthony Foxx announced the availability of approximately $3 billion to strengthen the resiliency of public transportation systems affected by Superstorm Sandy, Lowey stronglyurged Foxx to award grants to projects submitted by the MTA and the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey.MTA will receive roughly $1.6 billion, including $37 million for Metro-North railroad power and signals resiliency improvements. The Port Authority of New York and New Jersey will receive $124 million, and the New York City Department of Transportation will receive $191 million.As the top Democratic appropriator in the House, Congresswoman Lowey helped lead the bipartisan effort to pass the full Sandy assistance package totaling $60 billion.###
09.15.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C.- Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), the senior Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, today issued the following statement marking Hispanic Heritage Month (Sept. 15, 2014 – Oct. 15, 2014):“Hispanic Heritage Month is a time to recognize and celebrate Latino culture, community, and contributions to the American way of life. Latino-Americans have made great progress at the highest levels of government, business, and American society, and I’m proud to serve in Congress with many distinguished Latino-American colleagues.“While the Latino story is truly inspiring, for too long, many families have been separated, and futures have been uncertain. That is one of many reasons Congress must pass comprehensive immigration reform.“This Hispanic Heritage Month, I once again call on the House GOP leadership to bring the comprehensive, bipartisan Senate-passed immigration reform bill to a vote in the House of Representatives instead of continuing its partisan ideological fight. To strengthen Latino-Americans and all immigrant communities across the country, as well as the U.S. economy, let’s pass comprehensive immigration reform now.”###
09.12.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C.- Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), the senior Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, today issued the following statement marking the 20th anniversary of the Violence Against Women Act:“Twenty years ago, on September 13, 1994, President Clinton signed the Violence Against Women Act into law, which provided life-saving assistance to victims of physical and psychological torment. VAWA has not only provided law enforcement with the tools to arrest and prosecute offenders, but has provided a lifeline to those who face the threat of domestic violence each day.“With stricter sentencing guidelines, and resources to help prosecutors as well as state and local law enforcement address domestic violence, VAWA has helped protect innocent victims from abuse. Every year, the law funds training for over 500,000 law enforcement officers, prosecutors, judges, and other personnel on violence against women and domestic abuse. The National Domestic Violence Hotline, which responds to more than 22,000 urgent calls for help every month, was also created under this legislation.“Despite the success of this program and the continued need for enhanced domestic violence initiatives, Republicans allowed VAWA to expire in 2013 and attempted to pass a watered-down reauthorization bill. I was proud to stand firm with Democrats in the House and Senate, as well as a number of Republicans willing to work across the aisle, to finally reauthorize VAWA last year. As Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee, I will continue fighting for VAWA funding to strengthen this vital, life-saving law.”VAWA grant money has helped a number of localities and organizations in New York’s 17th Congressional District assist victims of domestic violence, including, among others, the Westchester County Office for Women, the City of White Plains, the Pace University Women’s Justice Center in White Plains, My Sister’s Place in White Plains, the Westchester Community Opportunity Program, Inc. in Elmsford, the Northern Westchester Shelter/Hope’s Door in Pleasantville, in Westchester; and the Village of Spring Valley, Rockland Family Shelter in New City, and the Salvation Army in West Nyack, in Rockland.###
09.11.2014	Bettergy Corporation developing low-cost battery technology for medical devices to perform in the event of power outagesPEEKSKILL, NY – Congresswoman Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today announced a U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) Small Business Innovation Research (SBIR) grant totaling $149,632 for Bettergy Corporation in Peekskill. Bettergy will use the grant to develop a low-cost battery that can be used as backup power for people using powered medical devices, such as suction pumps and oxygen generators, during emergencies.“Small businesses like Bettergy are at the forefront of innovation, and I’m delighted this company is able to develop its technology with the help of these federal research dollars,” said Lowey. “This work will have a real-life, positive impact for people in our community, especially during major power outages. As Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee, I will continue to make sure the federal government is meeting the needs of the Lower Hudson Valley’s innovation economy.”"Bettergy Corp. is grateful to have received this grant under the NIH's SBIR program,” said Bettergy President Dr. Lin-Feng Li. “The grant will help Bettergy further the development of battery technology that will assist in the care of people who are dependent on powered medical devices when there are power outages, such as that which occurred in this area during Hurricane Sandy."The SBIR program is a highly competitive initiative that encourages domestic small businesses to engage in Federal Research/Research and Development (R/R&D) that has the potential for commercialization. Through a competitive awards-based program, SBIR enables small businesses to explore their technological potential and provides the incentive to develop its commercialization. By including qualified small businesses in the nation's R&D arena, high-tech innovation is stimulated and the United States gains entrepreneurial spirit as it meets its specific research and development needs. More information can be found at www.sbir.gov.###
09.11.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C.- Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), the senior Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, today issued the following statement marking the 13th anniversary of the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001:“Today marks the 13th anniversary of the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks that took the lives of thousands of innocent Americans. Let us remember those who perished, recognize their loved ones who continue to mourn, thank the first responders who selflessly put their lives on the line to save others, and honor those who have fought to defend us from terrorism.“The immense pain inflicted will never be forgotten. On this day and every day, we are stronger in our resolve to further the American way of life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness.” ###
09.10.2014	Grant money will improve service and safety through intelligent transport systemWASHINGTON, D.C.– Congresswoman Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today announced that the Rockland County Department of Public Transportation is receiving a $2.4 million federal Bus Livability Program grant from the U.S. Department of Transportation for the implementation of an intelligent transportation system (ITS) for the Rockland County’s Fixed Route and Para-transit Bus Systems.“Thousands of people in Rockland depend on public transportation to get to work, school, stores, and other places,” said Lowey. “This federal money will help improve service and keep riders safe. As the Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee, I have fought for increased investments in transportation and will continue working with officials in Rockland to make sure our mass transit needs are met.”ITS improves transportation safety, mobility, and American productivity by integrating advanced communications technologies with transportation infrastructure and vehicles. The Rockland County Department of Public Transportation was selected for the highly competitive grant in 2012, and will now receive the funds, which are awarded to areas in order to best provide mobility choices, improve economic competitiveness, support existing communities, create partnerships and enhance the value of communities and neighborhoods. Rockland County will be able to use the funding to purchase ITS Equipment, which will greatly enhance the County’s public transit system.###
09.08.2014	WHITE PLAINS, NY – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), the senior Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, today announced a $312,865 Department of Justice (DOJ) grant for Westchester County’s Forensic Science Services. The goal of the grant, provided through the DOJ’s DNA Capacity Enhancement and Backlog Reduction Program, is to help states and local governments increase the capacity of existing crime laboratories so they can analyze DNA samples more efficiently and cost effectively, as well as reduce backlogs of DNA evidence.“Surviving a sexual assault can be the most traumatic experience in a person’s life,” said Lowey. “Law enforcement agencies and government at all levels owe it to victims to provide the support they need and to investigate and prosecute these crimes aggressively. This grant will help Westchester’s Forensic Science Services handle, screen, and analyze backlogged forensic DNA casework samples. As Ranking Member on the Appropriations Committee, I fought hard to provide the resources necessary to reduce the national DNA casework backlog, and I’m glad funding was made available for Westchester County.”Backlogs consist of two kinds of DNA samples: forensic evidence collected from crime scenes, victims, and suspects in criminal cases that often contain DNA, and DNA samples taken from convicted defenders and suspects under arrest in accordance with federal and state laws.The National Institute of Justice defines a backlogged DNA case as one that goes untested for 30 days or more once it has been submitted to a crime laboratory. ###
08.27.2014	Arts and crafts project sends strong message to arts and crafts employer at the center of the contraceptives decision: women’s health decisions should be between a woman and her doctorPURCHASE, NY– Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), the top Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, joined Planned Parenthood campus activists and students from Purchase College, SUNY to create a Hobby Lobby scrapbook to highlight the importance of contraceptives for women’s health, and how the Supreme Court’s Hobby Lobby decision affects the lives of women everywhere. “Given that Hobby Lobby’s business is arts and crafts, this scrapbook should make it clear why women’s health, particularly contraceptives, is important,” said Lowey. “Women work hard to earn paychecks and health benefits just like every other American. It isn’t right that a woman’s boss can decide to not include medically-recommended health services in her insurance package because of the company’s religious beliefs.”Once the scrapbook is finalized, it will be sent to Hobby Lobby so students can share their stories and thoughts about the importance of women’s health. The goal of the project is two-fold: to educate young women about the importance of their health care decisions, and to show Hobby Lobby how their health insurance decisions affect women.“We are so fortunate to have Congresswoman Lowey, a true champion for women’s health, fighting for us in Washington,” said Lisa Winjum, Vice President, Public Affairs at Planned Parenthood Hudson Peconic. “Recent polling shows that women are focused on the Hobby Lobby ruling and they’re angry about it. Nearly three out of four women say this issue is important to them personally. Congresswoman Lowey understands that this is an issue of basic economic and health care equality for women and their families. And, it’s especially important to young women. We are delighted to work with her and women’s health activists at SUNY Purchase to raise awareness about the decision and its impact.”Amanda Alperin, a Purchase College, SUNY student, shared a personal story about her polycystic ovarian syndrome and the contraceptive pill she was prescribed to regulate her hormone imbalances. Her insurance company, which was religiously affiliated, would not cover the pill. What seemed like an easy solution for Amanda became a years-long struggle.“Birth control is something that women need and deserve,” said Alperin. “My insurance company’s religious beliefs ended up affecting my health. The Hobby Lobby decision affects women the same way I was affected and is a step backward in the fight for reproductive rights. I am thankful for Nita Lowey for fighting for women like me.”Lowey called the Supreme Court’s Hobby Lobby decision in June a shocking step backward for women’s health. In July, she joined 159 of her House colleagues to co-sponsor the Protect Women’s Health from Corporate Interference Act of 2014 that would explicitly prohibit for-profit employers that maintain a group health plan for its employees from using religious beliefs to deny employees coverage of contraception or any other vital health service required by federal law.Lowey has been a leader in Congress on protecting women’s health services and access to family planning. To this end, she:Authored the Breast Cancer and Environmental Research Act, enacted in 2008, to increase research on the links between breast cancer and the environment.Passed coverage of contraceptives for federal employees in 1998.Successfully fought to ensure clinical trials at the National Institutes of Health include females in order to understand gender differences in benefits and risks of medications and treatments.Strongly supports WISEWOMAN services that screen women for heart disease, stroke, and, cardiovascular disease, the leading cause of death among women.###
08.26.2014	Healthy eating leads to happier lives and can prevent and reverse heart disease, diabetes, high blood pressure, and other health issuesNEW CITY, NY– Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), the top Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, today joined Chef Peter X. Kelly, Assemblymember Ellen Jaffee, Rockland Farm Alliance (RFA) Board President John McDowell, RFA Managing Director Rachael Goss, RFA volunteers, and volunteers from ARC of Rockland, Jawonio, and the Summit School at Cropsey Farm in New City for an interactive cooking demonstration to help instill healthy eating habits in children and adults.“Healthy eating makes happy living,” said Lowey. “The ecological impact of local agriculture and the importance of healthy eating habits affect all parts of our community, and go a long way in preventing or reversing major health conditions, such as heart disease, diabetes, and high blood pressure, even in those who already have these conditions. The Rockland Farm Alliance and individuals like Chef Peter Kelly are giving people of all ages the tools to lead longer, healthier, and more fulfilling lives.”Participants at the event prepared locally-sourced cucumbers, tomatoes, potatoes, onions, garlic, micro greens, eggplants kale, various herbs, and other assorted vegetables. After making a tomato and cucumber plate with a pesto honey balsamic drizzle alongside young chefs, Chef Peter X. Kelly further touted the importance of fresh, local ingredients as a driver of good health and a strong economy.“As a Chef and Restaurateur working here in the heart of the beautiful Hudson Valley, I understand the benefits to both our health and our local economy of supporting our farmers and the beautiful products they grow,” said Kelly. “As Chefs, we are always searching for the best products available, and introducing our guests to the health benefits of eating locally-grown fruits and vegetables. Whether it is a perfectly ripe peach or the wonders of just-picked kale tossed in a salad eating, healthy can be fun and a true culinary awakening.” RFA Managing Director Rachael Goss thanked Lowey and Chef Kelly for their work in supporting local farming in the Lower Hudson Valley.“Rockland Farm Alliance would like to thank Congresswoman Nita Lowey and Chef Peter Kelly for their continued support not only for our local farms, but also their work to promote local foods and make healthy eating accessible for all parts of our community,” said Goss.Assemblymember Ellen C. Jaffee praised the work of RFA and Congresswoman Lowey to provide healthy eating options that help reduce health care costs.“As Chair of the Assembly Taskforce on Food, Farm and Nutrition Policy, I look forward to continuing to work with Congresswoman Lowey and the Rockland Farm Alliance to provide access to nutritious, locally-grown food for everyone. Eating healthy food saves NY State millions in health care costs, it makes our children better learners, and keeps our seniors healthy at home instead of in hospitals and nursing homes. What better way to grow healthy children, families, and communities, than by supporting our local farmers and food producers whose commitment to healthy eating nurtures our environment and strengthens our economy.”Promoting healthy diets has been part of Lowey’s larger efforts to ensure healthy communities. In Congress, she has supported a number of initiatives to promote healthy eating, such as:The Stop Obesity in Schools Act would provide grants to schools and local government to adopt wellness policies;The First Lady’s Let’s Move campaign tries to solve the challenge of childhood obesity within a generation;The Healthy, Hunger-Free Kids Act, which became law in 2010, contains the most significant improvements to child nutrition in more than 30 years; andFighting for additional investments in nutrition and wellness initiatives in her role as the ranking member on the House Appropriations Committee.###
08.26.2014	Top Dem appropriator joins Patrick Quinn, ALS Association Greater New York Chapter President & CEO, and the wife of a local ALS patient to call awareness to ALS funding needsWHITE PLAINS, NY– Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), the top Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, today joined one of the co-founders of the “Ice Bucket Challenge” Patrick Quinn, ALS Association Greater New York Chapter President & CEO Dorine Gordon, and Bertha Braunfeld, of Tappan, NY, the wife and caregiver of Charlie, an ALS patient, to call attention to the need for increased awareness of Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). Lowey said she would use her position as Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee to fight for increases in biomedical research funding that would help further understand the cause of and, ultimately, beat ALS.“The entire ALS community has brought incredible attention to this horrible disease, and I will be challenging all of my colleagues on the House Appropriations Committee to increase funding for biomedical research,” said Lowey. “I’m so proud of the brave people like Pat, Bertha and her husband, Charlie, and organizations like the ALS Association of Greater NY that have done an outstanding job raising awareness of ALS. It’s time for more investments at the federal level that would significantly advance our understanding of this terrible disease, and I hope that one day we will celebrate finding a cure.”Last year, Yonkers native Patrick Quinn was diagnosed with ALS. In an effort to raise money and awareness about the disease, he teamed up with a number of individuals, including Pete Frates, a former college baseball standout at Boston College, who was also diagnosed with ALS. Quinn was one of the founders of the Ice Bucket Challenge, which has gone viral over social media."The ALS Ice Bucket Challenge has been incredible,” said Quinn. “It has spread global awareness and has raised millions. I'm proud to be an intricate part of making a difference in the ALS community and am looking forward to what this momentum can bring. I'm grateful for the support and encouragement everyone has shown to ALS and patients fighting every day. I'm sincerely appreciative of Congresswoman Nita Lowey's continual support. "In less than four weeks, the ALS Association has reported that donations have increased more than twenty-five-fold compared to last year, totaling more than $88 million and generating more than 1.9 million new donors.Dorine Gordon, President and CEO of the ALS Association Greater New York Chapter, also praised the work of Patrick Quinn, and thanked Lowey for her commitment to defeating ALS, and other diseases, through increased federal research funding.“Over the last few weeks, we have experienced the phenomenon that is the Ice Bucket Challenge for ALS. We are thrilled with the level of awareness and dollars this challenge is generating and we also know we have a long way to go to reach our goal of finding a cure for this devastating disease,” said Gordon. “Congresswoman Lowey has been a staunch supporter of our efforts to advance the search for a cure and our Chapter’s work to assist patients and families in our community. We appreciate her taking the time to meet with us to discuss the need for additional federal funding for ALS research.”As the ranking Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, Lowey has made investments in biomedical research have been one of her top priorities:Funding for the National Institutes of Health has nearly tripled since she joined the committee, and this year NIH will direct nearly $40 million into ALS research.To complement the NIH’s work, Lowey has worked with the Department of Defense to steer an additional $7.5 million in 2014 into ALS research. Military veterans are twice as likely to die from ALS than non-service members, and more research is needed to determine why this occurs.Lowey voted to create the National ALS Registry at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, and has worked hard to provide funding for it. The registry helps to collect information so that we can better understand the cause of the disease.###
08.22.2014	Grants to study Alzheimer’s Disease and encourage disadvantaged students to continue studies in scientific fieldsWHITE PLAINS, NY– Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), Ranking Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, today announced that the National Institutes of Health (NIH), an agency within the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS), has awarded Burke Rehabilitation and Research in White Plains $328,785 to study Alzheimer’s Disease and Purchase College $189,000 to increase the number of minority, low-income, and first-generation students transferring to four-year colleges after completing their associate degrees.“Groundbreaking scientific research happening in Westchester and Rockland greatly benefits our community,” said Lowey. “From encouraging more students to study science, which can lead to good, high-paying jobs, to research into Alzheimer’s disease, federal funding for scientific fields is one of the smartest investments we can make.”For Burke, the funding from the NIH is for a pilot clinical trial to test whether benfotiamine can be used to treat Alzheimer’s disease. The trial is a joint effort by the Burke Medical Research Institute and Burke Rehabilitation Hospital. Many processes dependent on thiamine (vitamin B1) are diminished in Alzheimer patients. Thus, this provides a novel therapeutic target for treating Alzheimer’s disease that is not being tested anywhere else in the world. Benfotiamine is therapeutically more effective than thiamine itself. Benfotiamine is very effective in animal models of Alzheimer’s disease and is safe in humans. The trial will begin in the fall. Lead investigator, Dr. Gary Gibson said “Dr. Jordan (attending neurologist and director of Burke’s Memory & Evaluation Treatment Service) and I are very excited that this money provides us the opportunity to test this promising therapeutic approach for this devastating and common disease.”As the most common form of dementia among older Americans, the Alzheimer’s Association reports that the direct cost to American society of caring for those with the disease is presently $214 billion and will cost an estimated $1.2 trillion in 2050. Investments in research can lead to better treatment for those living with this terrible condition.With regard to the grant for Purchase College, the Baccalaureate and Beyond (B&B) program is part of a larger program called Bridges, both of which are directed by founder Joseph Skrivanek to increase the number of underrepresented minority, low-income, and first-generation students who transfer to four-year colleges after completing their degrees at Rockland and Westchester community colleges and four others. The B&B students participate in five weeks of paid, advanced faculty-student research. Some 90 percent of the Rockland students and 83 percent of those from Westchester have completed, or in the process of completing, their four-year degrees. The national average is 23 percent. Plans are in the works to expand the program in New York, and perhaps nationally.“This is our 19th year, and we are extremely pleased this grant was renewed for another four,” said Skrivanek. He is a recipient of The Presidential Award for Excellence in Science, Mathematics and Engineering Mentoring, administered by the National Science Foundation.Congresswoman Lowey, as Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee, has fought to increase investments in medical research. She is a longtime member of the subcommittee that funds medical research, and funding to National Institutes of Health has nearly tripled since she joined the committee.###
08.12.2014	$1.9 Million in U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs Funding Will Support Local Service ProviderMore Than 4,600 New York Veterans Homeless Each NightELMSFORD, NY– U.S. Representatives Nita Lowey (NY-17), Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18), and Eliot Engel (NY-16) announced today that the Westchester Community Opportunity Program (WestCOP) will receive $1,916,631 from the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) to prevent at-risk veterans from becoming homeless, and rapidly re-house those who have recently fallen into homelessness throughout Westchester, Putnam, Dutchess, Rockland, Orange, and Ulster Counties.“No veteran who has put his or her life on the line so we may enjoy ours should ever face homelessness,” said Lowey. “Community organizations like WestCOP help connect homeless veterans in the Lower Hudson Valley with the benefits they earned from a lifetime of service. As the Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee, I fought for increased investments to help homeless veterans, and I will continue to take every step necessary to make sure our veterans get the support they earned.”“It is both tragic and shameful that thousands of veterans are homeless on any given night across New York and in the Hudson Valley – as the son of a veteran, I know we can do better and this investment is a step in the right direction for the veterans in our community who deserve more from the country they fought so hard to defend,” said Maloney, son of a Navy veteran. “Our work will continue until not even one veteran falls asleep on our streets.”Rep. Eliot Engel said, “Nearly 60,000 homeless veterans in the United States is not just unacceptable, it’s unconscionable. The brave men and women, who have sacrificed so much for our country, deserve to return home from service to find a home and a job. These federal grants are vital to fulfilling that promise. The investment of nearly $2 million will help to prevent homelessness among veterans or help to re-house those who are homeless. It was a national disgrace that our veterans’ healthcare was in such disarray. Just as we took action to provide better services, we must do everything we can to prevent homelessness among our veteran population. I commend WestCOP on their wonderful service and for everything they do to help our veteran community.”“WestCOP is excited to have been renewed for its Supportive Services for Veterans and their Families program in the amount of $1,916,631. WestCOP remains committed to serving our Veterans and the Veteran’s Administration goal of ending Veteran homelessness. The critical intervention with our veteran families is a top priority in our mission of helping people and changing lives,” said Kiron R. Dawkins, SSVF Program Manager and Regional Director of WestCOP.The U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) estimates that 57,849 veterans are homeless on any given night in the United States, including 4,659 veterans in New York. Although 7% of the general population can claim veteran status, nearly 13% of the homeless adult population are veterans. In 2013, Representatives Lowey, Maloney, and Engel announced a $1.89 million investment in the Westchester Community Opportunity Program (WestCOP) intended to serve 450 families.###
08.12.2014	FEMA funds assist with hazard mitigation and save local taxpayers by reimbursing local government for damage and cleanupHAVERSTRAW, NY – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), the Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, today visited Haverstraw’s Bowline Point Park, which received $800,000 in Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) funds for repairs and mitigation following Superstorm Sandy.“Bowline Point Park is one of many gems in Rockland County,” said Lowey. “Haverstraw and all of Rockland County have made significant progress since Sandy, but there is still much work to be done. These FEMA funds helped save taxpayer dollars and restored Bowline Point Park so that families can once again enjoy this magnificent outdoor space.”Bowline Point Park sustained significant damage due to Superstorm Sandy, causing 3-foot storm surges and submerging the entire park under water. The high winds also caused damage to buildings, other structures, and trees. Haverstraw will receive a total reimbursement of approximately $800,000 from FEMA. FEMA's reimbursement of damage and cleanup of Bowline Point Park was roughly $420,000, and Hazard Mitigation for shoreline restoration was $380,000.Lowey was joined by Haverstraw Town Supervisor Howard Phillips, who praised her work in Congress to secure federal aid to Sandy-affected areas throughout Rockland County.“Since Sandy, Haverstraw has bounced back phenomenally due to the resilience of the community, and the great efforts from leaders like Congresswoman Lowey,” said Phillips. “Bowline Point Park is not only enjoyed by us here in Haverstraw, but many others throughout Rockland County. This FEMA money is critical to restoring the park, making it more resilient when the next storm arrives, and not saddling local taxpayers with the cost of recovery.”As the top Democratic appropriator in the House, Congresswoman Lowey was an instrumental leader in the bipartisan effort to pass the full $60 billion Sandy assistance package just days after assuming her committee leadership position last year. ###
08.12.2014	Last year Rockland SBDC local economic impact topped $21 million, created more than 170 new jobs, and preserved 53 jobs in Lower Hudson ValleyHAVERSTRAW, NY– Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), the Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, today visited UNoodles on Main Street in Haverstraw to highlight local businesses that have benefitted from Rockland’s Small Business Development Center (SBDC), administered by the U.S. Small Business Administration (SBA), which provides management assistance to current and prospective small business owners to help them get off to a successful start.“Small businesses are the lifeblood of our community and local economy,” said Lowey. “By equipping local entrepreneurs with knowledge, resources, and assistance, the Rockland Small Business Development Center is helping foster local economic development that leads to job creation and improved quality of life in the Lower Hudson Valley. As the Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee, I will continue to ensure important programs like the SBDC can help improve the competitive position for local small businesses.”Assistance through the Rockland SBDC, which is part of the New York State SBDC, includes building business and marketing plans, training for management, as well as linking small businesses with financing for expansion. Last year, the local economic impact was more than $21.8 million, including $5.14 million in SBA 504 loans and $3.7 million in SBA guarantees. Local small businesses that received assistance created 173 new jobs and saved 53 jobs in the Lower Hudson Valley. Paulo Feteira, a native of France with a Portuguese background, and chef David Martinez, a native of El Salvador, are co-owners of Union Restaurant and UNoodles, and are working with SBDC to open a third restaurant in the Village of Haverstraw. Feteira said, “David and I were able to live the American Dream, thanks to the help we received from the Small Business Development Center and Key Bank to buy this building and make the renovations for UNoodles.”The Rockland SBDC, which serves Putnam, Rockland, and Westchester Counties, last year helped 648 small businesses in all three counties, said Director Tom Morley. Of this total, 266 are minority-owned small businesses, 261 are women-owned small businesses, 44 are veteran-owned small businesses, and 11 are run by service-disabled veterans. Since its start in 1987, the Rockland SBDC has worked directly with 17,147 businesses, helping them to invest $672 million in the area's economy, and create or save more than 9,000 jobs, according to their website.After visiting UNoodles, Lowey also visited 16 Front Street in Haverstraw. The location, the site of a former restaurant heavily damaged by Superstorm Sandy, will become a new restaurant scheduled to be opened in March 2015 by Gary Oteri and Bob Milone. Oteri says they are receiving help from Rockland’s SBDC.“Bob and I are very excited about 16 Front Street and are looking forward to assisting in the revitalization project that is under way on the Haverstraw waterfront,” said Oteri. “We appreciate the help from the SBDC, and once we open, we plan to give back to the community through various events.”“Economic development is critical for our communities,” said Haverstraw Town Supervisor Howard Phillips. “We are grateful for Congresswoman Lowey and the federal assistance through the Small Business Development Center that helps these restaurateurs and other small business owners to start and expand. With them come more jobs and visitors to our downtown and waterfront.””In her role as Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee, Lowey has consistently championed funding for the SBA business loan programs, microloans, and workshops. Last year, the SBA supported more than $29 million in capital to businesses in Westchester and Rockland Counties. Congresswoman Lowey is committed to improving the competitive position of small businesses, the lifeblood of our communities and economy. She has been fighting in the U.S. House of Representatives for:Targeting relief of tax burdens and health care costs;Increasing access to affordable capital and technical assistance; andProtecting small businesses from unfair credit practices.###
08.08.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), the ranking Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, today released the following statement on President Obama’s announcement Thursday evening about efforts to protect Americans and assist religious minorities in Iraq:“The deteriorating situation in Iraq demands our attention to avert a humanitarian disaster while safeguarding U.S. interests with targeted air strikes. We offer our support and gratitude to the men and women in uniform executing this mission. Ultimately, the future of Iraq must be decided by the Iraqi people, which is why ISIL's terrorist occupation and despicable actions cannot be tolerated.”###
08.06.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), the Ranking Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, today released the following statement marking 49 years since President Johnson signed the Voting Rights Act into law:“On this day, 49 years ago, President Lyndon B. Johnson signed the Voting Rights Act into law, helping ensure our union was one based on the principles of freedom and equality.“We have made progress in the nearly half a century since, but we still have much work to do to ensure access to the polls - the most solemn right in any democracy. In the wake of last year’s Shelby County v. Holder Supreme Court decision, which gutted a key component of the Voting Rights Act requiring prior federal review of new state voting laws, some states have passed new, harsh voting laws that restrict voting rights.“I will work with all of my colleagues in Congress to pass the bipartisan Voting Rights Amendment Act, which will restore protections that ensure that Americans can freely exercise their right to vote.”###
08.06.2014	Grant enables radio equipment that will improve interoperability between EMS, police, and fire servicesSLOATSBURG, NY – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), Ranking Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, today announced a $70,774 grant from the Federal Emergency Management Agency’s (FEMA) Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) program to the Sloatsburg Volunteer Fire Department (SVFD) for radio equipment.“New Yorkers know all too well that without proper safety and communications equipment, we risk the lives of emergency responders and local residents during emergencies,” said Lowey. “This equipment will enhance the Sloatsburg Volunteer Fire Department’s ability to communicate with law enforcement and emergency services. Reducing response times and improving coordination will help save more lives. We must ensure firefighters who are performing a critical public service – like those at the Sloatsburg Volunteer Fire Department – have the resources to protect themselves and the public.“In my role as the top Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, I will fight to make sure these important services continue to receive federal funding to help improve public safety and to relieve burdens on local taxpayers,” Lowey added.The new radio equipment will improve interoperability between SVFD, EMS services, and the police, while saving local taxpayer money.“The village is delighted and most appreciative of the efforts of Congresswoman Lowey in helping to attain this most needed and worthwhile grant of $70,000 to be used for emergency communications for our fire department,” said Sloatsburg Mayor Carl S. Wright. “It is obvious that much effort, time, and commitment by the Congresswoman were given to this request.”"The Sloatsburg Volunteer Fire Department is grateful to be the recipient of a 2013 FEMA Assistance to Firefighters Grant," said Matthew Stritmater, 2nd Assistant Chief with the Sloatsburg Volunteer Fire Department. "We are an all-volunteer fire department serving a small village, and as is the case throughout the State, our budget for necessary equipment is incredibly tight. We will be using the funds from this grant to purchase radio equipment so we can fully participate in the brand new, state-of-the-art Rockland County Public Safety Communications System. We would like to thanks Senator Gillibrand, Senator Schumer and Congresswoman Lowey for their continued support of our department and the entire volunteer fire service."AFG is a program of the Department of Homeland Security (DHS), Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), and an important component of the larger, coordinated effort to strengthen the nation’s overall level of preparedness and ability to respond to fire and related hazards. AFG grants are awarded directly to fire departments and non-affiliated Emergency Medical Services organizations (EMS) that are unaffiliated with a hospital to enhance their ability to protect the health and safety of the public, as well as that of first-responder personnel.Throughout her career, Lowey has fought to ensure law enforcement officers, firefighters, EMT, and similar organizations are trained and equipped to keep our community safe. To this end, she has:Helped secure more than $77 million in federal security funds for first responders in Westchester and Rockland Counties;Led efforts in Congress to ensure federal FEMA and Homeland Security Grants are distributed on the basis of risk to ensure high-risk areas like New York are not short-changed;Created a grant program to improve interoperability of first responder communications systems; andWorked to increase security of transportation networks such as airports, railways, nuclear facilities, and ports in the greater New York City area and throughout the country.###
08.04.2014	Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today released the following statement on the passing of former White House Press Secretary and gun violence prevention advocate Jim Brady:“Today, America lost a true patriot, and my thoughts and prayers are with Jim Brady’s family. Following his injuries during an assassination attempt against President Reagan, Jim was at the forefront of bipartisan efforts to prevent gun violence. The Brady Handgun Violence Prevention Act of 1993 and his hard work to enact sensible gun laws have made our communities safer.“Today, Congress can honor his legacy and save countless more innocent lives by passing commonsense gun safety laws to prevent the next Columbine, the next Virginia Tech, and the next Sandy Hook. Dozens of bills could reduce the immeasurable suffering and grief caused by gun violence, from reinstating the Assault Weapons Ban, to mandating child safety lock on firearms, closing the gun show loophole, placing commonsense restrictions on large capacity magazines, and prohibiting the online sale of ammunition. In addition, we must pass stricter background checks on gun buyers and prohibit those with violent histories or severe mental illnesses from owning firearms.“We owe it to all our children to create a safe environment where they can grow and prosper. I will continue to honor Jim Brady’s legacy and fight to ensure our communities remain safe through commonsense measures to prevent gun violence.”###
07.28.2014	Every $1 in NIH funding yields $2.21 in economic benefit for Westchester and Rockland CountiesDOBBS FERRY, NY- Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), the senior Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, today hosted a forum in Dobbs Ferry entitled “Silent Dangers: Environmental Impacts on Women’s Health,” featuring women’s health expert Dr. Linda Birnbaum, Director of the National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences (NIEHS). The forum highlighted the importance of research grants from NIEHS and the National Institutes of Health (NIH) that seek to discover how environmental factors influence human health in general, and women’s health specifically.“Investments in environmental health research lead to lower healthcare costs, greater economic growth, and improved quality of life,” said Lowey. “I’ve seen first-hand NIH’s impact on improving health through better outcomes and have fought hard to nearly triple its funding from the subcommittee that funds the agency. These research dollars provide enormous health and economic benefit to the Lower Hudson Valley, particularly for those women who are fighting breast cancer, trying to better understand their child’s autism, or coping with asthma.”According to NIH, every $1 of their grant money results in $2.21 of economic growth. In the last 10 years, Westchester and Rockland Counties have received roughly $490 million in NIH grants, making the total economic benefit to the Lower Hudson Valley more than $1 billion.“You can’t change your genes, but you can change your environment,” said Dr. Birnbaum. “Gaining a better understanding of how the environment affects our health will lead to healthier lives. NIEHS’ work is centered around important environmental health research, focusing on prevention as opposed to expensive treatment. I thank Congresswoman Lowey for hosting this forum and calling greater attention to the important environmental health research that leads to healthy, happy lives.”Dr. Birnbaum became Director at NIEHS in 2009 and is the first woman to ever lead NIEHS and the National Toxicology Program. She oversees a budget of more than $700 million and approximately 1,000 on-going research grants seeking to discover environmental influences on human health. NIEHS’ Sister to Sister breast cancer study is an in-depth, ten-year effort involving 50,000 women whose sisters have breast cancer. When Lowey’s bill to study the environmental risk factors of breast cancer was enacted in 2008, NIEHS took the lead in creating an inter-agency group review available resources to prioritize prevention.Ten years ago, autism incidence rates were 1 in 150. Today, that number is 1 in 68, with higher rates of incidence for boys. Lowey has been fighting on the House Appropriations Committee to raise awareness, conduct research, and provide services to families. NIEHS convened the very first meeting between NIH scientists working on neurobehavioral research and autism advocates, and the agency is conducting studies to help identify environmental risk factors.The environment is a major contributing factor for asthma, which affects 6.2 million American children. Lowey has authored bills in Congress to help families coping with asthma, and NIEHS has studied how residential exposure affects the symptoms of asthma.“We need to better understand and mitigate the environmental factors affecting so many women and children,” said Lowey. “That is why this research is so important for our community. By reducing health care costs, giving women peace of mind, and reducing the demands for caregiving for children and loved ones who are suffering, these efforts help women and families enjoy a better quality of life. And, when women succeed, America succeeds.”Lowey, as Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee, has fought to increase investments in medical research. She is a longtime member of the subcommittee that funds medical research, and funding to National Institutes of Health has nearly tripled since she joined the committee.###
07.28.2014	Every $1 in NIH funding yields $2.21 in economic benefit for Westchester and Rockland CountiesDOBBS FERRY, NY- Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), the senior Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, today hosted a forum in Dobbs Ferry entitled “Silent Dangers: Environmental Impacts on Women’s Health,” featuring women’s health expert Dr. Linda Birnbaum, Director of the National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences (NIEHS). The forum highlighted the importance of research grants from NIEHS and the National Institutes of Health (NIH) that seek to discover how environmental factors influence human health in general, and women’s health specifically.“Investments in environmental health research lead to lower healthcare costs, greater economic growth, and improved quality of life,” said Lowey. “I’ve seen first-hand NIH’s impact on improving health through better outcomes and have fought hard to nearly triple its funding from the subcommittee that funds the agency. These research dollars provide enormous health and economic benefit to the Lower Hudson Valley, particularly for those women who are fighting breast cancer, trying to better understand their child’s autism, or coping with asthma.”According to NIH, every $1 of their grant money results in $2.21 of economic growth. In the last 10 years, Westchester and Rockland Counties have received roughly $490 million in NIH grants, making the total economic benefit to the Lower Hudson Valley more than $1 billion.“You can’t change your genes, but you can change your environment,” said Dr. Birnbaum. “Gaining a better understanding of how the environment affects our health will lead to healthier lives. NIEHS’ work is centered around important environmental health research, focusing on prevention as opposed to expensive treatment. I thank Congresswoman Lowey for hosting this forum and calling greater attention to the important environmental health research that leads to healthy, happy lives.”Dr. Birnbaum became Director at NIEHS in 2009 and is the first woman to ever lead NIEHS and the National Toxicology Program. She oversees a budget of more than $700 million and approximately 1,000 on-going research grants seeking to discover environmental influences on human health. NIEHS’ Sister to Sister breast cancer study is an in-depth, ten-year effort involving 50,000 women whose sisters have breast cancer. When Lowey’s bill to study the environmental risk factors of breast cancer was enacted in 2008, NIEHS took the lead in creating an inter-agency group review available resources to prioritize prevention.Ten years ago, autism incidence rates were 1 in 150. Today, that number is 1 in 68, with higher rates of incidence for boys. Lowey has been fighting on the House Appropriations Committee to raise awareness, conduct research, and provide services to families. NIEHS convened the very first meeting between NIH scientists working on neurobehavioral research and autism advocates, and the agency is conducting studies to help identify environmental risk factors.The environment is a major contributing factor for asthma, which affects 6.2 million American children. Lowey has authored bills in Congress to help families coping with asthma, and NIEHS has studied how residential exposure affects the symptoms of asthma.“We need to better understand and mitigate the environmental factors affecting so many women and children,” said Lowey. “That is why this research is so important for our community. By reducing health care costs, giving women peace of mind, and reducing the demands for caregiving for children and loved ones who are suffering, these efforts help women and families enjoy a better quality of life. And, when women succeed, America succeeds.”Lowey, as Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee, has fought to increase investments in medical research. She is a longtime member of the subcommittee that funds medical research, and funding to National Institutes of Health has nearly tripled since she joined the committee.###
07.23.2014	Lowey has pressed President Obama and Transportation Secretary Foxx to take action to reduce risks during crude oil transport following high-profile incidents, including one in West Nyack, NYWASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), Ranking Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, today applauded an announcement by the U.S. Department of Transportation (USDOT) that it will embark on a comprehensive rulemaking process to help ensure the safety of rail cars that transport energy products. The announcement comes after months of Lowey pushing the administration to act.“I applaud the Department of Transportation’s movement on the phase-out of the old DOT-111 tank car design, train speed restrictions, improved emergency response coordination, and better testing and classification of hazardous liquids,” said Lowey. “All these measures should reduce the risks of dangerous crude transport accidents, but DOT must continue its focus to ensure they protect our communities because so much is at stake. A major disaster could result in the loss of precious lives, serious threats to public health, and damage to our local economy. As the Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee, I included language in the FY15 Transportation, Housing, and Urban Development urging the Department to have a final rule on tank car standards as soon as possible, and I intend to hold them to this standard.”“However, I am disappointed the Department will gather additional information before improving comprehensive spill response plans. Preparation for a worst-case scenario must be one of the Department’s top priorities.”In April, Lowey sent a letter to President Obama urging him to direct all federal agencies responsible for the oversight of crude oil transport to make more expansive use of their emergency authority in order to immediately mitigate the dangers that crude oil transport poses to communities across the country.In February, Lowey and Rep. Paul Tonko (D-NY) penned a letter to USDOT following a derailment that same month of a locomotive hauling 97 empty oil tankers near Kingston, New York, after passing through Rockland County, and a December 2013 freight train collision with a truck at a crossing near West Nyack.USDOT announced the proposals in the form of a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (NPRM) and a companion Advanced Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (ANPRM). The NPRM proposes enhanced tank car standards, a classification and testing program for mined gases and liquids and new operational requirements for high-hazard flammable trains (HHFT) that include braking controls and speed restrictions. Specifically, within two years, it proposes the phase out of the use of older DOT 111 tank cars for the shipment of packing group I flammable liquids, including most Bakken crude oil, unless the tank cars are retrofitted to comply with new tank car design standards.The ANPRM seeks further information on expanding comprehensive oil spill response planning requirements for shipments of flammable materials. Both the NPRM and ANPRM are available for review on www.regulations.gov and will now be open for 60 days of public comment. Given the urgency of the safety issues addressed in these proposals, PHMSA does not intend to extend the comment period.“Time is of the essence,” said Lowey. “It is imperative that the Transportation Department finalize these rules to protect and safeguard communities in the Hudson River Valley and across the country from the threats of increased crude oil transport as soon as possible.”###
07.22.2014	Area residents should not be burdened with higher tax brackets, declining property values, or strains on retirement incomeWASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), Ranking Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, today sent a letter to Internal Revenue Service (IRS) Commissioner John Koskinen urging that grants for noise reduction to individuals related to the construction of the new Tappan Zee Bridge be exempt from taxable income.“The construction of the new Tappan Zee Bridge is one of the largest infrastructure projects underway in the United States and represents a substantial improvement for the 50 million motorists who cross the bridge annually,” said Lowey. “However, a construction project of this size is not without its hardships, and homeowners who reside close to the project will be negatively affected by the substantial construction noise. These residents deserve the right to the quiet enjoyment of their property.”“It is essential that my constituents are not penalized by the IRS for taking advantage of grant funding to mitigate the construction of the new Tappan Zee Bridge,” Lowey added.The full version of the letter can be found here and below: July 22, 2014Mr. John KoskinenCommissionerInternal Revenue ServiceU.S. Department of the Treasury1111 Constitution Avenue, NW, Room 3241Washington, DC 20224Dear Commissioner Koskinen: I write to urge you to exempt grants made to individuals for noise reduction measures related to the construction of the new Tappan Zee Bridge from taxable income. The construction of the new Tappan Zee Bridge is one of the largest infrastructure projects underway in the United States and represents a substantial improvement for the 50 million motorists who cross the bridge annually. However, a construction project of this size is not without its hardships, and homeowners who reside close to the project will be negatively affected by the substantial construction noise. These residents deserve the right to the quiet enjoyment of their property.To mitigate the impact of the construction on homeowners, the New NY Bridge Community Benefits Program is making available $1.7 million in grants for sound-reducing windows and doors to eligible homeowners in Tarrytown, South Nyack, and Grandview. As you can image, these funds are essential for the general welfare of the residents to mitigate the substantial noise of the construction and the decline in property value residents will likely experience because of the construction noise.Exempting these grant payments from taxable income is consistent with current law. The Internal Revenue Service (IRS) has held that legislatively provided social benefit payments for the promotion of the general welfare, specifically those that are not tied to compensation for services, shall be excluded from a recipient’s gross income. This holding has been applied to home inspections and upgrades (I.R.S. P.L.R. 200808012 (Feb. 22, 2008)), replacement housing payments (Rev. Rul. 74-205, and disaster relief payments (Rev. Rul. 76-144)). As the New York State Legislature authorized payments to make sound-proofing due to the Tappan Zee Bridge, and as payments are intended to mitigate against substantial noise during construction, the purpose of promotion of general welfare is clearly within the cases cited above.Furthermore, IRS Pub. 4345 specifies that the taxability of settlements depends on the injury being compensated. These categories include “Loss-in-value of property” which includes a return to the basis of a home. As homeowners are being given payments to install windows and doors to mitigate the effects of the construction but would not exceed the basis of the current price of the home, these payments should clearly fit within the intent of this provision.Additionally, I am very concerned that if these grant funds are treated as taxable income, it will negatively impact Social Security, Medicare, and other benefits for eligible older residents who live on a fixed income. Seniors’ benefits should not be reduced because of the construction of a bridge.It is essential that my constituents are not penalized by the IRS for taking advantage of grant funding to mitigate the construction of the new Tappan Zee Bridge. Thank you for your consideration of this request. Sincerely, Nita M. Lowey Member of Congress ###
07.21.2014	Blauvelt-based Aerco International, Inc. shows importance of shipbuilding programs to regional economyBLAUVELT, NY – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), Ranking Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, today visited Aerco International, Inc. in Blauvelt, a major supplier of boilers and water heating products, and toured the company’s state-of-the art manufacturing facility, which is partly supported by federal defense spending.“Aerco is a great example of how hard-earned taxpayer dollars are supporting business right here in Rockland, and throughout the rest of the Lower Hudson Valley,” said Lowey. “Aerco’s talented employees there are dedicated to manufacturing products that help keep our country secure and our local economy strong. As the Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee, I have fought for additional investments in key initiatives that help businesses like Aerco, and I will continue to make sure government is working for our area’s economy.”Aside from its commercial work, Aerco supplies water heaters to major classes of warships. Between 2009 and 2013, the company received $600,000 for carrier work. In her position as Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, Lowey helped keep the USS George Washington in service for another 25 years, among other things.“It was an honor to host Congresswoman Lowey at our facility today and share the importance of U.S. Navy shipbuilding programs to our economy,” said Aerco VP of Finance Gary Schlegel. “Our company is very proud of our role in providing innovative water heating solutions that deliver superior energy efficiency and uptime reliability for Naval fleets and Military projects that are vital to our national security. We look forward to Congresswoman Lowey’s continued support for funding Navy carriers and amphibious warship programs that enhance our nation’s defense capabilities at sea, while delivering economic security and job creation at home. ”Lowey also heard about the company’s hiring practices which have resulted in the employment of 11 veterans.“I was great to meet some of the Aerco employees, including 11 veterans who are currently on staff,” said Lowey. “Through their time in military service, they have learned many valuable skills and are hard workers, fast learners, and dependable teammates. The veterans’ unemployment rate is higher than the national average, and I applaud the company for hiring veterans. I have no doubt that they are an important part of the Aerco team, and it is wonderful that they can continue to serve the nation and the military through their important work.”Aerco is a leading supplier of boilers and water heating products and was founded in 1949. In 2012, the company moved into a 146,000 sq. ft. state-of-the art manufacturing facility in Blauvelt, NY, and employs a staff of more than 160 that includes executive, engineering, marketing, and manufacturing teams. The company has representative offices in North America, Europe, Asia, and Latin America. Aerco is also a member of the Amphibious Warship Industrial Base Coalition and the Aircraft Carrier Industrial Base Coalition.“This tour reinforced how important aircraft carrier and amphibious warship funding is to local skilled jobs and businesses. It is vital for our community and for our national security that we continue to make U.S. Navy shipbuilding a top priority,” added Lowey.Lowey believes our federal government can play a key role in fostering economic growth and work with businesses to facilitate job creation. She has made it a priority to continue economic growth through:Investments in our roads, bridges, broadband lines, power grids, and other critical infrastructure to create jobs and build for the future;Meaningful tax relief for hard-working families; andResources to help local businesses create innovative products and services, grow, and hire.###
07.21.2014	Chef Peter X. Kelly Teaching Kitchen seeks affordable health care through healthy dietsCORTLANDT, NY – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), Ranking Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, today toured the Chef Peter X. Kelly Teaching Kitchen, part of the Hudson Valley Hospital Center’s (HVHC) healthy eating initiative Harvest for Health. Children from the Peekskill School District prepared breakfast for Lowey under the direction of Chef Kelly and kitchen coordinator Michael Bulger.“Keeping our communities safe and healthy, especially for our children, is a top priority,” said Lowey. “I’m happy that Chef Peter X. Kelly is part of Hudson Valley Hospital Center’s initiative to encourage healthy diets that help children break bad nutritional habits early on. As Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, I have fought for additional investments in nutrition and wellness initiatives, including the Stop Obesity in Schools Act and the Healthy, Hunger-Free Kids Act, which became law in 2010. Together, we can help ensure a healthier future for children and adults alike.”Through its teaching kitchen, organic garden, twice-monthly farmers’ markets and new locally-sourced food service, the Hospital is working with patients and the general community to teach them to better manage their health through diet and lifestyle changes. The program is part of a larger effort to reduce healthcare costs as the country prioritizes prevention in the healthcare industry.Hudson Valley Hospital Center President John Federspiel said, “With the opening of the Chef Peter X. Kelly Teaching Kitchen, we have the opportunity to teach people of all ages a healthier approach to eating and to help them understand why their diet is so very important to their health. We thank Chef Peter Kelly and others who have supported this kitchen as well as our Congresswoman Nita Lowey for advocating for preventive health initiatives like this one.’’Hudson Valley Hospital Center is the only hospital in Westchester to offer healthy cooking classes in its new Chef Peter X. Kelly Teaching Kitchen. Classes in the kitchen range from general cooking instruction to very specific curriculum for diabetics, cancer and heart patients, breastfeeding moms, and those with gluten sensitivities. A program designed especially for children - The Young Chefs of the Hudson Valley - works with children 11-13 in Peekskill and other local schools to prevent childhood obesity.Promoting healthy diets has been part of Lowey’s larger efforts to ensure healthy communities. In Congress, she has supported a number of initiatives to promote healthy eating, such as:The Stop Obesity in Schools Act would provide grants to schools and local government to adopt wellness policies;The First Lady’s Let’s Move campaign tries to solve the challenge of childhood obesity within a generation;The Healthy, Hunger-Free Kids Act, which became law in 2010, contains the most significant improvements to child nutrition in more than 30 years; andFighting for additional investments in nutrition and wellness initiatives in her role as the ranking member on the House Appropriations Committee. ###
07.16.2014	Investments support comprehensive regional economic development and job growthWASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), Ranking Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, today announced a $70,000 economic development grant from the Economic Development Administration (EDA) to the Hudson Valley Regional Council (HVRC) for an economic development planning framework, process, and strategy that supports private capital investment and job creation in the Lower Hudson Valley.“These federal investments allow the Hudson Valley Regional Council to offer sound analysis of the regional dynamics in an effort to support local job growth in Rockland, Westchester, and the surrounding counties,” said Lowey. “As the Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee, I will continue to support investments that spur our regional economy and help local business.”HVRC will receive $70,000 from the EDA for the economic planning project. The EDA investment supports a Comprehensive Economic Development Strategy (CEDS) process designed to bring together the public and private sectors in the creation of an economic development roadmap to diversify and strengthen the regional economy.“This grant money is important for helping us here at the Hudson Valley Regional Council support job growth,” said Robert Rolison, Chairman of the Board, Hudson Valley Regional Council. “Annually, the Hudson Valley Regional Council updates the Comprehensive Economic Development Strategy for the Hudson Valley Economic Development District. This living document provides an analysis of the economic development problems and opportunities in the region and outlines an economic roadmap to diversify and strengthen regional economies.”“Preparation of the Comprehensive Economic Development Strategy (CEDS) for the Hudson Valley Economic Development District is the vehicle necessary to apply for and receive funding from the U.S. Economic Development Administration” said Patricia Pomeroy, Executive Director, Hudson Valley Regional Council. “We work with officials throughout our seven-county region to identify potential EDA funding opportunities that can help create jobs in distressed areas of the region. We are happy that Congresswoman Lowey and other New York officials are working hard to help secure these important grants.”The Hudson Valley Regional Council serves the counties of Rockland, Westchester, Dutchess, Orange, Putnam, Sullivan, and Ulster; and the cities of Yonkers, Mount Vernon, Newburgh, Kingston, Poughkeepsie, and Middletown.Lowey believes our federal government can play a key role in fostering economic growth and working with businesses to facilitate job creation. She has made it a priority to continue economic growth through:Investments in our roads, bridges, broadband lines, power grids, and other critical infrastructure to create jobs and build for the future;Meaningful tax relief for hard-working families; andResources to help local businesses create innovative products and services, grow, and hire.###
07.10.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), Ranking Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, released the following statement in reaction to the rocket attacks against Israel:“I join the Administration in condemning the barrage of rockets being fired against Israel from Gaza, which now threaten millions of innocent Israelis. The government of Israel is responding as any responsible country would: protecting its citizens to the best of their ability while going after the terrorists who are responsible for such ruthless aggression. Hamas’ actions only further demonstrate their complete disregard for their own people and their intent to wreak havoc on innocent Israeli citizens.“As I’ve said before, any Palestinian government that includes the terrorist organization Hamas cannot possibly be a viable partner for peace with Israel and is therefore not an entity that will, or should, receive U.S. financial support. I believe President Abbas has a clear understanding of this, as well as his choices going forward. I continue to encourage him to stand against Hamas aggression and do what is best for all Palestinians. I stand ready to implement U.S. law to the maximum extent possible should he continue to choose to partner with terrorists. “U.S. funding for Israel's weapons defense systems remains absolutely critical, as this latest escalation proves. The Iron Dome has been called upon, and is delivering on, saving the lives of millions of Israeli all over the country. I'm very pleased that the FY15 appropriations bill continues our strong, bipartisan support for the Iron Dome, the Arrow Weapons System, and David’s Sling.”###
07.09.2014	Bill introduced by House Pro-Choice Caucus seeks to restore women’s health care guarantees outlined in the Affordable Care ActWASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), the Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, today announced her co-sponsorship of legislation that will be introduced in the House of Representatives today in response to the Supreme Court’s Hobby Lobby decision. The Protect Women’s Health from Corporate Interference Act of 2014 would explicitly prohibit for-profit employers that maintain a group health plan for its employees from using religious beliefs to deny employees coverage of contraception or any other vital health service required by federal law.“It’s unbelievable that, in 2014, we still have to fight to ensure that health care decisions are made between a woman and her doctor. That's why, in response to the shocking Supreme Court Hobby Lobby vs. Burwell decision, I joined as an original co-sponsor to the Protect Women’s Health from Corporate Interference Act of 2014 to keep for-profit employers from imposing their religious beliefs on women’s personal health care decisions.”The bill exempts federally mandated health services from the Religious Freedom Restoration Act of 1993 while keeping in place exceptions for religious employers (e.g., houses of worship) and accommodation of religious non-profits who do not wish to provide contraceptives.The House bill was introduced by Reps. Diana DeGette (D-CO), Louise M. Slaughter (D-NY), and Jerrold Nadler (D-NY). Senators Patty Murray (D-WA) and Mark Udall (D-CO) introduced companion legislation in the Senate.###
07.08.2014	Grant enables on-site oxygen system, mobile data terminal, and pagers to enhance response time and coordination during emergenciesBRIARCLIFF MANOR, NY – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), Ranking Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, today announced a $167,451 grant from the Federal Emergency Management Agency’s (FEMA) Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) program to the Briarcliff Manor Fire Department (BMFD) for an on-site oxygen system, mobile data terminal, and pagers.“Improving response times and opening communication channels enhances the ability of Hudson Valley first responders to keep our communities safe,” said Lowey. “We need to do all we can to ensure that firefighters who are performing a critical public service – like those at the Briarcliff Manor Fire Department – have the resources they need to save lives. In my role as the top Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, I will ensure that these important services continue to receive federal funding.”The grant will improve BMFD’s response time by offering a reliable source of compressed oxygen via an air compressor and containment fill station at the main fire house. The mobile data terminals will enable BMFD to communicate essential information directly to all vehicles during emergency calls, and to 80 dual channel pagers to notify firefighters and EMTs of emergencies.“The SCBA Compressor System, Mobile Data Terminals, and personal pagers will bring our Fire Department and Ambulance Services into the 21st century, giving us new capabilities and improving old ones,” said BMFD Chief Robert O'Hanlon, Jr. “As Chief, I could not be more proud of the 138 volunteer members of the Briarcliff Manor Fire Department for their dedication and support for the community.”AFG is a program of the Department of Homeland Security (DHS), Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), and an important component of the larger, coordinated effort to strengthen the nation’s overall level of preparedness and ability to respond to fire and related hazards. AFG grants are awarded directly to fire departments and non-affiliated Emergency Medical Services organizations (EMS) that are unaffiliated with a hospital to enhance their ability to protect the health and safety of the public, as well as that of first-responder personnel.Throughout her career, Lowey has fought to ensure law enforcement officers, firefighters, EMT, and similar organizations are trained and equipped to keep our community safe. To this end, she has:Helped secure more than $77 million in federal security funds for first responders in Westchester and Rockland Counties;Led efforts in Congress to ensure federal FEMA and Homeland Security Grants are distributed on the basis of risk to ensure high-risk areas like New York are not short-changed;Created a grant program to improve interoperability of first responder communications systems; andWorked to increase security of transportation networks such as airports, railways, nuclear facilities, and ports in the greater New York City area and throughout the country. ###
07.07.2014	Social Security Caregiver Credit Act aims to increase retirement payments for caregivers while they care for others during their working yearsMT. KISCO, NY– Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), the Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, was joined by My Second Home’s Rina Bellamy, Michele Muir of the Alzheimer Association, Mount Kisco Child Care Center Executive Director Dawn Meyerski, and local caregivers to announce the Social Security Caregiver Credit Act. The bill, which Lowey will be introducing in the House tomorrow, would provide an earnings credit within Social Security to caregivers, thereby increasing retirement income for those who care for family members and loved ones.“Caregivers are often torn by the impossible choice of taking care of a family member or earning less for themselves and their family,” said Lowey. “My bill would provide them the peace of mind that, when they retire, they won’t be financially punished for providing needed care for loved ones. This is particularly important to improving women’s economic security, and I will continue my work in Congress to make sure caregivers get the compensation they deserve.”The Social Security Caregiver Credit Act would be particularly beneficial to women, who make up 66 percent of unpaid caregivers. Because women earn less than men and average ten fewer years in the workforce, which lowers Social Security benefits, they often have far less saved for retirement than men. Providing assistance with an increase in Social Security benefits will make them more financially stable when they retire.“Women are at the epicenter of the Alzheimer's crisis,” said Michele Muir, Vice President of Communications and Public Policy with the Alzheimer's Association. “Not only are women more likely to have Alzheimer's, they are also more likely to be caregivers of those with Alzheimer's. The most recent data show that of all unpaid Alzheimer's and dementia caregivers, 63 percent are women. Studies have consistently shown that women make up 60 to 70 percent of Alzheimer's caregivers, providing unpaid care.”“Westchester County has approximately 40,000 people touched by Alzheimer’s and other dementias,” said Rina Bellamy, Director of My Second Home. “My Second Home an intergenerational social adult day program of Family Services of Westchester is grateful to Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey for giving MSH caregivers the opportunity to share their struggles in caring for both their aging parents and young children. In 2015, FSW will open a second intergenerational social adult day program in White Plains to address the needs of caregivers in lower Westchester. Caregivers are our unsung heroes.”“We worry about money running out to care for our loved ones,” said Randye Sundel, Pleasantville resident and caregiver for more than 40 years. “We worry about our ability to keep juggling all the other responsibilities in our lives. And we worry about what all of this worrying is doing to us physically and emotionally.”The proposal would create a credit that would be added to earnings to calculate future benefits. The credit is progressive and varies on an income-based sliding scale. As an example, someone who doesn’t work would receive a credit worth around $22,000 a year, while someone who is able to work and earns $33,000 would receive a credit worth around $5,500. It phases out when the caregiver makes more than the average national earnings. The amount credited would be used by the Social Security Administration to calculate future benefits.In addition to her efforts to ensure family caregivers are treated fairly, Lowey has been committed to senior citizens in Westchester and Rockland Counties and ensuring they receive their Social Security and Medicare benefits from a lifetime of hard work by:Strongly opposing efforts to privatize Social Security;Supporting cost-of-living increases that have provided an additional $50 a month for the average retiree in the Lower Hudson Valley in the last two years; andVoting to shield Social Security from cuts in deficit reduction proposals.###
07.03.2014	After success in several States, “Alisa’s Law” requires convicted drunk drivers to submit a breath sample before their car will startHeading into July 4th weekend, MADD applauds Lowey for introducing federal lifesaving ignition interlock legislationWHITE PLAINS, NY– Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), the ranking Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, was joined on a conference call this morning with Mothers Against Drunk Driving (MADD) National President Jan Withers and Rockland County Sherriff Louis Falco III to announce that she will be introducing a bill next week when the House of Representatives reconvenes that would push states to require the use of ignition interlock devices for a minimum of six months for all convicted drunk driving offenders. States would face a reduction in federal transportation funding if they do not change their laws by October 1, 2014.The bill is named “Alisa’s Law” in honor of MADD National President Jan Withers’ daughter, Alisa Joy, who was killed at the age of 15 in 1992 by an underage drinker who chose to drive after consuming too many alcoholic beverages.“In my mind, driving drunk only once is one time too many,” said Lowey. “I am introducing Alisa’s Law to provide law-enforcement officials an additional tool to help keep our communities safe. We have seen successful implementation in some states, including New York, and we have seen partial implementation in others. The time is now to make this the law of the land across the country in order to keep drunk drivers off the streets.”MADD applauded Lowey’s decision to introduce Alisa’s Law. “Requiring ignition interlocks for all convicted drunk drivers is now recognized as the best way to prevent them from reoffending,” said MADD National President Jan Withers. “There are 24 states that have passed such legislation. It is imperative that all states follow suit to ensure that ALL Americans are protected from drunk drivers. Congresswoman Lowey’s bill will help achieve just that,” said Withers.An interlock is a device that requires a driver to provide a breath sample to the vehicle in order to start it. If the sample is above the legal limit, the car won’t start. The advantage of interlock technology compared to license suspension is that offenders can still travel freely, but they can’t endanger the public by driving drunk.While tougher laws have helped save lives, drunk driving still kills far too many people. In 2012, 10,322 deaths were a result of drunk driving, which translates into one out of three highway deaths. Additionally, according to a compilation of studies by MADD, the average drunk driver has driven drunk 87 times before being caught. In addition to the enormous emotional toll, drunk driving costs taxpayers $132 billion each year, including $2.4 billion in New York.New York State already has interlock requirements on the books. In 2010, state lawmakers passed “Leandra’s Law” making New York a model ignition interlock state. Along with strong efforts from law enforcement, ignition interlocks are a contributing factor in New York’s DUI fatality numbers being below the national average. Leandra’s Law has helped increase the number of interlock installations from 2,500 in 2010 when the law first went into effect to 6,870 in July 2013. MADD expects more interlocks to be installed in 2014. “Mandatory interlocks for all drunk drivers is a smart policy,” said Rockland County Sherriff Louis Falco. “Drunk driving doesn't stop at the state lines and law enforcement must have every tool at their disposal to prevent drunk driving accidents and deaths from happening. I applaud Congresswoman Lowey for introducing this bill so that every State, not just New York, can fully utilize this technology to save lives.”“MADD thanks Congresswoman Lowey for her leadership to help eliminate drunk driving. It’s time for all states to pass this lifesaving law,” said Withers.Congresswoman Lowey has been a leader in enacting strong laws to keep unsafe drivers off the road. In 2000, Lowey successfully passed legislation requiring states to enact a maximum Blood Alcohol Content (BAC) level of .08 as a condition of receiving federal transportation assistance, which prompted all 50 states and the District of Columbia to implement this commonsense policy.###
07.02.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), Ranking Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, released the following statement in reaction to the murder of Hussein Abu Khdeir:“I join the Administration in condemning the murder of the innocent Palestinian teenager and calling for a thorough investigation of this horrible act. The unimaginable pain now felt by a fourth family should propel all the parties involved to deescalate tensions in the region. No one will benefit from the continuation of senseless violence, which is why restoring calm must take priority going forward. Justice for all of the victims can only be served through the appropriate legal process."###
06.30.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), Ranking Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, released the following statement in reaction to the deaths of three kidnapped Israeli teens: Naftali Fraenkel, Eyal Yifrach, and Gilad Shaar.“Our hearts are broken by this appalling act of terrorism against three innocent Israelis, and our prayers are with all of their family members in Israel and the United States. President Abbas must make clear that such extremism will not be tolerated, and lead the effort to hold accountable every single person who played a role in this evil act.”###
06.30.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), Ranking Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, released the following statement in reaction to today’s Supreme Court’s decision striking down the Affordable Care Act (ACA) requirement that employers cover employees with a basic preventive health care package that includes contraception:“Today’s Supreme Court decision marks a shocking step backwards for women’s health. Employers will be legally allowed to prevent a female employee from making her own health decisions. Millions of American women will be at risk of having to pay out of pocket for basic contraception, rather than have it covered by health insurance. This is unacceptable. Employers should not be allowed to impose their religious views on employees. This country was founded on the principle that no citizen can force their religious beliefs on another. This decision flies in the face of this sacred tenet. I will do all I can to ensure women’s health choices are where they belong -- between a woman and her doctor.”###
06.27.2014	Lowey, Highest Dem on Appropriations Committee, Fought for Restored Sequester Cuts & Additional Increase Provided for Head Start ProgramsPORT CHESTER, NY– Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), the senior Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, today announced that Family Services of Westchester (FSW) has received $11 million in funding for five years for Head Start programs to give young children a “head start” on education and social skills. The competitive Head Start grant is awarded by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services.“Young children, especially from working families, deserve access to quality care and education to help them prepare for school, and Head Start and Early Head Start are critical to help achieve that outcome,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “As the top Democratic Appropriator in the House, I have fought for increased investments in Head Start because strong early education can do wonders to close and prevent achievement gaps. This grant to Family Services of Westchester will help low-income families in White Plains access services for their children.”Susan B. Wayne, President and CEO of FSW, said, “We are delighted that Family Services of Westchester has been awarded this grant as we are eager to continue our efforts to ensure that participating children are prepared to enter kindergarten ready to learn.”FSW has been offering Head Start and Early Head Start to low-income families in White Plains since 2004. FSW’s Head Start and Early Head Start programs emphasize cognitive and language development, social and emotional development, physical and mental health as well as parent involvement. As the Senior Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee and a member of the Fiscal Year 2014 Budget Conference Committee, Lowey was a strong advocate for increasing investments in early education by more than $1 billion in 2014, which were included in the Fiscal Year 2014 spending bill passed in January.“Sequestration applies senseless cuts to vital initiatives and is counterproductive to helping educate our children, support the most vulnerable among us in society, and create jobs,” said Lowey. “We need to continue fighting to restore smart federal investments in our communities like the Head Start program.”###
06.26.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), Ranking Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, released the following statement in reaction to the Supreme Court’s decision to strike down three recess appointments to the National Labor Relations Board (NLRB):“I am disappointed that the Supreme Court struck down three of President Obama’s recess appointments to the National Labor Relations Board. Regardless of today’s ruling, the unfortunate fact remains that Republicans in Congress have gone to great lengths to hamstring the NLRB from carrying out its basic duty of protecting workers. Rest assured that I will continue to do everything I can to ensure that NLRB can operate effectively to help hard-working men and women.”###
06.18.2014	Grant to help study effect of nickel carcinogens during lung cancer formationVALHALLA, NY– Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), Ranking Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, today announced that the National Institutes of Health (NIH), an agency within the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS), has awarded New York Medical College (NYMC) a $201,250 grant to study lung cancer formation and growth triggered by nickel compounds.“Healthy workers are happy and productive workers,” said Lowey. “Important research into the effects of harmful airborne carcinogens on our health will give us greater insight into preventing lung cancer. Federal investments in medical research are critical for enabling studies like these at New York Medical College, and I will continue to fight for NIH funding in Congress.”Lung cancer is the No. 1 cause of cancer mortality world-wide, accounting for close to 30 percent of all cancer deaths. Exposures to airborne carcinogens are the primary cause of lung cancers, and nickel compounds are well-established lung carcinogens. Humans can be exposed to these substances through the smoke from tobacco smoking, wood/coal combustion, and automobile exhausts. In some occupational settings, workers are subjected to very high level of exposure.This NIH research grant will support NYMC’s effort to further explore the relevance of certain proteins in lung cancer formation and progression in cellular and animal models. This study should significantly advance the understanding of lung formation and progression in response to nickel compounds, and will help to evaluate whether certain proteins are a suitable therapeutic target.NYMC’s Chancellor and Chief Executive Officer, Dr. Edward C. Halperin, praised NYMC faculty, including Dr. Dazhong Xu, lead researcher and head of the Flow Cytometry Core Laboratory.“New York Medical College's faculty has a long history of both investigating the causes of cancer and seeking measures to prevent it,” said Halperin. “Professor Xu's work continues this tradition. We are pleased to have such important research taking place on our campus.”Since August 2013, NIH has granted a total of $3.2 million to NYMC for medical research.Congresswoman Lowey, as Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee, has fought to increase investments in medical research. She is a longtime member of the subcommittee that funds medical research, and funding to National Institutes of Health has nearly tripled since she joined the committee.###
06.17.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C.– Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), Ranking Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee and Appropriations Subcommittee on Foreign Operations, today released the following statement regarding three Israeli teenagers kidnapped in the West Bank:“My thoughts are with the three Israeli teenagers who were kidnapped in the West Bank last week, and I pray for their safe and swift release. My thoughts and prayers are also with their families, including Naftali Fraenkel’s extended family living in Monsey in my Congressional district. I join the Administration in offering our full support for Israel as they work day and night to rescue the missing teens and to bring the captors to justice.“Kidnappings and other forms of terrorism, especially involving children, have no place in decent, civilized societies. I call upon President Abbas to demonstrate his adherence to peace and security, address the allegations of Hamas’ involvement, and fully cooperate with Israeli authorities to ensure the boys’ safe return home.”###
06.17.2014	Congresswoman: “Expeditious review of federal complaints is essential to help resolve any and all concerns about the school district once and for all.”WASHINGTON, D.C.– Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (Westchester/Rockland) today urged two offices at the U.S. Department of Education to expedite ongoing investigations into the appropriate use of federal funds and civil rights violations in the East Ramapo Central School District in the wake of the New York State Department of Education appointment of a monitor to review fiscal matters in the school district.“As the Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee, parent and grandparent, former PTA president, and Ramapo’s representative in Congress, I support actions to ensure that the children in the East Ramapo Central School District receive the very best education possible,” said Lowey. “In the coming months, the State Monitor will be closely evaluating governance and fiscal practices of the school district. Expeditious review of federal complaints is essential to help resolve any and all concerns about the school district once and for all.”While details are not available until completion of ongoing investigations, the U.S. Department of Education’s Inspector General recently confirmed that it is investigating matters related to the appropriate use of federal funds in ERCSD. The Department’s Office of Civil Rights is reviewing a complaint from the Spring Valley Branch of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People regarding the school district. Lowey wrote a letter to both entities today calling for expeditious completion of these investigations. (See text below.)Lowey said that federal funds for the school district increased in Fiscal Year 2014 as a result of her successful efforts on the House Appropriations Committee. ERCSD will receive approximately $20 million in federal assistance for 2014. “We must work together at every level of government to ensure that all education funds are expended appropriately to give our children every opportunity for success,” Lowey concluded.During the 17 months Lowey has represented Ramapo, she has engaged students, community leaders, and education advocates about the situation in the ERCSD, and she shared concerns with the U.S. Secretary of Education Arne Duncan in recent months. After learning about IBM initiatives to support local schools, Lowey encouraged ERCSD to pursue assistance and attended the May announcement of new IBM English literacy programs in ERCSD’s elementary schools at the Fleetwood School. Lowey spoke in March with students at Spring Valley High School about the loss of educational and extracurricular programs and in April addressed the National Honor Society induction at Ramapo High School. She has met with various groups of concerned parents and representatives from the Rockland Clergy for Social Justice among others.Below is the text of the letter Lowey sent today:June 17, 2014 Kathleen Tighe Catherine Lhamon Inspector General Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights U.S. Department of Education U.S. Department of Education400 Maryland Ave. SW 400 Maryland Ave. SWWashington DC 20202 Washington DC 20202 Dear Inspector General Tighe and Assistant Secretary Lhamon:It is my understanding that both the U.S. Department of Education’s Office of Inspector General and Office of Civil Rights are investigating the East Ramapo Central School District in my congressional district.East Ramapo receives approximately $20 million in federal funding annually. I have previously discussed with Secretary Duncan my grave concerns about the quality of the education students in the school district receive.As you may know, the New York State Education Department recently appointed a fiscal monitor to serve the school district in an advisory capacity to ensure that it is able to provide an appropriate educational program and properly manage and account for state and federal funds received. While I understand that you are unable to disclose details of ongoing investigations, I encourage you to expedite federal investigations related to the school district.As federal officials, we have a responsibility to ensure that taxpayer dollars are not misspent and to ensure that all federal education funds are used to give American students the very best education possible. I thank you for your work and look forward to your findings. Sincerely, Nita M. Lowey Member of Congress # # #
06.06.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), the senior Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, today released the following statement on the 70th anniversary of the D-Day landings at Normandy, France:“Seventy years ago today, Allied forces landed on the beaches of Normandy, France, and changed the course of World War II. Today - and throughout each year - let us recognize the heroic efforts of those brave soldiers who lost their lives, the veterans from the Greatest Generation who remain with us today, and all veterans and service members who share the same devotion to the principles of freedom. We will never forget the acts of valor of the more than 150,000 soldiers who crossed the English Channel that day in 1944. May we always remember that their bravery and sacrifice helped to end one of the worst eras in world history.”###
06.05.2014	Social media, cell phone, and new payment systems used to prey on seniors convinced beyond doubt a loved one is in serious dangerRYE BROOK, NY – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), Ranking Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, today was joined by representatives from the state Attorney General’s office and the Westchester District Attorney’s Office at the Anthony J. Posillipo Community Center in Rye Brook to warn senior citizens, caretakers, and families about the spike in financial scams using new, sophisticated methods against senior citizens in the Lower Hudson Valley.“My constituents have been talked into giving away thousands and thousands of dollars because they’ve been told a grandchild is in serious trouble,” said Lowey. “Some have even spoken to someone they are sure is that grandchild. It isn’t. It is an imposter who knows, as the grandparents always tell me, information only their own grandchild would know, which generally the crooks have learned from the Internet.”In the basic “grandparent scam,” the scammer will impersonate a senior citizen’s grandchild, often describing a situation in which the child is in a foreign country, has gotten into trouble, and is asking for immediate cash payments to escape a bad situation. In a panic, many senior citizens, even some who are at first skeptical, fall for the scam and pay. One recent news report highlighted a scam of $5,000 and another at $20,000. According to the State Attorney General’s Office, elderly victims across the state lost $441,000 in 2012 to the grandparent scam.The scam can take many forms and has different variations. However, the use of cell phones, voice mimicry, information taken from the internet, and new ways to pay quickly and easily have made this scam more sophisticated and it is causing grandparents in the Lower Hudson Valley emotional and financial pain.“It is hard to imagine a scam worse than one that preys on senior citizens,” said Attorney General Eric T. Schneiderman. “I am committed to doing everything I can to prosecute consumer fraud across our state and to educating New Yorkers on how to avoid scams that target older adults. Programs like our statewide ‘Smart Seniors’ initiative help seniors avoid becoming victims in the first place. I am pleased to join with Congresswoman Lowey in getting the word out to seniors about how to recognize scams and stay safe.”Gary S. Brown, Assistant Attorney General In Charge at the Westchester Regional Office and the Statewide Elder Abuse Coordinator, attended the event, handed out the Attorney General’s “Smart Seniors” brochure, and pointed out other helpful tips for seniors, caretakers, and families on how to avoid the grandparent scam.Lowey said her office has received an increased number of calls for assistance from constituents who have been scammed and want help to recover their money, and others seeking information to report attempted scams to the authorities. “These scams, which have become highly sophisticated, are virtually impossible to resist unless you know to be suspicious, even when the story they tell is personal, believable, and terrifying, “said Lowey. “Together, we can help our senior citizens access resources to avoid these awful scams. I hope that awareness will help arm our seniors to protect themselves against scam artists seeking to steal their nest eggs.”If you or a senior citizen you know suspects that he or she is being scammed, or has been a victim of a scam, please call the New York State Attorney General’s Hotline at 1-800-771-7755, or find out more information at www.ag.ny.gov.###
06.02.2014	Top Dem appropriator also signs letter supporting Senate hearing to call attention to the importance of keeping power with peopleWASHINGTON, D.C.– Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), the senior Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, today announced her co-sponsorship of H.J.Res.25, a Constitutional amendment that would seek to limit the influence of money in politics. Lowey also signed a letter along with 62 other House Members to Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman Patrick Leahy (D-VT) in support of a public hearing on the matter beginning this week.“Only a constitutional amendment that overturns deeply flawed Supreme Court decisions will return constitutional legitimacy to our campaign finance laws,” said Lowey. “That is why I co-sponsored this important amendment to our Constitution and why I applaud Senator Leahy’s decision to hold a public hearing, which is a critical step forward for a nationwide movement to restore the balance of power to the people for whom this democracy was founded.”On Tuesday, June 3, 2014, Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman Patrick Leahy will hold a public hearing to examine S.J.Res.19, an amendment to the United States Constitution that would grant Congress and the states the power to regulate the raising and spending of money with respect to federal and state elections.The Supreme Court's decisions in Citizens United v. FEC and McCutcheon v. FEC ensured that wealthy individuals, corporations, and other special interest groups can disproportionately influence the political process.Congresswoman Lowey believes that the American people deserve a clean system of campaign finance, and she urges the House Judiciary Committee to join their Senate colleagues by holding hearings on H.J.Res.25.###
05.30.2014	Discussed importance of programs that allow veterans to transition smoothly back into civilian lifeWASHINGTON, D.C.– Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), the senior Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, today welcomed a group of student veterans from Rockland Community College to Washington, D.C. and discussed the importance of programs that help veterans transition smoothly back into civilian life.“Today, I had the pleasure of meeting a wonderful group of student veterans from Rockland Community College,” said Lowey. “Education and training for our veterans is critical to help them reintegrate in our communities and find good jobs. That is why I cosponsored the expansion of the G.I. Bill to make higher education more accessible for our veterans, and why I supported the Veterans Affairs appropriations bill that funds programs for enabling veterans to become employable, obtain and maintain suitable employment, and achieve maximum independence in daily living.”The student veterans included Jhamal Phipps of Spring Valley, Michael Smith of Tappan, Matt Matcovich of Suffern, Jonathan Winfield of Tuxedo, John Marra of Nanuet, John Vitale of West Nyack, and their coordinator at Rockland Community College, Jonathan Barnwell.Lowey has made it a priority to fulfill the nation’s commitment to those who have served in the U.S. Armed Forces by ensuring veterans have access to high-quality health care and economic security. She supports federal government assistance to veterans returning from war who are re-entering the workforce through education, training, and job location services.In her role as Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee, she took a lead role in passing the FY2015 Military Construction and Veterans Affairs appropriations bill through the U.S. House of Representatives in April, which included language encouraging the VA to work in conjunction with the Department of Labor and other non-profit employment and training organizations to provide job placement, services for job-seekers, and rehabilitation and training for veterans###
05.30.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C.– Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), the senior Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, today released the following statement calling for leadership change at the Department of Veterans Affairs:“The VA Inspector General’s interim report made clear that there are simply too many systemic problems within the Department of Veterans Affairs. “Secretary Shinseki should resign and expeditious efforts should be made to regain the confidence of veterans and the American public in the VA’s ability to rectify these systemic problems that resulted in delays for veterans’ care.“The Department of Justice must conduct a criminal investigation into the allegations about misconduct and findings in the VA Inspector General’s interim report related to wait times for veterans to receive care. It is vital to expeditiously uncover any criminal wrongdoing and hold accountable any and every VA official involved. Our veterans must have the quality and timely care they have earned in service to our great nation.”Congresswoman Lowey requested an investigation into the Phoenix Health Care System allegations, backed an amendment to support an investigation into this matter when the Military Construction and Veterans Affairs appropriations bill passed in April, and voted for a bill to facilitate the dismissal of executive officials for poor performance and ineptitude.###
05.27.2014	Top Dem appropriator working to increase federal money for Drug Free Communities to help prevent youth addiction and for anti-drug trafficking efforts to assist law enforcementCORTLANDT, NY – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), Ranking Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, today announced her co-sponsorship of the Stop Overdose Stat (SOS) Act and vowed to continue fighting in Congress for increased funding for Drug Free Communities grants and the High Intensity Drug Trafficking Areas Program (HIDTA) to help stem the heroin epidemic afflicting the Lower Hudson Valley.“Every level of government must increase efforts to address the heroin crisis in our communities and throughout New York,” said Lowey. “Too many people in the Lower Hudson Valley, particularly teenagers and young adults, are struggling with heroin and other opioid addictions. As heroin has become cheaper and widely-abused prescription drugs become more difficult to obtain, heroin use has skyrocketed. That is why I am calling on Congress to bolster efforts to combat this heroin epidemic. I will be working overtime in Congress to ramp up resources for prevention, treatment, and response.”The SOS Act would establish a federal plan to combat drug overdose deaths and disseminate naloxone, the most frequently used drug to counteract overdoses from heroin and opioid pain medications, to state and local officials and train them on proper use. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention has credited overdose prevention programs with saving more than 10,000 lives since 1996.Lowey is fighting to increase the Drug Free Communities grant program for Fiscal Year 2015. In September, she helped secure $1.3 million in Drug Free Communities grants for ten local organizations to prevent youth substance abuse (full list of organizations and amounts below). She is also working to secure an increase in funding for the HIDTA program, which provided $400,000 to Westchester law enforcement agencies this year alone to combat the heroin threat, and Lowey will fight for additional funds for Fiscal Year 2015.Local elected officials and community leaders joined Lowey in highlighting the severity of the problem for the Lower Hudson Valley, and stressed the importance of coordinated efforts at the federal, state, and local level to stem the heroin epidemic.“I am very pleased that Congresswoman Lowey is here in Cortlandt to call attention to this very serious subject of combating heroin overdoses,” said Cortlandt Town Supervisor Linda Puglisi. “Our community this year tragically lost two young men to drug overdoses and we’ve been collaborating with our school districts and sponsoring panel discussion forums to bring awareness to the families and students of the heroin and prescription drug abuses in society, our region and, tragically, in our community, as well. We thank Congresswoman Lowey for sponsoring this important bill in the U.S. House of Representatives.”"Between 2011 and 2013 there was a 69% increase in the number of youth entering Westchester treatment programs for heroin and other opiates,” said Ellen Morehouse, Executive Director of Student Assistance Services. “I applaud Congresswoman Lowey's continuing efforts to support community and school based substance abuse prevention activities that raise the awareness of the dangers of these drugs, and reduce their availability. These activities in addition to increased funding for counseling and treatment, and the availability of naloxone are essential ingredients for reducing overdoses." Westchester County District Attorney Janet DiFiore added “The increasing number of fatal heroin overdoses in Westchester County demands a multi-disciplinary approach to intervene and save the lives of those impacted by drug addiction. By working together, law enforcement, the community and support services can maximize their effectiveness, thereby enhancing their roles in resolving this growing problem.”The basic right of citizens to live in communities free from fear and violence has been paramount to Lowey throughout her career in Congress. In addition to her commitment to stemming the heroin epidemic in the Lower Hudson Valley, she has been working hard to advance commonsense gun safety initiatives, protect children from predators, eliminate drunk driving, and ensure law enforcement officers, firefighters, and EMTs are trained and equipped to keep our community safe.Local Organizations Who Received Drug Free Communities Grants (September 2013): Cortlandt Community Coalition, $125,000South Orangetown Community Awareness of Substance Abuse, $125,000Mount Kisco Drug and Alcohol Prevention Council, $125,000City of White Plains, $125,000Ossining Communities That Care, $125,000Westchester Coalition for Drug and Alcohol Free Youth, $125,000Croton Community Coalition, $125,000Westchester Coalition for Drug and Alcohol Free Youth and Westchester County Office of Drug Prevention and STOP-DWI each received $75,000 from the DFC Mentoring Program.Port Chester Cares Community Coalition was awarded $125,000 for the DFC Support Program grant.###
05.23.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C.– Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), the senior Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, today released the following statement commemorating Memorial Day:“This Memorial Day, we pay tribute to those brave service members who fought to protect the United States of America and made the ultimate sacrifice for freedom and democracy. No one has given more to our country than the men and women who died in service to ensure that the American dream lives.“As we pause today to remember our service members, let us also remember the sacrifices their families and friends make each and every day. For those whose loved ones will never return home, we salute you.“The debt of gratitude for the service and sacrifice of fallen soldiers cannot be expressed in one day. Let us remember those who never came home as well as their families who remain with us – not just on this Memorial Day, but throughout the year. May their heroic acts be enshrined in our memories forever.”###
05.21.2014	Grant will allow for mobile oxygen system to be shared with local fire and police departments during emergenciesVALHALLA, NY – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), Ranking Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, today announced a $24,687 grant from the Federal Emergency Management Agency’s (FEMA) Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) program to Valhalla Volunteer Ambulance Corps for a mobile oxygen generation system.The grant will allow the Valhalla Volunteer Ambulance Corps to produce oxygen and fill their own tanks rather than get them from a contractor, and share this oxygen with local fire and police departments in the Lower Hudson Valley during emergencies.“New York’s first responders are second to none, and non-affiliated EMS organizations like Valhalla Volunteer Ambulance Corps are vital to protecting our communities,” said Lowey. “It’s our responsibility to make sure they have the resources they need, and these types of grants go a long way to help ensure the safety and security of Lower Hudson Valley families. I will continue my work in Congress to make more public safety investments available to local organizations.”Capt. Steven Marcello of the Valhalla Volunteer Ambulance Corps underscored the need for access to ample amounts of oxygen during emergencies and highlighted the importance this particular FEMA grant has on public safety at the local level.“We couldn't have obtained this oxygen system without this grant,” said Capt. Marcello. “We noticed the immediate need during Sandy because we didn't have enough oxygen to provide tanks to shut-ins, so we had to take them to hospitals. We just didn't have enough.”AFG is a program of the Department of Homeland Security (DHS), Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), and an important component of the larger, coordinated effort to strengthen the Nation’s overall level of preparedness and ability to respond to fire and related hazards. AFG grants are awarded directly to fire departments and non-affiliated Emergency Medical Services organizations (EMS) that are unaffiliated with a hospital to enhance their ability to protect the health and safety of the public, as well as that of first-responder personnel.Throughout her career, Lowey has fought to ensure law enforcement officers, firefighters, EMT, and similar organizations are trained and equipped to keep our community safe. To this end, she has:Helped secure more than $77 million in federal security funds for first responders in Westchester and Rockland Counties;Led efforts in Congress to ensure federal FEMA and Homeland Security Grants are distributed on the basis of risk to ensure high-risk areas like New York are not short-changed;Created a grant program to improve interoperability of first responder communications systems; andWorked to increase security of transportation networks like the airports, railways, nuclear facilities, and ports in the greater New York City area and throughout the country. ###
05.14.2014	TIFIA loan for new bridge project is a direct result of Lowey’s work with the President, Congress, and Transportation SecretaryTARRYTOWN, NY – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), Ranking Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, today welcomed President Barack Obama to the site of the new Tappan Zee Bridge and joined him in supporting increased investments in transportation infrastructure to bolster the nation’s economy.“The investments in the new Tappan Zee Bridge mean less waiting in bumper-to-bumper traffic, more time spent with our families, and local economic growth” said Lowey. “The historic TIFIA loan I helped secure to support this new bridge will enable job creation and support our local economy. The new Tappan Zee is a symbol of what is possible not just for the Hudson Valley but for the United States. Through smart investments in infrastructure, we can rebuild not only this nation’s roads and bridges but also American prosperity through job creation, increased safety for our communities, and a better quality of life.”According to the American Society of Civil Engineers, the United States needs $3.6 trillion in infrastructure investments by 2020. Lowey is a champion for a variety of measures to meet these demands, which would create jobs and keep our communities safe:Public-private partnerships can dramatically increase investments in job-creating infrastructure initiatives. That’s why Lowey supports the Transportation Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act (TIFIA) program, which has provided $1.6 billion in U.S. Department of Transportation loans to help finance construction of the new Tappan Zee Bridge. Lowey has consistently supported robust TIFIA investments to help leverage private investments in more infrastructure projects, and approval of the Tappan Zee’s TIFIA proposal was a result of her strong urging to Transportation Secretary Anthony Foxx and his predecessor Ray LaHood.In addition to the TIFIA loan, Lowey also supports Governor Cuomo’s $26.7 million application for direct assistance from the Federal Transportation Investment Generating Economic Recovery, or TIGER, Discretionary Grant programto invest in a better bus system for the Tappan Zee Bridge, which would further decrease congestion, increase ridership, and reduce commute times.Since its inception, Lowey has been a vocal advocate for creating jobs by increasing investments in TIGER, which provides direct assistance for major infrastructure projects like the Tappan Zee Bridge. Republicans in Congress have consistently underfunded this initiative, including in the transportation appropriations bill passed in subcommittee just last week, in which the TIGER program was cut from $600 million in fiscal year 2014 to only $100 million for FY 2015.Lowey supports the President’s Generating Renewal, Opportunity, and Work with Accelerated Mobility, Efficiency, and Rebuilding of Infrastructure and Communities throughout America Act, or GROW AMERICA Act, a multi-year surface transportation bill toprovide increased and stable funding for our nation’s highways, bridges, transit, and rail systems by closing tax loopholes.It would keep solvent The Highway Trust Fund, which is expected to run out of funding in the coming months, and would stall 112,000 active transit and transportation projects and put 700,000 jobs at risk. Lowey believes Congress must come together to develop a responsible, bipartisan plan to keep solvent the Trust Fund, which supports TIFIA loans, like the Tappan Zee received, among other initiatives to sustain our nation’s infrastructure.The GROW America Act would also streamline and expedite permitting to more quickly launch projects, create jobs, and improve our transportation system for citizens and businesses who depend on it.“Shortchanging investments in infrastructure upgrades shortchanges our economy and the many men and women who need work. I will fight in Congress to increase our investments in major construction for our roads and bridges to help continue the economic recovery,” Lowey added. “I’m proud to have supported Governor Cuomo’s vision and leadership to make the new bridge a reality and to work with the President and his Administration to help bring federal funding to the Hudson River Valley. Congress must pass sensible measures to ensure we have a 21st Century transportation infrastructure that supports a 21st Century economy.”###
05.14.2014	IBM invests in Students with innovative “Reading Companion,” created in IBM’s Research LabWASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), Ranking Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, today applauded an innovative program in which IBM will provide the East Ramapo Central School District (ERCSD) with free technology to enhance reading and literacy skills for all of its early grade students. IBM will donate its Reading Companion program – cloud-based software that uses voice recognition technology to help children and adults learn how to read proficiently – to all 10 elementary schools in the public school district.“As a grandmother of eight and a former PTA President, I believe that improving education is critical to economic opportunity and our children’s futures,” said Lowey. “Today, we are witnessing an emerging model that will help ensure our children and communities have the resources and skills they need to learn, grow, and succeed. This partnership highlights how the private sector can provide much-needed resources to support community improvement. Improved literacy is an important part of economic growth and opportunity.”"Education is often referred to as the 21st century civil right, and innovation in education is critical for success in communities and for businesses," said Stanley S. Litow, Vice President of IBM Corporate Citizenship and Corporate Affairs. "We created Reading Companion in the IBM Research Lab because we know that early literacy is critical to education achievement later on. We are certain that it will make a huge difference not only in the lives of those whose literacy skills will be improved today, but for generations to come. We are privileged to provide this vital resource to students in the East Ramapo Central School District to accomplish that goal."“We are extremely happy that our students will have access to the resources they need to improve their reading skills,” said Dr. Joel Klein, ERCSD Superintendent of Schools. “The Reading Companion program has a proven track record of success and we can’t wait to have our students use this fantastic technology to enhance their literacy skills.”Developed by its researchers, working in partnership with schools and not-for-profit organizations, IBM says its Reading Companion program is effective, innovative, and easy to use. Users wearing headset microphones log on to the Reading Companion website and are presented with material to read. A digital mentor "reads" a phrase to the user, who then repeats the words. The digital mentor provides immediate feedback on pronunciation. As the user's skill improves, less material is automatically narrated. IBM employees and teachers who mentor students can also create original e-books and publish them to a virtual library available to any participant worldwide.According to IBM, nearly 200,000 new readers in 3,600 schools and nonprofit organizations in 50 countries now use this resource. Valued at $10,000 per grant site, Reading Companion reflects a $36 million IBM investment to promote English literacy around the globe. Reading Companion is also available as an app on smart phones and tablets that run Android operating systems, available through the Google Play store.Congresswoman Lowey has been a consistent voice for innovative solutions through public-private cooperation and believes our economic competitiveness is directly linked to our ability to prepare students for the needs of the global economy. In Congress, Lowey has worked to improve No Child Left Behind by increasing flexibility for states and school districts, supports increasing funding for the Individuals with Disabilities in Education Act (IDEA) to the full promised federal share of 40%, and has fought to increase investments in federal grants for local schools, which now direct more than $60 million to schools in New York’s 17th Congressional District.###
05.13.2014	Briarcliff Manor student to travel to Washington, D.C., meet with Congresswoman Lowey, and have art displayed in U.S. CapitolWASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), the senior Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, has announced that Chloe Giroux, a senior at the School of the Holy Child in Rye, NY, is the winner of the Congressional Art Competition for New York’s 17th Congressional District. Chloe’s piece, “Snarling Wolf,” was judged to be first of 13 entries.“I’m impressed by Chloe and her amazing artistic talent,” said Lowey. “I couldn’t be more proud that her work will be displayed in the United States Capitol where millions of visitors will be able to see it. Congratulations to Chloe for her incredible work and I look forward to her visit to Washington, D.C.”Victoria Zhang, a West Nyack resident and junior at Clarkstown High School South, came in second place for her drawing entitled “Unconventional Pairing;” Carolin Hartter, Harrison resident and senior at The German School came in third for her “Bodies in Movement” sketch; and Krista Escaffi-Aguilar, a Port Chester resident and senior at School of the Holy Child received an honorable mention for her piece “Golden.”“The School of the Holy Child community is thrilled for both Chloe and Krista. The work each student submitted to the Congressional Art Competition demonstrated great skill, a unique voice, and a commanding presence,” Head of School William C. Hambleton, Ed.D., said. “We appreciate the efforts of Congresswoman Nita Lowey’s office, and join in celebrating Chloe and Krista, whose commitment to the field of visual arts has been evident throughout their time at Holy Child,” Dr. Hambleton added.Lowey added, “I was impressed with each and every budding artist from our district who submitted an entry in this year’s competition. I have no doubt that the next time I see them, their work will be on display at galleries, exhibitions, and museums.”The Congressional Art Competition is a nationwide high school visual art competition to recognize and encourage artistic talent in the nation and in each congressional district. Each spring, students submit entries to their representative’s office, and panels of district artists select the winning entries. Winners are recognized both in their district and at an annual awards ceremony in Washington, DC. The winning works are displayed for one year at the U.S. Capitol.###
05.13.2014	Research seeks to expedite and increase flu vaccine production during high demandWASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), Ranking Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, today announced a $1.6 million contract from the Biomedical Advanced Research and Development Authority (BARDA) to New York Medical College of Valhalla for research to develop new influenza vaccines.“As the senior Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, my highest priority is investing in initiatives that sustain a high quality of life for families in the Lower Hudson Valley,” said Lowey. “This particular investment seeks to expedite and enlarge flu vaccine production, so that more and better vaccines are available quicker during high demand. This is a winning formula for strong communities and I will continue my work in Congress to ensure support for scientific research.”BARDA is the federal program that facilitates the development of vaccines, drugs, therapies, and diagnostic tools for public health emergencies.The influenza vaccine development project led by Dr. Doris Bucher at New York Medical College seeks to develop influenza vaccine seed strains optimized for high production yields and high immunogenicity.Congresswoman Lowey, as Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee, has fought to increase investments in medical research. She is a longtime member of the subcommittee that funds medical research, and funding to National Institutes of Health has nearly tripled since she joined the committee.###
05.13.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), Ranking Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, today announced a $589,679 grant from the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) to Burke Rehabilitation & Research in White Plains to further research cell transplant in the healing of spinal cord injuries.“Federal medical research grants allow for economic growth, job creation and healthy communities,” said Lowey. “These federal dollars will help Burke Rehab Center innovate and find solutions that bring people suffering from spinal cord injuries back to health. I have been a tireless advocate for medical research grants, and I will continue to make sure medical research gets the attention it needs in Congress.”Dr. Caitlin E. Hill, the Director of Spinal Cord Injury Preclinical Studies at Burke and lead researcher, noted the critical role cell research plays in healing spinal cord injuries.“We think that cell transplants are good options to replace the cells that are lost and to provide a substrate for remodeling the circuitry,” said Hill.Congresswoman Lowey, as Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee, has fought to increase investments in medical research. She is a longtime member of the subcommittee that funds medical research, and funding to National Institutes of Health has nearly tripled since she joined the committee.###
05.12.2014	More than $23 billion lost for NY working women yearly#WhatMothersNeed for Mother’s Day: Equal PayNEW CITY, NY– Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), Ranking Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, today was joined by local women’s leaders and elected officials from Rockland and Westchester Counties to highlight the severe economic consequences of pay inequality for New York women.On the heels of Mother’s Day 2014, Lowey highlighted a number of sobering facts regarding pay disparity in New York, including that women are paid 84 cents for every dollar paid to men which results in an $8,275 per year wage gap, according to the U.S. Census Bureau.“This is a matter of basic fairness, and it’s time for Mad Men-style inequality to end,” said Lowey. “There are serious, significant impediments for the women of New York who do not receive equal pay for equal work. Leveling the playing field would provide the average woman in our state 29 more months of family health insurance premiums or 2000 additional gallons of gas. This gap spans industry and education level, and remains a problem even when accounting for personal choices such as having children.”Lowey was joined by local women’s leaders and elected officials, including Harriet D. Cornell, District 10 Member of the Rockland County Legislature, and Cameron Spier, President of the Rockland Business Women’s Network, who emphasized the consequences of pay disparity for Rockland and Westchester women. “When I started Rockland’s Commission on Women’s Issues in 1984, pay equity was one of our priorities. How sad we are still fighting the same battle,” said Harriet Cornell. “Paycheck Fairness—equal pay for equal work—should be a no-brainer. Women doing the same job, with the same qualifications as men, should be paid the same. It seems obvious; and yet, it hasn’t happened. It has been turned into a political issue, and fairness has gone out the door. While pay disparity has lessened over the years, women are suffering—and that means their families are suffering from this economic discrimination. I applaud Congresswoman Lowey’s leadership and stand with her.”Cameron Spier added that, “The Rockland Business Women’s Network supports and empowers a wide range of women business professionals, many of whom choose the route of entrepreneurship. While many factors make up the choice to pursue entrepreneurship, the challenges of experiencing inequality of pay and elements of inflexibility within the workforce can be important deciding factors for emerging women business owners. We thank Congresswoman Lowey for the work she is doing on this important issue of pay equity.”NY Assemblymember Ellen Jaffee (D-Rockland) and New York State AFL-CIO President Mario Cilento also weighed in on equal pay in New York.“Women’s wages matter to their families. Women’s jobs matter to the economy. Fair Pay matters to all of us,” said NY Assemblymember Ellen Jaffee. “That is why the New York Assembly, for the second year in a row, passed the Women’s Equality Act (WEA), with pay equity being one of its 10 points. Pay inequality isn’t a myth, its math.”"It's no surprise that Congresswoman Nita Lowey is leading the fight for equal pay for women; taking on powerful interests in the pursuit of fairness is what she has done day in and day out as our representative in Washington, DC," said Mario Cilento, President of the New York State AFL-CIO. "It's shameful that, in this day and age, women still earn just a fraction of their male counterparts on the job for performing the same work. As a father of three girls, I'm hopeful that Congresswoman Lowey will be successful in this fight, so that they will be able to reap the full rewards of their potential when they join the workforce."Lowey has co-sponsored the Paycheck Fairness Act to help women fight wage discrimination. The bill would, among other things:Prohibit employers from retaliating against workers who discuss salaries with colleagues;Put gender-based discrimination on equal footing with other forms of wage discrimination, such as race or national origin – and allow women to take legal action for damages;Require employers to prove that pay differences exist for legitimate, job-related reasons;Create a negotiation skills training program for women and girls;Recognize employers for excellence in their pay practices;Provide businesses, especially small ones, assistance with equal pay practices; andEnhance the ability of the Department of Labor and the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission to investigate and enforce pay discrimination laws.“Simply put, when women succeed, America succeeds,” Lowey closed. “On Mother’s Day, too many moms were worrying about their struggle to provide for their children. It’s time to give women and families the economic security that comes with equal pay for equal work.”Congresswoman Lowey served on the U.S. Department of Labor’s landmark Glass Ceiling Commission, which was the first major federal effort to address organizational and management barriers for women to break through the glass ceiling in the workplace. On the Appropriations Committee, she has supported increased investments in STEM – Science, Technology, Engineering, and Math – Education for women. In addition, Lowey is a leading proponent of additional policies to help increase women’s economic security, including raising the minimum wage, which would increase pay for 4.7 million working women; paid sick leave; and greater access to affordable child care.# # #
05.09.2014	Washington, DC– Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), the senior Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, released the following statement on the Nuclear Regulatory Commission order released today regarding the risk to the Indian Point nuclear facility in the event of an earthquake.“The safety and security of the communities in the vicinity of Indian Point is paramount. This report from the Nuclear Regulatory Commission confirms once again my long-held belief that Indian Point is in need of major improvements and, in general, nuclear power facilities need tough, thorough oversight. I urge Entergy to thoroughly complete the analysis and evaluations included in the NRC’s findings as quickly as possible.“It is these types of risks that prompted me to author the Nuclear Licensing and Reform Act, which would prohibit a reactor’s operating license from being renewed if seismic evidence proves that the plant would not have originally received the license. During my time in Congress, I have consistently fought to ensure the safety of our communities and safeguard the quality of life in the Lower Hudson Valley. I vow to continue my record of aggressive oversight of Indian Point.”###
05.08.2014	Grant funds research on neurons & brain cell formation during pregnancyWASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), the senior Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, today announced a $241,500 federal grant to New York Medical College (NYMC) in Valhalla to research how pregnancy and premature birth affect the formation of interneurons.“Research grants help detect, cure, and prevent diseases, and this grant to New York Medical College could help ensure the health of newborns for years to come,” said Lowey. “I have been a consummate supporter of investments in medical research because the institutions that receive funding work to improve the quality of life for Lower Hudson Valley families and bolster our economy. This grant to NYMC is no exception, and I will continue my strong advocacy in Congress for medical research funding.”Preterm babies often exhibit behavioral disturbances, intellectual disabilities, and epilepsy, which result from abnormal development of interneurons, the brain cells that connect neurons. Dr. Praveen Ballabh, M.D., Associate Professor of Pediatrics and Associate Professor of Cell Biology and Anatomy at NYMC, will seek to determine how these interneurons develop in the second half of pregnancy and how premature birth affects the formation of interneurons.“We are very pleased that Dr. Ballabh – one of our dedicated clinician-researchers – has received this support,” said Catharine Crea, Associate Dean for Research Administration at NYMC.Congresswoman Lowey, as Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee, has fought to increase investments in medical research. She is a longtime member of the subcommittee that funds medical research, and funding to National Institutes of Health has nearly tripled since she joined the committee.###
05.06.2014	Bicameral legislation would extend basic reproductive health care benefits to Peace Corps volunteersWASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) and U.S. Senator Jeanne Shaheen (D-NH) today introduced the bipartisan Peace Corps Equity Act in the House and Senate which would extend basic reproductive health care services to all Peace Corp volunteers. Currently, female Peace Corps volunteers –unlike most women with federal health care coverage – are denied abortion coverage in the case of rape, incest or when the life of the woman is endangered. The legislation would bring the Peace Corps policy in line with other federal government health benefits and picks up on an effort started by the late Senator Frank Lautenberg (D-NJ) who was a champion for women in the Peace Corps and reproductive rights. The Peace Corps Equity Act has 4 cosponsors in the House and 27 bipartisan cosponsors in the Senate. “This is about fairness – fairness for American ambassadors working in every corner of the world to save and change lives,” Lowey said. “It is absolutely unconscionable that female Peace Corps volunteers who are victims of sexual assault, or whose pregnancies endanger their lives, are not afforded the same health care access as virtually all other women with federal health coverage. They deserve our steadfast support, and I am working closely with my colleagues and former Peace Corps volunteers Representatives Farr, Honda, Kennedy, and Garamendi to give our volunteers the health care coverage they need to continue serving our country.”“Extending basic reproductive health care services to female Peace Corps volunteers is long overdue,” Shaheen said. “Peace Corps volunteers face inherent risks living and working abroad and there’s no reason they should be denied standard health care services offered to most women with federal health care coverage. It’s an honor to continue the fight started by the late Senator Frank Lautenberg and I hope we can come together in congress to right this wrong on behalf of all female Peace Corps volunteers.”While employees of the Peace Corps are provided with abortion services in the case of rape, incest or when the life of the woman is endangered, this coverage is not extended to volunteers. The Peace Corps Equity Act would extend these important protections to all Peace Corps volunteers.###
05.05.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today released the following statement in honor of Israeli Independence Day:“This year, we celebrate 66 years of Israeli independence as well as over six decades of steadfast friendship between Israel and the United States.“When President Truman recognized the state of Israel on May 14, 1948, only eleven minutes after David Ben-Gurion declared independence, the United States became an unwavering supporter of the Jewish state. “Israel is now our strongest ally in the Middle East as well as the longest-standing democracy in the region. It’s a partnership based on shared values and common goals.“That is why the United States will continue to be the greatest force against efforts to delegitimize Israel in the international community as well as the greatest advocate for a lasting peace between Israel and the Palestinians and recognition of Israel by all of her neighbors.“Together, we will continue our efforts to turn these goals into a reality.“I join all Israelis in celebrating this year’s Yom Ha'atzmaut.”###
05.05.2014	Top Dem on House Appropriations Committee, local veterans say bill is crucial to reducing claims backlog, enhancing primary care for women veterans, and bolstering job programsWHITE PLAINS, NY– Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), the senior Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, today was joined by local veterans to outline the importance of the Military Construction and Veterans Affairs (MilCon-VA) appropriations bill, passed by the U.S. House of Representatives last week. The $158 billion bill would take steps to reduce the veterans’ claims backlog, enhance primary care for women veterans, bolster veteran job transition and placement programs, and increase funding for the Veterans Administration (VA) health care system. The bill will now be sent to the Senate for consideration.“With this bill, the 28,000 veterans living in Rockland and Westchester can have more peace of mind,” said Lowey. “The Veterans Affairs bill includes significant measures to tackle the unacceptable veterans’ claims backlog, increase job opportunities for transitioning servicemembers, and meet the unique medical needs of women veterans. I will continue to work in Congress to honor the sacrifices our veterans have made by ensuring they have the support they need.”Congresswoman Lowey has taken a leading role in Congress to reduce the veterans’ claims backlog by 44 percent over the last year. She included measures in last year’s funding bill to require reductions in the backlog and address technology and manpower challenges contributing to the backlog.“The VA claims backlog is absolutely unacceptable. In March 2013, the backlog peaked at over 611,000. As of last week, the claims backlog was at 320,000. Based on language I included in the bill last year to expedite processing of these claims for veterans who are waiting for services, progress has been made. However, this number is still unacceptably high. We can and must do better,” Lowey added.Congresswoman Lowey was joined by Jerry Donnellan, the Director of the Rockland County Veterans Service Agency, who applauded the passage of the MilCon-VA appropriations bill and stressed the benefits of the bill for local veterans."Between multiple tours and the lack of jobs, our new veterans have it worse than we did after Vietnam. The passage of the MilCon-VA bill addresses a critical need for veterans in the Hudson Valley," said Donnellan.Lowey highlighted key portions of the bill to reduce the claims backlog and address other priorities to better serve our veterans, including:Information Technology (IT)—The bill includes $3.9 billion, an increase of $200 million, or 5.4 percent, over the 2014 funding for VA’s information technology services such as systems development, operations and maintenance, information protection, and customer support.Medical Care—The bill includes $56 billion for VA medical care in 2015, $1.4 billion, or 3 percent, more than the 2014 enacted amount. In addition, the bill includes an additional $368 million to the enacted 2015 advance appropriations. Women Veterans— The bill includes $403 million to enhance primary care for women Veterans. The bill also provides $588.9 million for medical and prosthetic research, including a three percent carve out for women veteran prosthetic research.Veterans Employment — The bill also includes an almost $50 million increase over the 2014 enacted levels for the Veterans Benefits Administration general operating expenses which enables entitled veterans to become employable, to obtain and maintain suitable employment, and to achieve maximum independence in daily living. This bill encourages the VA to work in conjunction with the Department of Labor and non-profit employment and training organizations to provide job placement, services for job-seekers, and rehabilitation and training for veterans. ###
04.30.2014	Letter comes in direct response to crude oil train car disasters in Lynchburg, VA and Quebec Canada and accident in West Nyack, NYWASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), the senior Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, today sent a letter to President Barack Obama urging him to direct all federal agencies responsible for the oversight of crude oil transport to make more expansive use of their emergency authority in order to immediately mitigate the dangers that crude oil transport poses to communities across the country. She also called for expedited review of crude oil transport regulations expected to be submitted by the U.S. Department of Transportation to the Office of Management and Budget this week.“In light of recent accidents and the drastic increase in domestic crude production, elected officials across all levels of government, industry stakeholders, and safety advocates agree that the issues surround the use of these tank cars must be urgently addressed,” said Lowey. “I urge you to commit additional resources … and to employ every possible means at your disposal to immediately address this public safety threat.”Lowey’s letter is in direct response to recent tragic events across the country involving the disasters during the transport of crude oil, most recently today in Lynchburg, VA, where a train carrying crude oil derailed and caught fire. Other well-known incidents include last July’s derailment of a train car in Quebec, Canada, that killed 47 people and caused the evacuation of an additional 2,000 people, and the December 2013 incident in West Nyack, NY, in which a train carrying almost a hundred empty DOT-111 tank cars, which had previously transported crude oil, struck a semi-truck and pushed it 500 yards down the track.The full text of the Congresswoman’s letter is below: President Barack ObamaThe White House1600 Pennsylvania Avenue NWWashington, DC 20500Dear President Obama:In the coming days I understand that the Department of Transportation (DOT) will transmit a comprehensive rulemaking package for enhancing tank car standards, including DOT-111 tanker cars, to the Office of Management and Budget (OMB). In light of the widespread concern across the country regarding the use of DOT-111 cars to safely transport crude oil, I urge you to direct OMB to expedite the review of this rulemaking package. Additionally, I urge you to direct all federal agencies responsible for the oversight of crude oil transport to make more expansive use of their emergency authority in order to immediately mitigate the dangers that crude oil transport poses to communities across the country. The potential dangers of transporting crude oil in DOT-111 cars were made incredibly clear today in downtown Lynchburg, Virginia, when a train carrying crude oil derailed and caught fire. This follows the well-known incident last July in Quebec, Canada, when these tank cars derailed in the community of Lac-Megantic, killing 47 people and causing the evacuation of an additional 2,000 people. Additionally, last December, in my district, a train carrying almost a hundred empty DOT-111 tank cars, which had previously transported crude oil, struck a semi-truck and pushed it 500 yards down the track. Thankfully, since the cars were no longer carrying crude, a worst-case scenario was adverted, but I, along with residents and community leaders, remain fearful that we won’t be so lucky next time.In light of recent accidents and the drastic increase in domestic crude production, elected officials across all levels of government, industry stakeholders, and safety advocates agree that the issues surround the use of these tank cars must be urgently addressed. In fact, the Association of American Railroads has already agreed to voluntary standards that exceed present federal standards for DOT-111 cars, and the railroad industry is already placing orders for these cars. However, I remain concerned that voluntary action like these don’t go far enough and that, without expedited review of this rule by OMB, the federal government will fall further behind and will be unable to effectively safeguard individuals, business, and communities. The National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB) Chairwoman Deborah Hersman has also repeatedly urged that the identified vulnerabilities with DOT-111 tank cars be addressed as quickly as possible and that the Administration should more robustly use its emergency authority to mitigate the risks of crude oil transport in order to prevent additional deaths. The NTSB has issued a series of recommendations to improve the strength of these tank cars. It is my sincere hope that the Department of Transportation has carefully considered these recommendations in drafting the pending rule.Like you, I believe that it is in the country’s interest that OMB conducts a thorough and thoughtful review of the pending rulemaking package from the DOT; however, I urge you to commit additional resources to the review of this package swiftly so that DOT can move forward with its implementation and to employ every possible means at your disposal to immediately address this public safety threat. As always, I look forward to working with you on this matter.Sincerely,Nita M. Lowey###
04.28.2014	Funds would upgrade and improve Bus Rapid Transit system for Lower Hudson ValleyWASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), the senior Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, today applauded New York State’s application of for a $26.7 million Transportation Investment Generating Economic Recovery (TIGER) matching grant through the U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT). The TIGER grant would support the New NY Bridge Mass Transit Task Force (MTTF) recommendations for an improved Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) system between Rockland and Westchester Counties.New York Governor Andrew Cuomo also designated $20 million in his 2014-2015 State Budget for MTTF to implement upgrades for BRT.“I’m thrilled that the state of New York is taking the right steps to deliver critical upgrades and improvements to Lower Hudson Valley transit,” said Lowey. “Sound transportation infrastructure is the basic building block for economic success and this funding would be a benefit to companies and commuters alike. I will continue to work in Congress and with Governor Cuomo to help ensure that this request for federal funding becomes a reality for New York.”Lowey has been working tirelessly to bring additional transportation funding to New York and the Lower Hudson Valley. In October 2013, Lowey announced an historic $1.6 billion Transportation Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act (TIFIA) loan from DOT for construction of a new Tappan Zee Bridge. The loan is the largest ever in the history of the TIFIA program and came after Lowey directly and personally urged DOT Secretary Anthony Foxx to support the project.###
04.28.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C.– Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), the senior Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, today released the following statement in honor of Holocaust Remembrance Day:“Approximately six million Jewish men, women, and children perished during the darkest chapter of human history. Today, we pause to remember and pay tribute to the millions of innocent victims who were persecuted during the Holocaust.“By remembering their struggle against intolerance and injustice, we recommit ourselves to reversing and eradicating human brutality. While the world community has made some notable progress during the last seventy years, the horrific reports from Syria, South Sudan, the Central Africa Republic, among many other places, tragically prove there is still immense evil in the world. Therefore on this year’s Yom Hashoah, let us rededicate ourselves to fighting all forms of religious prejudice and discrimination. When we say never again, let us mean never again for any of God's children.“With this in mind, let’s make every day an opportunity to work together to champion the causes of equality, freedom, and peace for peoples of all faiths around the world.”###
04.23.2014	WHITE PLAINS, NY– Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), Ranking Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, held a press conference today at her White Plains District Office with local students and school administrators to denounce the House Republican budget for making college more difficult for low-income and middle class families to afford. “If budgeting reflects priorities, then it’s clear that the House Republicans don’t care about making college affordable,” said Lowey. “The latest iteration of the Republican budget sends an unambiguous message to families across the country and right here in New York: good luck affording a higher education. I am committed to helping working families afford college through Pell Grants and other assistance in an effort to make financing college more economical.”Local college representatives and students in attendance spoke about the importance of federal student assistance. Several students who benefit from federal student aid also said maintaining Pell grants and tax credits are essential for them to afford college.“The most economically challenged students use Pell Grants to make their education a reality and embark on successful careers that contribute to our nation’s economic growth and global competitiveness,” said Pace University President Stephen J. Friedman. “More than one out of every three degree-seeking Undergraduate students at Pace University receive Pell grants, and it would be a serious loss to our country if any of these future educated professionals did not fulfill his or her potential because the Pell Grant program was cut.”Danielle Williams, a Purchase College student, added, “My parents are self-employed and can’t afford to borrow under the parent loan program. I have a work-study job and borrow the maximum amount allowable in student loans. Receiving a Pell Grant enables me to continue my education.”Passed April 10 with no Democratic votes, the Republican Budget Resolution introduced by Budget Committee Chairman Paul Ryan included three specific measures that would increase the costs of a college education for millions of American students.Cuts to Pell Grants.Pell Grants provide $29 billion in assistance to eight million students annually, including $79,430,752 for 20,620 students in Lowey’s congressional district. Since Lowey joined the Appropriations Committee, the maximum Pell Grant has more than doubled from $2,300 to $5,730. The Republican budget would cut the Pell program by $145 billion over the next ten years, which could dramatically reduce tuition assistance for the coming decade.Increased Loan Costs. By beginning interest accrual on popular subsidized Stafford Loans while students are still in school, Republicans would increase the costs of student loans. For a student with a $23,000 loan, costs would increase by $3,800 in interest.End to Vital Education Tax Credit. The American Opportunity Tax Credit, which is set to expire this year, provides tax credits for college expenses, including books, transportation, supplies, and fees, for families with incomes of $80,000 for single filers and $160,000 for joint filers. The credit is up to $2500, of which 40% is refundable for those who do not owe taxes. The President’s and the House Democrats’ budgets would extend this vital assistance for middle class families, while the House Republican budget would allow it to expire.Lowey strongly opposed the resolution. As the highest ranking Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, she vowed to fight to preserve Pell Grants during consideration of the Labor-Health and Human Services-Education funding bill in the coming months. “It’s imperative that our children be able to succeed in an increasingly competitive, global marketplace,” Lowey concluded. “House Republicans’ attack on college affordability harms middle class families and hampers our ability to cultivate a 21st century workforce in the United States. That is why I will continue to fight day-in and day-out to preserve Pell Grants, tax credits for college tuition and expenses, and affordable student loans that make higher education affordable for Westchester and Rockland families. "# # #
04.23.2014	SPRING VALLEY, NY– Congresswoman Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), the senior Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, today was joined by Head Start of Rockland, Inc., Executive Director Ouida Foster Toutebon as well as local elected officials, community leaders and students to announce a $4,912,491 federal grant for Head Start of Rockland, Inc. This competitive grant, which was awarded by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, will provide Head Start of Rockland with funding for its Head Start and Early Head Start programs. “All students deserve access to the best quality care and education to help them prepare for school. Head Start and Early Head Start are absolutely critical in providing these early childhood education services,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “Throughout my time in Congress, I have pushed for greater investment in Head Start because strong early education can do wonders to close and prevent achievement gaps. The increased federal funding provided by this grant will help low-income families in Rockland County access primary health care and education services for their children.”“The board of directors, policy council, parents, staff and children wish to thank Congresswoman Nita Lowey for all of her efforts and support for early childhood programs nationwide,” said Head Start of Rockland, Inc. Executive Director Ouida Foster Toutebon. “Due to her leadership, Head Start of Rockland, Inc. has been restored the 5.27% cut due to the 2013 sequestration cuts and provided an additional 1.3% COLA for staff, totaling approximately $640,000.”Head Start of Rockland, Inc. provides high quality preschool, special education, and early childhood education to about 1,000 low-income children in Rockland County.Last year, Head Start of Rockland’s grant was cut by $470,000, which forced it to eliminate its summer program for four year olds. The $4.9 million recently awarded to Head Start of Rockland for 2014 restores the $470,000 sequestration reduction and provides a cost-of-living adjustment, for a total increase of $640,000 more than the 2013 award. As the Senior Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee and a member of the Fiscal Year 2014 Budget Conference Committee, Lowey was a strong advocate for increasing investments in early education by more than $1 billion in 2014, which were included in the Fiscal Year 2014 spending bill passed in January.“The sequester’s senseless cuts to vital initiatives that help educate our children, support the vulnerable in society and create jobs were counterproductive,” said Lowey. “With this restoration and increase in funding for Rockland’s Head Start Centers, we see the great results of our efforts to restore smart federal investments in our communities.”###
04.22.2014	Washington, DC– Congresswoman Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), the senior Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, today announced a $241, 500 federal grant for New York Medical College (NYMC) in Valhalla. This competitive grant, awarded by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke, will provide NYMC with clinical research funding for the Sodium Imaging of Synaptic Function project. “I am pleased that NYMC will have access to additional funding. These recent grants will allow the Lower Hudson Valley to remain at the forefront of medical research, and they help bolster our local economy,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “It is through continued and aggressive funding of biomedical research that we will be able to better understand, prevent, and cure neurological disease.”“The project involves a new form of imaging the strength of communication between nerve cells. We know a lot about nerve cells, but there is much to learn. This grant will take us further into the process,” said William N. Ross, Ph.D., Professor of Physiology who is leading the project at the college. “This is excellent news!”This grant comes in addition to $483,000 in federal funding awarded earlier this month through the National Institutes of Health to NYMC for vascular disease and immunology research.Congresswoman Lowey, as Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee, has fought to increase investments in biomedical research. She is a longtime member of the subcommittee that funds biomedical research and funding to National Institutes of Health has nearly tripled since she joined the committee.###
04.22.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), the Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, today sent a letter to U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) Secretary Shaun Donovan in reaction to the administration’s proposal to award remaining Community Development Block Grant Disaster Relief Funds via competition, including with other regions of the county beyond those affected by Sandy. The funds were part of a $60 billion disaster assistance package passed in the wake of Hurricane Sandy to help communities, businesses and families rebuild and recover.As reported by The Wall Street Journal, HUD is considering making $3.6 billion available through a national resiliency fund that would be awarded via a competitive process, and areas outside the Sandy-affected region could be eligible to apply. Given continued need for recovery and resiliency in the New York region, Lowey called on Donovan to preserve the remaining funds for Sandy-related expenses.The full text of the Congresswoman’s letter is below:The Honorable Shaun DonovanSecretaryU.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development451 7th Street S.W.Washington, DC 20410Dear Secretary Donovan:I write you with great concern regarding the administration's proposal to award the remaining Community Development Block Grant Disaster Relief funds for Hurricane Sandy via competition. As you know, the areas impacted by Hurricane Sandy have unmet needs that exceed the funds available. In fact, I am concerned that the funds available are insufficient to meet the needs of the rebuilding effort and that more funds may be needed in the future. I ask you to award all remaining funds to the areas affected by the storm so that they can develop and implement projects that will mitigate the impact of future disasters.In addition, New York was affected by major disasters in 2011, 2012 and 2013. Some of the damage was compounded by successive incidents; infrastructure weakened by Hurricane Irene was destroyed in Hurricane Sandy. Investing in prevention and mitigation is the right thing to do. It will save money and save lives in the future.Thank you for all of the work you have done to respond to the immense challenges that Hurricane Sandy has brought to New York and the region. As always, I look forward to working with you on this matter. Sincerely,Nita LoweyRanking Member, Committee on Appropriations###
04.17.2014	Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY), Ranking Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee and the Subcommittee on State and Foreign Operations, today wrote to Secretary of State John Kerry regarding reports of Jewish citizens in Eastern Ukraine being ordered to “register” with pro-Russian militants in the city of Donetsk.Dear Secretary Kerry:I write regarding today’s highly alarming press reports from eastern Ukraine indicating that Jewish citizens are being ordered to ‘register’ with the pro-Russian militants in the city of Donetsk. I understand anyone refusing to comply could be stripped of their citizenship and possibly face the loss of their property. This is an unacceptable escalation of the crisis in Ukraine and cause for both grave concern and immediate action. As you are well aware, the singling out of Jewish communities for further scrutiny and possible punishment reeks of age-old anti-Semitic policies. While I commend the joint statement issued by the U.S., EU, Russia and Ukraine today condemning anti-Semitism and extremism, your continued leadership is critical in defusing the situation in Donetsk as well as preventing additional acts of discrimination from occurring in other parts of the country. All of the parties involved in the ongoing crisis in Ukraine must understand in no uncertain terms that the world community will not tolerate such contemptible and atrocious behavior. I urge you to do everything possible to ensure that Jewish and other minority communities throughout the country are protected from any form of prejudice. Thank you for your attention to this critically important issue. Sincerely,NITA LOWEY
04.15.2014	Washington, DC– Congresswoman Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), the senior Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, today announced a $4,912,491 federal grant for Head Start of Rockland, Inc. This competitive grant, which was awarded by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, will provide Head Start of Rockland with funding for its Head Start and Early Head Start programs. “All students deserve access to the best quality care and education to help them prepare for school. Head Start and Early Head Start are absolutely critical in providing these early childhood education services,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “Throughout my time in Congress, I have pushed for greater investment in Head Start because strong early education can do wonders to close and prevent achievement gaps. The increased federal funding provided by this grant will help low-income families in Rockland County access primary health care and education services for their children.”“The board of directors, policy council, parents, staff and children wish to thank Congresswoman Nita Lowey for all of her efforts and support for early childhood programs nationwide,” said Head Start of Rockland, Inc. Executive Director Ouida Foster Toutebon. “Due to her leadership, Head Start of Rockland, Inc. has been restored the 5.27% cut due to the 2013 sequestration cuts and provided an additional 1.3% COLA for staff, totaling approximately $640,000.”Head Start of Rockland, Inc. provides high quality preschool, special education, and early childhood education to about 1,000 low-income children in Rockland County. The agency has programs throughout the county as well as three direct-run schools in Haverstraw, Nyack, and Spring Valley.The $4.9 million awarded to Head Start of Rockland erases the previous 5.27% cut due to the sequester, or across-the-board federal spending cuts in 2013, and provides an additional increase. As the Senior Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee and a member of the Fiscal Year 2014 Budget Conference Committee, Lowey was a strong advocate for increasing investments in Head Start nationwide by more than $1 billion in 2014.“The sequester’s senseless cuts to vital initiatives that help educate our children, support the vulnerable in society and create jobs were counterproductive,” said Lowey. “With this restoration and increase in funding for Rockland’s Head Start Centers, we see the great results of our efforts to restore smart federal investments in our communities.”###
04.14.2014	Congresswomen Kay Granger (R-TX) and Nita Lowey (D-NY), Chairwoman and Ranking Democrat on the Appropriations State and Foreign Operations Subcommittee, today called on President Obama and the European Union to impose swift economic and diplomatic consequences if Iran and Russia ratify an oil-for-goods contract, reported to be worth $20 billion.A prospective oil-for-goods contract between Iran and Russia, outside the P5+1 context, “would be a blatant violation of both the Joint Plan of Action as well as existing U.S. sanctions,” the lawmakers wrote. It would also send the mistaken message that Iran is ‘open for business.’TEXT OF LETTER TO PRESIDENT OBAMA:Dear Mr. President:As staunch supporters of the crippling sanctions that helped bring Iran to the table with the international community, we write with grave concern over recent events that could impact the current status of the negotiations as well as efforts to bring about a final deal denying Iran nuclear capability. The prospective oil-for-goods contract between Iran and Russia, widely reported to be worth $20 billion, signifies an unacceptable continuation of Russia’s and Iran’s deception of and disregard for the international community. Such a deal would be a blatant violation of both the Joint Plan of Action as well as existing U.S. sanctions. Further troubling, it would send the mistaken message that Iran is ‘open for business.’ The fact remains that international efforts aimed at permanently denying Iran nuclear weapons capacity have yet to produce an acceptable, final deal. It is imperative that Iran understand that they will only achieve economic relief after fully abandoning their nuclear activities and ambitions.We therefore urge you to unequivocally convey to the governments of Iran and Russia that the United States will not tolerate such actions and that any trade agreement outside of the P5+1 context will be met with swift economic and diplomatic consequences. As the Chairwoman and Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on State and Foreign Operations, we stand ready to assist you in holding both Iran and Russia accountable for their actions.Thank you for your attention to this critical national security matter, and we look forward to your response.Sincerely,NITA LOWEYKAY GRANGERTEXT OF LETTER TO CATHERINE ASHTON:Dear High Representative Ashton: We commend the European Parliament for recently passing legislation condemning Iran for its appalling human rights record. Exposing the country’s widespread restrictions on freedom of religion, assembly, and expression is critically important, and we share the European Union’s concern for innocent Iranian citizens whose fundamental rights have been denied and who have been wrongly persecuted by the Iranian government.As you know, the EU and United States have together implemented real and robust sanctions on Iran over its nuclear weapons program. These efforts played a direct role in bringing Iran to the negotiating table with the international community last fall. Unfortunately, we write to you today with grave concern over recent events that could impact the current status of the negotiations as well as our joint efforts to bring about a final deal.The reported oil-for-goods contract between Iran and Russia is estimated to be worth $20 billion. Such a deal would be a blatant violation of the Joint Plan of Action and a direct threat to the effectiveness of the international sanctions currently in place. Further troubling, it would send the mistaken message that Iran is ‘open for business.’ The fact remains that international efforts aimed at permanently denying Iran nuclear weapons capacity have yet to produce an acceptable, final agreement. It is imperative that Iran understand that they will only achieve economic relief after fully abandoning their nuclear activities and ambitions.We have written to President Obama to request that he unequivocally convey to the governments of both Iran and Russia that the United States will not tolerate such actions and that any trade agreement outside of the P5+1 context will be met with swift economic and diplomatic consequences. We respectfully urge you to raise this potential agreement with your colleagues in the EU and consider similar action. A united, international response is the only way to thwart brazen attempts to circumvent ongoing negotiations. As the Chairwoman and Ranking Member of the U.S. House of Representatives’ Appropriations Subcommittee on State and Foreign Operations, we stand ready to assist you and the European Union in holding both Iran and Russia accountable for their actions going forward.Thank you for your attention to this critically important matter, and we look forward to your response.Sincerely,NITA LOWEYKAY GRANGER###
04.11.2014	Suffern, NY – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), Ranking Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, held a press conference today at Rockland Community College alongside RCC representatives and students to denounce the House Republican budget for making college more difficult for low-income and middle class families to afford. “Budgets are statements of our priorities,” said Lowey. “And the message of the House Republican budget is loud and clear: students and families don’t deserve relief from the high costs of a college education. That’s unacceptable, and I’ll fight tooth and nail to preserve the increases I helped secure for Pell Grants and other assistance to make college more affordable for New York families.”“Any legislation that endangers or weakens the Pell grant program will deal a serious blow to thousands of students who turn to Rockland Community College, and other community colleges, to fulfill their educational and career goals,” said Dr. Cliff L. Wood, President of Rockland Community College. “Denying these students access to degrees that will improve their marketability will ultimately have a deleterious effect upon our entire economy.”In addition to Wood, Madelene Aponte, Assistant Financial Aid Director for RCC, and Dana Stilley, Associate VP of Enrollment Management at RCC, spoke about the importance of federal student assistance for RCC enrollees. Several students who benefit from federal student aid also said maintaining Pell grants and tax credits are essential for them to afford college.Passed yesterday with no Democratic votes, the Republican Budget Resolution introduced by Budget Committee Chairman Paul Ryan included three specific measures that would increase the cost of a college education for millions of American students.Cuts to Pell Grants. Pell Grants provide $29 billion in assistance to eight million students annually, and in 2012, 2475 RCC students received $8,736,807 in Pell Grants. Since Lowey joined the Appropriations Committee, the maximum Pell Grant has more than doubled from $2,300 to $5,730. The Republican budget would cut the Pell program by $145 billion over the next ten years, which could dramatically reduce tuition assistance for the coming decade.Increased Loan Costs. By beginning interest accrual on popular subsidized Stafford Loans while students are still in school, Republicans would increase the costs of student loans. For as student with a $23,000 loan, costs would increase by $3,800 in interest.End to Vital Education Tax Credit. The American Opportunity Tax Credit, which is set to expire this year, provides tax credits for college expenses, including books, transportation, supplies, and fees, for families with incomes of $80,000 for single filers and $160,000 for joint filers. The credit is up to $2500, of which 40% is refundable for those who do not owe taxes. The President’s and the House Democrats’ budgets would extend this vital assistance for middle class families, while the House Republican budget would allow it to expire.Lowey strongly opposed the resolution. As the highest ranking Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, she vowed to fight to preserve Pell Grants during consideration of the Labor-Health and Human Services-Education funding bill in the coming months. “The success of our children and the future of our economy depend on our ability to compete in the 21st century global market,” Lowey closed. “Making it harder to get ahead and educate our children hurts American families and our ability to create and fill jobs in the U.S. I’ll do everything possible to stop Republican attacks on college affordability and to preserve assistance like the Pell Grant, tax credits for college tuition and expenses, and affordable student loans. ” # # #
04.10.2014	Washington, DC- Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), the senior Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, welcomed representatives from the Alzheimer’s Association to Washington, D.C., this week. Included in the group were Armonk residents Jane and Andy Cahn.“Increased federal funding for Alzheimer’s disease research and education is critical. Alzheimer’s affects millions of Americans and their families,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “We must continue to help scientists develop innovative ways to prevent and treat the disease. As our population ages, medical advances can improve the quality of life for those suffering and eventually cure Alzheimer’s.”Alzheimer’s Association is a voluntary health organization which supports and advocates on behalf of those affected by Alzheimer’s. Congresswoman Lowey and representatives of the organization discussed the importance of increased Alzheimer’s research and education.“I thank the Cahns and all the Alzheimer’s Association volunteers for their work to help increase awareness of Alzheimer’s and to advocate for research and caregiver support,” said Lowey. “The voices of all Americans are vital to make progress on the issues that matter most to our families.”Congresswoman Lowey is the Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee and a longtime member of the Labor, Health, and Human Services Subcommittee that funds biomedical research and the National Institutes of Health (NIH). In 2014, NIH is spending $566 million on Alzheimer’s initiatives.###
04.03.2014	Washington, DC– Congresswoman Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), the senior Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, today announced two federal grants for New York Medical College (NYMC) in Valhalla. These competitive grants, awarded by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health (NIH), will provide NYMC with research funding for vascular disease and immunology research. “In order to conduct groundbreaking medical research to improve our understanding and treatment of diseases, universities must be provided essential federal grants such as these,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “This research funding will allow NYMC to continue to serve as a leading biomedical research institution, one we are fortunate to have in Westchester County. I will continue to work on the Appropriations Committee to provide greater funding for medical research.”NYMC’s the Estrogen and EDHF in NO deficiency project was awarded $402,500, and the resistance to the reactive nitrogen species project was awarded $80, 500 in research funding.“New York Medical College continues our tradition of scientific inquiry to unlock secrets to better health for all,” said Edward C. Halperin, MD, MA, CEO and Chancellor the College. “Two talented young scientists will study measures to improve management of diabetes and high blood pressure, and relieve suffering from the parasitic infection toxoplasmosis. We are also proud to foster the successful careers of women scientists.”Congresswoman Lowey is the Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee and a longtime member of the subcommittee that funds biomedical research. She has fought to increase investments in biomedical research, and funding to NIH has tripled since she joined the committee.###
03.31.2014	Washington, DC- Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), the senior Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, welcomed Jamitha Fields of New City to Washington, D.C. last week. Fields, representing Autism Speaks, gave testimony at Tuesday’s Labor, Health and Human Services (LHHS) Appropriations Subcommittee hearing for public and outside witnesses.“It was a pleasure to meet with Jamitha and hear her commitment and dedication to raising awareness about autism,” said Lowey. “As more and more American families are affected by this disorder, greater funding is crucial to understanding the causes of autism to better prevent and treat those affected.”“While more children are being diagnosed earlier, most children are not. Studies demonstrate that signs of autism emerge as early as 6 to 12 months,” Fields testified before the subcommittee. “Thanks to research, we have effective tools for screening children for autism risk as early as one year. Yet according to Centers for Disease Control, the average age of diagnosis is 4-5 years.”Fields joined Autism Speaks in 2007 and currently serves as the Vice President of Community Affairs. In this role she is responsible for developing awareness around Autism Speaks initiatives, such as Early Access to Care. Fields also works on fostering collaborative relationships with businesses and organizations to increase awareness and further the Autism Speaks mission.As a longtime member of the LHHS Subcommittee and the Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee, Lowey has fought to increase investments in biomedical research. Funding to the National Institutes of Health (NIH) has tripled since she joined the committee, and in 2013 NIH invested $169 million in autism research.###
03.21.2014	Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) and JCC-Rockland CEO David Kirschtel today called for an end to the apparent bias against young Israelis seeking U.S. visas to visit the United States. “Denial rates for young Israelis to visit the U.S. are astounding and unacceptable,” said Lowey. “It is common practice for young Israelis who have completed their mandatory military duty to travel internationally, and we should be encouraging more of them to come here. This situation deserves greater scrutiny to ensure it does not unfairly profile and discriminate against young Israelis, especially given the unique relationship between the United States and Israel.”Refusal rates at the U.S. embassy in Tel Aviv have skyrocketed in recent years, increasing from 2.5% in 2007 to nearly 10% percent in 2013. When Lowey inquired of the State Department about the high refusal rates for 21-30 year olds, the Department confirmed it was a shocking 48% last year.Lowey’s office was contacted by constituent David Kirschtel, who is the CEO of JCC-Rockland, about one such denial. Kirschtel joined Lowey on a conference call today with media to share his family’s story. His son’s companion was denied a visa to visit the Kirschtels for Passover despite her having a history of returning to Israel after coming to the U.S. on a work visa last summer, her intent to return to her large family in Israel, and Mr. Kirschtel’s son’s preparations to attend college in Israel.“This unfair practice must end,” said Kirschtel. “My family will be separated for Passover for the first time this year as we prepare for my son to spend three years abroad for college. It’s unfair that his girlfriend couldn’t come to share Passover with us. It’s clear she would return to Israel to be with him and her family. I’m especially concerned that young Israelis who are between military service and college are forced to pay hundreds for visa applications with such low odds of approval.”Lowey, Ranking Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee and the State and Foreign Operations Subcommittee, spoke earlier this week with U.S. Ambassador to Israel Daniel Shapiro about this situation and followed her call with a letter, which can be found here or below.Some have alleged this spike could have resulted from Dead Sea cosmetic companies luring young Israelis to work illegally in American shopping malls and to violate their visa terms. “A few bad actors shouldn’t prevent young Israelis the wonderful experience of coming to the United States,” said Lowey. “Denial rates have hit a highly alarming level for young Israelis, and I urge the State Department and our embassy in Tel Aviv to do everything possible to ensure there is no bias in the visa approval process for Israelis.” # # #
03.18.2014	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), the senior Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, today applauded increases in Homeland Security funding for New York in the 2014 fiscal year. Under new funding levels announced today, New York will receive $178.9 million in funding through the Department of Homeland Security’s Urban Areas Security Initiative, an increase of 2.7% over 2013 levels. New York will also receive $76.7 million through the State Homeland Security Program, a 15% increase from 2013 levels.“New York knows the threat of terrorism and the pressing need for our federal government to invest in protecting our communities. As the Ranking Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, I will fight for continued increases to critical grant programs like the Urban Area Security Initiative and the State Homeland Security Program,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “The New York metro areas will be better prepared to prevent, mitigate and respond to threats.”The increase in funding will support law enforcement’s ability to detect and prevent acts of terrorism and support training and preparedness activities which will increase public safety in New York. Lowey has a long history of fighting to secure New York’s fair share of homeland security assistance. She was appointed to the Select Committee on Homeland Security and helped secure over $20 billion for recovery efforts after September 11, 2001. As the highest ranking Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, she was instrumental in securing a budget agreement in late 2013 and passing the spending agreement in January that increased funding for UASI by over $41.2 million and SHSP grants by $111.7 million.###
03.18.2014	Peekskill, NY – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), the highest ranking Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, today announced $788,000 in federal funds to support the Peekskill downtown revitalization project alongside Mayor Frank Catalina (R) and local business leaders. They appeared in front of Weeks Jewelry, which has been in business for more than 100 years, to highlight the economic benefits of these infrastructure upgrades.“This is a great example of federal, state, and local government working in partnership to improve the quality of life in our community,” said Lowey. “The infrastructure upgrades made possible by this federal grant not only improve safety, they help incentivize the location of businesses and housing in Peekskill, which is a great economic benefit.”Mayor Catalina said, "We are thankful our application was favorably received and awarded. Much of Peekskill's infrastructure is traversed by statewide traffic, not only Peekskill residents, and this award recognizes the financial strain placed on our taxpayers to provide this maintenance and upkeep which deserves federal assistance. I want to thank Congresswoman Lowey for her dedication to insure ALL parts of her District receive these much needed awards."The City is receiving $788,000 in federal funds to assist with the $985,000 in estimated construction costs for the second phase of a streetscape improvement plan focused on safety and aesthetics. Upgrades, including new sidewalks, tree planting, and lighting improvements, will be made along Brown, South Division, and South Streets near the historic Paramount Theater. The target for finishing the project is 2016. Local business officials, including Deb Milone, Executive Director of the Hudson Valley Gateway Chamber of Commerce, and Jason Angell, Executive Director of the Peekskill Business Improvement District, joined Lowey and Catalina to discuss the economic impact of this project.“We are delighted with the efforts of Congresswoman Lowey for securing these funds and investing in the continued revitalization of Peekskill,” said Milone."Investing in public infrastructure like safer roads and improved streets is an essential element in downtown Peekskill's revitalization, helping to attract new small businesses that see clear evidence that government is a vital partner to shared growth," said Angell. "We'd like to thank Congresswoman Lowey's tireless work, which is helping downtown Peekskill grow into the creative hub of the Hudson Valley."The federal assistance was provided from the Federal Highway Administration’s Transportation Enhancement Program and Administered by the New York State Department of Transportation to support strategic improvements in transportation alternatives. Grants cover 80% of the costs, while local matches of 20% are required. In addition to supporting the funding for this federal initiative, Lowey wrote a letter in support of the application for Peekskill, which was one of 169 applicants and 63 recipients throughout New York State.“Making our communities more walkable, bicycle-friendly, and welcoming will ensure residents enjoy local attractions and bring more business from outside Peekskill into downtown,” said Lowey. “I’ll continue to support robust federal infrastructure investments like this one so that businesses like Weeks Jewelry can continue to thrive for another 100 years.”# # #
03.17.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), joined by State Senator David Carlucci, Rockland Sheriff Lou Falco, County Legislators Chair Alden Wolfe and Harriet Cornell, Clarkstown Town Supervisor Alex Gromack, and Clarkstown First Responders, today called on the United States Department of Transportation (DOT) to strengthen and enforce safety standards for the transport of crude oil by rail through the Lower Hudson Valley."We have had too many close calls that demonstrate the real risk of current crude oil transport standards to public safety and our environment," said Congresswoman Lowey. "While the railroad industry and the Department of Transportation have taken some good steps by agreeing to voluntary safety standards, the federal government must ensure that enforceable regulations protect the public. From better planned routes to more comprehensive response plans to sharing information with our local first responders and safer tank cars, more must be done to protect the public and prevent a major incident. With bipartisan support at every level of government from coast to coast, it's time to take action to ensure freight rail is safe."Secretary of Transportation Anthony Foxx appeared before the House Committee on Appropriations Subcommittee on Transportation, Housing and Urban Development on Wednesday of last week. Lowey, the Ranking Democratic Member of the Committee, attended the hearing, where bipartisan concern was raised about the transport of freight rail, just two weeks after she urged Foxx in a letter to enact National Transportation Safety Board recommendations and move forward with the rule-making process for safety standards for rail cars. (Full text of letter Lowey sent with New York Congressman Paul Tonko at end of release.)In addition to new rules, Lowey fully support DOT's proposal to establish a new "Safe Transportation of Energy Products" Fund at $40 million to address the critical safety issues that arise in the transportation of crude oil. This request was included in the President's budget proposal on March 4th.The December and February freight rail accidents in West Nyack and Kingston revealed the need for greater prevention methods and better cooperation from the freight rail industry to notify area first responders of the contents and timing of transport through our communities. At the Pineview Road site of the December collision between a freight train and a car carrier, Lowey and Rockland officials pointed to the dangerous risk oil-carrying trains pose to local communities and called for safety regulations to prevent future catastrophes."Freight trains carrying crude oil and other hazardous liquids are going through communities near homes, schools and hospitals," said U.S. Senator Kirsten Gillibrand, whose regional representative attended. "A derailment or explosion in New York could put countless lives at risk and cause major damage to our waterways. We need new guidelines to improve oil tanker safety, and far more accountability and transparency to protect public health, safety and the environment. And our local first responders need to know when hazardous materials are travelling through their communities, and have the proper training and resources to respond to incidents." "In light of the recent train accident on Pineview Road in Clarkstown, it is clear that more stringent regulations are needed," said Clarkstown Supervisor Alex Gromack. "I thank Congresswoman Lowey for her efforts in ensuring that the federal government impose stricter safety regulations so that we can better protect our residents and properties.""We are very appreciative to Congresswoman Lowey for bringing these safety matters to the forefront so we can work together to solve them," said Clarkstown Police Chief Michael Sullivan."For the public's safety and First Responder safety (Fire/Police/EMS), we in Rockland County have to be afforded train locations (times and dates) and all contents of the rail cars along with safe operation within the speed limits established by the Federal Railroad Authority," said Rockland County Sheriff Lou Falco.Senator David Carlucci said, "Thousands of tanker cars pass through our residential neighborhoods carrying highly dangerous crude oil and ethanol every year. It doesn't take an engineer or a scientist to realize this will eventually lead to a disaster with potentially deadly consequences. Making sure we have safe and technologically advanced tanker cars is common sense that we know these big oil companies can afford. For our community to accept anything less is unacceptable.""As transportation of crude oil continues to increase through our county and our tracks, safety and precautionary measures must be the top priority. I applaud the Governor for his decision to call for a review of safety concerns and Congresswoman Lowey's insistence on stricter measures," said Assemblyman Kenneth Zebrowski. "The incident we saw in West Nyack in December of last year was a wake-up call. If these trains are going to be running through our backyards, we demand the strongest safety protocols possible.""I thank Congresswoman Lowey for her leadership on this vital matter of public health and safety," said Chair of the Rockland County Legislature, Alden Wolfe. "We must be mindful of the threat thathazardous liquids, especially the highly flammable Bakken crude, pose to the safety of all those in Rockland who live or work near the CSX tracks. These trains travel on a track that in sections runs less than 100 feet from our county reservoir, Lake DeForest. A spill resulting from an accident could have a disastrous effect on drinking water for tens of thousands of Rocklanders countywide. The regulations the Congresswoman has called for are essential; I support her request for lowering speed limits and putting safer tanker cars into service as soon as possible. Stricter regulations are a small price to pay for the health and safety of the residents of Rockland County."Wolfe and Chair of the Legislature's Environmental Committee Harriet Cornell will submit a resolution in support of Congresswoman Lowey's recommendations and have sent a letter to USDOT in support of Lowey's call for stricter regulations.Cornell said, "While crude oil by rail is a major safety concern here, we also experience oil transport by boat, barge and truck. As the oil boom continues to grow, the dangers to the health and safety of residents and environment will multiply. The federal government must enact safety measures and move rapidly to replace DOT-111s."The full text of Lowey and Tonko's letter is below:February 26, 2014The Honorable Anthony FoxxSecretaryU.S. Department of Transportation1200 New Jersey Avenue S.E.Washington, D.C. 20590Dear Secretary Foxx:We write to express our concerns about the current safety regulations for transporting crude oil by rail raised by the rapid escalation of the transport of crude oil by rail through our region. Last December, 400,000 gallons of crude were spilled in a derailment near Casselton, North Dakota. In July, a derailment and explosion in Lac-Megantic, Quebec resulted in 47 deaths and incredible destruction. These are just two of a growing number of high profile derailments that illustrate the risks to public safety and the environment unless safety standards are increased. We commend the new voluntary operating initiative announced last week by the Department of Transportation (DOT) and the Association of American Railroads (AAR) and believe it represents a good first step; however, we believe additional formalized regulations are needed. Therefore, we urge you to take action to better align safety standards to reduce the risk associated with this crude oil transport.According to the Energy Information Administration, the Bakken formation in North Dakota has been producing more than 1 million barrels of oil per day since December 2013. This production has increased dramatically in recent years and can be expected to continue to grow. This oil boom has led to an exponential increase in the amount of crude oil transported by railway throughout North America from approximately 11,000 carloads in 2009 to over 400,000 in 2013. Furthermore, there are questions about unique safety challenges posed by Bakken crude. The derailments from 2013 prompted the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration (PHMSA) to issue a safety alert on January 2, 2014, noting, "Crude oil being transported from the Bakken region may be more flammable than traditional heavy crude oil." The growth in shipments of crude by rail in such a short time period, an essentially nonexistent industry five years ago, has made it clear that our safety regulations must be reassessed.This issue affects every region of the nation, including New York's Hudson and Mohawk River Valleys and the North Country. Private industry is making significant investments in rail infrastructure throughout the Capital Region, the Port of Albany, and lower Hudson Valley to increase the region's capacity to handle additional crude shipments. The Port of Albany in particular has become a major hub for transporting crude, with the capacity to handle 120 carloads every day, or over 40,000 carloads annually. This oil then passes through the Hudson Valley region, bound for refineries in the Northeast and Canada by rail, ship, and barge.In light of these developments, we strongly support and encourage you to move forward in adopting the recent National Transportation Safety Board's (NTSB) recommendations to the Federal Railroad Administration (FRA) and PHMSA. These include: expanding hazardous materials route planning and selection requirements and requiring rerouting to avoid densely populated and environmentally sensitive areas when possible; requiring response plans for rail carriers to ensure that adequate provisions are in place to respond to worst-case discharge scenarios; and ensuring shippers and rail carriers are testing and classifying their shipments appropriately.There is reason to believe that improper classification of Bakken crude shipments is systemic, as evident by DOT's recent "Operation Classification" inspections, which found 11 of 18 samples taken from trains transporting crude oil were not assigned to the correct Packing Group. As you know, proper classification is essential for safe handling and effective emergency response.In addition to improved routing, emergency planning, and hazardous materials classification, it is necessary that tank car safety standards are increased for new and existing cars. It is well known that only 14,000 of 92,000 DOT-111 tank cars are currently built to the latest industry standards. The remaining 78,000 have demonstrated that they are prone to splitting open during derailments. Last month, Wendy Tadros, Chairwoman of the Transportation Safety Board of Canada, was quoted by the New York Times as stating, "Clearly based on the science in Lac-Megantic, these materials should not be carried in class 111 tank cars."Increased tank car standards were suggested in NTSB's March 2012 recommendations to PHMSA. These recommendations were recently considered as part of a PHSMA Advanced Notice of Proposed Rule Making, and AAR has publicly stated its support for tank cars being built to a higher standard. We urge you to move forward expeditiously to adopt regulations to require all new tank cars be built to this higher standard. Similarly, it is important that all existing cars are retrofitted to this higher standard or phased out as quickly as possible.In addition to these recommendations, we believe it is imperative that first responders and local offices of emergency management have accurate and immediate information on the contents of hazardous materials moving through our communities. We encourage you to implement the regulatory change recommended by NTSB in April 2007 to require that railroads provide emergency responders accurate, real-time information regarding the identity and location of hazardous materials. Improved information sharing will help ensure that appropriate emergency response plans are in place to enable responders to react swiftly and safely in the event of an accident. This information is not only critical for public safety and environmental protection but also important for our first responders' safety when responding to an incident.The communities we represent throughout the Hudson and Mohawk River Valleys have made extraordinary contributions to our nation's heritage, and people in our region have come to appreciate the importance of environmental stewardship. They place a very high value on our historic waterways. While there are clear benefits to increased commerce in our region, we are sure you would agree it cannot come at the expense of public safety and environmental preservation. Therefore we respectfully urge you to move forward aggressively with the appropriate administrative steps necessary to improve rail safety and crude oil transportation.Thank you for your consideration and prompt attention to our request.###
03.14.2014	Washington, DC- Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), the senior Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, today called on Con Edison and Orange & Rockland Utilities to step up action to address gas leaks.“Protecting the health and safety of local residents is paramount,” said Lowey. “As the investigation continues in East Harlem, prevention is essential to ensure that no more lives are lost in explosions resulting from gas leaks. From more training and education of consumers and construction workers to faster action to address existing leaks, we can and must do more to protect the public.”Lowey sent a letter to the utilities after residents were evacuated from the Harbors at Haverstraw condominiums in Rockland County, during a week that had seen numerous fatalities at the site of a gas explosion in East Harlem. Lowey was at the time working with Julie Kirshner, who contacted her in February to request assistance addressing an ongoing gas leak in Harrison. She and a neighbor had been complaining about a gas odor to Con Ed for months. Con Ed told Lowey that it was the least serious type of leak, and, therefore, repairs would not begin for six more months. “ ‘Not a dangerous leak’ are words that don’t go well together,” said Kirshner. “I have been calling Con Edison for months. They come, inspect the leak, but don’t fix it. Of course I want to believe Con Edison when they say it’s fine, but there’s a reason why the odorous materials are put in the gas – to alert you when there’s a leak. I felt safe until the gas explosion in New York City. Do I feel safe now? Not really. Fixing a leak is not like fixing a meter.”Orange & Rockland has in recent years stepped up its response time. Yesterday’s evacuation was reportedly the result ofa construction accident following the failure to alert O&R to the work near the gas line at the condo complex. Fire and utility officials secured the site.“While utilities must prioritize the greatest threats to our communities, the goal must be to eliminate and prevent any dangers to the health and safety of local residents quickly,” Lowey wrote in the letter. “In the interest of public safety, I hope that your companies will aggressively and urgently assess what more you can do to reduce the risk of gas leaks through training, consumer education, expedited repairs to known leaks, and any other safety measures you deem appropriate. I will work closely with local utilities, emergency responders, and residents to ensure that all protections possible are in place.”Full text of the letter can be found here and below.March 14, 2014Mr. John McAvoyPresident and Chief Executive Officer, Con EdisonCooper StationP.O. Box 138New York, NY 10276Mr. Timothy P. CawleyPresident and Chief Executive Officer, Orange & Rockland Utilities390 W. Route 59Spring Valley, NY 10977Dear Mr. McAvoy and Mr. Cawley:In light of the fatal explosion in New York City and yesterday’s evacuations in Haverstraw, I am particularly alarmed to learn that it can take longer than six months for a reported gas leak to be repaired.On February 24, my constituent Julie Kirshner, of Harrison, contacted me about a gas leak in the Park Ridge neighborhood. According to Ms. Kirshner, she noticed a gas odor when she moved to the neighborhood in August. She and at least one neighbor alerted Con Edison, which sent a crew to investigate but did not fix the leak.My staff contacted Con Ed and was informed that the leak was deemed a “Type 3,” the least serious in its classification system, and that it would be fixed within six months, sooner if it worsened. There is no such thing as a safe leak. Ms. Kirshner is living in fear.The March 12 explosion in East Harlem claimed eight lives and caused dozens of injuries. Yesterday, 35 of my constituents in Rockland County were evacuated from their building at Harbors at Haverstraw when a contractor hit a gas main. O&R and local authorities capped the leak. I applaud the response and am aware that response times in Rockland are improving. However, two years ago a natural gas explosion at a home in West Haverstraw injured two firefighters and an O&R employee, and last June an explosion at Nyack College resulted in the injury of two students and a police officer. We must work harder to prevent leaks from developing into explosions.While utilities must prioritize the greatest threats to our communities, the goal must be to eliminate and prevent any dangers to the health and safety of local residents quickly. In the interest of public safety, I hope that your companies will aggressively and urgently assess what more you can do to reduce the risk of gas leaks through training, consumer education, expedited repairs to known leaks, and any other safety measures you deem appropriate. I will work closely with local utilities, emergency responders, and residents to ensure that all protections possible are in place.Sincerely,Nita M. LoweyMember of Congress # # #
03.14.2014	Washington, DC– Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey, the highest ranking Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, was joined by Federal Railroad Administrator Joe Szabo and other Members of the New York and Connecticut Congressional delegations on a conference call today announcing the Federal Railroad Administration’s “Deep Dive” report to Congress. The report, which includes new revelations about Metro-North safety practices that must be addressed, was required by Lowey in a January spending bill.“Every day, millions of commuters and other travelers around the country put their health and safety in the hands of mass transit agencies on our roads and rail system,” Lowey said. “The top priority for mass transit agencies – second to none – must be responsible operation in order to keep commuters and other travelers safe.”Following the December 1 Metro North derailment that killed four passengers, including a constituent of Congresswoman Lowey’s, prior derailments, and the deaths of rail workers in various recent incidents, Lowey took action to require the Federal Railroad Administration to expeditiously evaluate and report to Congress on Metro North’s operations. Major concerns revealed in the report include:An overemphasis of on-time performance, cutting corners to keep trains running on-time;A poor safety culture with no clear safety advocate to ensure safety issues are addressed; andAn ineffective training program to ensure the highest qualification standards across all Metro-North Departments, especially the track department.Lowey said Metro North must take aggressive action to improve its employee training and to instill in employees a paramount commitment to safe operations to protect themselves and the passengers Metro North serves. “Safety must be the top priority, period,” she said. “On-time performance is no excuse to cut corners that could put passengers at risk.”Lowey believes the federal government can and should help Metro North and all commuter railroads improve their safety. By law, railroads are expected to implement positive train control (PTC) systems, which prevent collisions and derailments by ensuring that trains are not travelling at excessive speeds, by December 31, 2015. U.S. Department of Transportation Secretary Foxx testified on Wednesday before Lowey in the House Appropriations Committee that many will not meet this deadline. Lowey urges passage of the President’s request for $825 million in mandatory funds to assist commuter railroads in implementing this vital technology. # # #
03.12.2014	Washington, DC- Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), the senior Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, today announced a $145,269 federal grant for National Health Promotion Associates (NHPA) of White Plains. The competitive grant, which was awarded by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, will provide NHPA with research funding for the Innovative Positive Juvenile Justice Tools for Youth Courts project.“Federal support like this grant is essential to improve the quality of life for local residents and to help bolster our economy,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “This research funding will support a local small business while helping to encourage our youth to make healthy choices that will enable them to succeed. I will continue fighting on the Appropriations Committee to bolster initiatives that invest in local employers and students.”The Small Business Innovation Research Grantis provided through the National Institute on Drug Abuse. NHPA, creators of the Botvin LifeSkills Training Program, seek to reduce substance abuse and violence among students through prevention programs and training. They reach students through workshops in local middle and high schools. ###
03.11.2014	WHITE PLAINS, NY – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), the senior Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, has nominated 27 Westchester and Rockland County high school students and recent graduates for admission to the nation’s Service Academies: the U.S. Military Academy (West Point), U.S. Naval Academy, U.S. Air Force Academy, and the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy.“It is a privilege to nominate such promising young adults from Westchester and Rockland Counties to our nation’s Service Academies,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “I wish these fine young men and women the best of luck as they answer the call to serve our country.”The students were honored by Congresswoman Lowey and local veterans at the Congresswoman’s annual Recognition Ceremony in the presence of their families and loved ones. A photo of the nominees with Congresswoman Lowey is below, and can also be found here.Congresswoman Lowey made the nominations in January in consultation with her Service Academy Review Board, which is comprised of veterans, educators, and community leaders from Westchester and Rockland Counties.A full list of the nominees, including their high school and the Service Academy to which they are seeking appointment, is below.Westchester CountyArmonk: Nick Cioffoletti, Byram Hills High School, United States Naval Academy.Chappaqua: Jacob Bayer, Horace Greeley High School, United States Military Academy at West Point; Graham Harrison, Horace Greeley High School, United States Merchant Marine Academy; William Marino, Horace Greeley High School, United States Merchant Marine Academy; Brett Mester, Horace Greeley High School, United States Naval Academy.Croton-on-Hudson: Michael Gabrielsen, Hendrick Hudson High School, United States Military Academy at West Point; John O’Brien, Hendrick Hudson High School, United States Military Academy at West Point.Elmsford: Tong Li, Briarcliff High School, United States Military Academy at West Point and United States Naval Academy.Greeenburgh: Anthony Baker, of Hartsdale, Iona Preparatory School, United States Merchant Marine Academy; Dylan Eddy, graduated from Woodlands High School, currently at the United States Military Academy Prep School, nominated to United States Military Academy at West Point; Matthew Desjardin, Archbishop Stepinac High School, United States Merchant Marine Academy.Irvington: Grant Giglio, graduated from Dobbs Ferry High School, currently a student at the United States Military Academy Prep School, nominated to United States Military Academy at West Point; Saul Hernandez, Peekskill High School, United States Military Academy at West Point; Leher (“Nikki”) Legha, graduated from Irvington High School, currently a student at Penn State University (Altoona), United States Naval Academy.Purchase: Joseph (“JD”) Barnett, Iona Preparatory School, United States Naval Academy.Valhalla: Maxwell Dopsch, Regis High School, United States Naval Academy.White Plains: Maxwell Bentil, Fordham Preparatory School, United States Naval Academy; Steven Cho, Fordham Preparatory School, United States Merchant Marine Academy; James Doherty, Valhalla High School, United States Naval Academy; Eric Terminello, Archbishop Stepinac School, United States Air Force Academy.Rockland CountyAirmont: Michelle Severs, Suffern High School, United States Air Force Academy.New City: Kristina Noto, Clarkstown High School South, United States Naval Academy.Pomona: Jackie Parker, Albertus Magnus, United States Military Academy at West Point and the United States Air Force Academy.Spring Valley: Brandon Hernandez, Paramus Catholic High School, United States Military Academy at West Point.Valley Cottage: Tiana Poindexter, Nyack High School, United States Merchant Marine Academy.West Nyack: James Duggan, Pearl River High School, United States Naval Academy; John Kelly, Clarkstown High School South, United States Military Academy at West Point.###
03.07.2014	WEST NYACK, N.Y.– Standing with local residents today, Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), the senior Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, New York State Senator David Carlucci, Clarkstown Town Supervisor Alex Gromack, and State Assemblyman Kenneth Zebrowski announced $9.8 million in federal storm recovery funding for the Town of Clarkstown.The federal investments will support storm recovery and resiliency projects, including projects to address long-term flooding and help communities be prepared for future storms.A portion of the funding is being provided through the Disaster Relief Appropriations Act, a bipartisan bill passed by Congress in January 2013 that provided $60 billion for response and recovery to aid communities in New York, New Jersey, Connecticut and others that suffered due to Sandy. As the senior Democrat on the Appropriations Committee, Congresswoman Lowey helped lead the bipartisan effort to pass the full assistance package.The federal grants announced include:$3 million for flood remediation and storm resiliency projects. The details of these projects will be determined through a planning process that the town will complete over the next several months. The funds are being provided through the New York Rising Community Reconstruction (NYRCR) program, which was established by Governor Cuomo to provide additional rebuilding and revitalization assistance to communities impacted by Superstorm Sandy, Hurricane Irene, and Tropical Storm Lee. The initiative helps communities develop locally-driven recovery plans to identify innovative and essential reconstruction projects.$3.5 million to address flooding along the Hackensack River. Clarkstown will receive $3.5 million through the New York Hazard Mitigation Program for improvements to the Klein Avenue levee that has been impacted by flooding of the Hackensack River. Both of these projects will address long-term flooding in the West Nyack area. Most of the work is expected to be completed in 2015.$2.3 million for revitalization work and road improvements in West Nyack.This federal grant will support handicapped-accessible sidewalks, curbs and drainage, lighting, and other enhancements along Strawtown Road and Sickletown Road from the West Nyack Public Library to the Route 59 overpass.$1 million for flood protection work near West Nyack Hamlet Green Park. The project will include a naturalized pond, wetland restoration and invasive species removal, as well as a walking trail and interpretive signage, permeable parking lot and rain garden along with two new enlarged culverts under West Nyack Road.“A strong partnership among federal, state, and local governments is essential to helping communities provide services to citizens, recover from disasters, and be as prepared as possible for future storms,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “This critical federal investment is truly good news for Clarkstown, and I will continue working with every official at every level of government to ensure federal funding is helping address challenges throughout the Lower Hudson Valley.”“We are here today standing with concerned residents from West Nyack who have first-hand knowledge of how large extreme weather events can affect a local community,” said Senator David Carlucci. “Working together on the state, local and federal level, we have fought hard to allocate more than $9 million in storm recovery aid for Clarkstown. These funds will go a long way to make sure the infrastructure of Clarkstown will safeguard residents for generations to come."“As a former New York Assemblyman, I know how important it is to bring funds back home to our communities,”said Clarkstown Supervisor Alex Gromack. “We are very grateful to Congresswoman Lowey, Senator Carlucci and Assemblyman Zebrowski for their support of our efforts to obtain these grants for our residents that are severely impacted by flooding."“The West Nyack community has constantly been devastated by severe flooding, especially in the last several years with the two major storms we’ve faced,” said Assemblyman Zebrowski. “This grant will help mitigate flooding by improving the area’s infrastructure and drainage. These funds will work to reduce flooding in the future, and bring much needed relief to the residents and businesses of West Nyack.”###
03.04.2014	Lowey: President’s Budget Prioritizes Jobs, Economic Growth, and Initiatives Vital to Lower Hudson ValleyHighlights Include Commuter Rail Safety Investments, Head Start Increases, and Small Business Loan IncreasesWASHINGTON, D.C.- Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland, the senior Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, said today that the President’s budget plan for the 2015 fiscal year prioritizes jobs, economic growth, and initiatives vital to the Lower Hudson Valley.“The FY2015 budget and appropriations process offers Congress its best opportunity in years to reject the politics of brinkmanship and crisis management, and instead fulfill our responsibility to invest in our future, create and protect jobs, and support services on which American families rely,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “President Obama’s budget request recognizes that the federal government can and must do more to achieve significant economic goals in research, education, manufacturing, and skills training. We must reject a single-minded focus on austerity, which has unnecessarily slowed our economic recovery while starving our economic future.”The President’s proposal would make badly-needed investments for Lower Hudson Valley families. To further economic growth in the short-term, the budget would:Expand tax cuts for working Americans, providing them more opportunities to succeed;Invest $402 billion over four years on highway, rail, and mass transit;Increaseinvestments in medical research at the National Institutes of Health, which could provide more funding for researchers in the 17th District, who were awarded $24 million in grants in a recent year; and,Increase funding for the Small Business Administration to provide $25 million for microloans to support more than 3,500 small businesses.To invest in our future, the President has prioritized education initiatives, including:A $270 million increase for Head Start and $57 million increase for child care, which could increase by hundreds of thousands of dollars above the $19 million that early education providers in Westchester and Rockland received in 2014;Access to high-quality preschool available to every four-year-old child;Investments in the two largest K-12 education initiatives, which provide schools in New York’s 17th District with approximately $46 million; and,Permanent extension of the American Opportunity Tax Credit to help 11.5 million families offset the rising costs of college by providing an average of $1,100 in tax benefits.To make communities safer and improve public safety, the budget would:Provide $247 million for an initiative to hire and retain 1,300 police officers throughout the country and $193 million for grants to combat violence against women; and,Invest $825 million in the Federal Railroad Administration’s budget to help commuter railroads like Metro-North install positive train control, which will make rail travel safer and could help prevent future tragedies. Lowey urged the Administration to support commuter railroads as they integrate these critical safety technologies and applauds the President for prioritizing investments in rail safety.“While I support the vast majority of the President’s budget plan, two initiatives raise concerns, including reducing funding for nuclear detection efforts through the Securing Our Cities initiative by nearly 50% and cutting the largest dedicated teacher support grant by approximately 15%, which could cost schools in our community more than $500,000,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “I look forward to working across the aisle to conduct appropriate oversight over federal spending, evaluate the President’s budget request, and develop Appropriations bills that invest in priorities critical to Lower Hudson Valley families.”###
02.26.2014	Citing Risks to Public Safety and Environment, Lowey Sends Letter Asking U.S. Department of Transportation to Adopt Requirements on Route Planning, Speed Limits, Response Plans, Safer Tank Cars, and Information Sharing with Local First RespondersWASHINGTON, D.C.– Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), the senior Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, today called for stronger safety standards for the rail transport of crude oil after several recent incidents in the region. Citing the risk to public safety and the environment, Congresswoman Lowey called on the United States Department of Transportation (DOT) to strengthen and enforce safety standards for the transport of crude oil by rail through the Lower Hudson Valley.In December, a freight train collided with a truck at a crossing near West Nyack. And on Tuesday, a locomotive hauling 97 empty oil tankers derailed near Kingston, New York, after passing through Rockland County.While the voluntary operating initiative announced last week by the DOT and the Association of American Railroads (AAR) is a good first step, Lowey says that the DOT must pursue a formal process in order to fully align and enforce safety standard to reduce the risks associated with crude oil transport in the region.“When it comes to the transport of crude oil by rail, we have had too many close calls that demonstrate the real risk to public safety and our environment,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “While the railroad industry and the Department of Transportation have taken some good steps by agreeing to voluntary safety standards, the federal government must ensure that enforceable regulations protect the public. From better planned routes to more comprehensive response plans to sharing information with our local first responders and safer tank cars, more must be done to protect the public and prevent a major incident.”In a letter to Department of Transportation Secretary Anthony Foxx, Congresswoman Lowey and Congressman Paul Tonko, along with other Members of Congress, called on the DOT to take a range of actions to improve rail safety and reduce the risks of crude oil transport, including:Adopting the recent National Transportation Safety Board’s (NTSB) recommendations to the Federal Railroad Administration (FRA) that require improved route planning for hazardous materials; rerouting to avoid densely populated and environmentally sensitive areas when possible; response plans for rail carriers to ensure that adequate provisions are in place to respond to worst-case spill scenarios; and ensure testing and classification by shippers and rail carriers of their shipments of hazardous materials;Moving forward with rule making efforts for improved safety standards for new and existing tank cars; and,Implementing a 2007 recommendation by the National Transportation Safety Board that would require railroads to share information on the exact location and kinds of hazardous materials with first responders. Due to recent increases in oil production in the United States, particularly in North Dakota’s Baaken formation, the amount of oil transported by rail throughout the United States has increased from 11,000 cars in 2009 to over 400,000 in 2013. Much of this crude oil – which has been shown to be more flammable than typical oil – is transported through the Lower Hudson Valley en route to refineries in the Northeast and Canada.The full text of Lowey and Tonko’s letter is below:February 26, 2014The Honorable Anthony FoxxSecretaryU.S. Department of Transportation1200 New Jersey Avenue S.E.Washington, D.C. 20590Dear Secretary Foxx:We write to express our concerns about the current safety regulations for transporting crude oil by rail raised by the rapid escalation of the transport of crude oil by rail through our region. Last December, 400,000 gallons of crude were spilled in a derailment near Casselton, North Dakota. In July, a derailment and explosion in Lac-Megantic, Quebec resulted in 47 deaths and incredible destruction. These are just two of a growing number of high profile derailments that illustrate the risks to public safety and the environment unless safety standards are increased. We commend the new voluntary operating initiative announced last week by the Department of Transportation (DOT) and the Association of American Railroads (AAR) and believe it represents a good first step; however, we believe additional formalized regulations are needed. Therefore, we urge you to take action to better align safety standards to reduce the risk associated with this crude oil transport.According to the Energy Information Administration, the Bakken formation in North Dakota has been producing more than 1 million barrels of oil per day since December 2013. This production has increased dramatically in recent years and can be expected to continue to grow. This oil boom has led to an exponential increase in the amount of crude oil transported by railway throughout North America from approximately 11,000 carloads in 2009 to over 400,000 in 2013. Furthermore, there are questions about unique safety challenges posed by Bakken crude. The derailments from 2013 prompted the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration (PHMSA) to issue a safety alert on January 2, 2014, noting, “Crude oil being transported from the Bakken region may be more flammable than traditional heavy crude oil.” The growth in shipments of crude by rail in such a short time period, an essentially nonexistent industry five years ago, has made it clear that our safety regulations must be reassessed.This issue affects every region of the nation, including New York’s Hudson and Mohawk River Valleys and the North Country. Private industry is making significant investments in rail infrastructure throughout the Capital Region, the Port of Albany, and lower Hudson Valley to increase the region’s capacity to handle additional crude shipments. The Port of Albany in particular has become a major hub for transporting crude, with the capacity to handle 120 carloads every day, or over 40,000 carloads annually. This oil then passes through the Hudson Valley region, bound for refineries in the Northeast and Canada by rail, ship, and barge.In light of these developments, we strongly support and encourage you to move forward in adopting the recent National Transportation Safety Board’s (NTSB) recommendations to the Federal Railroad Administration (FRA) and PHMSA. These include: expanding hazardous materials route planning and selection requirements and requiring rerouting to avoid densely populated and environmentally sensitive areas when possible; requiring response plans for rail carriers to ensure that adequate provisions are in place to respond to worst-case discharge scenarios; and ensuring shippers and rail carriers are testing and classifying their shipments appropriately.There is reason to believe that improper classification of Bakken crude shipments is systemic, as evident by DOT’s recent “Operation Classification” inspections, which found 11 of 18 samples taken from trains transporting crude oil were not assigned to the correct Packing Group. As you know, proper classification is essential for safe handling and effective emergency response.In addition to improved routing, emergency planning, and hazardous materials classification, it is necessary that tank car safety standards are increased for new and existing cars. It is well known that only 14,000 of 92,000 DOT-111 tank cars are currently built to the latest industry standards. The remaining 78,000 have demonstrated that they are prone to splitting open during derailments. Last month, Wendy Tadros, Chairwoman of the Transportation Safety Board of Canada, was quoted by the New York Times as stating, “Clearly based on the science in Lac-Megantic, these materials should not be carried in class 111 tank cars.”Increased tank car standards were suggested in NTSB’s March 2012 recommendations to PHMSA. These recommendations were recently considered as part of a PHSMA Advanced Notice of Proposed Rule Making, and AAR has publicly stated its support for tank cars being built to a higher standard. We urge you to move forward expeditiously to adopt regulations to require all new tank cars be built to this higher standard. Similarly, it is important that all existing cars are retrofitted to this higher standard or phased out as quickly as possible.In addition to these recommendations, we believe it is imperative that first responders and local offices of emergency management have accurate and immediate information on the contents of hazardous materials moving through our communities. We encourage you to implement the regulatory change recommended by NTSB in April 2007 to require that railroads provide emergency responders accurate, real-time information regarding the identity and location of hazardous materials. Improved information sharing will help ensure that appropriate emergency response plans are in place to enable responders to react swiftly and safely in the event of an accident. This information is not only critical for public safety and environmental protection but also important for our first responders’ safety when responding to an incident.The communities we represent throughout the Hudson and Mohawk River Valleys have made extraordinary contributions to our nation’s heritage, and people in our region have come to appreciate the importance of environmental stewardship. They place a very high value on our historic waterways. While there are clear benefits to increased commerce in our region, we are sure you would agree it cannot come at the expense of public safety and environmental preservation. Therefore we respectfully urge you to move forward aggressively with the appropriate administrative steps necessary to improve rail safety and crude oil transportation.Thank you for your consideration and prompt attention to our request. ###
02.11.2014	Lowey: “Strengthened economic ties, increased private sector investment and job creation are essential to promoting long-term peace and security.”WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), the Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, today sent a letter today to Oxfam International expressing her disappointment with Oxfam’s position opposing all trade from Israeli settlements, as was publicized in recent coverage about Oxfam’s criticism of SodaStream.Full text of the Congresswoman’s letter is below:Ms. Winnie ByanyimaExecutive Director, Oxfam InternationalSecond Floor228-240 Banbury RoadOxfordOX2 7BYUnited KingdomDear Ms. Byanyima,As Ranking Member and former Chair of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on State and Foreign Operations, I have long supported Oxfam's advocacy and humanitarian work to relieve suffering around the world in places such as Syria, Central African Republic, Sudan and Haiti. Oxfam’s independent voice has brought to light critical facts on the ground and raised policy issues to leaders and lawmakers around the world.However, I must express my profound disappointment with Oxfam’s position opposing all trade from Israeli settlements, as was publicized in recent articles about Oxfam's criticism of SodaStream.As you know, I am committed to finding solutions that promote stability and prosperity in the Middle East. I strongly support President Obama’s and Secretary Kerry’s efforts to facilitate discussions for an agreed framework that would lead to a permanent final peace treaty between Israel and the Palestinians. Economic security and prosperity for both Israelis and Palestinians are critical to achieving this vision. Strengthened economic ties, increased private sector investment and job creation are essential to promoting long-term peace and security.SodaStream employs nearly 950 Palestinians and Arab Israelis who work alongside Jewish Israeli workers, paying fair wages and medical and pension benefits that would not otherwise be available to Palestinian workers. As many Palestinian workers have attested in news articles in recent days, SodaStream's facility in the West Bank creates jobs, opportunity, and hope for both Palestinian and Israeli families. This kind of economic development should be lauded rather than boycotted.Oxfam’s blanket position on businesses in West Bank settlements fails to recognize the importance that economic security plays in improving the prospects for peace. Moving forward, Oxfam must recognize that promoting economic sanctions in this context only inflames tensions and detracts from our shared goal of a two-state agreement.Sincerely,Nita M. Loweycc: Raymond Offenheiser, President, Oxfam America###
02.01.2014	New York State Receives Additional $50.6 Million in Low-Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP) FundingIn 2012-2013, Nearly 50,000 Residents in Westchester and Rockland Counties Received $5.4 Million in Benefits Through Critical ProgramWHITE PLAINS, N.Y. – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) announced today that New York State has received an additional $50.6 million in federal funding for the Low-Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP), a direct assistance initiative in which the federal government distributes resources to states to assist low-income Americans with their heating and cooling bills.On Thursday, the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services released $454 million in LIHEAP funding to states, providing an additional $50.6 million for New York. The additional funds come from recent federal investments in heating assistance made in the 2014 omnibus appropriations bill passed by Congress earlier this month. As the senior Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, Congresswoman Lowey fought to ensure the bill included the additional funding.In the 2012-2013 fiscal year, 35,550 residents in Westchester County received $2.1 million in benefits through the program, and 14,000 residents in Rockland County received $3.3 million in benefits. Statewide, more than 1.5 million New Yorkers received $350 million in total benefits.“This additional federal aid helps make it less likely that New Yorkers will be forced to choose between paying their heating bill or buying groceries and other necessities. With our economy still recovering and so many of our neighbors facing steep heating costs this cold winter, this federal investment is welcome news for the thousands of New Yorkers – many of whom are elderly, disabled, or caring for a child – who rely on this assistance,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “This is why I fought to ensure that the recently passed omnibus appropriations bill included an additional $169 million in LIHEAP funding, and I am pleased that New York State now has access to these critical funds.”The Energy Information Administration has estimated that home heating costs will increase approximately 6.7% this winter compared to last as the prices of some fuels like propane rise.###
01.29.2014	Bill’s Changes to Nutrition Assistance Program Disproportionally Impacts New Yorkers; Cuts Benefits for 12,530 Households in Westchester & Rockland CountiesLowey: Farm bill “hurts New Yorkers who have fallen on tough times.”WASHINGTON, D.C.– Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), the senior Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, opposed the Farm Bill considered by the House earlier today because it would disproportionately impact New Yorkers, reducing nutritional assistance benefits $90 per month for approximately 12,530 households in Westchester and Rockland Counties and 300,000 statewide.“This bill would disproportionately hurt New Yorkers who have fallen on tough times. I cannot support legislation that makes life harder for my constituents, many of whom are vulnerable children, seniors, and veterans,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “Instead of placing the burden of debt reduction on those who have fallen on tough times, we should increase investments that make our country more competitive and close wasteful tax loopholes for companies that ship jobs overseas.”In New York and more than a dozen other states, the farm bill reduces Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) benefits by $90 per month for millions of low-income Americans. Approximately 300,000 households in New York will experience a $90 monthly benefit cut, including 9,880 in Westchester County and 2,650 in Rockland County. This reduction follows an approximately $11 billion cut to SNAP benefits impacting every SNAP household that took place on November 1 of last year.A $90 cut per month to SNAP benefits means approximately 34 lost meals per month for each household.###
01.28.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), the senior Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, issued the following statement today after President Obama delivered his State of the Union address to a Joint Session of Congress:“Tonight the President provided solutions to our most pressing challenges: creating jobs, growing our economy, and ensuring that every American who works hard and plays by the rules has the opportunity to succeed.“Congress should take concrete steps to achieve these goals. Raising the federal minimum wage would increase the pay of 30 million Americans who struggle to make ends meet. Restoring critical unemployment benefits to the 1.6 million Americans who have been left out in the cold this winter – including more than 5,000 job seekers in Westchester and Rockland Counties – and ensuring that women get equal pay for equal work would also improve the economic security of millions of Americans.“Congress must continue working in the bipartisan spirit with which we passed the recent appropriations bills to rebuild a strong, thriving middle class, which is essential to a strong, prosperous America.”###
01.21.2014	Estimated $103 Million Will Fund Track Hardening, Signal and Power System Upgrades Along Metro-North to Make It More Resilient in Future Storms; Other Funds to Support Major Investments in City Subways Damaged By SandyFirst Reimbursement of Sandy-Related Repair Work for the MTAWHITE PLAINS, NY.– Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), the senior Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, today announced $886,237,329 in federal Sandy aid for the Metropolitan Transportation Authority (MTA) to help with the costs of repairs from Superstorm Sandy and make New York’s transportation system more resilient in the face of future storms.The funding is the first major reimbursement to the MTA for Sandy-related repair work.Of the total $886 million in federal aid announced today, an estimated $103.5 million will fund projects along Metro-North to guard against high water levels in future storms, including track hardening and signal and power system upgrades. The remaining funds will support major investments in the city subway system damaged by Sandy, including Montague and Greenway Tunnels.“This is a welcome and much-needed investment in New York’s transportation infrastructure that will ensure Metro-North is better prepared for future storms,”said Congresswoman Lowey. “Federal aid has been essential in not only helping communities, businesses, and homeowners recover and rebuild, but in ensuring that our region is better prepared to withstand the impact of future disasters.”The award is being made through the Federal Transit Administration’s (FTA) Emergency Relief program, which received $10.9 billion under the Disaster Relief Appropriations Act, the Sandy aid package passed by Congress last year. Of that $10.9 billion, $5.7 billion has already been allocated to communities impacted by Sandy, and $3 billion remains available for other projects to make transportation systems less vulnerable to future storms. An additional $1.1 billion will be allocated at a later date for response, recovery, and rebuilding efforts.As the top Democratic appropriator in the House, Congresswoman Lowey helped lead the bipartisan effort to pass the full Sandy assistance package.###
01.17.2014	N.Y. Child Care, Head Start Providers to Receive Estimated $600 Million Under Bill Passed This WeekLowey: “While this bill is far from perfect, it prevents another disastrous government shutdown and makes critical investments in early childhood education.”WHITE PLAINS, NY – Standing alongside local advocates for affordable child care and early childhood education, Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today announced that the bipartisan spending bill passed by the House on Wednesday provides an estimated $100 million to child care initiatives and more than $500 million to Head Start providers throughout New York.The bill, which funds the government through September 30th, restores much of the funding to early education initiatives that was reduced as the result of the automatic spending cuts, known as sequestration, that took effect in March 2013. The bill fully restores funding to Head Start and includes the highest level ever for the Child Care Development Block Grant, a federal program that provides grants to states to help families access child care.As the top-ranking Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, Congresswoman Lowey was one of the four members of the House and Senate who negotiated the spending bill and fought throughout the talks to ensure the bill included more robust investments in early childhood education.“Child care and Head Start initiatives are absolutely critical early childhood education services for our neighbors in the Lower Hudson Valley. The misguided, reckless cuts to these services in the last year have had real consequences for children and families in our region. While this bill is far from perfect, it prevents another disastrous government shutdown while also making critical investments in early childhood education, ensuring providers in New York have greater access to federal funding,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “Affordable access to quality child care is essential for working families here in New York and around the country.”“We are so happy to learn that Congress has approved a bill to restore the sequester cuts, which have impacted our Head Start and Early Head Start children and staff. We applaud the decision to provide additional resources to Early Head Start and child care, and are so thankful to Congresswoman Nita Lowey for all of her advocacy efforts on behalf of pre-school aged children, which helped lead to the restoration of funds,” said Susan B. Wayne, President/CEO of Family Services of Westchester. “As a result, Family Services of Westchester will be able to restore services to 15 children by reopening a classroom, which was shuttered as a result of sequestration.”“I am particularly excited that this new federal money will allow us to restore some services for children and families in Westchester,” said Ellen Farrar, Coordinator of Early Childhood Programs for WestCOP.“We can't thank our members of Congress enough, especially our own Nita Lowey, for the support on behalf of children and families. These incredible victories would not be possible without the passionate and tireless work of Congresswoman Lowey and New York advocates,” said Jane Brown, Executive Director of Child Care Resources of Rockland. “In this extremely tight budget environment it's encouraging to see that Members of Congress recognize that expanding high-quality early learning opportunities for young children is a smart investment.”“There is overwhelming evidence that the “achievement gap” starts right away and it does not go away for many children. The proposed increases for Head Start, Early Head Start and child care will open up the quality early learning opportunities that parents in our community so desperately seek for their children. It is the best possible investment in our most prized resource – our people,” said Kathleen Halas, Executive Director of the Child Care Council of Westchester, Inc.On Wednesday, Congresswoman Lowey joined a broad majority of the House in supporting the 2014 Consolidated Appropriations Act, which passed 359-to-67. It was passed by the Senate on Thursday, and is expected to be signed into law by the President soon.###
01.14.2014	Funds Will Help New York Gas Stations Close to Highway Exits and Evacuation Routes Buy Generators So They Can Operate As Required Under State LawWASHINGTON, D.C.– Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), the senior Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, today announced a $5.1 million Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) grant to New York that will help the state’s gas stations located near highway exits and along evacuation routes remain open and operating during power outages caused by disasters like Superstorm Sandy.“Superstorm Sandy devastated our community, causing power outages that led to chronic gas shortages, which hampered response efforts and, in some cases, kept families apart,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “By helping our state’s gas stations keep pumping gas even when the power is out, this much-needed federal investment will ensure our region is better prepared for future disasters.”The grant will support a state project aimed at providing financial assistance to gas station owners and operators to remain in compliance with the New York State law, which requires all gas stations within a half mile of a highway exit and/or hurricane evacuation route to have a transfer switch installed to deploy and install a generator within 24 hours of losing power during a fuel supply or energy emergency. Also under state law, gas stations within these designated counties must have a transfer switch installed to deploy and install a generator within 48 hours of losing power during a fuel supply or energy emergency at these additional stations. ###
01.13.2014	5,050 Job Seekers in Westchester, Rockland Counties, 1.4 Million Across U.S. Have Lost Unemployment Benefits Since December 29thLowey: “House Republicans should stop demanding a ransom for helping the millions of Americans struggling after losing the lifeline of emergency unemployment insurance.”Lowey: U.S. Also Needs Minimum Wage IncreaseNEW CITY, NY – At a roundtable today with Rockland County job seekers and labor leaders, Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), the senior Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, urged House Republicans to hold a vote to retroactively extend emergency federal unemployment benefits to more than 5,000 Lower Hudson Valley job seekers who have lost them since the program expired on December 29th. Congresswoman Lowey also said that Congress should raise the federal minimum wage to $10.10. The federal minimum wage is $7.25, and New York’s was recently increased to $8.00.“Even as they defend wasteful tax breaks for big corporations, Republicans still insist on leaving unemployed job seekers out in the cold this winter. House Republicans should stop demanding a ransom for helping the millions of Americans struggling after losing the lifeline of emergency unemployment insurance,” said Congresswoman Lowey, the senior Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee. “Now is the also time to raise the minimum wage to $10.10, delivering a pay increase for 30 million hard working men and women, and lifting more than 4.5 million Americans out of poverty.”After House Republican leaders adjourned the House in December without extending federal unemployment insurance benefits, New Yorkers who have been receiving benefits for more than 26 weeks began losing access to jobless aid beginning on December 29th.As a result, 1,060 individuals in Rockland County and 3,990 in Westchester County have lost their unemployment benefits. Statewide, more than 127,000 New Yorkers have lost their benefits, draining $38,860,825 from New York’s economy. Nationwide, 1.4 million Americans have lost the much-needed financial support.Each week that Congress fails to renew the jobless aid, another 72,000 Americans, including an additional 5,000 New Yorkers, join those who have already lost their unemployment benefits.According to a recent report, failure to extend unemployment insurance for six months could cost New York State 19,826 jobs.“A lot of people in the Lower Hudson Valley are struggling after losing the lifeline of emergency unemployment insurance. The loss of these benefits makes it just that much harder for them to put food on the table, pay the rent, and care for their families,” said Gil Heim, President of Rockland County Central Labor Council and Member, IBEW 363. “Congress needs to do the right thing for workers in New York and around the country, and restore this lifeline for hard-working families.”Unemployment assistance averages $300 a week in New York State, where the unemployment rate is 7.6%.Congresswoman Lowey also cited the need to increase the nation’s minimum wage, which would increase workers’ paychecks and deliver fairness to the economy. Congresswoman Lowey is the cosponsor of legislation that would increase the federal minimum wage to $10.10.Recent research found that a majority of Americans support extending emergency unemployment insurance benefits, including a majority of Republican voters. A majority of Americans also support raising the minimum wage.###
01.11.2014	WHITE PLAINS, NY – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), the senior Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, issued the following statement today on the passing of the former Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon:“I mourn the passing of Ariel Sharon, whose brilliance as a military commander was matched only by his patriotism, vision, and unflinching support for the U.S.-Israel relationship.“Throughout his career, whether on the battlefield or in elected office, Ariel Sharon's sole focus was on the present and future security of the Israeli people. He defended Israel against unprovoked attacks from hostile neighbors; was instrumental in building the strong, secure, and vibrant democracy of today; and had the foresight and courage to withdraw from the Gaza Strip. His legacy as a statesman will not be forgotten.“It was an honor to work with Ariel Sharon on strengthening the U.S.-Israel relationship, and I extend my deepest condolences to his family and all Israelis.”###
01.11.2014	WHITE PLAINS, NY – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), the senior Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, issued the following statement today on the passing of the former Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon:“I mourn the passing of Ariel Sharon, whose brilliance as a military commander was matched only by his patriotism, vision, and unflinching support for the U.S.-Israel relationship.“Throughout his career, whether on the battlefield or in elected office, Ariel Sharon's sole focus was on the present and future security of the Israeli people. He defended Israel against unprovoked attacks from hostile neighbors; was instrumental in building the strong, secure, and vibrant democracy of today; and had the foresight and courage to withdraw from the Gaza Strip. His legacy as a statesman will not be forgotten.“It was an honor to work with Ariel Sharon on strengthening the U.S.-Israel relationship, and I extend my deepest condolences to his family and all Israelis.”###
01.06.2014	Federal Grant Allows Family Services of Westchester to Continue Early Head Start & Head Start Programs to 280 Families Through School YearWHITE PLAINS, NY – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), the senior Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, today announced a $1,202,224 federal grant for Family Services of Westchester. The competitive grant, which was awarded by the U.S. Department of Health & Human Services, will allow Family Services of Westchester to continue offering Early Head Start and Head Start services to 280 families in White Plains throughout the remainder of the school year.“Head Start and Early Head Start programs are absolutely critical early childhood education services for our neighbors in the Lower Hudson Valley,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “At a time when misguided spending cuts are having real consequences for children and families around the Lower Hudson Valley, investments like this one are even more important. I am so pleased that Family Services of Westchester can continue to serve families throughout the school year.”“This grant will be used to keep our Early Head Start and Head Start programs in operation. We serve 280 families and are thrilled to be assured we can continue to meet the needs of very young children in White Plains,” said Vernex Harding, Program Director of Head Start/Early Head Start for Family Services of Westchester.###
12.23.2013	Lowey Amendment Incorporated into Bipartisan Defense Bill Requires Nation’s Military Academies to Integrate Sexual Assault Prevention Training Into Ethics Curriculum, Ensure Cadets and Midshipmen Receive Training Within 14 Days of Entering Academies80 Reported Cases of Sexual Assault at Military Academies in 2011-2012, a 23% Increase From Previous YearLowey: “Sexual assault in the armed services and at our military academies is systemic and corrosive. We must take steps to change the culture and end the violence, shame, and silence.”WASHINGTON, D.C.– The bipartisan National Defense Authorization Act passed by Congress yesterday incorporates an amendment authored by Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), the senior Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, that would help prevent sexual assault at the nation’s military academies by requiring them to integrate sexual assault training into their ethics curricula, and ensure that new cadets and midshipmen receive the training within 14 days of entering the academy.The bipartisan bill was passed with overwhelming support by the House last week and by the Senate on Thursday. It is expected to be signed into law by the President in the coming days.There were 80 reported cases of sexual assault in the nation’s military academies in the 2011-2012 school year, a 23% increase from the previous year. Many other sexual assaults likely go unreported out of fear of retribution.“Sexual assault in the armed services and at our military academies is systemic and corrosive. We must end the violence, shame, and silence,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “We must also change the culture that has allowed these crimes to take place. I am so pleased that Congress has come together to pass a strong, bipartisan defense bill that includes my provision requiring service academies to incorporate sexual assault prevention training to our cadets and midshipmen in their first 14 days. While this is an important step in addressing sexual assault at our military academies, there is no doubt we have a long way to go.”While the military academies currently provide sexual assault training, Congresswoman Lowey’s amendment requires ethics curricula to include information on the history of sexual assault in the military, definition of a sexual assault, reporting procedures for an assault, victims’ rights, and dismissal and dishonorable discharge for offenders. The provision also requires that this training be provided within 14 days after new cadets and midshipmen enter the academy and repeated in annual ethics training requirements. The amendment was among several other provisions that address the prevalence of sexual assault in the military.The Department of Defense estimates there were more than 26,000 instances of sexual assault in the military in 2012. Women now comprise more than 14% of the country’s active-duty soldiers, the fastest-growing subpopulation in the U.S. military.Bipartisan legislation passed earlier this month also included several provisions authored by Congresswoman Lowey aimed at supporting female veterans. The 2014 Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations Act included Congresswoman Lowey’s provisions to help veterans who are victims of military sexual assault gain access to mental health treatment and calls on the Department of Veterans Affairs to study whether female veterans, including victims of sexual assault, have access to adequate medical facilities. Click here for more information on the legislation.Congresswoman Lowey cosponsored legislation that would remove the decision-making for sexual assault cases from the military chain of command and prevent commanders from dismissing a court-martial conviction or lessening an adjudicated sentence. She has also cosponsored legislation that would require convicted offenders to be dismissed from service and extend expedited transfers to those serving in the Coast Guard.###
12.17.2013	Lowey, Local Job Seekers, and Labor Leaders Say Congress Must Extend Critical Unemployment Aid Immediately1.3 Million Job Seekers in U.S. to Lose Essential Federal Unemployment Benefits Over The HolidaysLowey: “The failure of Congress to act threatens to push many of our neighbors over a frightening financial cliff and hurt our economy.”WHITE PLAINS, NY – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), the senior Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, Lower Hudson Valley job seekers, and labor leaders said today that Congress’ first order of business in 2014 must be to retroactively extend federal unemployment insurance benefits. The call for action came as over 5,000 displaced workers in Westchester and Rockland Counties prepare to lose access to all federal jobless aid beginning December 29th, after House Republican leaders adjourned the House for the year without extending federal unemployment insurance benefits.Federal unemployment insurance took effect in 2008 and has been reauthorized several times as families continue to recover from the worst economic downturn since the Great Depression. The funding runs out on December 29th, at which point Americans who have been looking for work for more than 26 weeks will no longer receive assistance.As a result, 4,056 individuals in Westchester County and 1,092 in Rockland County currently receiving federal jobless aid will lose their unemployment benefits. In total, 127,100 New Yorkers will lose access to their benefits, as will more than 1.3 million people across the United States, Lowey said.An additional 132,800 New Yorkers would lose their unemployment insurance benefits in the first half of 2014, costing New York State 19,826 jobs in 2014, according to a new report.The new analysis also finds that the U.S. will lose 240,000 jobs in 2014 unless Congress retroactively extends federal unemployment benefits.“As the holiday season approaches, the financial stakes could not be higher for Lower Hudson Valley families,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “The failure of Congress to act threatens to push many of our neighbors over a frightening financial cliff and hurt our economy. To strengthen these families and our economy, Congress must retroactively extend these essential benefits as the first order of business when it returns in 2014.”“It is a disgrace that millions of Americans and more than 100,000 New Yorkers, those who continue to suffer long term unemployment, will no longer be able to sustain themselves and their families because the US Congress has failed to extend the Federal Unemployment Insurance,” said Paul Ryan, President of Westchester/Putnam Central Labor Body. “An unemployment insurance extension would provide needed relief for New York families, allow them to have some dignity and also provide a bridge until they can return to steady employment. Congress must pass an extension to the federal unemployment insurance now.”“Speaker Boehner doesn’t seem to understand that unemployment insurance isn’t a hand out - it’s a hand up and by ending unemployment insurance on December 29th, the Republican leadership is going to release that life-saving grip on over a 100,000 New York families. Yet, that is just the beginning, because as more and more workers seeking jobs find none, they too will fall from hardship into catastrophe when they run out of the meager 26 weeks of benefits,” said Joe Mayhew, Secretary/Treasurer of CWA Local 1103 and Vice President of the Westchester/Putnam Central Labor Body.The unemployment rate in New York State is 7.6%.###
12.13.2013	WHITE PLAINS, NY– Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) released the following statement today on the one-year anniversary of the horrific shooting at Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown, CT, which falls tomorrow:“One year ago, our nation and the world were shocked and horrified by the shooting at Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown, Connecticut, a tragedy that took the lives of six brave educators and 20 beautiful children. “Yet, one year later, the violence continues, as we sadly saw in Colorado again today. Despite the mourning and cries of ‘never again!’ by Americans who have joined the fight to prevent gun violence, Congress has done something extraordinary: nothing. “On this solemn anniversary, the best way we can honor the victims of Newtown and their families is to strengthen laws that protect Americans from gun violence. We could start with the bipartisan legislation to expand background checks. It deserves a vote, and the families of Newtown deserve a law.“It is time for Congress to act.”###
12.12.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), the senior Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, issued the following statement on the passage of the Bipartisan Budget Act this evening:“The budget deal is a breakthrough in a difficult budget year and a dysfunctional Congress. As with any compromise, there are elements I oppose; yet, this agreement should help us do our jobs for the American people and end the shutdown standoffs.“It provides some relief from the devastating impact of the sequester cuts on our economy and American families. Keeping sequestration in place through fiscal year 2014 would cost up to an estimated 1.6 million jobs. Now, the House and Senate must restore regular order to craft bills that instead create new jobs and protect important priorities like medical research, security and infrastructure upgrades, and early education.“This agreement restores over 60% of the sequester on nondefense discretionary spending in 2014 and restores those bills to roughly the FY2013 enacted pre-sequester levels. It would hold defense funding levels, roughly consistent with the 2013 level after sequester. “The bill includes elements I don’t like and fails to address others it should. “First, I am deeply upset that my colleagues on the other side of the aisle insisted on extending the 2% sequester on Medicare providers for an additional two years as part of the package’s offsets. We should not extend their sequester burden.“It is also unconscionable that the deal does not extend long-term unemployment benefits. Even with the progress our economy has made since the depths of the recession, there are still 1.3 million fewer jobs today than six years ago.“Four million Americans have been looking for work for more than six months. More than 1.3 million of them will lose their benefits—and for some, the only income they have -- just three days after Christmas and three days before the New Year. “This bill will provide some economic certainty about fiscal policy over the next two years, which should boost growth and job creation.”###
12.09.2013	Failure to Act Will Cost New York Nearly 19,000 Jobs in 2014, According to New ReportLowey: Congress Must Extend Benefits For 12 Months Before Adjourning For YearLowey: “For many Lower Hudson Valley families, these benefits can mean the difference between hardship and disaster.”WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), the senior Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, said today that 127,100 New Yorkers would immediately lose access to federal unemployment insurance benefits on December 28th if Congress fails to extend the federal Emergency Unemployment Compensation program before adjourning for the year.According to a new report, if Congress doesn’t act, an additional 132,800 New Yorkers would lose access to unemployment insurance benefits in the first half of 2014, and would cost New York 19,826 jobs in 2014.The new analysis also finds that the U.S. will lose 240,000 jobs in 2014 if Congress fails to extend unemployment benefits.“As the holiday season approaches, the financial stakes could not be higher for Lower Hudson Valley families,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “Failing to extend this program would cut off a vital lifeline for job seekers as they try to get back on their feet in this tough economy. For many Lower Hudson Valley families, these benefits can mean the difference between hardship and disaster. To strengthen these families and our economy, Congress must not adjourn for the year without extending these essential benefits.”Federal unemployment insurance took effect in 2008 and has been reauthorized several times since then, as families continue to recover from the worst economic downturn since the Great Depression.The unemployment rate in New York State is 7.6%.New Yorkers are currently eligible to receive unemployment benefits for up to 63 weeks. If Congress doesn’t act, they will be eligible to receive benefits for only 26 weeks.###
12.04.2013	WHITE PLAINS, NY – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY), the senior Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, today announced that the National Endowment for the Arts (NEA) has awarded $40,000 in competitive federal grants to two Lower Hudson Valley arts organizations.Copland House, located in Peekskill, will receive $10,000 in NEA investment to support performances and radio broadcasts of American music performed by the Music from Copland House ensemble, as well as related educational activities. Pleasantville’s Jacob Burns Film Center will receive a $30,000 investment to promote international understanding through film.“The Lower Hudson Valley is home to a growing arts community that enriches lives and helps power our economy,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “These welcome investments in the Lower Hudson Valley arts community will help ensure that the arts reach communities around our region, country, and world.”“Copland House’s concert series is the only one in the United States that exclusively showcases 150 years of America’s rich musical heritage, and the NEA’s support is essential in enabling us to share this extraordinary legacy with communities throughout the Hudson Valley, and with listeners nationwide via broadcasts and webcasts,” said Michael Boriskin, Artistic and Executive Director of Copland House. “We are also delighted to be able – thanks to this NEA grant – to continue to inspire the creativity, imagination, and innovative spirit of Westchester students through our growing in-school, multi-disciplinary music programs.”On average, each dollar of NEA grants drives $9 of additional non-federal investment.Each year, the arts industry generates $166.2 billion in economic activity and supports 5.7 million full-time jobs in the United States. The industry also returns $12.6 billion to the federal government in income taxes annually.The NEA ensures that investments in the arts reach communities throughout the country.###
12.03.2013	With Supreme Court Set to Consider If For-Profit Corporations Can Deny Employees Access to Contraception Coverage in Health Plans, Lowey Says Choice is ClearLowey: “Health care decisions should be made by a woman and her doctor – not by her boss.”WASHINGTON, D.C. – In a conference call today, Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) and Reina Schiffrin, President/CEO of Planned Parenthood Hudson Peconic, said the Affordable Care Act (ACA) ensures that health care decisions are made by a women and her doctor, and urged the Supreme Court to protect comprehensive coverage of women's health services required under the law.Last week, the court announced it will take up challenges to the Affordable Care Act’s requirement that for-profit corporations include contraception coverage in employees' insurance plans.“Health care decisions should be made by a woman and her doctor – not by her boss, not by insurance companies, and not by lawmakers in Washington. Women's health should always be left in the hands of America's women and their families,” said Congresswoman Lowey.Under the law, nearly 30 million women with private health insurance are guaranteed coverage of key preventive health services, such as mammograms, cervical cancer screenings, and immunizations, at no additional cost. The law also requires that this coverage include more comprehensive preventive services, such as well-woman visits, breastfeeding support and supplies, and gestational diabetes screening. The law also prohibits insurance companies from dropping women from coverage when they get sick or become pregnant; prevents women from being denied coverage for pre-existing conditions such as breast cancer or having had a C-section; and, beginning in January 2014, ends the common practice of “gender rating,” charging women higher premiums than men for the same coverage. Reina Schiffrin, President/CEO of Planned Parenthood Hudson Peconic, noted that the ACA may be the single biggest advancement in women’s health in a generation.“More than 27 million women have already benefited from the birth control provision and millions more stand to gain coverage starting on January 1,” she said. “Employers have no right to take that access away. Depending on the outcome of these cases, bosses could deny a whole host of other medical procedures such as vaccines, surgeries, blood transfusions, and mental health care based on their own personal beliefs.”Earlier this year, the Obama Administration acted to ensure that no church or similar religious institution will be forced to provide contraception coverage and has made a commonsense accommodation for non-profit religious organizations that object to contraception on religious grounds.###
12.01.2013	WHITE PLAINS, NY – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), the senior Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, issued the following statement regarding the traffic Metro-North train derailment that took place earlier today:“My thoughts and prayers are with victims of this morning's tragedy on the Metro-North Railroad in the Bronx and their families."On this horrific day for New York, I also extend heartfelt thanks to our first responders for their assistance and ongoing response. "We must devote every federal resource available to determine what happened and what must be done to keep passengers safe today and in the future. I will work with the National Transportation Safety Board to ensure a thorough and expeditious investigation."For those seeking information about loved ones who may have been aboard the train, please call 718-817-7444." ###
11.24.2013	Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY), Ranking Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee and the State and Foreign Operations Subcommittee, today issued the following statement on the Administration's announcement of an interim agreement on the Iranian nuclear program:"I commend Secretary Kerry for having seized the opportunity to engage Iran in direct negotiations for the first time in 34 years. However, the United States must not settle for a comprehensive agreement that fails to end Iran's capacity to build and deploy a nuclear weapon. I expect the Administration to remain committed to ensuring that the interim agreement signed today is only a first step toward this goal."###
11.22.2013	Bill Makes Ending Violence Against Women and Girls Around World a Priority of U.S. Foreign PolicyFellow New Yorkers Congressmen Engel, Hanna, and Gibson Also CosponsorsLowey: “We must pass IVAWA to take real and meaningful steps toward protecting women, reducing poverty, and promoting economic development and stability around the world.” Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY), the senior Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, and a bipartisan group of House lawmakers today introduced the International Violence Against Women Act (IVAWA), which makes ending violence against women and girls a priority of American foreign policy.Also cosponsoring the legislation were bill author Congresswoman Jan Schakowsky (D-IL), Congresswoman Debbie Wasserman Schultz (D-FL), and New York members Congressman Richard Hanna (R-NY), Congressman Chris Gibson (R-NY), and Congressman Eliot Engel (D-NY), the Ranking Member on the House Foreign Affairs Committee.Violence against women and girls remains prevalent worldwide; one in three women is beaten, coerced into sex, or otherwise abused over the course of her lifetime, and in some countries up to 70% of women and girls are affected by violence. According to a 2006 UN report, at least 102 countries around the world have no specific laws on domestic violence, and those countries with laws in place often fail to implement or enforce them. According to Amnesty International, the toll of gender-based violence on women's health surpasses that of traffic accidents and malaria combined.To address this, IVAWA makes ending violence against women and girls around the world a priority of American foreign policy by requiring the State Department, in consultation with USAID, to develop and implement a comprehensive international strategy to prevent and respond to violence against women and girls internationally; updating humanitarian aid and mechanisms for responding to emergency outbreaks of violence against women and girls abroad; and making permanent the Office for Global Women’s Issues in the State Department, led by the Ambassador-at-Large for Global Women’s Issues. “Every day and in every nation, women are victims of violence. Today we say no more,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “Violence not only makes it harder for women to lead a healthy, safe, and productive life, this shameful scourge reverberates through every level of society and erodes stability, prosperity, and democracy. That is why addressing violence against women and girls must be a priority of the United States. We must pass IVAWA to take real and meaningful steps toward protecting women, reducing poverty, and promoting economic development and stability around the world.”"Gender-based violence hurts women every day around the world,” said Congressman Richard Hanna (R-NY). “Today, we send a message to people everywhere that it is unacceptable. One in three women currently suffer gender-based violence, and we cannot be silent in the fight to end such abuse and repression. I commend the work and accomplishments that have been achieved to date by the Department of State and USAID and I look forward to such work continuing as a permanent fixture of our nation’s diplomacy. There is still much work to be done, and as a beacon of freedom and opportunity for all people, the United States must continue to play a leading role in this effort."“Violence against women is a humanitarian tragedy, a vicious crime, a global health catastrophe, a roadblock to social and economic development and a threat to national security,” said Congresswoman Jan Schakowsky (D-IL). “When I traveled to the Democratic Republic of the Congo, I learned how rape was used for over a decade as a low-cost, low-tech, and horrifically effective weapon of war. Sexual violence has been systematically used to destroy communities and to instill a sense of despair and hopelessness within a population. IVAWA would make ending violence against women a U.S. foreign policy priority, promote health programs and survivor services, civil and criminal legal protections, educational opportunities and promotion of economic opportunities for women and girls. Passage of IVAWA would give us critical tools in the fight against gender-based violence around the world.” “Preventing violence against women and girls around the world should be an important U.S. foreign policy priority,” said Congressman Eliot Engel (D-NY), Ranking Member on the House Foreign Affairs Committee. “We are talking about an epidemic of violence – with one in three women around the world likely to be subject to some form of abuse during her life. It’s clear to me that we need a coherent strategy for ensuring that our diplomatic and development efforts are more focused on preventing gender-based violence. I hope that this legislation will provide such a roadmap -- and other tools – to help empower women and girls and prevent a new generation from becoming victims of abuse.”“After several combat, peacekeeping, and humanitarian tours overseas while serving in the United States Army, including to Iraq, Kosovo, and Haiti, one of the most significant international human rights issues that I saw is the prevalence of violence and discrimination against women and girls,” said Congressman Chris Gibson (R-NY). “I am confident that this good government bill will go a long way to streamlining and effectively coordinating all U.S. efforts to reduce violence, electoral suppression, abuse, and other discriminatory actions that disproportionately affect women and girls.”“We know that one in three women will experience abuse in her lifetime, meaning -shockingly- that one billion women alive today have experienced abuse,” said Congresswoman Debbie Wasserman Schultz (D-FL). “We must fight to liberate these women and girls from the shackles of bondage—both physical and figurative—that keep them from freedom. We must acknowledge that violence perpetrated against any woman, anywhere, impacts all women, everywhere. For women to be free, we must pass the International Violence Against Women Act and work tirelessly wherever we can to support global health, education, political participation, and women’s empowerment.”###
11.18.2013	Lowey Says Federal Investments in Science Are “Investments in Cures, Breakthroughs, and Jobs,” But Automatic Spending Cuts Slowing Innovation and Killing Jobs PALISADES, NY – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY), the senior Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, today was presented the “Champion of Science” award by The Science Coalition in recognition of her steadfast support for research that keeps the state of New York and the nation global leaders in science, medical discoveries, and technological innovation.The award, which recognizes Members of Congress who fight for federal investments in basic scientific research, was presented jointly by officials from three Science Coalition universities – Columbia University, New York University, and Pace University – at an event at Columbia’s Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory in Rockland County.“I am honored to receive this award from some of New York’s and our country’s fiercest advocates for science and most talented researchers. Scientific research not only saves lives, it is essential to the United States remaining a global leader in innovation and technology,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “It’s simple: federal investments in science are investments in cures, breakthroughs, and jobs. That is why I strongly support federal investments in science and, as a member of the bipartisan Senate-House budget conference, will continue to push for an agreement that ends the automatic spending cuts, which are killing research jobs and threatening breakthroughs for years to come.”“America’s great research universities are engines of innovation that not only drive our economy, but help solve society’s most urgent problems, from climate change to infectious disease,” said Columbia University President Lee C. Bollinger. “We’re delighted to see Nita Lowey recognized for being a leading voice in Congress for investment in the basic and applied science research that is essential to our national strength and quality of life.”"We are extremely fortunate to have Congresswoman Lowey representing New York in Congress. She has long understood the direct connection between funding university-based research and the innovation economy," said New York University President John Sexton. "We are hopeful her leadership on the Budget Conference will mitigate the devastating effects that sequestration is having on health and science research.""Those of us who work at Columbia University's Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory are proud to be represented in Washington by Congresswoman Nita Lowey, who has been an effective spokesperson for the importance of federal investment in science,” said Dr. Sean Solomon, Director of Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory. “We particularly appreciate Congresswoman Lowey's sustained advocacy in the areas of environmental conservation and energy management at a time of profound global change."“As Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee, Congresswoman Lowey has made federal investments in basic scientific research a priority throughout her career,” said Science Coalition President Tim Leshan of Northeastern University. “Not only has she been a steadfast supporter of biomedical research, but she has consistently supported investments across the spectrum of scientific and engineering research. She is a true Champion of Science.”Since being elected to Congress in 1988, Congresswoman Lowey has been a strong advocate for supporting investments in basic research, public health, and biomedical research. A member of the Congressional Biomedical Research Caucus, she is one of the Appropriations Committee's leading advocates of increased federal investments in biomedical research on diseases like cancer, diabetes, and Alzheimer’s at the National Institutes of Health (NIH) and has helped increase NIH’s budget for cancer research by more than ten times. Lowey also authored the 2008 Breast Cancer and Environmental Research Act, which guides federal research investigating the links between breast cancer and the environment.Congresswoman Lowey joins a group of more than 60 current and former members of Congress who have received the “Champion of Science” award since 1999.###
11.11.2013	WHITE PLAINS, NY– Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) issued the following statement on Veterans Day, which falls today:“On Veterans Day, we honor the courage and heroic sacrifices of the men and women who have served our nation in uniform. All around the world, our soldiers, sailors, airmen, Marines and Coast Guardsmen have fought and died to protect the freedoms that we cherish.“It is our responsibility to ensure our veterans – including the more than 900,000 in New York – receive the support and benefits they have earned. That means helping our veterans find good-paying jobs when they return home by providing tax credits for hiring veterans looking for work; strengthening much-needed training programs for separating service members; and encouraging businesses and government contractors to hire the brave men and women who have developed such valuable skills during their service in our Armed Forces. We must also ensure our veterans have access to high-quality health care, and continue to reduce the shameful backlog of disability claims by speeding up the claims process. And we must work to address the unique challenges facing our nation’s female veterans.“On this Veterans Day, I join all Americans in thanking our veterans for their brave and selfless service to our country and reaffirming our commitment to our nation’s solemn promise: that just as our soldiers leave no one behind on the battlefield, we will leave no veteran behind at home.”###
11.07.2013	$1.3 Million in Federal Funding to Support Anti-Youth Substance Abuse InitiativesLowey: “If we are going to have healthy communities and thriving families, we must help our youth avoid the pitfalls of substance abuse.” RYE BROOK, NY– Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) said today at a meeting of local community coalitions using federal funds to prevent substance abuse among Lower Hudson Valley youth that federal investments in anti-youth drug abuse are critical to healthy local communities.Speaking at a meeting hosted by the Blind Brook Community Coalition, which received its first $125,000 federal grant this year, Congresswoman Lowey highlighted the Coalition’s plan to use the funds to promote the safe disposal of unused or unwanted prescription medication. The abuse of prescription drugs among youth is widespread in the United States.“If we are going to have healthy communities and thriving families, we must help our youth avoid the pitfalls of substance abuse,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “In Westchester and Rockland and across the country, organizations are doing great work to ensure the health of our children and communities. I will continue working to ensure federal government is investing in local initiatives that help keep our children safe from the dangers of drugs and alcohol.”In September, Congresswoman Lowey announced $1,325,000 in federal grants for youth anti-substance abuse initiatives for eleven Lower Hudson Valley organizations, including: South Orangetown Community Awareness of Substance Abuse ($125,000);Mount Kisco Drug & Alcohol Prevention Council ($125,000);Cortlandt Community Coalition ($125,000);City of White Plains ($125,000);Ossining Communities That Care ($125,000);Westchester Coalition for Drug and Alcohol Free Youth ($125,000);Westchester Coalition for Drug and Alcohol Free Youth ($75,000), for a mentoring program for the new North Castle Community Coalition;Croton Community Coalition ($125,000);Port Chester Cares Community Coalition ($125,000);Blind Brook Community Coalition ($125,000); andOCADA, Inc. ($125,000), which serves Central Nyack, Nyack, South Nyack, Upper Grandview, Upper Nyack, and Valley Cottage.“Our community has really united to protect the health and safety of our youth and this grant is a wonderful opportunity to increase our prevention efforts,” said Blind Brook Schools Superintendent William Stark.“Youth drinking and other drug use is a concern in communities nationwide. Westchester is fortunate to have such an active group of coalitions dedicated to working together,” said Rye Brook Mayor Paul Rosenberg. "Community Coalitions working with school based prevention programs have been achieving impressive outcomes in preventing and reducing youth substance abuse,” said Ellen Morehouse, Executive Director of Student Assistance Services who provided technical assistance for the Blind Brook grant.Local groups will use the funds for drug and alcohol prevention programs, including school assemblies and activities to discuss the dangers of binge drinking, driving under the influence, and abuse of illegal drugs.The $1,325,000 in federal grants was awarded by the Office of National Drug Control Policy (ONDCP) Drug-Free Communities (DFC) Program, which provides grants to community coalitions that facilitate citizen participation in local drug prevention efforts. Since 1998, ONDCP has awarded more than 2,000 Drug-Free Communities grants to local communities nationwide.###
10.31.2013	DOT Secretary Foxx Signs Off On Largest Ever DOT TIFIA Loan Award Lowey Sent Letter Yesterday to DOT Urging Approval of the LoanLowey: DOT loan is “huge milestone for the construction of a New Tappan Zee Bridge, a critical link in our region’s infrastructure system and a lifeline for commuters and businesses.”WHITE PLAINS, NY– Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), the senior Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, announced today that Department of Transportation (DOT) Secretary Anthony Foxx has approved a loan of up to $1.6 billion through its Transportation Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act (TIFIA) program for construction of a new Tappan Zee Bridge. The loan is the largest ever in the history of the TIFIA program.The Secretary’s approval comes after the DOT’s Credit Council met this morning to review the loan application.Yesterday, Congresswoman Lowey wrote a letter urging the DOT to expedite consideration of the TIFIA application and requested a special session of the Credit Council. Congresswoman Lowey’s letter can be viewed here and is below.As recently as last week, Congresswoman Lowey had personally and directly urged Secretary Foxx to support the project.“This is a huge milestone for the construction of a New Tappan Zee Bridge, a critical link in our region’s infrastructure system and lifeline for commuters and businesses,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “I am excited that the DOT has approved the largest ever TIFIA loan for a transportation project and that the work on a new bridge can continue to move forward. The construction will continue to create jobs and help New York’s economy grow. I was very pleased to work closely with Governor Cuomo and our federal delegation throughout this long process to bring a new Tappan Zee Bridge to the Lower Hudson Valley.”Congresswoman Lowey’s full letter sent yesterday to the DOT is below:October 30, 2013The Honorable John PorcariDeputy SecretaryDepartment of Transportation1200 New Jersey Avenue, SEWashington, DC 20590 Dear Deputy Secretary Pocari:I write to urge you to expedite the consideration of New York State Thruway Authority’s TIFIA application to construct the new Tappan Zee Bridge. As you know, the application must be fully reviewed and approved by the Department of Transportation’s Credit Council before a final decision can ultimately be made by the Secretary of Transportation.New York State submitted its formal application to the TIFIA program at the end of September. Unfortunately, the government shutdown prevented the Credit Council from quickly meeting on the application. With the next meeting of the Council scheduled for November 12th, I urge you to call a special session of the Council to consider the application sooner.Expediting the application is entirely appropriate for a project such as this, which has been selected by President Obama as a project of national significance and has also already received expedited reviews and approvals in other areas. New York State Thruway has also been a good-faith and cooperative partner with the Department, working diligently to decrease the cost of the bridge by $1.4 billion since the initial letter of interest was submitted last year. Thank you for consideration of this request. I greatly appreciate all the efforts that the Department has made to work with the State of New York to advance the application and deliver a new bridge to the residents of the Lower Hudson River Valley. Sincerely, Nita M. Lowey Member of Congress###
10.30.2013	Lowey Authored Food Allergy Bill Requiring Federal Government to Set GuidelinesLowey: “With the number of children with food allergies so high and the risks so great, it was time for our federal government to act.”WASHINGTON, D.C.– Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY), the senior Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, hailed new guidelines issued today by the Centers for Disease Control on how schools should prevent and respond to potentially fatal allergic reactions among students. The guidelines were required under Congresswoman Lowey’s Food Allergy and Anaphylaxis Management Act, which was enacted as part of the FDA Food Safety Modernization Act in 2010.“With such a high number of children with food allergies and such great risks, it was time for our federal government to act. For far too long, states and school districts have lacked the resources to create a framework for helping students with food allergies stay safe,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “These new federal guidelines are a big step towards protecting the millions of children with potentially fatal food allergies and giving their parents the confidence that their children will stay safe and healthy at school.”Passed by the House in 2008 and enacted as part of the FDA Food Safety Modernization Act in January 2010, Congresswoman Lowey’s Food Allergy and Anaphylaxis Management Act (H.R. 2063) directed the HHS Secretary to develop guidelines for schools to voluntarily implement measures to prevent students’ exposure to food allergens and ensure a prompt response when children suffer a potentially fatal anaphylactic reaction.More than eleven million Americans suffer from food allergies. Each year, several hundred food allergy sufferers die and an estimated 30,000 receive life-saving treatments in emergency rooms due to food-induced anaphylaxis. Avoiding foods that contain allergy-producing ingredients can be particularly difficult for children whose time is often spent at school or in the care of individuals other than a parent.Lowey is also the author of Food Allergen Labeling and Consumer Protection Act that required food packaging to clearly list the eight most common food allergens, including milk, egg, peanuts, tree nuts, fish, Crustacean shellfish, soy, and wheat, as well any food allergens used in spices, natural or artificial flavorings, additives, and colorings. It also required the Food & Drug Administration to issue a uniform standard for the term “gluten-free,” which was released earlier this year. The legislation was first introduced by Lowey in 1999 and signed into law by President George W. Bush in 2004.###
10.28.2013	Lowey Announces $49 Million in FEMA Recovery Aid for Westchester and Rockland Counties Since Sandy Struck Lowey Fought to Add Counties to “Major Disaster Declaration” Within Days of Sandy’s LandfallLeaders Vow to Continue Pushing for More Funding For Infrastructure Projects That Would Help Protect Region In Future StormsWHITE PLAINS, N.Y. – One year after Superstorm Sandy devastated communities across the Lower Hudson Valley, Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), Congressman Sean Patrick Maloney (D-Westchester/Putnam/Orange), White Plains Mayor Tom Roach, and other local community leaders said today at a press conference that federal aid has been essential in helping communities recover and rebuild, and vowed to continue pushing for additional federal funding for infrastructure improvements that would help protect the region during future natural disasters.Congresswoman Lowey and Congressman Maloney also announced that Westchester and Rockland Counties have received $48,964,221 in Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) Public Assistance grants since Sandy struck, with Westchester County receiving nearly $38 million, and Rockland County nearly $11 million. Local governments continue to apply for funding, and additional grants are expected in the coming months.The funds were made available by the Disaster Relief Appropriations Act, a bipartisan bill passed by Congress in January that provided $60 billion for response and recovery to aid communities in New York, New Jersey, Connecticut and others that suffered due to Sandy. As the senior Democrat on the Appropriations Committee, Congresswoman Lowey helped lead the bipartisan effort to pass the full assistance package.Today’s announcement was at the City of White Plains Recycling Facility, known as the Gedney Yard, where debris was stored, processed and disposed in Sandy’s aftermath. The City of White Plains was reimbursed $1.7 million by FEMA, which covered 90% of the collection, disposal, and labor costs.Lowey had also fought to add Westchester and Rockland Counties to the “Major Disaster Declaration” within days of Sandy’s landfall.“One year ago, Sandy made landfall and devastated our region, taking lives and damaging homes and businesses,” said Congresswoman Lowey, who fought to make Westchester and Rockland Counties part of the federal Major Disaster Declaration. “Federal assistance has been absolutely essential in helping communities across the Lower Hudson Valley get back on their feet. Federal aid has also helped protect local taxpayers who would otherwise be on the hook for recovery costs. While I am proud to have helped secure financial aid for individuals, small businesses and local governments that suffered as a result of Sandy, I will not stop working until our community as a whole has recovered and is stronger than before.”“New Yorkers always greet adversity with strength, courage, and resiliency. I’ve been working with over 40 communities and local stakeholders across the Hudson Valley to rebuild stronger communities and invest in our neighbors and our economy,” said Congressman Sean Patrick Maloney. “Working closely with Governor Cuomo and leaders like George Green, we will continue to make critical progress towards filling the unmet needs of our Hudson Valley communities and businesses still recovering from Lee, Irene and Sandy.”"One year after Sandy, the spigot is finally on and the aid is flowing to New York communities,” said Senator Chuck Schumer. “Westchester and Rockland Counties have been reimbursed by FEMA for a great deal of their cleanup work, but there is much more to come now that all the recovery programs are up and running. New Yorkers will see an estimated $6.3 billion in aid next year, which is enough to rebuild almost every house and create a community that is much stronger than before. We’ll continue to recover, and will be back stronger than before in the Hudson Valley.”“New Yorkers suffered greatly from this storm. That is why I joined with the rest of our elected representatives to have the federal government do all it could to help the people whose homes were destroyed and lives disrupted,” said Congressman Eliot Engel. Thankfully, we were heard and federal money has come for the residents of Sound Shore and the other towns and villages who suffered from this Superstorm. This helped to pay for debris removal and related expenses lifting a great burden from these localities.”"The federal reimbursement that the City of White Plains has received for Hurricane Sandy-related expenses has absolutely been critical for us. Clean-up and repair efforts took months and required a tremendous amount of city manpower,” said White Plains Mayor Tom Roach. “Without the federal assistance secured by Congresswoman Lowey and our federal delegation, the impact of these expenses on the city's budget would have been significant. Their assistance has ensured that the work which needed to get done to get to the city back on track was done without breaking our budget and hurting our taxpayers."Congresswoman Lowey presented a proclamation to United Way of Westchester and Rockland in recognition of the assistance it provided the community in Sandy’s aftermath. Its 2-1-1 helpline was activated on October 27, 2012, to support the federal, state and local governments in disaster response and recovery. The helpline handled nearly 178,000 requests from the community regarding food, power restoration, shelter, damage reimbursement, and clean up assistance.“When you look at how much was accomplished in a year that included such a life-changing disaster, you realize how impactful our mission work is to the entire community”, said Naomi Adler, CEO and President of United Way of Westchester and Putnam. “Hundreds of volunteers, partner nonprofits, government workers, and businesses stepped forward to help with us this year and we owe them a big ‘thank you’.”Lowey also highlighted her push to secure additional aid for affected communities and infrastructure improvements to help mitigate the impact of future disasters, including advocating that communities in Westchester and Rockland Counties receive their fair share of disaster recovery assistance funds through the Department of Housing and Urban Development.“We must continue to invest in our infrastructure so that our region is better prepared for future disasters,” added Congresswoman Lowey.###
10.17.2013	Lowey: Time for Congress to “get back to the most important task before us: creating jobs, growing our economy, and protecting middle-class families.”WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) issued the following statement after voting for an agreement to reopen the government and avoid an economically catastrophic default crisis. After passage by the Senate earlier in the evening, the legislation passed the House 285-144, with 198 Democrats supporting the bill. It is expected to be signed into law by President Obama this evening.You can also view a video of Congresswoman Lowey’s floor speech prior to the vote by clicking here. Congresswoman Lowey’s statement is below:“Fifteen days after the shutdown began, the House has finally passed a reasonable agreement to reopen the government and avoid a disastrous default on our nation’s bills. While this legislation should have been considered weeks ago, I am pleased that Congress has come together to provide our economy the stability it needs.“It is incredibly disappointing that Republicans have put our economy and American families at such great risk. I want to ask them: was it worth it?“Eight-hundred thousand federal workers have been furloughed, including many in the Lower Hudson Valley. Families that depend on critical services from disaster aid to nutrition assistance have been left in the cold. And our economy has suffered. “We must stop stumbling from crisis to crisis. We have enough serious challenges to tackle without creating more. No member of Congress should ever again threaten the full faith and credit of the United States or shut down the government to advance a reckless ideological agenda.“In the weeks and months ahead, I hope we can work across party lines to avoid a repeat of this tragic episode and get back to the most important task before us: creating jobs, growing our economy, and protecting middle-class families.”###
10.17.2013	Budget Conference Committee Set Up Under Bipartisan Agreement to Reopen to Government, Avoid Default; Group Must Report Findings by December 13Lowey: “We must have a budget that creates jobs, strengthens the middle class, and responsibly reduces the deficit.”WASHINGTON, D.C.– Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), the senior Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, has been selected by House Democratic leaders as one of three House Democratic Members to serve on a conference committee in the wake of a bipartisan agreement to reopen the government and avoid an economically disastrous default crisis.Under the agreement passed by Congress to reopen the government and avoid a default crisis, Republicans finally agreed to a budget conference committee called for by Democrats, in which members of both parties will work to bridge the divide between their respective budgets and agree on overall spending levels. The law, which passed the House with the support of all 198 Democrats and 87 Republicans, requires the conference committee to report its findings by December 13th. Click here to view Congresswoman Lowey’s speech urging passage of the bill.“While it is disappointing that we are moving to budget negotiations only after our economy and families suffered under a reckless Republican shutdown and a near default on our bills, I am hopeful that we can work together to avoid another manufactured crisis,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “We must have a budget that creates jobs, strengthens the middle class, and responsibly reduces the deficit. I am ready to come to the table and find common ground. I hope Republicans are, too.”Also appointed to the conference committee were Assistant Democratic Leader James E. Clyburn and Chris Van Hollen, Ranking Member on the Budget Committee.###
10.14.2013	Vaccine Developer Protein Sciences Facing Delay in FDA Approval of Flu Vaccine for Americans Over 50 Due to Government ShutdownDelay Increases Chance Vaccine May Not Be Available Next YearLowey: “The reckless Republican shutdown is a disgrace that is hurting businesses and families across our community.”PEARL RIVER, NY– Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today urged an end to the Republican government shutdown at a Rockland County vaccine facility that faces delays in securing approval from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for its flu vaccine for use by Americans 50 years and older. With FDA employees furloughed due to the shutdown, the delay in approval for new vaccines increases the chance the vaccine may not be available before next year’s flu season.Earlier in the day, Congresswoman Lowey also met with federal workers who have been furloughed due to the shutdown.“The reckless Republican shutdown is a disgrace that is hurting businesses and families across our community,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “This shutdown was completely avoidable, and it is time for Republicans to stop holding our economy hostage. Our government could reopen by dinnertime if Speaker Boehner would simply allow the House to vote to reopen the government.”Congresswoman Lowey spoke at the Pearl River manufacturing facility of Protein Sciences, a biotechnology company whose vaccine Flublok was approved by the FDA last year for use by individuals 18-49 years old. The company is now seeking approval for its flu vaccine technology to be used by Americans of all ages.But with FDA employees furloughed due to the shutdown, the FDA is currently not issuing approvals for new vaccines or accepting “user fees,” which comprise a majority of the agency’s revenues.Flublok is the first egg-free influenza vaccine, meaning that it can be made more quickly and accurately without the infectious risk traditionally associated with vaccine manufacturing. An Assistant Secretary of Health has called the approval of Flublok by the FDA a “landmark in influenza vaccine history.”Congresswoman Lowey also highlighted the negative impact of the Republican shutdown on the economy and other businesses in the Lower Hudson Valley, saying that every day, the Small Business Administration typically provides $3.7 million in loan guarantees to credit-worthy businesses in New York State. Those loans are now on hold due to the shutdown.Congresswoman Lowey also cited the impact of the shutdown on families, including on federal employees who have been furloughed, and will not receive a paycheck until the government reopens. ###
09.28.2013	Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), the Ranking Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, today issued the following statement regarding the House majority’s Continuing Resolution and the potential for a government shutdown:“By refusing to advance a Continuing Resolution that can pass the Senate, the Republican majority has made the reckless and irresponsible choice to shut down the federal government.“The Affordable Care Act was passed by a majority of the House and a supermajority of the Senate, signed into law by the President, and upheld by the U.S. Supreme Court. Yet the majority continues to jeopardize the jobs and security of middle-class families in order to reverse the legitimate outcome. “A government shutdown will result in 1.4 million active duty military personnel not being paid for their work until after the shutdown ends. Hundreds of thousands of federal employees will be furloughed, and those employees and contractors who continue to work will not be paid during the shutdown. Federal loan guarantees for small businesses and middle-income families purchasing homes will be put on hold, as will research into life-threatening diseases and environmental reviews of planned transportation and energy-related projects, halting economic progress.“It is a sad commentary on the state of the Republican majority that its leaders are powerless to contain the most extreme voices clamoring for a path we know will disrupt the economy, kill jobs, and stunt growth. I urge the majority to end this dangerous charade and advance a Continuing Resolution capable of passing the Senate and being signed into law.”###
09.25.2013	WHITE PLAINS, NY– Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), the senior Democrat on the Appropriations Committee, today announced a $360,000 federal grant for Westchester County’s “Westchester Building Futures: Youth Homelessness Prevention Initiative,” which will help identify the best strategies for fighting homelessness. The initiative is being managed by the County’s Department of Social Services.“Helping our youth avoid the pitfalls and heartbreak of homelessness is essential to a healthy community and keeping our children safe,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “I am pleased that our federal government has chosen to invest in this important initiative.”The competitive grant was provided through the Department of Health & Human Services’ Administration for Children and Families.###
09.25.2013	Defunding Affordable Care Act Would Force 9,100 Local Seniors to Pay $820 More For Drugs; More Than 100,000 Seniors Would Lose Access to Free Preventive CareLowey: “A vote for the House Republican plan is a vote for putting insurance companies back in charge and a vote for a government shutdown.”PORT CHESTER, NY– Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) stood at a senior center in Port Chester on Wednesday to slam House Republicans for refusing to fund the government unless Congress guts the Affordable Care Act, saying the Republican plan would roll back Medicare benefits, increase prescription drug prices for thousands of Lower Hudson Valley seniors, and put Americans’ health care decisions back in the hands of insurance companies.Congresswoman Lowey also warned that the Republican plan has set the country down the path to a government shutdown on October 1, when the government’s fiscal year ends, and urged House leaders to support a compromise plan that averts a shutdown.“By refusing to fund the government unless Congress rolls back the Affordable Care Act, House Republicans have set us on a path to a disastrous government shutdown. Their plan wouldn’t just increase costs for seniors and reduce benefits, it would also put Americans’ health care decisions back in the hands of insurance companies,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “A shutdown would hurt our economy through cuts or delays to paychecks for federal employees, shuttering economic engines including federal parks and other sites, and calling into question the U.S. government’s credit rating. It is time for Congress to pass a workable compromise that preserves the protections in the Affordable Care Act, averts a government shutdown, and strengthens our economy.”Congresswoman Lowey said that defunding the Affordable Care Act would reduce Medicare benefits for seniors across New York’s 17th Congressional District, which includes most of northern and central Westchester County and all of Rockland County.Improvements made to Medicare under the Affordable Care Act have resulted in prescription drug discounts totaling $14.6 million for more than 9,100 seniors in the 17th District, with each person receiving an average discount of $750 in 2011, $820 in 2012, and $530 so far in 2013. If the law were defunded, those 9,100 seniors in Medicare’s so-called ‘donut hole’ would be forced to pay an average of $820 more for their drugs.Congresswoman Lowey also warned that if the House Republican plan to defund the Affordable Care Act is successful, 107,000 seniors would lose their free preventive services from Medicare provided under the health care law, including bone density tests, mammograms, and annual wellness visits. She also said 16,832 seniors would lose access to their Medicare Advantage plans.Congresswoman Lowey also said that only one in four Americans supports the Republican plan to undermine and defund the Affordable Care Act.###
09.24.2013	Grant Will Support Child Care Services for StudentsNEW CITY, NY– Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), the senior Democrat on the Appropriations Committee, today announced an $84,723 U.S. Department of Education grant for Rockland Community College. The grant will be used to provide child care services for Rockland Community College students at the Campus Fun & Learn Center, which is part of the Theresa Morahan Center for Children and Families.The competitive grant is being awarded through the Department of Education’s Child Care Means Parents in School Program (CCAMPIS).“Opening up opportunities for women and families in our schools as well as our workforce requires ensuring they have access to quality, affordable child care services. Too often, parents are forced to choose between an education or a job, and child care,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “This federal investment will help Rockland Community College students pursue their education while ensuring their children are cared for.”“We are very pleased that thanks to the CCAMPIS Grant, the Campus Fun & Learn Center in the Theresa Morahan Center for Children and Families will receive direct support for students to enroll their children in quality child care on campus,” said Dr. Cliff L. Wood, President of Rockland Community College. “The College is pleased to work collaboratively with the child care center to help adult students succeed by supporting their child care needs.”###
09.24.2013	Grant Will Help County’s Family Justice Center Improve Services for Victims of Sexual Assault, Domestic Violence, Dating Violence and Stalking, and Will Hold Offenders AccountableWHITE PLAINS, NY– Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), the senior Democrat on the Appropriations Committee, today welcomed a $900,000 U.S. Department of Justice grant for Westchester County’s Family Justice Center (FJC) to expand its initiative toprotect local women from violence and hold offenders accountable.The additional funding will allow the FJC to improve collaboration among its existing partners; improve services for underserved populations; and expand training to law enforcement officials, probation officers, judges, and prosecutors.The grant was awarded by the U.S. Department of Justice’s Office on Violence Against Women, which provides grants that encourage arrest policies and enforcement of protection orders, which is required under the provisions of the Violence Against Women Act.“Federal investments in initiatives like Westchester’s Family Justice Center play an invaluable role in keeping women and children safe from domestic abuse, holding abusers accountable, and providing a lifeline to those trying to escape violence,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “With this welcome funding, the Family Justice Center can continue to protect women and families in Westchester County.”Congress passed the first federal Violence Against Women Act 19 years ago last week. The law, which Congresswoman Lowey helped pass, has been reauthorized numerous times with overwhelming bipartisan support, including earlier this year.Westchester County’s Family Justice Center, established in 2009 through a $1 million federal grant that Congresswoman Lowey helped the County secure, brings together victim advocates from non-profit, nongovernmental victim services organizations, law enforcement officers, prosecutors, probation officers, governmental victim assistants, civil legal attorneys, legal advocates, and representatives from community-based organizations to provide effective and coordinated community responses to violence against women and families.###
09.18.2013	WHITE PLAINS, NY- Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) released a video message today marking Hispanic Heritage Month, which began on Sunday, September 15th and ends October 15th.Click here to watch the video. The Congresswoman's remarks in both English and Spanish are also below.English version:“Hispanic Heritage Month is a time for all of us to celebrate the Latino community’s invaluable role in America.“Since the earliest days of our nation, Latinos have helped create the America we know today.“From serving bravely in our Armed Forces that protect our freedom, to fighting for civil rights and equality, to starting millions of small businesses that are the engine of our economy, the Latino community has been an essential part of the social fabric that binds our nation together.“Like millions of Americans across our country, Latinos are ahead of many politicians in Washington: they recognize that our immigration system is broken, and that it’s up to us to fix it.“That’s why I was pleased that this past June, the Senate passed a bipartisan comprehensive immigration reform bill.“Now, Americans from all walks of life want the Republican-controlled House to act.“The House must pass commonsense legislation that will secure our borders, protect our workers, require employers to follow reasonable laws, and offer hardworking immigrants an earned pathway to citizenship that allows them the opportunity to fully contribute to our nation.“That’s also why Democrats will continue to fight to address the issues affecting the Latino community, like jobs, education and health care, to ensure a stronger future for all our families.“I hope you can join me in celebrating Hispanic Heritage Month.”Spanish version:“El Mes de la Herencia Hispana es un momento para todos nosotros para celebrar el papel inestimable de la comunidad latina en los Estados Unidos.“Desde los primeros días de nuestra nación, los latinos han ayudado a crear la América que hoy conocemos.“De sirviendo valientemente en nuestras Fuerzas Armadas que protegen nuestra libertad, a la lucha por los derechos civiles y la igualdad, los millones de pequeñas empresas que son el motor de nuestra economía, la comunidad latina ha sido una parte esencial del tejido social que une a nuestra nación.“Al igual que millones de estadounidenses en todo el país, los latinos están por delante de muchos políticos en Washington: reconocen que nuestro sistema de inmigración está roto, y que depende de nosotros para arreglarlo.“Por eso me complació que el pasado junio, el Senado aprobó un proyecto de ley de reforma migratoria bipartidista.“Ahora, los estadounidenses de todas las clases sociales quieren que la Cámara de Representantes, controlada por los republicanos, actúe.“La Cámara debe aprobar una legislación de sentido común que asegure nuestras fronteras, protege a nuestros trabajadores, exige a los empleadores seguir las leyes razonables, y ofrece a los inmigrantes trabajadores una vía ganada a la ciudadanía que les ofrece la oportunidad de contribuir plenamente a nuestro país.“Es también la razón por que los demócratas seguirán luchando contra los problemas que afectan a la comunidad latina, como el empleo, la educación y el cuidado de la salud, para asegurar un futuro más fuerte para todas nuestras familias.“Espero que pueda unirse a mí en la celebración del Mes de la Herencia Hispana.”###
09.18.2013	Lowey Author of Freshness Disclosure ActCongresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), the senior Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee and author of the Freshness Disclosure Act, issued the following statement today after the release of a new studyby Harvard Law School's Food Law and Policy Clinic and the Natural Resources Defense Council highlighting the gaps in the United States’ food expiration date laws:"It is alarming that the United States still has no federal law requiring expiration dates on food products. This important new study makes clear the consequences of not having a uniform standard for dating perishable food: consumers are unable to make informed choices. "Under the current patchwork of state and federal laws, consumers are left in the lurch, forced to decipher the differences between ‘sell-by’ and ‘best if used by,’ and too often food is either thrown out prematurely, or families wind up consuming dangerous or spoiled food. The status quo is really quite absurd."That's why I have authored the Freshness Disclosure Act, which will help establish a consistent food dating system in the United States and protect American consumers. I look forward to reintroducing this legislation and working with colleagues on both sides of the aisle to close this glaring gap in our nation's food safety laws."###
09.17.2013	Headquartered in Chappaqua, BioTheryX Developing New Drugs to Treat CancerWHITE PLAINS, NY – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), the senior Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, today announced a $289,518 National Institutes of Health grant for BioTheryX, Inc., a biomedical company headquartered in Chappaqua that is developing new drugs to treat cancer. The funding will support a preclinical test in mice of the company’s patented compound, which has shown potential to be effective against pancreatic cancer as well as blood cancer and tumors.“Cutting-edge medical research in the Lower Hudson Valley is not only one of our region’s economic engines, but is also helping to find important breakthroughs and treatments for millions of Americans,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “This investment from the National Institutes of Health will allow local innovators to move forward with their research to identify new treatments for cancer.”"We are grateful to the National Institutes of Health for its support, and we are quite excited about the potential of this compound," said Lawrence Zaslow, President of BioTheryX. "The grant allows us to move on to the next phase of testing as we seek new alternatives to the treatment of pancreatic and other forms of cancer."###
09.16.2013	Schools in Westchester, Rockland Counties Already Feeling Effects of Cuts; Stand to Continue Losing More Than $4 Million AnnuallyHouse Republicans Want To Slash Education Up to Additional 22%Lowey: “We should give our students and teachers the tools to succeed, not make their jobs harder.”WHITE PLAINS, NY - Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today stood with local representatives of school boards, and superintendents of schools and teacher organizations to blast the impact of federal budget cuts on students and teachers in Lower Hudson Valley schools and call on Congress to reach a budget agreement that would better support local schools.Despite the damage done by across-the-board cuts to education, Lowey said the Republican proposal to fund education initiatives would lock in the current cuts and slash the education spending bill by another 22% in 2014. If applied proportionately, it would lower federal funding for education by $2.6 billion and aid for disadvantaged students by $2.8 billion.“If we want to remain a global leader, we need to help today’s students become tomorrow’s entrepreneurs and innovators. We should give our students and teachers the tools to succeed, not make their jobs harder through increases to classroom size and reductions to personnel and enrichment programs,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “That’s why Congress must come together to agree on a fair and balanced budget plan that invests in our students’ futures.” “Over the past four to five years, school districts in New York and the nation have absorbed significant funding cuts that have translated into program elimination and erosion. With an aggressive national and state education reform agenda and legislative efforts to restore funding following the nation's deep recession, sequestration cuts will be a setback to any progress that has been made,” said Ken Mitchell, Superintendent of Schools for South Orangetown Central School District and President, Lower Hudson Council of School Superintendents. “The most vulnerable of our students - pre-school, special needs, and those needing remedial services - will be most affected.” “A five percent cut to the already underfunded federal allocation may not seem substantive to those unfamiliar with the school funding reality in New York State. But these cuts come on the heels of annual school district cuts since the 2008 economic downturn and New York tax levy limit legislation, which constrains our ability to raise revenue to balance rising costs or cuts such as these,” said Lisa Davis, Executive Director of the Westchester Putnam School Boards Association.“The loss of funding through the sequester and other cuts creates a perfect storm of negative consequences,” said Frank Fanelli, Assistant Superintendent of the Port Chester – Rye Union Free School District. “Districts like Port Chester find ourselves with no pathway to meet the needs of children who desperately require additional help to perform at the new proficiency levels.”Beginning in March, federal across-the-board budget cuts known as “sequestration” went into effect, resulting in cuts to most government services. Under the budget cuts, defense spending is reduced by 7.9% and non-defense spending is reduced by 5.3%.If Congress allows the cuts to continue, they will cost schools in Westchester and Rockland Counties approximately $4.4 million a year from only two federal programs: Title I funding, which seeks to improve academic achievement for the disadvantaged; and IDEA funding, which helps schools educate children with disabilities.Unless Congress acts to cancel the cuts, each year in New York State, Title I grants would be cut by more than $45 million each; IDEA Special Education grants would be reduced by approximately $36.3 million; and Head Start funding for New York State would be cut by approximately $26 million, eliminating services for approximately 4,300 children in New York.Earlier this year, Congresswoman Lowey highlighted how the misguided federal cuts are impacting local Head Start services, including children losing access to Head Start, layoffs of personnel, and reductions in literacy programs.###
09.11.2013	Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) issued the following statement marking the 12th anniversary of the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001:“Today we mourn the loss of our friends, family, and neighbors on September 11, 2001; we pray for the survivors and their families; and we thank the first responders and those who served our nation so courageously in the aftermath of the worst terror attack the United States has ever experienced. “Each year on this day, we also renew our commitment to defend our city, state, and nation against the threat of terrorism at home and abroad.“While the events of September 11, 2001 scarred our communities, that terrible day did not break our resolve to stand as one to defend our values, defeat terrorism, and protect the freedoms and liberties all Americans cherish.”###
09.09.2013	Grant Will Fund Repairs to Playgrounds at New Square, Monsey FacilitiesWHITE PLAINS, NY– Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), the senior Democrat on the Appropriations Committee, today announced $201,550 in federal aid for Head Start of Rockland that will fund repairs to playgrounds at its New Square and Monsey facilities damaged during Superstorm Sandy.During Sandy, the protective mats at the two playgrounds were severely damaged. Since then, children have had limited access to the two playgrounds.“Federal aid has been essential in helping communities recover and rebuild from Sandy,”said Congresswoman Lowey. “This badly-needed federal funding is welcome news, and will help Head Start of Rockland to continue to provide important services to Rockland families.”“We are thankful for the federal assistance to help repair the playgrounds at our New Square and Monsey centers,” said Ouida Toutebon, Executive Director of Head Start of Rockland.The grant was awarded through the U.S. Department of Health & Human Services.Head Start of Rockland serves approximately 1,000 families across Rockland County.###
09.09.2013	Grant Will Fund Repairs to Playgrounds at New Square, Monsey FacilitiesWHITE PLAINS, NY– Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), the senior Democrat on the Appropriations Committee, today announced $201,550 in federal aid for Head Start of Rockland that will fund repairs to playgrounds at its New Square and Monsey facilities damaged during Superstorm Sandy.During Sandy, the protective mats at the two playgrounds were severely damaged. Since then, children have had limited access to the two playgrounds.“Federal aid has been essential in helping communities recover and rebuild from Sandy,”said Congresswoman Lowey. “This badly-needed federal funding is welcome news, and will help Head Start of Rockland to continue to provide important services to Rockland families.”“We are thankful for the federal assistance to help repair the playgrounds at our New Square and Monsey centers,” said Ouida Toutebon, Executive Director of Head Start of Rockland.The grant was awarded through the U.S. Department of Health & Human Services.Head Start of Rockland serves approximately 1,000 families across Rockland County.###
09.04.2013	Ten Local Community Coalitions Will Use Federal Funds to Prevent Substance Abuse Among Lower Hudson Valley YouthWHITE PLAINS, NY– Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), the senior Democrat on the Appropriations Committee, today announced that ten local organizations will receive a total of $1,325,000 in federal grants for youth anti-substance abuse initiatives.“If we are going to have healthy communities and thriving families, we must help our youth avoid the pitfalls of substance abuse,”said Congresswoman Lowey. “It is exciting news that our federal government is investing in local initiatives to engage the community to help keep our children safe from the dangers of drugs and alcohol.”In New York’s 17th Congressional District, ten local initiatives were awarded grants, including:South Orangetown Community Awareness of Substance Abuse ($125,000);Mount Kisco Drug & Alcohol Prevention Council ($125,000);Cortlandt Community Coalition ($125,000);City of White Plains ($125,000);Ossining Communities That Care ($125,000);Westchester Coalition for Drug and Alcohol Free Youth ($125,000);Westchester Coalition for Drug and Alcohol Free Youth ($75,000), for a mentoring program for the new North Castle Community Coalition;Croton Community Coalition ($125,000);Port Chester Cares Community Coalition ($125,000);Blind Brook Community Coalition ($125,000); andOCADA, Inc. ($125,000), which serves Central Nyack, Nyack, South Nyack, Upper Grandview, Upper Nyack, and Valley Cottage.“Throughout Westchester, individual communities have joined together to combat underage drinking and other drug use,” said Vito Pinto, Director of the Westchester County Office of Drug Abuse Prevention and STOP-DWI. “The most powerful tool we have to address our underage drinking and drug abuse problems is preventing them before they begin. This begins at the local level through community coalitions. The federal government has recognized the hard work of these coalitions by awarding these grants and thereby allowing us to strengthen their existing efforts.”The $1,325,000in federal grants were awarded by the Office of National Drug Control Policy (ONDCP) Drug-Free Communities (DFC) Program, which provides grants to community coalitions that facilitate citizen participation in local drug prevention efforts. Since 1998, ONDCP has awarded more than 2,000 Drug-Free Communities grants to local communities nationwide.###
08.29.2013	Federal Award Will Support Scholarship Program for Training Middle School and High School Science TeachersWHITE PLAINS, NY – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), the senior Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, today announced $1,447,827 in National Science Foundation funding for Mercy College. The funding will support the development and launch of the “Mercy Intensive STEM Teacher Initiative” (MISTI), a five-year program that provides scholarships for students to receive training in teaching science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM) at the middle school and high school levels. The program will train 20 prospective math and science teachers who are pursuing degrees in biology or mathematics, a Masters in Adolescence Education, and a New York State teaching certification. Students who receive a scholarship as part of MISTI will attend STEM Summer Immersion Camps at the end of their freshman and sophomore years. Students in their junior and senior years will receive an introduction to teaching that features classroom observations, peer teaching, pedagogical seminars, workshop development and presentation at the Mercy College Parent Center. The program culminates in a full-year clinical residency in high-need middle and high schools.Mercy College is partnering on the initiative with Yonkers Public Schools, the Public Schools of the Tarrytowns, Ossining Public Schools, Harry S. Truman High School in the Bronx, Westchester Community College, Bronx Community College, and Rockland Community College.“Students with a background in the STEM fields are well prepared for the needs of tomorrow’s workforce and well positioned to compete in the global economy,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “As the demand for students with a background in STEM continues to grow, so does the need the for world-class STEM educators. This important federal investment in Mercy College will help ensure that the next generation of those educators are being trained right here in the Lower Hudson Valley.”“This is a wonderful achievement for Mercy College. This demonstrates the value of collaboration, and how collaboration can be used to advance education,” said Dr. Concetta M. Stewart, Interim President of Mercy College. “We need to focus on training new STEM teachers. Educators need to make sure that we are fostering these subjects and giving them the respect that they long deserved.”Every summer, Mercy hosts its “Step Up to STEM” camp, an innovative, free program supporting local low-income high school and college students pursuing degrees in the STEM fields. The focus of this summer’s program was on disaster preparedness. Click here to read more about Congresswoman Lowey’s visit to the camp earlier this summer.In 2011, Congresswoman Lowey announced a $788,000 federal grant for Mercy College to support the teaching of STEM programs.###
08.28.2013	“Today marks 50 years since the March on Washington, when Americans of every race, gender, and background gathered on our National Mall and around radios and televisions all across the country to hear a message of hope, justice, and equality. It was that August day that we heard Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr.’s four simple, powerful words – “I have a dream” – and a vision of an America where racial and economic injustice are a thing of the past.“Fifty years later, a monument to Reverend Martin Luther King, Jr. stands on the National Mall alongside monuments to the greatest Presidents of the United States. While our nation has come far since that day, Dr. King’s dream – and the dream of millions of Americans – has not yet been fully realized.“That is why today we must continue to honor Dr. King’s legacy by fighting for true equality and fairness, so that every person who is eligible can vote; so that every woman in America receives equal pay for equal work; and so that every American has a fair shot at an education, a good-paying job, and a place in our middle class.”###
08.27.2013	Lowey: “It is shameful that House Republicans refuse to bring gun safety legislation to a vote. America’s families deserve stronger protections from gun violence.”NYACK, NY- Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today stood with local members of the New York-Hudson Valley Chapter of Moms Demand Action for Gun Sense in America as they hosted a lemonade stand on Nyack’s Main Street. They called on Congress to pass gun safety legislation that strengthens the country’s background check system and thanked Congresswoman Lowey for her support for improving America’s gun safety laws.Members of Moms Demand Action are holding lemonade stands in communities across the country to pressure Congress to pass background check legislation.“Nine out of ten Americans support strengthening background checks and making sure criminals can’t buy deadly weapons,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “These are commonsense, basic protections that will help reduce gun violence in our country. It is shameful that House Republicans refuse to bring gun safety legislation to a vote. America’s families deserve stronger protections from gun violence.”In April, bipartisan legislation that would have expanded background checks on all gun sales was blocked by a Senate filibuster.“Moms were disappointed by the Senate’s failure to act, but we were not deterred, and we’re making lemonade out of the lemons we were given,” said Gina Daschbach, Chapter Leader for Moms Demand Action for Gun Sense in America NY Hudson Valley Chapter. “Our lemonade stands are our way of taking a stand: American moms demand new and stronger gun laws, and we’re not going away. Congress must act to protect our children and families from gun violence.”In July, Congresswoman Lowey, the senior Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, offered an amendment to the Commerce, Justice, Science (CJS) Appropriations bill that would close the so-called “terror gap” in firearms sales. While convicted felons, domestic abusers, and the seriously mentally ill are prohibited from buying or owning firearms, there is currently no law preventing suspected terrorists from buying or owning firearms. Congresswoman Lowey’s amendment would have closed this glaring hole in the nation’s gun safety laws by giving authority to the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) to block suspected terrorists from purchasing firearms and explosives. ###
08.27.2013	Protein Sciences Has Created 35 High-Paying Jobs, Is Investing Millions in Rockland County Facility Through Partnership with Federal GovernmentLowey: “Innovative companies and scientists in the Lower Hudson Valley simply can’t afford another one of Washington’s manufactured crises.”PEARL RIVER, NY– After touring the Rockland County manufacturing facility of an innovative flu vaccine developer, Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today warned that further cuts to medical research and the threat of a government shutdown will jeopardize jobs, the economy, and badly-needed medical breakthroughs.Lowey’s comments came after a tour of the Rockland County manufacturing facility of Protein Sciences, which has created 35 high-paying jobs and invested millions of dollars in its Pearl River production facility in Rockland County since 2012 through a partnership with the federal Biomedical Advanced Research and Development Agency (BARDA). BARDA facilitates the development and purchase of vaccines, drugs, therapies, and diagnostic tools for public health emergencies. Protein Sciences has received more than $71 million from BARDA to develop and build a supply of Flublok and its sister vaccine, Panblok, which are produced at its Pearl River manufacturing facility. The company’s partnership with BARDA has also supported the renovation of its Pearl River facility to make it possible to deliver at least 50 million doses of pandemic flu vaccine within six months of declaration of a pandemic in the United States.The company expects to expand to 150 employees in the coming years.Federal support is essential for the development of pandemic flu vaccines by private companies because there is no commercial market for the vaccines and the federal government is the only buyer. Without these federal investments, private companies would have no incentive to invest in the production of vaccines.Flublok was approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration for use by individuals 18-49 years old earlier this year and is the first egg-free influenza vaccine, meaning that it can be made more quickly and accurately without the infectious risk traditionally associated with vaccine manufacturing. An Assistant Secretary of Health has called the approval of Flublok by the FDA a “landmark in influenza vaccine history.”“Protein Sciences is a great success story in the Lower Hudson Valley and an example of what smart government investments can create: good, high-paying jobs and cutting edge public health breakthroughs that will keep families across the country from getting sick this winter,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “Innovative companies like Protein Sciences and scientists in the Lowey Hudson Valley simply can’t afford another one of Washington’s manufactured crises brought on by ideologues insisting on even more draconian cuts, shutting down the government, or refusing to allow the government to pay its bills.”"We are pleased and proud to have Congresswoman Lowey visit our facility this morning," said Manon Cox, CEO of Protein Sciences. “Congresswoman Lowey has been a strong supporter of BARDA's influenza vaccine program. We could not have brought Flublok to market without BARDA's support, and their continued commitment will enable us to provide more doses of this important vaccine to more people in less time, and to develop Panblok as an effective vaccine against pandemic influenza. All of us here at Protein Sciences recognize and appreciate Congresswoman Lowey's efforts to ensure that funding for the BARDA program continues, helping to create good jobs and make important public health advances."In the last decade, scientists at biotech companies and universities in Westchester and Rockland Counties have received more than $490 million in National Institutes of Health grants. ###
08.26.2013	WHITE PLAINS, NY – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), the senior Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, today announced a $341,819 United States Department of Justice grant for Westchester County’s Forensic Science Services. The goal of the grant, which is being provided through the Department of Justice’s DNA Backlog Reduction Program, is to help states and local governments increase the capacity of existing crime laboratories so they can analyze DNA samples more efficiently and cost effectively, as well as reduce backlogs of DNA evidence.Backlogs consists of two kinds of DNA samples: forensic evidence collected from crime scenes, victims, and suspects in criminal cases that often contains DNA, and DNA samples taken from convicted defenders and suspects under arrest in accordance with federal and state laws.The National Institute of Justice defines a backlogged DNA case as one that goes untested for 30 days or more once it has been submitted to a crime laboratory. “DNA technology is an invaluable tool in fighting and solving crime. But as awareness of the potential of DNA samples in criminal investigations has grown, demand for analyzing DNA samples has outgrown the capacity of many crime laboratories around the country,”said Congresswoman Lowey. “This federal investment will enable our law enforcement officials in Westchester County to take full advantage of DNA technology so they can more effectively fight and solve crime.”###
08.21.2013	Grant will support cutting-edge research into treatment of a type of high blood pressure that affects lung arteries, heartWHITE PLAINS, NY – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), the senior Democrat on the Appropriations Committee, today announced a $383,180 U.S. Department of Health & Human Services grant for New York Medical College. The grant will support research by Dr. Michael Wolin into the treatment of pulmonary hypertension, a type of high blood pressure that affects the arteries in the lungs and the right side of a person’s heart that can lead to heart failure.“Cutting-edge medical research in the Lower Hudson Valley is not only paving the way for new treatments and breakthroughs, it is also one of the engines of our region’s economy,”said Congresswoman Lowey. “That’s why I am so pleased that New York Medical College is receiving this important federal investment as it works to identify treatments for a disease affecting so many Americans.”"Dr. Michael Wolin is one of the College’s senior investigators. Not only will his research provide new insights into a serious health problem – pulmonary hypertension – but the funding will support another investigator and two PhD candidates in Dr. Wolin’s laboratory," said Catharine Crea, Associate Dean for Research Administration at New York Medical College.###
08.05.2013	Definition of “Gluten-Free” For Food Labels Required Under Landmark Food Allergy Bill Authored By LoweyJEFFERSON VALLEY, NY– Standing at a local supermarket with nutritionists and advocates for the celiac community, Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today hailed new standards issued by the U.S. Food & Drug Administration (FDA) for labeling gluten-free foods, saying they would help protect families in the Lower Hudson Valley coping with celiac disease.Celiac disease is an inherited auto-immune condition that makes it impossible to digest gluten, a protein found naturally in wheat, barley and rye.Under the new guidelines, only foods containing 20 parts-per-million of gluten or less can be labeled and marketed as gluten-free. The standard also requires foods with the claims “no gluten,” “free of gluten,” and “without gluten” to meet this newly-established definition for “gluten-free.” The standards go into effect in one year, but food companies are being encouraged to comply with the new laws as soon as possible.There previously had been no single, uniform standard for meaning of “gluten-free” on food labels.The FDA’s establishment of new guidelines for the definition “gluten-free” was required under the Food Allergen Labeling and Consumer Protection Act, landmark food allergy legislation authored by Congresswoman Lowey.“These new consumer protections are a victory for families coping with celiac disease,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “Nearly a decade after the Food Allergen Labeling and Consumer Protection Act was signed into law, I am pleased that our federal government has finally set clear, uniform standards that will rein in a fast-growing, unregulated market and provide consumers and families the tools they need to protect their health. For the millions of Americans who suffer from celiac disease, these new standards for gluten-free food labels have been a long time coming.”“For people with celiac disease, eating food containing gluten can make us very sick. This critical new federal standard lets those of us coping with celiac disease and gluten intolerance, and every shopper in America, know exactly what products are gluten free and safe for us to eat,” said Linda Freeman, President and Founder of the Hudson Valley Chapter of the Celiac Disease Foundation.“For people with celiac disease, it is a major step for the FDA to at last issue its ruling concerning gluten-free foods. Celiac disease is very common but remarkably under-diagnosed. This ruling will increase awareness and facilitate further diagnoses,” said Dr. Peter Green of the Celiac Disease Center at Columbia University. “Many people have worked behind the scenes to push legislation through requiring these new standards. We express our gratitude to Congresswoman Lowey for her efforts on this and many other important food allergy issues.”“We thank Congresswoman Lowey for being such an ally of the celiac community,” said Suzanne Simpson, a nutritionist with the Celiac Disease Center at Columbia University. “It is wonderful news that the FDA has finally set a new standard for gluten-free food labeling, which will give confidence to people who must follow a gluten-free diet that the foods they are consuming really are safe.”“Congresswoman Lowey has made an amazing contribution to awareness of celiac disease and has helped to move this issue forward,” added Cynthia Beckman of the Celiac Disease Center at Columbia University.First introduced by Congresswoman Lowey in 1999 and signed into law by President George W. Bush in 2004, the Food Allergen Labeling and Consumer Protection Act required that the FDA issue standards for the term “gluten-free.” It also required food packaging to clearly list any of the top eight ingredients that cause allergic reactions, including milk, egg, peanuts, tree nuts, fish, Crustacean shellfish, soy, and wheat, as well any food allergens used in spices, natural or artificial flavorings, additives, and colorings. Congresswoman Lowey is also an original cosponsor of the Gluten in Medicine Disclosure Act, which would require medicine and pharmaceutical manufacturers to disclose on the label if a medication contains gluten.###
08.05.2013	Lowey Authored First-Ever Food Allergy Bill In 2004; Legislation Required FDA to Set Standards for Gluten-Free FoodsJEFFERSON VALLEY, NY– Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), the senior Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, today hailed new standards issued by the U.S. Food & Drug Administration (FDA) for the labeling of gluten-free foods. Under the new rules, only foods containing 20 parts-per-million of gluten or less can be labeled and marketed as gluten-free. The standard also requires foods with the claims “no gluten,” “free of gluten,” and “without gluten” to meet this newly-established definition for “gluten-free.” The FDA’s establishment of new guidelines for the definition of “gluten-free” was required under the Food Allergen Labeling and Consumer Protection Act, landmark food allergy legislation authored by Lowey and signed into law in 2004.“These new consumer protections from the Food & Drug Administration are a victory for families coping with celiac disease,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “Nearly a decade after the Food Allergen Labeling and Consumer Protection Act was signed into law, I am pleased that our federal government has finally set clear, uniform standards that will rein in a fast-growing, unregulated market and provide consumers and families the tools they need to protect their health. For the millions of Americans who suffer from celiac disease, these new standards for gluten-free food labels have been a long time coming.”“For people with celiac disease, eating food containing gluten can make us very sick. This critical new federal standard lets those of us coping with celiac disease and gluten intolerance, and every shopper in America, know exactly what products are gluten free and safe for us to eat,” said Linda Freeman, President and Founder of the Hudson Valley Chapter of the Celiac Disease Foundation.“For people with celiac disease, it is a major step for the FDA to at last issue its ruling concerning gluten-free foods. Celiac disease is very common but remarkably under-diagnosed. This ruling will increase awareness and facilitate further diagnoses,” said Dr. Peter Green of the Celiac Disease Center at Columbia University. “Many people have worked behind the scenes to push legislation through requiring these new standards. We express our gratitude to Congresswoman Lowey for her efforts on this and many other important food allergy issues.”“We thank Congresswoman Lowey for being such an ally of the celiac community,” said Suzanne Simpson, a nutritionist with the Celiac Disease Center at Columbia University. “It is wonderful news that the FDA has finally set a new standard for gluten-free food labeling, which will give confidence to people who must follow a gluten-free diet that the foods they are consuming really are safe.”“Congresswoman Lowey has made an amazing contribution to awareness of celiac disease and has helped to move this issue forward,” added Cynthia Beckman of the Celiac Disease Center at Columbia University.First introduced by Congresswoman Lowey in 1999 and signed into law by President George W. Bush in 2004, the Food Allergen Labeling and Consumer Protection Act required that the FDA issue standards for the term “gluten-free.” It also required food packaging to clearly list any of the top eight ingredients that cause allergic reactions, including milk, egg, peanuts, tree nuts, fish, Crustacean shellfish, soy, and wheat, as well any food allergens used in spices, natural or artificial flavorings, additives, and colorings. Congresswoman Lowey is also an original cosponsor of the Gluten in Medicine Disclosure Act, which would require medicine and pharmaceutical manufacturers to disclose on the label if a medication contains gluten.###
08.05.2013	Disaster Preparedness in Wake of Sandy is Focus of STEM CampDOBBS FERRY, NY– Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today toured Mercy College’s Step Up to STEM summer camp, an innovative program supporting local low-income high school and college students pursuing degrees in the science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM) fields. The focus of this summer’s program is on disaster preparedness. Click here to view a photo from the event.Students attending the program can work toward certification by the Red Cross in disaster readiness; study how social media can help mitigate the impact of disasters; and learnthe causes of natural disasters, including extreme weather events like Superstorm Sandy.“Mercy College’s innovative STEM programs are helping prepare today’s students for the needs of tomorrow’s workforce. It is a prime example of institutes of higher learning teaming up with the government and private sector to provide students with the toolsto succeed,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “It is especially exciting to see students in our own backyard studying how we can best predict, prepare for, and respond to future disasters like Superstorm Sandy.”“The demand for college graduates educated in STEM skills has remained steady and is projected to increase over the next decade,” said Dr. Concetta M. Stewart, Interim President of Mercy College. “Mercy College is well-positioned to provide a high quality education to academically talented students interested in exciting STEM careers.”The camp is free of charge and open to graduating high school seniors, college freshmen and sophomores, and students pursuing STEM majors, including psychology. The program has been developed by faculty at Mercy College and Borough of Manhattan Community College (BMCC).In 2011, Congresswoman Lowey announced a $788,000 federal grant for Mercy College to support the teaching of STEM programs.###
07.31.2013	Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), the senior Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, today issued the following statement after the House voted 392-31 to pass the Bipartisan Student Loan Certainty Act of 2013, legislation identical to a bipartisan Senate bill passed earlier this month:“The bipartisan vote this evening to make college more affordable was the right thing to do for our students and our nation’s long-term prosperity.“As I heard from college students and educators across the Lower Hudson Valley, hikes in rates for student loans would have cost students, families, and our economy. That is why I, along with many of my Democratic and Republican colleagues, supported this badly-needed legislation. I look forward to seeing the President sign this long-overdue bill into law.“By freezing today’s low rates, providing billions in debt relief in the next decade, and placing a ceiling on rates down the road, this legislation will make a college education more affordable for students across our country.“But while this legislation was both necessary and overdue, there is more Congress must do to help keep college affordable and within reach. We must end the misguided Republican budget policies that fail to invest adequately in federal college aid like Pell Grants. We must also pass legislation so that students can secure loans at the same rates that the Federal Reserve provides to banks. “###
07.29.2013	Funds Will Help with Cost of County’s Emergency Measures to Keep Water and Sewage Treatment Plant Running During SandyPlant Serving Communities Across Westchester Was Flooded And Without PowerWhite Plains, NY– Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), the senior Democrat on the Appropriations Committee, today announced $2,477,959in federal Sandy recovery aid for Westchester County.The funds, which are being provided through the Federal Emergency Management Agency’s (FEMA) Public Assistance program, will reimburse the County for 90% of the emergency measures taken by the Westchester County Department of Environmental Facilities to protect the Yonkers Joint Wastewater Treatment Plant from flooding and power outages during and in the aftermath of Superstorm Sandy.The funds come from the Disaster Relief Appropriations Act, a bipartisan bill passed by Congress in January to help states affected by Sandy. Congresswoman Lowey helped lead the bipartisan effort to pass the full assistance package.“Superstorm Sandy devastated our region, taking lives, devastating homes and businesses, and threatening to cripple our region’s infrastructure, including our supply of safe drinking water. The Yonkers Joint Wastewater Treatment Plant took a direct hit, and Westchester County went to extreme and costly lengths to keep the plant up and running to protect residents’ health,”said Congresswoman Lowey. “This badly-needed aid will help ease the financial burden of the County’s Sandy response and limit the impact to taxpayers.” During Sandy, the plant experienced hurricane-force winds, widespread flooding, and power outages. To protect the health of Westchester residents and continue to provide clean drinking water, the Westchester County Department of Environmental Facilities, which owns and runs the plant, operated temporary generators to keep the plant functioning; drained flooded areas; and undertook other emergency measures, including rewiring, installing bypass systems, and transporting sludge to other sites to prevent a backup of sewage and hazardous waste at the plant.The plant serves the communities of Mount Vernon, New Rochelle, White Plains, Yonkers, Bedford, Greenburgh, Mount Pleasant, Mount Kisco, New Castle, North Castle, Ardsley, Briarcliff Manor, Bronxville, Dobbs Ferry, Elmsford, Hastings, Irvington, Pleasantville, Scarsdale, Sleepy Hollow, Tarrytown, and Tuckahoe.Congresswoman Lowey announced earlier this month that local governments in Westchester and Rockland Counties have received more than $35,000,000 in Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) Public Assistance grants since Sandy struck last year.###
07.26.2013	New Study Finds Antibiotic-Resistant Bacteria in Hudson RiverDespite Clear Need for More Federal Investment in Clean Water Protections, Republican Bill Cuts EPA Budget By One-Third, Slashes Grants for Clean Water By 83%, Clean Drinking Water By 61%Lowey: “Cutting funding for clean water to levels not seen since Ronald Reagan was in the White House will cost families in the Lower Hudson Valley and strip away vital public health protections.”IRVINGTON, NY – With a new study finding high level of bacteria resistant to common antibiotics in the Hudson River, today Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) blasted drastic Republican cuts to vital clean water protections in a press conference on the banks of the Hudson. Standing alongside local environmental experts, advocates, and mayors on the shores of the Hudson River, Congresswoman Lowey said the proposed budget cuts would cost New York State nearly $166 million in federal funding for clean water infrastructure improvements, which could result in higher rates for local residents to finance upgrades to water systems, and fewer health protections.A new study released this month by Queens College, Columbia University, and Hudson Riverkeeper found antibiotic-resistant bacteria in the Hudson River at ten testing sites in the Hudson River, including in the waters near the Tappan Zee Bridge. Researchers found bacteria resistant to ampicillin, a common antibiotic, 84 percent of the time, and bacteria resistant to tetracycline, another common antibiotic, 38 percent of the time.Despite the clear need for more federal investment in clean water protections, under a Republican spending bill approved this week in the Interior and Environment Appropriations Subcommittee, the Environmental Protection Agency would be cut by 34%, or more than $3 billion below this year’s levels. Under the same spending bill, funds for the Clean Water and Safe Drinking Water Revolving Loan program, which are used to repair and upgrade drinking and wastewater infrastructure, are cut by 83% and 61%, respectively.At these funding levels, New York State stands to lose $130 million in federal clean water funding and nearly $36 million in funding for clean drinking water.The American Society of Civil Engineers has estimated that by 2020, there will be a $84 billion funding gap for drinking and wastewater upgrades.“The road to prosperity requires investing in our infrastructure and protecting the public health. The alarming levels of antibiotic-resistant bacteria in the Hudson River are the direct result of insufficient investment in infrastructure and a clear threat to the health of this vital natural resource and local residents,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “Cutting funding for clean water to levels not seen since Ronald Reagan was in the White House will cost families in the Lower Hudson Valley and strip away vital public health protections. We must stop the Republican plan to put Americans’ health and safety at risk and reach a sensible, bipartisan agreement to invest in our future.”"This is not a partisan issue. This is potentially a serious health risk to communities on the Hudson River," said Irvington Mayor Brian C. Smith. "While this is a serious issue, I am certain that it is but one of the many issues that sequestration has unnecessarily thrust on the taxpayers of our nation. I am hopeful that Congresswoman Lowey can be the voice of reason and not only address the issue of antibiotic resistant bacteria being found in our great river, but get the greater dialogue started in Congress to prevent the next unforeseen risk from these budget cuts."“Disease-causing pathogens from sewage, antibiotic-resistant or not, pose a serious public health risk when they get in our waterways due to failures in our aging wastewater infrastructure,” said Tracy Brown, Water Quality Advocate at Riverkeeper. “Twenty-one percent of the samples we have taken in the Hudson since 2006 have failed to meet federal guidelines for safe swimming due to fecal contamination. That is unacceptable. New York State acknowledges that it is behind in infrastructure repairs and maintenance and estimates it will cost $36 billion over the next 20 years to get those systems back up to standard. This is a critical and pressing need in our state and across the country.”"The results from our study confirm a clear linkage between the abundance of antibiotic resistant microbes and the level of untreated sewage in our waterways. This provides one more reason to reduce sewage pollution and to be concerned about the state of our wastewater infrastructure," said Gregory O'Mullan, a co-author of the study who has appointments at Queens College and Columbia University.“While I believe the water quality in our river has improved a great deal, this new study highlights the work we still have ahead of us. The sewer infrastructure in the towns and villages along the Rockland and Westchester shoreline is dated and are in need of critical updating,” said Piermont Mayor Chris Sanders. “To help provide access to a healthy Hudson River, we need the assistance of the federal government in identifying and repairing this aging infrastructure.” ###
07.23.2013	Globally, 57 Million Children Not in SchoolLegislation Would Expand School Access, Close Gender Gap in EducationWASHINGTON, D.C.– Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), the senior Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, today introduced the bipartisan Education For All Act to expand children’s access to school and close the global gender gap in education.The legislation is cosponsored by Congressman Dave Reichert (R-Washington).Worldwide, 57 million primary school-age children – more than half of whom are girls – and 69 million adolescents do not attend school. Tens of millions of school-age children who start primary school drop out, and millions more are denied a secondary education.“With winning hearts and minds more important than ever, promoting primary education is one of the smartest investments we can make in our national security. Basic education is a powerful force against extremism. In addition, countries with higher rates of educated youth are more stable, prosperous and democratic, and are more likely to work with, and not against, the United States,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “Helping expand children’s access to education around the world strengthens our national security and global leadership.”The Education For All Act would:· Ensure a continuum of education services for children in conflict and other emergencies;· Focus on strategies for reaching the most disadvantaged children, including girls who live in poor, remote areas; child laborers; those with disabilities; victims of sex trafficking; and children who are orphaned or otherwise negatively impacted by the HIV/AIDS virus;· Support activities to train teachers, build schools, develop effective curricula, and increase access to school lunch and health programs; and· Call on the President to develop a comprehensive strategy to meet the goal of education for all, which would be coordinated by USAID.###
07.18.2013	Global Democracy Promotion Act Would AllowHealth Care Providers Receiving U.S. Aid to ProvideComprehensive, Fact-Based Health Information to PatientsLowey: Global Gag Rule a “failed policy”WASHINGTON, D.C.– Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), the Ranking Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, today introduced the Global Democracy Promotion Act to permanently repeal the Global Gag Rule, which bans international health care providers that receive U.S. assistance from providing patients the most current, comprehensive, and fact-based information on family planning and reproductive health services.The legislation was introduced with 114 cosponsors.“The Global Gag Rule is a failed policy that works against our goal of reducing unwanted pregnancies around the world. By forcing eligible health care providers to choose between receiving critical U.S. aid or fulfilling their obligations to their patients, it creates a false choice that undermines free speech and leads to more abortions, not fewer,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “The Global Democracy Promotion Act would end the ineffective and counterproductive Global Gag Rule.”The Global Gag Rule bans foreign non-governmental organizations (NGOs) from receiving U.S. aid unless they agree not to use their own funds to perform abortions, promote legalization of abortion, or provide patients referrals or counseling for these reproductive health services. The Obama Administration repealed the Global Gag Rule in 2009, but only Congress has the authority to make the repeal permanent. The State and Foreign Operations Appropriations Act, due to be considered by the House Appropriations Committee next week, will include an extension of the ineffective Global Gag Rule.The Global Democracy Promotion Act would ensure U.S. foreign aid policy promotes freedom of speech around the world. It would prevent foreign NGOs from being forced to sacrifice their right to free speech and their obligation to provide fact-based, comprehensive, and honest medical advice to patients in order to participate in U.S.-supported programs.Permanent repeal of the Global Gag Rule would also create a more predictable policy climate for organizations that provide family planning and reproductive health services in the developing world. Some service providers in poor countries have had their U.S. program funding stopped and then subsequently restored up to four times, leaving clinics, patients, doctors, and communities uncertain about prospects for U.S. support.The Global Democracy Promotion Act has been endorsed by 30 national and international organizations.###
07.17.2013	Law Helping Deliver Fifty Percent Reduction in Health Care Premiums in NYS As House GOP Prepares to Vote for 38th Time to Undermine and Repeal Law’s Patient Protections and ReformsNew Analysis Shows Hundreds of Thousands of People in Rockland and Westchester Counties Benefitting From Affordable Care ActBenefits Include Lower Drug Costs for 91,000 Seniors, Protection for 44,000 Children With Preexisting ConditionsWASHINGTON, D.C.– Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), the senior Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, today announced that a new analysis shows that hundreds of thousands of people in New York’s 17th District are already benefiting from the Affordable Care Act (ACA). Congresswoman Lowey also welcomed the announcement that the ACA is helping reduce health care premiums by fifty percent for New Yorkers obtaining insurance through the individual market. Despite the benefits for millions of Americans, House Republicans are preparing to take their 38th vote to undermine and repeal the protections and reforms of the health care law. “Since the Affordable Care Act was signed into law, thousands of people in Westchester and Rockland Counties have reaped the benefits of critical patient protections and savings. Beginning in January, millions of New Yorkers will gain access to quality, more affordable health care coverage at rates fifty percent less than in last year’s individual market,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “The Affordable Care Act is protecting patients and providing families the health care and economic security they deserve. The Republicans should end their three-year crusade to repeal and obstruct the Affordable Care Act.”Today, New York State Governor Andrew Cuomo announced that state regulators had approved insurance plan rates for the 17 insurers seeking to provide coverage through New York’s Health Benefits Exchange, which was created as a result of ACA. On average, the approved 2014 rates for individual plans on the exchange represent a 53 percent reduction compared to last year’s rates in the individual market.A new analysis prepared by the House Energy and Commerce Committee Minority demonstrates many of the other benefits that ACA has provided the residents of New York’s 17th District, which includes all of Rockland County and northern and central Westchester County. The benefits include:Coverage for 4,800 additional young adults. The health care law requires health insurers to permit parents to retain coverage for their children until their 26th birthday. Because of this provision, 4,800 young adults in the 17th District have already gained health care coverage.Lower drug costs for more than 9,100 seniors. The health care law is providing major savings in drug costs for seniors in the Medicare Part D ‘donut hole.’ Because of this provision, more than 9,100 seniors in the district have received prescription drug discounts worth $14.6 million, an average discount of $750 per person in 2011, $820 in 2012, and $530 so far in 2013.Free preventive Medicare services for 107,000 seniors. Since 2011, the health care law provides free Medicare coverage of preventive services, such as mammograms and colonoscopies. Because of this provision, approximately 107,000 seniors in the district are now eligible for Medicare preventive services without any co-pays, coinsurance or deductible. Free preventive services for 210,000 individuals in private plans. Since September 2010, the health care law also provides, for those enrolled in most private plans, free coverage of preventive services. As a result, 210,000 individuals in private plans – including 49,000 children and 85,000 women – now have health insurance that covers preventive services without any co-pays, coinsurance, or deductible.Savings in premiums for 225,000 individuals.225,000 individuals in the district have saved on their premiums due to ACA provisions that prevent insurers from spending more than 20% of their premiums on profits and administrative overhead. Because of these protections, over 41,000 consumers in the district received approximately $4.8 million in insurance company rebates in 2011 and 2012 – an average rebate of $92 per family in 2012.Protection for up to 44,000 children with pre-existing conditions. Since September 2010, the health care law has prohibited insurers from denying coverage to children for having a pre-existing health condition. Because of this provision, up to 44,000 children with pre-existing conditions in the district are being protected from denial of coverage. Elimination of lifetime limits on coverage for 258,000 individuals. Since September 2010, the health care law has prohibited insurers from placing a lifetime limit on coverage. As a result, 258,000 individuals in the district no longer have a lifetime limit imposed on their coverage, and beginning in 2014, will not face an annual limit on coverage.Access to quality, affordable coverage for 82,000 uninsured individuals. Beginning in 2014, under the health care law millions of uninsured Americans will gain access to quality, affordable health coverage, through the new Marketplaces and the expansion of Medicaid. In New York’s 17th District, 82,000 individuals who lack health insurance will have access to quality, affordable coverage without fear of discrimination or higher rates because of a preexisting health condition. ###
07.17.2013	Federal Government Lacks Authority to Block Firearm Sales to Terror SuspectsFrom 2004-2010, Suspected Terrorists Tried to Purchase Guns and Explosives 1,453 Times; 91% of Those Attempts Were SuccessfulAmendment Voted Down in Largely Partisan VoteWASHINGTON, D.C.– Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), the senior Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, and Congressman David Price (D-North Carolina), the Ranking Member on the Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee, today offered an amendment to the Commerce, Justice, Science (CJS) Appropriations bill to close a glaring hole in the nation’s gun safety laws by giving authority to the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) to block suspected terrorists from purchasing firearms and explosives. While convicted felons, domestic abusers, and the seriously mentally ill are prohibited from buying or owning firearms, there is currently no law preventing suspected terrorists from legally purchasing firearms. A recent Government accountability Office report found that between February 2004 and February 2010, suspected terrorists tried to purchase guns and explosives 1,453 times. Ninety-one percent of those attempts were successful. “Americans expect our government to keep guns out of the hands of felons, domestic abusers, the mentally ill, and terrorists,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “A suspected terrorist cannot board a plane but can pass a background check to buy a gun. It is absurd that my Republican colleagues opposed our amendment to close this dangerous gap in our gun safety laws.”“Following the tragedies in Boston, Fort Hood, and Little Rock, it is incomprehensible that we would continue denying law enforcement officials the ability to block the sale of a firearm to suspected terrorists,” Rep. Price said. “This isn’t just an idle concern—individuals are seeking to exploit this gaping loophole with the intent to harm our country.”The amendment offered by Congresswoman Lowey and Congressman Price would provide authority to the Attorney General to stop sales of firearms and explosives when there is reason to believe the buyer is engaged in, preparing for, or related to acts of terrorism. Once the DOJ has made that determination, the terror suspect would be unable to pass a criminal background check and thus unable to purchase guns or explosives from federally licensed dealers.The amendment was voted down 29-19, with the Republicans on the committee opposing it.###
07.16.2013	Grant Will Support Loan Fund That Makes Graduate School in Nursing Education More Affordable and Increases Number of Nurse EducatorsDOBBS FERRY, NY – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), the senior Democrat on the Appropriations Committee, today announced a $247,719 U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) grant for Mercy College to help address the nation’s nursing shortage by providing a loan forgiveness program for students who go on to teach nursing. The grant is being provided through the Nurse Faculty Loan Program, which aims to increase the number of qualified nursing faculty at the nation’s colleges and universities so that the U.S. can educate the number of students needed to address the nation’s nursing shortage.A 2012 Bureau of Labor Statistics report stated that Registered Nursing is one of the leading occupations that will add the most jobs by 2020. With this grant award, Mercy College will make loans to help registered nurses who are completing their graduate education to become qualified nurse faculty. Loan recipients who go on to become full-time faculty at an accredited school of nursing may cancel 85 percent of the loan over four years. “Every day, nearly three million nurses work on the frontlines of our nation’s healthcare system. In order to meet growing demand, we need to increase the number of young people who become nurses. We can only do that if we have the educators to train them,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “Mercy College will utilize these funds to train the next generation of nurses and nurse educators right here in the Lower Hudson Valley.”“Mercy College is extremely pleased to be awarded these funds to support our graduate nursing education students,” said Concetta M. Stewart, Ph.D., Interim President of Mercy College. “This financial support from the Nurse Faculty Loan Program helps increase the number of nurse educators who wish to pursue faculty positions, addresses the nursing shortage, locally and nationally, and helps meet the need to increase access to health care by developing and retaining a diverse, culturally competent health workforce.”###
07.15.2013	$2.4 Million in U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs Funding Will Support Local Service ProvidersMore Than 62,000 Veterans Homeless Each NightElmsford, NY – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (NY-17), Congressman Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) and Congressman Eliot Engel (NY-16) today announced a $2.4 million investment from the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) to prevent at-risk veterans from becoming homeless and to rapidly re-house those who have recently fallen into homelessness throughout the Hudson Valley.The $1.89 million investment in the Westchester Community Opportunity Program (WestCOP) will serve 450 families and a $500,000 investment in the Hudson River Housing program will serve 250 families through the Supportive Services for Veteran Families (SSVF) Program. The SSVF Program provides a range of services that promote housing stability and play a key role in connecting veterans and their family members to VA services such as mental health care and other benefits.“The sad reality is that homelessness plagues far too many of our nation’s veterans and their families,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “With these badly-needed funds, fewer of our veterans in the Lower Hudson Valley will be without a roof over their head. We must continue our work to ensure that, one day, no one who bravely wore the uniform ever finds themselves or their family living on the streets. They deserve better.”“It is both tragic and shameful that tens of thousands of veterans are homeless on any given night - this investment is a step in the right direction for the veterans in our community who deserve better from the country that they fought so hard to defend,” said Rep. Sean Patrick Maloney. “Our work will continue so long as even one veteran falls asleep on our streets.”“I am glad to hear that the federal government is working together with our local groups to assist our homeless and at-risk veterans and their families,” said John Hussey, Colonel in the US Army Reserve and Chair of Rep. Maloney’s Veterans Advisory Board. “It is a step in the right direction for all our American heroes, particularly those who have served multiple combat tours since 9-11, and those who have served in combat to preserve the freedoms we as a nation so cherish.”Rep. Eliot Engel said, "The plight of our homeless veterans is a national tragedy. These men and women have sacrificed for our country, and every night more than 60,000 veterans are homeless in the United States. These grants are important in our correcting this unconscionable situation. They have served our nation to protect our freedoms and liberty, and it is shameful to forget them. We must keep our promise to now protect them. We owe them nothing less.""We at WestCOP are excited to receive this opportunity to expand our existing services to Veterans and their families. Since 2011, we have operated a Supportive Services for Veterans and their families program working throughout seven counties (Westchester, Putnam, Dutchess, Rockland, Orange, Ulster & Sullivan) of the Hudson Valley to end veterans homelessness. Our agency is dedicated to “Helping People & Changing Lives” and we will pursue doing just that with 450 veterans and their families in the 2013 – 2014 program cycle,” said Kiron Dawkins, Regional Director of WestCOP.The U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) estimates that 62,619 veterans are homeless on any given night in the United States. Although 7% of the general population can claim veteran status, nearly 13% of the homeless adult population are veterans. ###
07.08.2013	Support Personnel at Camp Smith Beginning 11 Days of Furloughs Due to Across-the-Board Budget Cuts; Furloughed Workers’ Pay Cut $2,700National Guard at Camp Smith Helped With Superstorm Sandy ResponseFurloughs to Cost State’s Economy $33 Million in Lost Wages; National Impact Expected Be More Than $2 BillionLowey: “This is the sad reality of the reckless sequester: a less prepared military and a slower economy.” Cortlandt Manor, NY- Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) slammed furloughs that started today for Department of Defense civilian employees at Camp Smith, a New York Army National Guard facility, and at military installations across the United States due to the current across-the-board federal budget cuts known as sequestration. Joined by a civilian employee who is being furloughed, and union representatives for West Point and Camp Smith employees, Congresswoman Lowey cited the furloughs as the latest example of the damage inflicted on the military, families, and the economy by the sequester cuts. Congresswoman Lowey was joined at the front gates of Camp Smith by local Department of Defense civilian employees and union representatives who outlined the impact of the furloughs on workers and their families. Standing with Congresswoman Lowey to slam the sequester furloughs were: Don Hale, an employee at the West Point Department of Public Works and President of AFGE Conference of DoD Locals; Wesley Middleton, the New York State Representative for Association of Civilian Technicians; and Frank D’Battiste, the Camp Smith Representative for Association of Civilian Technicians.Beginning on Monday, July 8th, 48 support personnel in the civilian workforce at Camp Smith will be furloughed for a total of 11 days between now and September 30th, the end of the federal government’s fiscal year. The pay for each furloughed worker will be cut by more than $2,700, or 20 percent, over the next 12 weeks as a result of the sequester cuts.“On July 4th, Americans celebrated our independence. Four days later, we are cutting the pay and time on the job of the people who support the men and women who defend our freedom,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “This is the sad reality of the reckless sequester: a less prepared military and a slower economy. With the sequester already causing cuts to critical services like Head Start and medical research, the furlough of civilian employees at our military installations is just the latest example of how these across-the-board budget cuts hurt the Lower Hudson Valley. Congress must reach an agreement to replace this mindless policy with a sensible and balanced approach that reins in long-term deficits while protecting our economy and critical services.” The furloughs will directly impact operations and productivity. National Guard units stationed at Camp Smith had assisted with emergency response efforts in the wake of Superstorm Sandy. Now, mechanics, electricians, computer technicians, and weapons technicians will be forced to scale back important upgrades and maintenance to vehicles, weaponry, and computer systems.Statewide, more than 10,000 Department of Defense employees at New York’s military installations are expected to be furloughed. Experts predict this will cost the state’s economy approximately $33 million.Nationally, more than 618,000 Department of Defense employees will be furloughed at a cost of more than $2 billion to the U.S. economy.The across-the-board cuts known as sequestration, which went into effect on March 1 after Congress failed to act, require defense spending to be reduced by approximately 7.9% and non-defense spending by approximately 5.3%. ###
07.02.2013	Bipartisan Assistance Package Passed By Congress in January Essential to Helping Local Communities Recover and RebuildLowey Continuing to Push for Additional Funding for Infrastructure Improvements That Would Make Region More Resilient Against Future StormsPiermont, N.Y.– Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today announced that local governments in Westchester and Rockland Counties have received $35,338,879 in Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) Public Assistance grants to help with the cost of their response to Sandy.Communities in Rockland have received $8,927,889 in FEMA Public Assistance grants. Communities in Westchester County have received $26,410,990. Local governments continue to apply for funding, and additional grants are expected in the coming months.FEMA’s Public Assistance program reimburses state, tribal and local governments for the cost of emergency responses. Many of the funds awarded through the Public Assistance program come from the Disaster Relief Fund, which was increased through the Disaster Relief Appropriations Act, a bipartisan bill passed by Congress in January to help states affected by Sandy. Congresswoman Lowey, the senior Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, helped lead the bipartisan effort to pass the full assistance package.Congresswoman Lowey had also called for FEMA to increase its reimbursement to local communities through the Public Assistance program from 75% to 90%, expanding the overall amount of aid available. President Obama approved the plan in May to apply retroactively, so that all eligible communities, including those who had already received aid, are reimbursed for 90% of their costs through the program.“One of the most important roles of our federal government is to help communities get back on their feet in the wake of a devastating natural disaster like Superstorm Sandy,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “This badly-needed FEMA aid has been critical in helping our region rebuild and recover. Because the cost of responding to Sandy placed tremendous burdens on local governments, this aid has also helped protect local taxpayers.”“Only days after the storm, Representative Lowey stood with us in Piermont amongst the debris and vowed to help get our Village and our businesses back on their feet,”said Piermont Mayor Chris Sanders. “We have received almost $200,000 in relief to cover the initial clean-up effort and are pleased that we’ll receive additional funding for this work. We are also looking forward to the much-needed mitigation funding to help pay for projects that will protect Piermont from the damage from future storms. After eight months since the storm, our collective focus turns to rebuilding Piermont better, stronger and smarter.”“Irvington's waterfront, including our beautiful parks, was severely impacted by Superstorm Sandy. Congresswoman Lowey came to view the damage herself within an hour of my call to her office,” said Village of Irvington Mayor Brian Smith. “We appreciate her unwavering support and advocacy with FEMA and other federal agencies. As we move from recovery to mitigating future disasters, it is comforting to know we have supporter on the federal level with Congresswoman Lowey.”“The Town of Orangetown is extremely grateful to Congresswoman Nita Lowey for receiving more than $1.2m in FEMA funding reimbursement for debris removal and emergency measures in preparation for Hurricane Sandy. According to FEMA, Orangetown was the first municipality in Rockland County to be approved for payment and received funding in record breaking time,” said Orangetown Supervisor Andy Stewart. “Through the diligent efforts of various Town departments to quickly provide detailed audited expenses to FEMA, the Town was able to minimize the costs associated with unanticipated expenses from the storm.”"I'm grateful to Congresswoman Lowey and to FEMA for providing the Public Assistance money, which is sorely needed in Piermont. The damage here was significant. Businesses suffered and some still haven't recovered,” said Assemblywomen Ellen Jaffee (District 37). “Residents and businesses will be better protected next time, thanks to Congresswoman Lowey. Given the frequency of extreme weather events, we know there will be a next time.""The support Harrison has received through FEMA's Public Assistance grant program has been essential as we have recovered from Sandy, and I am grateful for Congresswoman Lowey's support and advocacy,” said Harrison Mayor Ron Belmont. “These funds will help ensure that local taxpayers do not pay a price for the costs associated with Harrison’s response to Sandy. I hope that we can have access to further assistance to mitigate the threat of future storms. "“Without Congresswoman Lowey’s help and assistance, we would not have been able to make the necessary repairs,” said Haverstraw Supervisor Howard Philips. “Her leadership is invaluable.”"The City of White Plains is fortunate to have an effective and astute representative in Washington in Congresswoman Lowey. She has assisted us in securing over $1.7 million from FEMA to help the City recover from Superstorm Sandy,” said White Plains Mayor Tom Roach. “This includes reimbursement for City police, fire, public works, and sewer and water expenses incurred directly as a result of the storm."Lowey also highlighted her push to secure additional aid for affected communities and infrastructure improvements to help mitigate the impact of future disasters. This includes advocating that communities in Westchester and Rockland Counties receive their fair share of disaster recovery assistance funds through the Department of Housing and Urban Development.Congresswoman Lowey is also advocating for $3.5 billion in funding for infrastructure improvements to public transit available through the Department of Transportation to be based on demonstrated needs on the ground.“While much progress has been made, the recovery for many Lower Hudson Valley homeowners and businesses continues. That is why I will continue to fight for additional aid for local communities,” added Congresswoman Lowey. “We must also continue to invest in our infrastructure so that our region is better prepared for future disasters.”###
06.26.2013	Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) released the following statement today after the United States Supreme Court ruled Section 3 of the Defense of Marriage Act unconstitutional:“Today, the United States Supreme Court upheld one of the bedrock principles of our country: equal treatment under the law. “This is an exciting day for all of us who believe in equality and justice. Millions of Americans will no longer feel as though our federal government does not value their bond, their commitment, or their family. They and their children will now receive the security and benefits every American deserves.“While today’s decision is an important and historic victory, the fight for true equality will continue until all men and women have equal protection and are free to marry whomever they love, regardless of what state they call home.”###
06.25.2013	Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) released the following statement today after the Supreme Court issued its decision in Shelby County v. Holder that invalidates Section 4 of the Voting Rights Act:“For decades, the Voting Rights Act has helped protect one of the most fundamental privileges of being an American citizen: the right to vote. It addresses critical challenges involving voter identification, redistricting, and early voting to prevent discrimination of minority voters in New York and across our country.“The Supreme Court’s ruling today weakening the Voting Rights Act hurts the cause of equality and the vitality of our democracy. It is a disappointing step backwards.“Fortunately, Congress has the power and authority to strengthen the Civil Rights Act. This is what Republicans and Democrats did together in 2006, and we must come together to do so again.”###
06.24.2013	For First Summer Ever, Sunscreen Bottles Must Say If Product Protects Against Both Cancer-Causing UVA Rays and Sunburn-Causing UVB RaysNew Requirements Follow Legislation Authored by Lowey in 2007Skin Cancer Most Common Form of Cancer in U.S.Harrison, N.Y. – Joined by medical experts and consumer advocates, Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today hailed new regulations requiring sunscreen manufacturers to disclose whether their products protect against UVA radiation, which contributes to skin cancer and premature aging. The new consumer protection laws, which went into effect in December 2012, are the result of legislation authored by Congresswoman Lowey in 2007.Previously, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) required sunscreen labels only to provide information on protection against UVB radiation, the type of ultraviolet rays that cause sunburn. These SPF ratings failed to indicate a product’s ability to protect against UVA radiation, which can cause skin cancer. The FDA also did not have standards for UVA protection.“For too long, consumers have not had the information they needed to protect themselves and their families from the dangers of the sun,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “These new regulations ensure that families in the Lower Hudson Valley and across the country can make more informed decisions about the sunscreen products they use. I urge consumers to look for the phrase “broad spectrum” with a high level of SPF when they shop for sunscreen to ensure they have adequate protection.”“Most consumers know that sunscreens help protect them for the sun's damaging rays. But up until now, they haven't had the information that allowed them to make intelligent choices,” said Dr. Andy Bronin, dermatologist in private practice in Rye Brook and Associate Clinical Professor of Dermatology at the Yale School of Medicine. "With these new federal regulations mandating clear and honest labeling for sunscreens, consumers will now be able to tell which sunscreens give them broad-spectrum protection, which are water-resistant (none are 'waterproof'), and how long to expect a sunscreen's protection to last. This is the sort of ‘truth-in-labeling’ that we have come to expect in foods, medication and other products, and dermatologists and all physicians are gratified that it will now be found in sunscreens. Armed with this information, our patients will better be able to practice 'safe sun.'""With FDA's new labeling rules, consumers can now protect themselves against both UVA and UVB rays, by using sunscreen products that are labeled ‘Broad Spectrum’,” said Jean Halloran, product safety expert at Consumers Union, an advocacy organization affiliated with Consumer Reports. “We urge consumers to use only Broad Spectrum products with an SPF of 40 or more."In August 2007, Lowey introduced the “Sunscreen Consumer Right to Know Act” to require the FDA to issue sunscreen standards that protect against both skin cancer and sunburn causing rays and to implement a public awareness campaign on the dangers of over-exposure to the sun and ways to protect oneself.In response Congresswoman Lowey’s legislation, FDA issued draft regulations to require sunscreen manufacturers to disclose the protection their products offer not just against sunburn-causing UVB rays, but against skin cancer-causing UVA rays. Lowey also successfully included requirements to finalize the regulations in the 2012 Agriculture Appropriations Act.The regulations were finalized on June 15, 2011, and manufacturers were given 12 months to comply. In June 2012, the FDA announced a six-month delay, denying consumers this important information for yet another summer. Congresswoman Lowey protested the delay in finalizing the regulations.“I am glad that the foot dragging is over,” added Congresswoman Lowey, “and consumers now have the information they need to best protect their families.”While largely preventable, skin cancer is the most common form of cancer in the country. More than one million people in the United States are diagnosed with skin cancer each year.###
06.19.2013	Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) issued the following statement regarding passage this evening of H.R. 1797, a radical Republican bill that attacks women’s rights:The legislation my Republican colleagues supported this evening is radically anti-choice and just another in a long line of efforts to chip away at women’s Constitutional right to make their own health care decisions. It is disappointing that instead of working across the aisle to create jobs and enact a responsible budget, House Republicans are, once again, attacking the rights and health of America’s women.This bill disregards Roe v. Wade and seeks to roll back the clock on women’s rights. It would shame the victims of rape by requiring them to file police reports in order to preserve their constitutionally-protected right to reproductive choice, prevent adult victims of incest from accessing medical services, and put compassionate doctors who help victims of rape and incest under the threat of prosecution.Reducing women’s access to safe and legal reproductive healthcare is sure to drive more women into unsafe underground clinics and towards predatory service providers. This attempt to restrict choice would not prevent the horrors we have heard about in the trial of Kermit Gosnell from being repeated – it would actually increase their likelihood.Mr. Franks and others in the Republican caucus have consistently shown their ignorance about female anatomy, the biology of conception, and the constellation of circumstances involved in a woman’s decision about whether to carry a pregnancy to term. This ignorance is not a crime. But it should disqualify them from being taken seriously on the subject, much less legislating on it. ###
06.18.2013	Lowey to Introduce Small Business Credit Card Act to Extend Current Protections for Individual Consumers to Small Businesses31 Percent of Small Businesses Rely on Credit Cards to Finance Their Companies, With Many Carrying a BalanceWashington, D.C. – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), joined by small business owners from the Lower Hudson Valley and national small business advocates, today called on Congress to protect small business from unfair and deceptive practices by credit card companies. Congresswoman Lowey, the senior Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, announced she will introduce the Small Business Credit Card Act, which would extend current consumer protections for individuals to business with 50 or fewer employees.This week marks the 50th annual National Small Business Week.While 31 percent of small businesses rely on credit cards to finance their operations, small business credit cards are currently exempt from consumer protections provided under legislation passed in 2010. A recent survey of small business owners found that nearly one in two have experienced a deterioration of credit card terms, including increased interest rates, fees, and payment procedures.“For many small businesses in New York and around the country, credit cards help keep the doors open and the company running. These businesses are the cornerstone of our economy, and we must do all we can to help them grow and hire more Americans,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “That’s why the same critical laws that protect individual consumers should also protect our small businesses. We need our small business owners to spend more time growing their businesses and less time worrying about the fine print.”“The National Small Business Association is pleased to support the Small Business Credit Card Act of 2013, which would extend the protections previously codified by the U.S. Congress to the credit cards used by America’s small business owners,” said Todd McCracken, President of the National Small Business Association, in a letter supporting Congresswoman Lowey’s proposed legislation. “America’s economy is dependent on a thriving small business community and small business owners increasingly are reliant on credit cards, which are one of the most common sources of financing for America’s entrepreneurs.”The Credit Card Accountability, Responsibility and Disclosure (CARD) Act, which was passed by Congress in 2010, protects individual consumers from a range of unfair and deceptive practices used by credit card companies to increase fees. Congresswoman Lowey will introduce the Small Business Credit Card Act this week to extend those same protections to business with 50 or fewer employees. The legislation would:· Require credit card companies to notify small business before raising interest rates;· Prohibit an interest rate increase in the first year of the account;· Eliminate unnecessary fees and interest charged on debts paid on time;· End so-called late fee “traps” such as weekend deadlines, changing due dates, and fees for payments over the phone or online; and· Apply payments to the balance with the higher interest rate. ###
06.17.2013	Grant Will Support 20 AmeriCorps Members Who Will Tutor At-Risk Children, Help Families Find Housing and JobsWashington, D.C. – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), the senior Democrat on the Appropriations Committee, today announced that Westhab, a nonprofit provider of affordable housing and supportive services in Westchester County, will receive a $121,917 AmeriCorps grant from the Corporation for National and Community Service. The grant will support 20 AmeriCorps members who will provide educational services to homeless and at-risk children in Westchester County and the Bronx. They will also assist families in securing permanent housing and new jobs.“Westhab has long provided critical services that help meet the needs of families and children throughout Westchester County. This AmeriCorps grant will allow Westhab to broaden its reach in our community at a time when families are struggling,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “I congratulate Westhab for receiving this grant and thank all those who have answered the call to service by joining AmeriCorps.”“Westhab is pleased to partner, once again, with the Corporation for National & Community Service. AmeriCorps members will provide critically needed tutoring, housing counseling, and job development services to improve the lives of the most vulnerable residents in New York,” said Bob Miller, Executive Director of Westhab.In addition to the grand award, CNCS is setting aside funding to pay for Segal AmeriCorps Education Awards for individuals who will serve in positions funded by these grants. After completing a full term of service, AmeriCorps members receive education awards of $5,550 to pay for college or student loans.AmeriCorps grants support organizations that sponsor service programs to meet pressing needs in local communities. Its members serve through thousands of nonprofit and faith-based organizations in rural and urban communities throughout the nation. This year, competitive grants have been awarded across the nation to support programs focusing on education, veterans and military families, economic opportunity, health, environmental stewardship, and disaster service.Since 1994, more than 775,000 Americans have provided more than 1 billion hours of service to their communities and country through AmeriCorps. Among other accomplishments, AmeriCorps members last year mobilized 3.4 million community volunteers, and tutored, mentored or served more than 3.5 million disadvantaged youth. ###
06.14.2013	Amendment Requires Nation’s Military Academies to Incorporate Sexual Assault Prevention Training Into Ethics Curriculum, Ensure Cadets and Midshipmen Receive Training Within 60 Days of Entering Academies80 Reported Cases of Sexual Assault at Military Academies in 2011-2012, a 23% Increase From Previous YearLowey: “Sexual assault in the military is systemic and corrosive. We must take steps to change the culture and end the violence, shame, and silence.”Washington, D.C.– Bipartisan legislation passed today by the House of Representatives included an amendment authored by Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) that would help prevent sexual assault at the nation’s military academies by requiring them to incorporate sexual assault training into their ethics curricula and ensure that new cadets and midshipmen receive the training within 60 days of entering the academy. Click here to watch a video of the Congresswoman urging support of her amendment on the House floor earlier today.There were 80 reported cases of sexual assault in the nation’s military academies in the 2011-2012 school year, a 23% increase from the previous year. In addition, many sexual assaults likely go unreported out of fear of retribution.“Sexual assault in the armed services and at our military academies is systemic and corrosive. We must end the violence, shame, and silence,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “We must also change the culture that has allowed these crimes to take place. My amendment, which steps up the sexual assault prevention training our cadets and midshipmen receive and ensures they receive it sooner, is an important step in addressing sexual assault at our military academies. But there is no doubt we have a long way to go.”While the military academies currently provide sexual assault training, Congresswoman Lowey’s amendment requires ethics curricula to include information on the history of sexual assault in the military, definition of a sexual assault, reporting procedures for an assault, victims’ rights, and dismissal and dishonorable discharge for offenders. The provision also requires that this training be provided within 60 days after new cadets and midshipmen enter the academy and repeated in annual ethics training requirements. The amendment was among several other provisions that address the prevalence of sexual assault in the military in the FY 2014 National Defense Authorization Act, passed earlier today.The Department of Defense estimates there were more than 26,000 instances of sexual assault in the military in 2012. Women now comprise more than 14% of the country’s active-duty soldiers, the fastest-growing subpopulation in the U.S. military.Bipartisan legislation passed earlier this month also included several provisions authored by Congresswoman Lowey aimed at supporting female veterans. The 2014 Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations Act included Congresswoman Lowey’s provisions to help veterans who are victims of military sexual assault gain access to mental health treatment and calls on the Department of Veterans Affairs to study whether female veterans, including victims of sexual assault, have access to adequate medical facilities. Click here for more information on the legislation.Congresswoman Lowey cosponsored legislation that would remove the decision-making for sexual assault cases from the military chain of command and prevent commanders from dismissing a court-martial conviction or lessening an adjudicated sentence. She has also cosponsored legislation that would require convicted offenders to be dismissed from service and extend protections to those serving in the Coast Guard, who are not currently protected.###
06.07.2013	Bipartisan Legislation Passed This Week Includes Lowey’s Provisions to Help Vets Who Were Sexually Assaulted Access Mental Health Treatment and Have Adequate Medical FacilitiesLowey Also Pushed For Provision Providing Funding For R&D Into Prosthetics for Female VeteransLowey: “We must care for our nation’s women who have answered the call to serve.”Valhalla, NY – At an event today honoring female veterans, Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) called sexual assault in the United States military an “epidemic that must end” and discussed her successful push for bipartisan legislation passed by the House on Tuesday to include additional funding for services for female veterans, including victims of sexual assault.Speaking at a “Stand Up For Women Veterans” event at Westchester Community College, Congresswoman Lowey, the senior Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, discussed the 2014 Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations Act, which was passed Tuesday by the House on a bipartisan vote. The legislation includes Congresswoman Lowey’s provisions to help veterans who are victims of military sexual assault gain access to mental health treatment and calls on the Department of Veterans Affairs to study whether female veterans, including victims of sexual assault, have access to adequate medical facilities.Lowey also successfully pushed for a provision that provides funding for research into prosthetics uniquely designed for female veterans.“We must care for our nation’s women who have answered the call to serve,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “With more and more women now serving in our armed forces and returning from service to civilian life, we must take immediate steps to address their unique needs and challenges.”The Department of Defense estimates that there were more than 26,000 instances of sexual assault in the military in 2012. Congresswoman Lowey has cosponsored legislation that would remove the decision-making for sexual assault cases from the military chain of command and prevent the military from dismissing a court-martial conviction or lessening an adjudicated sentence. She has also cosponsored legislation that would require convicted offenders to be dismissed from service and extend protections to those serving in the Coast Guard, who are not currently protected.“Sexual assault in our military is a stain on our nation. It is an epidemic that must end,” said Congresswoman Lowey.Women now comprise more than 14% of the country’s active-duty soldiers, the fastest-growing subpopulation in the U.S. military. Women are enrolling for health care from the VA at record levels, including 80,000 who served in Iraq and Afghanistan. The number of female veterans is expected to increase dramatically in the coming years.Lowey also praised the legislation for requiring the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) to take tangible steps to eliminate the shameful disability claims backlog and develop an integrated health records system with the Department of Defense. The bill provides funding for the VA to hire additional claims processors to process benefit claims.Congresswoman Lowey is a member of the newly-formed Veterans Jobs Caucus, a bipartisan group committed to helping address joblessness among the country’s former service members. In addition, she supported the largest increase in funding for veterans in history, and co-sponsored and voted for the expansion of the G.I. Bill to help more troops afford a college education when they return home. She was also an early supporter of the Wounded Warriors Assistance Project, which was subsequently signed into law. Lowey has cosponsored legislation to allow those entitled to the Survivor Benefit Plan to receive full Survivor benefits as well as allowing the receipt of both military retired pay and veterans' disability compensation for any service-connected disability.###
06.03.2013	Funds Will Help Reimburse Village of Rye Brook For Cost of Debris Removal And Cleanup In Wake of Superstorm SandyWhite Plains, NY – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), the senior Democrat on the Appropriations Committee, today announced a $323,028Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) grant for the Village of Rye Brook. The grant will help reimburse the Village of Rye Brook for the costs of debris removal and cleanup after Superstorm Sandy.The grant is provided through FEMA’s Public Assistance program, which reimburses state, tribal and local governments for the cost of emergency responses. The funds come from the Disaster Relief Appropriations Act, a bipartisan bill passed by Congress in January to help states affected by Sandy. Congresswoman Lowey helped lead the bipartisan effort to pass the full assistance package.“Responding to the devastation caused by Superstorm Sandy placed tremendous financial burdens on local governments. Along with helping homeowners and businesses get back on their feet, federal recovery aid has also helped address the serious financial cost of Sandy response and cleanup for local governments in the Lower Hudson Valley,”said Congresswoman Lowey. “That’s why it is such welcome news that Rye Brook will receive this badly-needed federal support.”"The Village of Rye Brook appreciates the support received from FEMA and our federal representatives in approving reimbursement of funds incurred as a result Hurricane Sandy. This disaster had a significant impact on the Rye Brook community, and these funds will go a long way to offset the financial impact of this terrible storm,” said Village of Rye Brook Mayor Paul S. Rosenberg. “As always, we appreciate Congresswoman Lowey’s efforts in helping Rye Brook receive these funds.”###
05.31.2013	Lowey Voted Against Republican Bill That Could Force Students Into Loans With Higher Interest Rates & Increase Student Debt by $3.7 BillionLowey: “We need legislation that makes college more affordable, not legislation that increases student loan debt.”Rockland County, N.Y. – At a roundtable today with students and officials from Rockland Community College, Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) urged Congress to act to prevent student loan rates from doubling on July 1. Congresswoman Lowey also discussed her vote against Republican legislation that could force students into loans with higher interest rates and increase student debt in the United States by $3.7 billion.Unless the House and Senate agree to legislation in the next 30 days, interest rates on Stafford loans, the most popular type of federal student loans, will increase from 3.4% to 6.8% for students who apply for aid for the 2013-2014 school year. More than 20,000 college students in New York’s 17th District currently rely on federal Stafford loans.“Students and families deserve better than a bill that could force them to pay higher interest rates than they would if Congress simply did nothing and interest rates doubled,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “With total student debt currently at $1.1 trillion, we need legislation that keeps loans affordable, not legislation that increases student loan debt. We are running out of time to prevent these increases that would make college more expensive.”Last week, House Republicans passed H.R. 1911, under which student loan interest rates would change year-to-year by calculating the 10-year Treasury note interest rate average plus an additional 2.5%. Because the current 10-year Treasury note rate is approximately 2.13%, new loans would increase to 4.63% based on this calculation, well above the current 3.4%. According to the Congressional Budget Office, the bill would increase interest rates by $3.7 billion over the next decade. Under the GOP bill, students who borrow the maximum amount of subsidized and unsubsidized Stafford loans over five years could pay nearly $2,000 more in interest costs than if interest rates doubled to 6.8% on July 1. Congresswoman Lowey opposed the legislation because she believes we must maintain -- or even lower -- the current interest rate for student loans.Congresswoman Lowey has cosponsored two pieces of legislation that would prevent interest rates on federal student loans from rising. One bill would lock in place the current interest rate of 3.4% on subsidized Stafford loans for the next two years. Lowey has also cosponsored legislation that would allow students to obtain federal loans at the same rates the Federal Reserve provides to banks, which can be as low as 0.75%.As the senior Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, Congresswoman Lowey has fought to increase the maximum Pell Grant award. A total of 21,108 students at colleges and universities in Westchester and Rockland annually receive Pell grants worth up to $5,500.###
05.29.2013	Sandy Help Centers in Ossining and Irvington This Week To Help Homeowners And Small Businesses Apply For Federal Recovery AidLowey Announced Last Week That FEMA Will Pay Higher Share of Recovery Costs For State, Local CommunitiesWhite Plains, N.Y.– Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today launched one of two Sandy Help Centers deployed to Westchester County for two days this week to help homeowners and businesses apply for federal recovery aid. At the Sandy Help Center in Ossining, Lowey spoke with local residents about their recovery from Superstorm Sandy. Congresswoman Lowey was joined at the launch by Ossining Town Supervisor Susanne Donnelly, Ossining Village Mayor Bill Hanauer, and Tom Morley of the New York State Small Business Development Center.Congresswoman Lowey’s visit to the Sandy Help Center comes after she announced last week that the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) will pay a higher share of the costs incurred by New York State and local communities in their response to Sandy.“Superstorm Sandy devastated businesses and homes in Westchester County. In Sandy’s wake, federal support has been essential in helping communities get back on their feet,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “I am pleased that Westchester residents will be able to receive direct assistance in their own communities this week as they continue to rebuild and recover.”“While so many of our neighbors are still struggling to return to normalcy following Superstorm Sandy, any resources we can provide to make that transition easier is a positive step. We’re confident that the information and assistance available at both Sandy Help Centers will get our homeowners and small businesses on the path to being made whole and re-establishing their routines once again,” said Ossining Town Supervisor Susanne Donnelly.“We greatly appreciate this additional layer of federal assistance as the Village of Ossining continues to recover from Superstorm Sandy, and we thank Congresswoman Lowey for her continued advocacy for the interests of our residents and merchants. We are happy to host the Sandy Help Team in Ossining and hope that they will provide the invaluable assistance our residents and businesses so badly need,” said Ossining Village Mayor Bill Hanauer."We want to ensure we provide whatever help we can to those still struggling to recover from Sandy. I would like to thank Congresswoman Lowey for her unwavering support of the victims of Sandy. From day one, Congresswoman Lowey pledged her assistance to those suffering and has not forgotten our village and the destruction we suffered in our waterfront business district,” said Brian Smith, Mayor of the Village of Irvington.The two Sandy Help Centers will be open in Westchester County today and Thursday, May 30th from 11 a.m. to 7 p.m. to help homeowners and business owners affected by Superstorm Sandy apply for recovery aid. They are located in Ossining’s Municipal Building located at 16 Croton Avenue and in Irvington’s Village Hall at 85 Main Street. Homeowners and small businesses are eligible to apply for home repairs, elevations, buyouts, mitigation assistance, and small business assistance. Congresswoman Lowey, the top Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, was instrumental in passing the $60 billion package in federal funds to provide this aid to local residents and to help communities throughout the region recover from Sandy. On Thursday, Congresswoman Lowey announced that President Obama has approved a 90% reimbursement level for Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) Public Assistance funds to reimburse local communities for costs associated with the response to Superstorm Sandy. Up to this point, local governments had been eligible for only 75% of costs under FEMA’s Public Assistance program. Congresswoman Lowey had urged the President and FEMA Administrator Craig Fugate to increase the FEMA reimbursement levels to 90%.For more information on applying for federal aid, interested residents should visit https://nysandyhelp.ny.govor https://lowey.house.gov, or contact the Congresswoman’s Westchester County District Office at (914) 428-1707.###
05.23.2013	President Obama Approves 90% Reimbursement for Local Governments for Sandy Costs; Local Governments Previously Eligible For Only 75% of CostsLowey: “This is a victory for communities across New York hit hard by Sandy.”Washington, D.C.– Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), the senior Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, today announced that President Obama has approved a 90% reimbursement level for Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) Public Assistance funds to reimburse local communities for costs associated with the response to Superstorm Sandy. Up to this point, local governments had been eligible for only 75% of costs under FEMA’s Public Assistance program.The President’s decision to support Congresswoman Lowey’s call for a 90% federal cost share will be retroactive, and local governments will receive additional FEMA Public Assistance funds to cover the cost of responding to Superstorm Sandy, reducing the burden on local taxpayers.“This is a victory for communities across New York,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “Not only did Sandy devastate homes, businesses and lives, the cost of the emergency response and cleanup has placed huge burdens on state and local governments. President Obama’s decision that New York State and local governments will now be eligible to be reimbursed for a greater share of Sandy response costs is the right one and means that communities will be able to recover more quickly. Federal disaster aid has been essential in helping us get back on our feet in the wake of Superstorm Sandy.” In November 2012, Congresswoman Lowey called on President Obama to increase the reimbursement level for communities impacted to 90%. The full text of the letter is below. Congresswoman Lowey also spoke directly with FEMA Administrator Craig Fugate to emphasize the need for New York state and local governments to be reimbursed at higher rate.FEMA’s Public Assistance program reimburses state, tribal and local governments for the cost of emergency responses. The funds come from the Disaster Relief Fund, which was increased by the Disaster Relief Appropriations Act, a bipartisan bill passed by Congress in January to help states affected by Sandy. Congresswoman Lowey helped lead the bipartisan effort to pass the full assistance package.###
05.23.2013	Funds will help school district with cost of Sandy cleanup, including debris removalWashington, D.C.– Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), the senior Democrat on the Appropriations Committee, today announced a $178,063 Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) grant for East Ramapo Central School District. The grant will reimburse the school district for a portion of the cost of its cleanup response in the wake of Superstorm Sandy.The grant is provided through FEMA’s Public Assistance program, which reimburses state, tribal and local governments for the cost of emergency responses. The funds come from the Disaster Relief Appropriations Act, a bipartisan bill passed by Congress in January to help states affected by Sandy. Congresswoman Lowey helped lead the bipartisan effort to pass the full assistance package.“Federal aid has been essential in helping ease the financial burden of Sandy cleanup on states, local governments and school districts,”said Congresswoman Lowey. “I am pleased that East Ramapo Central School District will receive this critical assistance.” “At a time when our budget is so tight, this recovery aid is both needed and appreciated,” said Dr. Joel M. Klein, Superintendent of Schools, East Ramapo Central School District.###
05.22.2013	Funds will help Harrison with cost of debris removal in wake of Superstorm SandyWashington, D.C.– Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), the senior Democrat on the Appropriations Committee, today announced a $370,000Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) grant for Harrison. The grant will help reimburse Harrison for the costs of debris removal after Superstorm Sandy.The grant is provided through FEMA’s Public Assistance program, which reimburses state, tribal and local governments for the cost of emergency responses. The funds come from the Disaster Relief Appropriations Act, a bipartisan bill passed by Congress in January to help states affected by Sandy. Congresswoman Lowey helped lead the bipartisan effort to pass the full assistance package.“Federal aid has been absolutely essential as our communities recover and rebuild from Superstorm Sandy,”said Congresswoman Lowey. “Responding to the devastation caused by Superstorm Sandy across Westchester and Rockland Counties, including in Harrison, has placed huge burdens on the budgets of counties, towns and villages. I am so pleased that Harrison will receive this critical federal assistance, which will help Harrison with the cost of its Sandy response.”"Harrison is very happy to receive FEMA's payment,” said Harrison Mayor / Supervisor Ron Belmont. “It's nice to know that FEMA recognizes how diligent Harrison was in cleaning up the debris resulting from Hurricane Sandy." ###
05.21.2013	New York to See 15% Increase In Funding for Urban Areas Security Initiative, 20% Increase For State Homeland Security Program In 2013 Fiscal YearLowey: “New York will be better prepared to address threats.”Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), the senior Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, today applauded increases in Homeland Security funding for New York in the 2013 fiscal year. Under new funding levels announced today, New York will receive $174,290,663 in funding through the Department of Homeland Security’s Urban Areas Security Initiative, a 15% increase from 2012 levels. New York will also receive $66.7 million through the State Homeland Security Program, a 20% increase from 2012 levels.The increase in funding will support innovative and sustained support for preparedness, as well as improve immediate emergency victim care during mass casualty events.“New York knows the threat of terrorism and the pressing need for our federal government to invest in protecting our communities. I am pleased Congress has increased funding for critical grant programs like the Urban Area Security Initiative and the State Homeland Security Program,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “New York will be better prepared to address threats and handle potential emergencies. As the Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, I will continue to make sure that the New York metropolitan area has the resources to prevent, mitigate and respond to threats.”Lowey was appointed to the Select Committee on Homeland Security and helped secure over $20 billion for recovery efforts after September 11, 2001.###
05.20.2013	Unless Congress acts, interest rates on federal student loans set to double to 6.8% on July 1st; more than 20,000 college students in New York’s 17th District benefit from federal loans Sequestration already forcing cuts to Work Study, college grant programs Lowey: “Allowing the interest rates to rise would cost students and cost the economy. Congress must help keep an affordable college education within reach.”Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), the senior Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, today called on Congress to immediately act to prevent interest rates on federal student loans from doubling on July 1st.Unless Congress passes legislation in the next five weeks, interest rates on Stafford loans, the most popular type of federal student loans, will increase from 3.4% to 6.8% for students who apply for aid for the 2013-2014 school year. More than 20,000 college students in New York’s 17th District currently rely on federal Stafford loans.“If Congress sits on its hands, allowing the interest rates on these popular federal loans to double, it will cost students and cost our economy,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “That is why I am calling for the immediate passage of legislation to prevent these rates from doubling. We must do all we can to help keep an affordable college education within reach.”“Last year, more than 4,600 Pace students and their families borrowed low-interest federal loans to help realize their dreams of a college education. These are outstanding young Americans who are preparing to contribute to their industries, communities, and the progress of the nation,” said Pace University President Stephen J. Friedman. “At a time in America when the employment prospects of young people are so clearly linked to college graduation, and when employers are lobbying for looser visa rules because they cannot find enough highly educated Americans, the national interest is ill-served by any step that will encourage students to drop out of college or turn away from going to college all together. I am proud to join Congresswoman Lowey in this effort and urge Congress to act before the July 1 deadline.” Congresswoman Lowey’s call for Congress to act comes as the current across-the-board federal budget cuts known as sequestration are reducing federal aid for students. While Pell Grants are exempt from reductions, other federal college affordability services, such as Supplemental Education Opportunity Grants and Federal Work Study assistance, are being reduced. A report issued earlier this year by Congresswoman Lowey found that students at local colleges and universities will lose more than $224,000 in tuition assistance this school year under sequestration. The full report can viewed here.“With the senseless across-the-board federal budget cuts, doubling the interest rates students pay to finance their education would add insult to injury,” added Congresswoman Lowey.Congresswoman Lowey has cosponsored two pieces of legislation that would prevent interest rates on federal student loans from rising. One bill would lock in place the current interest rate of 3.4%. Lowey has also cosponsored legislation that would allow students to obtain federal loans at the same rates the Federal Reserve provides to banks, which can be as low as 0.75%.As the senior Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, Congresswoman Lowey has fought to increase the maximum Pell Grant award. A total of 21,108 students at colleges and universities in Westchester and Rockland annually receive Pell grants worth up to $5,500.###
05.13.2013	Sandy Help Centers in Stony Point and Piermont this week to help homeowners and small businesses apply for recovery aidStony Point, NY–Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today visited one of two mobile Sandy Help Centers deployed to Rockland County this week to help homeowners and businesses apply for federal recovery aid. Joined by Stony Point Supervisor Geoff Finn and Haverstraw Supervisor Howard Phillips, Lowey spoke with local residents about their recovery from Superstorm Sandy and state and county representatives at the Sandy Help Center about the barriers residents face in applying for assistance.“It is good news that these Sandy Help Centers will be available to help local homeowners and businesses apply for assistance to recover and rebuild from Superstorm Sandy,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “Federal support in the wake of Sandy has been critical in helping residents of the Lower Hudson Valley get back on their feet, and I am pleased that Rockland residents will be able to receive direct assistance in their own communities this week.”“The people of Stony Point have been waiting a long time for assistance. Hopefully with the help of Governor Cuomo’s office and Congresswoman Lowey, our residents will finally get the financial help they so need and deserve,” said Stony Point Supervisor Geoff Finn."I appreciate Governor Cuomo and Congresswoman Lowey's assistance in obtaining these critical funds as the residents and businesses of Haverstraw continue to recover from Superstorm Sandy,” said Haverstraw Supervisor Howard Phillips.Two trained Sandy Help Teams are being deployed to Rockland County today and Tuesday, May 14th to help homeowners and business owners affected by Superstorm Sandy apply for recovery aid. One is in Stony Point’s Rho Building located at 5 Clubhouse Drive. The other Sandy Help Center will be located in Piermont’s Village Hall at 478 Piermont Avenue. Both Sandy Helps Teams will be available from 11:00 am to 6:00 pm. Homeowners and small businesses are eligible to apply for home repairs, elevations, buyouts, mitigation assistance, and small business assistance. Congresswoman Lowey, the top Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, was instrumental in passing the $60 billion package in federal funds to provide this aid to local residents and to help communities throughout the region recover from Sandy. For more information, interested residents should visit https://nysandyhelp.ny.govor https://lowey.house.gov, or contact the Congresswoman’s New City District Office at (845) 639-3485.###
05.13.2013	Huge claims backlog at Department of Veterans Affairs, treatment of female veterans, unemployment, and gaps in mental health services must be improvedLowey a co-sponsor of the Veterans Mental Health Accessibility ActLowey: “Too many of our veterans are not receiving the care and benefits they deserve.”White Plains, NY– In a press conference today at the Veterans Affair Community Clinic in White Plains, Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) and local veterans called for improved care for our nation’s veterans. Lowey highlighted the ongoing claims backlog at the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) that has resulted in 600,000 veterans waiting 125 days or more for medical claims to be processed; the need for specialized treatment for female veterans; and gaps in mental health services. “Too many of our veterans are not receiving the care and benefits they deserve. We can and must do better for the men and women who have bravely served our country,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “I am particularly concerned about the delay veterans face in receiving their hard-earned benefits due to the backlog at the Department of Veterans Affairs and the barriers facing veterans who struggle with mental illness as a result of their service. More specialized VA care for women, who are the fastest-growing sub-population in our military, is also critical."Lowey supports the bipartisan Veterans Mental Health Accessibility Act. Up to 22 veterans commit suicide every day and up to 20% of Iraq and Afghanistan vets have post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD). Under the current system, veterans have a five-year window in which they must seek treatment for mental illnesses before losing their higher priority status. The legislation would eliminate the five-year window and allow veterans to seek treatment for service-connected mental illnesses, regardless of when their conditions or symptoms manifest themselves. “We hear about how difficult it was for veterans after Vietnam. But in terms of employment, today veterans have it worse. The VA’s care is well done, but accessing it can be a nightmare and the backlog has quadrupled in four years. Navigating that system is like putting socks on an octopus,” said Jerry Donnellan, Director of the Rockland County Veterans Service Agency.“Everyone should have the dignity that comes with being a fully engaged, and fully employed, member of society, but our veterans and their families who have given our country so much deserve nothing less,” said Duane Jackson, Village of Buchanan Trustee and President of the Vietnam Veterans of America, Buchanan Chapter. “We need to get our newest veterans jobs and we need to do it now. It's the right thing to do.”“As a physician who served in Iraq, a combat veteran, and one who suffers from PTSD, I am intimately aware of the need for more resources dedicated to assist veterans to heal and live in the civilian sector. Not only do I have to live with PTSD, a direct result of my military service, but I must also struggle with the current system of care to have its symptoms treated. There are simply not enough resources available to veterans living with PTSD to live well with PTSD,” said Heather Cereste, M.D., a veteran from Armonk.“Many thanks to Congresswoman Nita Lowey and her constant efforts to support America’s veterans,” said Ken Kraetzer, a local veteran and host of local radio show focused on veterans issues. “We are all concerned with the issues related to the backlog of claims facing the VA. We understand the VA has faced substantially increased requests for care in recent years from veterans returning from recent conflicts as well as those suffering illnesses from past conflicts such as older veterans dealing with effects of Agent Orange and other diseases associated with service in Vietnam.”In a recent Appropriations Committee hearing, Congresswoman Lowey expressed her concern about the state of care for our nation’s veterans to Eric Shinseki, Secretary of the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). She highlighted the claims backlog, which the Congress helped to address with inclusion of funds for roughly 200 additional VA case managers to be hired in fiscal year 2013. While still more personnel is needed to expedite claims, the VA and the Department of Defense must better coordinate on the transfer of veterans’ medical records. Video of the Congresswoman’s remarks in the hearing can be viewed here.Lowey also called for the VA to focus on providing specialized treatment for female veterans’ unique health care needs. Women now make up more than 14% of the country’s active-duty soldiers, the fastest-growing subpopulation in the U.S. military. Women are enrolling for health care from the VA at record levels, including 80,000 who served in Iraq and Afghanistan. The numbers of female veterans are expected to increase dramatically in the coming years.To address the harsh economic realities facing too many American veterans, Congresswoman Lowey is a member of the newly-formed Veterans Jobs Caucus, a bipartisan group committed to helping address joblessness among the country’s former service members. In addition, she supported the largest increase in funding for veterans in history, and co-sponsored and voted for the expansion of the G.I. Bill to help more troops afford a college education when they return home. She was also an early supporter of the Wounded Warriors Assistance Project, which was subsequently signed into law. Lowey has also cosponsored legislation allowing those entitled to the Survivor Benefit Plan to receive full Survivor benefits and allowing the receipt of both military retired pay and veterans' disability compensation for any service-connected disability.###
05.12.2013	In face of budget cuts, providers of Head Start services in Westchester to close facility, lay off staff, eliminate field trips, cut back on literacy programs; Rockland provider to cancel summer programLowey: “These cuts aren’t just abstract projections. They have real consequences for children and working families right here in Westchester and Rockland Counties. We need to end these senseless cuts.”Port Chester, NY– Standing beside local early education advocates and parents, Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today slammed the impact of the across-the-board federal budget cuts known as “sequestration” on Head Start early education programs for children in Westchester and Rockland Counties.Due to the federal budget cuts, which went into effect on March 1, Westchester Community Opportunity Program (WestCOP), a not-for-profit social service agency that operates more than 30 Head Start programs in Westchester and Putnam Counties, is facing a $800,000 budget cut that will result in children losing access to Early Head Start and Head Start programs, as well as layoffs of personnel. Family Services of Westchester, which provides Head Start services in White Plains, will close one of its classrooms due to the cuts. It will also lay off teachers, cancel all field trips, and reduce its literacy and fatherhood programs.Head Start of Rockland, which serves approximately 1,000 children in Rockland County, will be forced to eliminate its summer program.“These cuts aren’t just abstract projections. They have real consequences for children and working families right here in Westchester and Rockland Counties,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “That is why I am once again calling on Congress to immediately pass a balanced deficit reduction plan that smartly trims unnecessary future spending while preserving the initiatives that matter most for our quality of life, particularly early childhood services. We need to end these senseless cuts and we need to restore these critical services to families in the Lower Hudson Valley.”“It is so sad that the most vulnerable among us, including children and working families, are bearing the brunt of these cuts. These cuts will negatively affect the lives of many children and families who rely on Early Head Start and Head Start programs in Westchester County, as well as our organization’s hard-working staff,” said Ellen Farrar, Head Start Director at WestCOP.“Head Start of Rockland serves 1,000 of the most vulnerable children in Rockland County every year. We work to assist families who live in poverty and struggle to meet the basic needs of life. Due to the federal sequestration, our budget has been cut by 5.27%. This will significantly affect children as the summer program will be eliminated,” said Ouida Foster-Toutebon, Executive Director of Head Start of Rockland.The budget cuts, which went into effect on March 1 after Congress failed to act, cut non-defense spending like Head Start funding by approximately 5.3%. If they remain in place, the cuts are projected to reduce funding for Head Start programs in New York State by $26 million, resulting in a loss of services for approximately 4,600 students statewide. Nationally, 70,000 children are expected to lose access to Head Start this year, and 200,000 are expected to lose access in 2014 if the cuts remain in effect.“All of these cuts come on top of local budgetary decisions that have increased the cost of child care for working families in Westchester,” added Lowey. “I am concerned that without access to Head Start, many working families will face increased child care costs that could force some parents out of the workforce and hurt their family’s income.”Earlier this year, Congresswoman Lowey released a report outlining the impact of the federal cuts on early education programs, medical research, law enforcement, education and other critical services in the Lower Hudson Valley if the sequester was to go into effect. The full report can be found here.###
04.24.2013	Funds to go towards purchase of communications technology to enable better coordination among first respondersWashington, D.C.– Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), the senior Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, today announced a $46,594 federal grant for the Village of Tarrytown Fire Department. The grant is being awarded through the Department of Homeland Security’s Assistance to Firefighters Grant program.“As the senseless across-the-board budget cuts reduce funding for first responders and law enforcement officials in New York and around the country, it is good news that our first responders in Tarrytown will have access to these funds that will help make our community safer,” said Congresswoman Lowey.“We are deeply grateful to Congresswoman Lowey for her assistance in obtaining this grant for critically important equipment that will enable our firefighters to better protect the lives and property of all of our residents,” said Drew Fixell, Mayor of the Village of Tarrytown.The Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) program, which is administered by the Department of Homeland Security Office of Grants and Training, awards grants directly to local fire departments and Emergency Medical Services organizations (EMS). The funds may be used to increase the effectiveness of firefighting operations, firefighter health and safety programs, emergency medical service programs, fire prevention and safety programs, and to purchase new fire equipment.###
04.24.2013	My Sister’s Place, nonprofit in White Plains, selected for first phase of federal initiative aimed at reducing domestic violence-related homicides and identifying needs for domestic violence victims, childrenIntimate partner homicides account for approximately 1 in 6 homicides in U.S.Washington, D.C.– Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), the top Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, today announced that My Sister’s Place, a local nonprofit that supports victims of domestic violence, will receive $191,188 in federal funding as part of a new initiative aimed at reducing domestic violence-related homicides.My Sister’s Place has been selected by the Department of Justice’s Office of Violence Against Women to participate in the first 12-month phase of the Domestic Violence Homicide Reduction Demonstration Initiative, which seeks to identify the best ways to prevent domestic violence-related homicides in communities around the country. This includes helping to build the capacity of state and local jurisdictions to identify and serve high-risk victims as well as monitoring high-risk offenders. My Sister’s Place was one of only 12 sites selected around the country for the initial phase. It will collaborate with Westchester County’s Office for Women as part of the demonstration.“While much progress has been made in reducing instances of domestic violence, the sad reality is that too many families know the pain of domestic violence and too many remain at risk for further violence,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “I am pleased that My Sister’s Place, a longtime provider of critical services to families in Westchester County, has been selected as one of only 12 organizations around the country to participate in this important initiative. I am hopeful that it will help identify ways we can prevent domestic violence in Westchester County and around the country.”Homicides by intimate partners account for 14% of all homicides in the United States, with most being women who are killed by abusive partners. In addition, researchers estimate that for every domestic violence-related homicide, nine people are nearly killed as a result of domestic violence.Earlier this year, Congresswoman Lowey supported legislation reauthorizing the Violence Against Women Act. The legislation was passed on February 28th.###
04.18.2013	Funds to be used for research into sleep disorders like sleep apnea, insomnia and narcolepsyLowey warns against impact of ongoing across-the-board cuts on medical research in Lower Hudson Valley; if allowed to remain in effect, would slash funding in Westchester, Rockland Counties by $1.3 millionWashington, D.C.– Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), the top Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, today announced that New York Medical College in Valhalla, N.Y., will receive an award for approximately $339,000 in National Institutes of Health (NIH) funding. The grant will support research into sleep disorders, which afflict approximately 70 million Americans.“Cutting-edge medical research not only helps find cures. It is also a job creator in the Lower Hudson Valley. I’m so pleased that New York Medical College will have access to these critical federal funds,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “Investments like these help ensure that our region remains a hub for biomedical research in our country.”“Sleep disorders such as narcolepsy, REM behavior disorder, sleep apnea and insomnia affect millions of people in the United States,” said New York Medical College President Alan Kadish, M.D. “The research supported by this grant will explore activity in the brain circuits that regulate sleep and wakefulness, and it is our hope that these explorations may lead to advances in the diagnosis and treatment of sleep disorders.”“While today’s announcement is clearly good news, the ongoing across-the-board budget cuts known as ‘sequestration’ remain a grave threat to our economy and to funding for medical research in our region,” added Congresswoman Lowey. “Unless the Republicans work with Democrats in Congress to replace these senseless cuts, we can expect fewer jobs, fewer breakthroughs, and a weaker economy.”Earlier this year, Congresswoman Lowey outlined the impact of the federal cuts on biomedical research as well as law enforcement, education and other critical services in the Lower Hudson Valley. The full report can be found here.Lowey has been an advocate for increased federal investments in biomedical research on diseases like cancer, diabetes, and Alzheimer’s at the National Institutes of Health. Called a “champion of increased funding for breast cancer research” by The Washington Post, Lowey has helped increase NIH’s budget for cancer research by more than ten times.###
04.17.2013	Washington, D.C.– Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today issued the following statement after the failure of gun safety legislation in the United States Senate:“As the families of Virginia Tech, Tucson and Newtown watched, today 46 United States Senators failed them by voting against the bipartisan Manchin-Toomey background check compromise. Strengthening background checks and making sure criminals can’t buy deadly weapons – steps that are supported by nine out of ten Americans – are commonsense, basic protections that can help prevent gun violence.“How many more children have to die before we act? How many more tragedies have to unfold in our communities before we say ‘enough is enough’? What will it take for this shameful obstructionism and delay to end?“Given the political reality in the House, I am deeply troubled that we may see no real action to curb violence in the wake of Newtown. But I will keep fighting to bring up legislation to strengthen background checks, close loopholes that allow criminals to purchase deadly weapons, and keep weapons of war off our streets. “###
04.16.2013	Defense Department had announced plans to shut down one of two New York Army National Guard Weapons of Mass Destruction Civil Support Teams due to budget cuts beginning in JuneOne emergency response team responsible for assisting with response to terrorist attacks based at Fort Hamilton; team had been assisting with Boston Marathon and is now helping with response to April 15 terrorist attacksWashington, D.C. – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today praised Secretary of Defense Chuck Hagel for his decision to protect New York City’s National Guard Weapons of Mass Destruction Civil Support Team from closure. The Department of Defense had informed Congress in late March of its plan to shut down one of New York State’s two Weapons of Mass Destruction Civil Response Teams due to budget cuts beginning in June, but at a House Appropriations Committee hearing today, Secretary Hagel assured Congresswoman Lowey that the teams would be protected from closure.New York State currently has two National Guard Weapons of Mass Destruction Civil Response Teams. The National Guard 2nd Civil Response Team is based at Stratton Air National Guard Base in Scotia. The other, the National Guard 24th Civil Response Team, is based at Fort Hamilton in Brooklyn. Personnel and vehicles from New York’s 24th Civil Support Team had been assisting the City of Boston with the Boston Marathon and is now supporting Massachusetts’s National Guard Civil Support Team with its response in the wake of the April 15 terrorist attacks.The National Guard’s 24th Civil Support Team helps detect chemical, biological, nuclear and other explosive devices and assists local first responders such as police, fire and other departments during terrorist attacks involving weapons of mass destruction.Secretary Hagel’s assurance to Congresswoman Lowey that both of the state’s National Guard Civil Support Teams would remain in operation came during a House Appropriations Committee Defense Subcommittee hearing earlier today. Congresswoman Lowey is the senior Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee. Video of Congresswoman Lowey’s discussion with Secretary Hagel of the issue can be viewed here. In the hearing, Congresswoman Lowey also questioned Secretary Hagel regarding his plans to address the backlog of veterans’ benefits claims.“New York City continues to be a target for terrorist attacks and faces threats posed by weapons of mass destruction. New York’s Army National Guard Civil Support Teams are critical to protecting New York City and New York State from future attacks,” said Lowey. “The team based at Fort Hamilton is also assisting with the response to the tragic attacks in Boston, showing that these teams are essential not just to keeping New York safe, but also to aiding others in the region who face the threat of terrorism.”“That’s why the Department of Defense’s original decision to disestablish the unit was not only penny wise and pound foolish, it was simply unacceptable,” Lowey added. “I was pleased to hear Secretary Hagel say today that the Department of Defense will keep this terrorism emergency task force in place so it can continue to help keep New Yorkers safe.”Lowey also recognized the leadership of House Appropriations Defense Subcommittee Chairman Congressman Bill Young (FL) and Subcommittee Member Congressman Bill Owens (NY), who also fought to prevent National Guard Weapons of Mass Destruction Civil Support Teams in Florida and New York from being eliminated.###
04.15.2013	Lowey: “We can and must do better for the men and women who have stepped forward to serve our country.”Praises President Obama’s 2014 budget request for including funds to provide housing vouchers for homeless veterans, proposal for new Transition Assistance ProgramWashington, D.C. – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), the senior Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, announced today she has joined the newly-formed Veterans Job Caucus, a bipartisan group of legislators in Congress committed to helping address joblessness among the country’s veterans.“Given all that our veterans have sacrificed for our nation, it is unacceptable that so many of them are unable to find work,” said Lowey. “We have an obligation to care for our veterans, and that means ensuring they are able to secure good-paying jobs that take advantage of their unique abilities and skills. It is only right that they have access to the job resources they need as they make the transition home. We can and must do better for the men and women who have stepped forward to serve our country.”Among post-9/11 veterans nationwide, the unemployment rate remains higher than the national average, and it is estimated there are currently 800,000 unemployed veterans nationwide as well as 60,000 homeless veterans.“With all the challenges our veterans face, I was pleased that President Obama’s budget request included a proposal for a new Transition Assistance Program that would help our veterans adjust to civilian life after completing their service, and increased funding to support ongoing efforts to end veteran homelessness and reduce the shameful backlog in the VA Health Care System,” added Lowey.Congresswoman Lowey supported the largest increasing in funding for veterans in history, and co-sponsored and voted for the expansion of the G.I. Bill. She was also an early supporter of the Wounded Warriors Assistance Project, which was subsequently signed into law. She has also cosponsored legislation allowing those entitled to the Survivor Benefit Plan to receive full Survivor benefits and allowing the receipt of both military retired pay and veterans' disability compensation for any service-connected disability.###
04.10.2013	Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today issued the following statement regarding President Obama’s budget request for fiscal year 2014:“President Obama’s proposal is a good guide to boosting job growth and reducing our deficit over the long term. I have already supported more than $2.5 trillion in deficit reduction, and as the senior Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, I look forward to working with the President and my colleagues in the House and Senate to find ways to continue to responsibly reduce our deficit while investing in economic and job growth.“I am pleased that the President’s budget would cancel the dangerous, arbitrary and across-the-board budget cuts known as “sequestration” that went into effect in March and are already hurting our economy and cutting critical services for families in the Lower Hudson Valley. If allowed to continue, these cuts will lead to over $4 million in reduced funding for schools in Westchester and Rockland Counties and a potential loss of over $1.3 million for critical medical research in the region. Ending these senseless cuts is one of the most important steps we can take to keep our economic recovery on track and protect American families.“The President’s budget also includes badly-needed funding to help our veterans, expand access to early childhood education, improve our homeland security and prevent gun violence. President Obama’s proposal for a new Transition Assistance Program called Transition GPS would help our veterans adjust to civilian life after completing their service, and increased funds would support ongoing efforts to end veteran homelessness and reduce the shameful backlog in the VA Health Care System.“The Securing the Cities program, which helps New York law enforcement detect and prevent a radiological or nuclear attack, would also continue to receive support under the President’s proposal. In New York City alone, this critical program has helped to train over 13,000 law enforcement officers in radiological and nuclear detection. The Administration also seeks to further invest in early childhood education, including over $2 billion for the President’s new Preschool for All and Preschool Development Grants initiatives as well as increases for Child Care Development Block Grants and Head Start.“Following the tragedy in Newtown, additional funding being requested by the President is essential to prevent gun violence and expand mental health treatment through improved recordkeeping and background check systems, assistance to help recognize early signs of mental illness and training for 5,000 new mental health professionals.“While I have concerns about some of the President’s proposed changes to programs that are important to seniors and middle-class families, I share his commitment to enacting a balanced plan that will sustain economic growth and believe that both parties can and must come together to end the budget gridlock in Washington.”
04.08.2013	White Plains, NY – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today issued the following statement in honor of Holocaust Remembrance Day:“Today, on Yom Hashoah, Holocaust Remembrance Day, we remember and pay tribute to the six million Jews who were murdered for who they were and what they believed. We remember their stories, and the sober lesson of their deaths: never stand idly by and never remain silent in the face of evil and injustice.“We will never forget – we will never forget the victims, and we will never cease to find inspiration in their strength, bravery and perseverance. “But today is for more than remembering the past; it is a day for renewing our commitment to acting now and in the future; to working to secure peace and freedom for people of all faiths; to pursuing justice and advancing equality around the world.” ###
03.27.2013	Funds will help reimburse county for cost of cleanup in aftermath of SandyWashington, D.C.– Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), the top Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, today announced that Westchester County has been awarded $2,718,047.60 in Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) funding. The funds will reimburse Westchester County for some of the costs of cleanup in the aftermath of Superstorm Sandy, including debris removal.“One of the most essential roles of federal government is to help homeowners, small businesses and communities get back on their feet following a natural disaster,”said Congresswoman Lowey. “This federal aid is critical to help our county recover and rebuild from Sandy, and to protect taxpayers from the costs of Sandy cleanup.”"Westchester residents and businesses, as well as our governments, were hit hard by Superstorm Sandy. This federal aid is important and is a good first step as we continue to repair the extensive damage,”said County Executive Robert P. Astorino.The funds being awarded to Westchester County come from the Disaster Relief Appropriations Act, a bipartisan bill aimed at helping states affected by Sandy that was passed by Congress in January. Congresswoman Lowey helped lead the bipartisan effort to pass the full assistance package.###
03.27.2013	Lowey: “It’s time for marriage equality in America.”White Plains, NY– At a press conference today, Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), White Plains Mayor Tom Roach and local LGBT advocates called on the United States Supreme Court to overturn the Defense of Marriage Act (DOMA), which prohibits same-sex marriages from being recognized under federal law. The Supreme Court is currently hearing arguments on the law’s constitutionality, as well as a case on the constitutionality of Proposition 8, California’s ban on same-sex marriage.“Equal treatment under the law is one of the bedrock principles of America. It is all too clear that with a discriminatory law like the Defense of Marriage Act on the books, we cannot uphold the principles of equality and justice. They are simply incompatible,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “It is unacceptable and wrong for the government to discriminate against gay and lesbian couples, and that is what the Defense of Marriage Act does. The Defense of Marriage Act must be overturned. It is time for marriage equality in America.”“These two monumental cases before the Supreme Court are the culmination of many years, and many people, working for equality for gay and lesbian couples,” said David Juhren, Executive Director of The LOFT LGBT Center in White Plains. “The strongest arguments before the Court have been, and are, the voices of the children of same-sex couples who want their parents recognized, the voices of couples together for years who have struggled to be accepted, and those young couples of today, who look to a future of equality.”"As a mother of two children - one gay and one straight – I know they are equal, and I want them to have full equal rights in the eye of the law. They both deserve no less,” said Linda Barat of the Westchester Chapter of Parents, Families and Friends of Lesbians and Gays (PFLAG). “If they choose to marry, they should both have that right and all the rights that come with it." "For far too long, our country has denied LGBT (Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender) people equal access and protection under the law. The time is now for the Supreme Court of the United States to strike down the Defense of Marriage Act and live up to the concept of ‘liberty and justice for all’,” said Joseph Coe of VCS Gay Pride Rockland. “We applaud Congresswoman Lowey's advocacy and her willingness to stand with and for Rockland's LGBT community." Congresswoman Lowey is a cosponsor of the Respect for Marriage Act, which would repeal DOMA and provide gay and lesbian couples the same rights as heterosexual couples under federal law. She is also a cosponsor of the Employment Non-Discrimination Act, which would ban employment discrimination based on sexual orientation or gender identity, and voted in favor of ending the law known as “Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell.”###
03.26.2013	Funds will help repair damage from Hurricane Irene along Minisceongo CreekWashington, D.C.– Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), the top Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, today announced that Rockland County has been awarded $1,624,950 in Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) funding. The grant will support repairs to the embankment along the Minisceongo Creek, which experienced significant damage as a result of flooding during Hurricane Irene in August and September 2011.“I am pleased that Rockland County will have access to this badly-needed funding as it continues to address the damage caused by not just Hurricane Irene, but Superstorm Sandy as well,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “This kind of federal aid is critical for local municipalities struggling with the cost of restoring services and infrastructure to their pre-storm levels and preparing for future disasters.”“Countless residents and businesses were affected by recent hurricanes that ripped through our region leaving a path of destruction,” said Rockland County Executive C. Scott Vanderhoef. “We are grateful for this funding and those who helped secure it. This will help rebuild Minisceongo Creek and our county.”“The level of cooperation between state officials and FEMA has been outstanding, and there has been a strong spirit of teamwork as we work together to repair damage from Hurricane Irene,” said Chris Jensen, Program Director, Rockland County Office of Fire & Emergency Services. “It is great to see these funds being made available and these important projects coming to fruition.”“Hurricane Irene inflicted major damage up and down the length of Minisceongo Creek, affecting homes and businesses in the area and resulting in significant cleanup and repair costs for the town,” said Haverstraw Supervisor Howard Phillips. “Aid from the federal government makes it possible for local municipalities to repair the damage without facing significant financial burdens, and that’s why today’s announcement is such good news. I am grateful that Congresswoman Lowey has been such a steadfast advocate for local communities seeking federal funds as we work to recover from Irene, as well as Superstorm Sandy.”During Irene, strong winds, heavy rain and flooding caused floodwaters within the Minisceongo Creek to damage the concrete panels and retaining wall that help maintain the embankments along the creek.###
03.20.2013	FEMA funding will reimburse White Plains for costs of debris removal in aftermath of Sandy, help prevent storm-related tax increasesWashington, D.C.– Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), the top Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, today announced that the City of White Plains has been awarded $1,216,140.19 in Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) funding. The grant will reimburse the city for the cost of debris removal in the aftermath of Superstorm Sandy.“Sandy wreaked havoc in neighborhoods in White Plains and required the city to mount a significant cleanup effort,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “This reimbursement for the debris cleanup will help reduce the financial burden from Sandy on the city and its taxpayers. I am pleased that this much-needed federal funding is being made available.”“The City of White Plains is fortunate to have a Federal delegation that works tirelessly on our behalf. Congresswoman Lowey's assistance in securing this funding from FEMA has been essential to White Plains,” said White Plains Mayor Tom Roach. “This funding significantly lessens the clean-up costs the City incurred as a result of Superstorm Sandy."Debris removal after Sandy by the City of White Plains included cleanup of stumps, branches and downed trees blocking roads and waterways.###
03.20.2013	Washington, D.C.– Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), the senior Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, today announced a $280,000 federal grant for the Village of Spring Valley. The grant is being awarded through the Department of Homeland Security’s Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) program.“At a time when the senseless across-the-board budget cuts are reducing funding for first responders and law enforcement, I am happy that the Department of Homeland Security is able to provide this critical support to our first responders in Spring Valley that will help make our community safer,” said Congresswoman Lowey.The Assistance to Firefighters Grant program, which is administered by the Department of Homeland Security Office of Grants and Training, awards grants directly to local fire departments and Emergency Medical Services organizations (EMS). The funds may be used to increase the effectiveness of firefighting operations, firefighter health and safety programs, emergency medical service programs, fire prevention and safety programs, and to purchase new fire equipment.###
03.19.2013	Lowey: Budget “wildly out of step with the fair and balanced approach that Americans expect and deserve”Washington, D.C.– Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), the senior Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, today outlined the devastating impact of the House Republican budget, which ends the Medicare guarantee for seniors, will result in two million fewer American jobs in 2014, decrease GDP by 1.7 percent and slow the nation’s economic recovery. In a conference call with reporters, Congress Lowey focused on the effects of the Republican budget on seniors, women and families.“This budget is wildly out of step with the fair and balanced approach that Americans expect and deserve,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “In fact, this budget is just more of the same Romney-Ryan policies that the American people rejected in November.”Congresswoman Lowey also dismissed the detrimental impact of the Republican budget on seniors in New York State. The Republican budget would:Increase prescription drug costs for 226,000 seniors in New York State;Force 2.3 million seniors in the state to pay more for preventive health services;Restrict access to 2.9 million New Yorkers aged 45-54 to the traditional Medicare program and force them into a voucher program when they turn 65; and,Slash $78 billion in Medicaid funding for nursing home care and other services for seniors and the disabled in New York, harming the care that nursing home residents receive.Congresswoman Lowey highlighted impact of the Ryan budget on women and families, including:Of the two million jobs the Economic Policy Institute estimates would be lost in 2014 alone due to this budget, 930,000 women would be affected;Because this budget repeals the benefits of Affordable Care Act, insurance companies would be allowed once again to treat being a woman as a “pre-existing” condition and to charge women more than men for the same coverage;About 6 million women students would receive less assistance for college due to $83 billion in cuts in Pell Grants;Parents of tens of thousands of children would be impacted by an 18 percent cut in help with child care expenses in 2014;Sixty six percent of individuals who depend on senior meals like Meals on Wheels are women. Senior meals would be cut by 18 percent in 2014, and,Approximately 200,000 children could lose access to Head Start in 2014.“Budgets are a statement of values,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “I will continue to support a budget that makes my values clear: create jobs, strengthen the middle class, expand the economy, and reduce the deficit in a way that is responsible and fair.”Lowey also highlighted the contradictions included in the Republican budget proposal, including its proposed repeal of the Affordable Care Act while also counting on the savings contained in the law.###
03.19.2013	Federal grant to help reimburse county for costs to Bee-Line bus system from Sandy responseWashington, D.C.– Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), the senior Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, today announced a $317,000 grant in federal Sandy aid for Westchester County. The grant will help reimburse Westchester County for the costs to the Bee-Line bus system that were incurred during the county’s Sandy response.“Superstorm Sandy devastated parts of Westchester County and required transit officials to put significant resources into preparation, emergency response and clean up,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “As Westchester County’s families and businesses continue to recover from Sandy, the announcement of this critical federal aid for the county is welcome news and will help ease the financial burden of the county’s Sandy response.”The funds being awarded to Westchester County come from the Disaster Relief Appropriations Act, a bipartisan bill aimed at helping states affected by Sandy that was passed by Congress in January. Congresswoman Lowey helped lead the bipartisan effort to pass the full assistance package.During Sandy, staff from Westchester County and Bee-Line’s operators, Liberty Lines, helped prepare for the storm, monitor conditions, and aid with recovery. This included surveying roads for closures and determining when it was safe to resume operations of lines; monitoring delays and detours; protecting facilities and vehicles; and providing staff at the County’s Emergency Operations Center.###
03.14.2013	Funds will help Clarkstown with costs of Sandy responseWashington, D.C.– Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), the senior Democrat on the Appropriations Committee, today announced a $2.4 million Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) grant for the Town of Clarkstown. The grant will help reimburse Clarkstown for the costs of its response to Superstorm Sandy.The grant comes from FEMA’s Disaster Relief Fund, which was increased to its maximum level after Congress passed bipartisan Sandy aid legislation in January 2013. Congresswoman Lowey helped lead the bipartisan effort to pass the full assistance package.“This announcement is good news for Clarkstown as it continues to recover from Sandy,” said Lowey. “Not only did Sandy devastate communities in Westchester and Rockland Counties, but responding to the storm placed huge burdens on the budgets of local counties and towns. This kind of badly-needed and long-awaited federal assistance will help Clarkstown meet its financial needs as it restores vital services to the community and prepares for future natural disasters.”“We are grateful for the reimbursement funding that the Town of Clarkstown will receive from FEMA for the work our Town did during Superstorm Sandy,” said Clarkstown Supervisor Alex Gromack.###
03.12.2013	Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY), Ranking Democrat on the Appropriations Committee, today issued the following statement regarding the release of this year’s House Republican budget by Budget Committee Chairman Paul Ryan:“Mr. Ryan writes in the introduction to his resolution that a budget is an ‘expression of governing philosophy.’ His uncompromising budget makes the Republican philosophy quite clear: place the burden of deficit reduction on middle class families and communities and decimate investments that will make us competitive in order to protect wasteful tax loopholes for special interests and the very wealthiest Americans.“This budget is not only wildly out of step with the fair and balanced approach that Americans expect and deserve, it is economically irresponsible. Instead of helping Americans get back to work and strengthening our economy over the long term, its steep reductions would undermine job growth by slashing investments in education, research and infrastructure. We cannot balance the budget on the backs of our middle class by ending the Medicare guarantee, shifting health care costs to seniors, and cutting Pell Grants.“I will continue to support a responsible alternative that focuses on our fragile economic recovery and positions us for growth while providing a long-term plan to address our fiscal challenges.” ###
03.12.2013	Lowey: Cuts “put the brakes on one of our region’s economic engines” WESTCHESTER COUNTY, NY – At a press conference today, Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) and New York Medical College President Alan Kadish, M.D., highlighted the impact of the across-the-board federal budget cuts known as “sequestration” on biomedical research and jobs in Westchester and Rockland Counties. The budget cuts, which went into effect on March 1, would reduce funding for the National Institutes of Health (NIH), resulting in a cut of more than $1.3 million for biomedical research in Westchester and Rockland Counties.The Congressional Budget Office projects that the budget reductions could cost 750,000 jobs nationwide, and the independent group Third Way estimates that New York State will lose more than 70,000 jobs in 2013 if the cuts remain in place.“From large research institutions to fast-growing, innovative biotech companies, the Lower Hudson Valley is a leader in biomedical research, and each dollar invested in biomedical research here generates two dollars of economic activity,” said Lowey. “These senseless budget cuts will put the brakes on one of our region’s economic engines. That’s why it’s time for Congress to come together to replace these indiscriminate cuts with investments that will grow our economy and create jobs.”“Research is the cornerstone of progress in medicine,” said Dr. Kadish. “Along with other academic research institutions in the region and across the nation, New York Medical College researchers are making advances that add to the understanding of human health and make inroads into the treatment of disease. Funding for medical research has expanded private sector innovation, creating jobs and new products that lead to long-term economic growth.”Congresswoman Lowey recently released a report outlining the impact of the federal cuts on biomedical research, law enforcement, education and other critical services in the Lower Hudson Valley. The full report can be found here.“If the United States wants to remain a global leader in biomedical research, then we cannot cut our efforts when countries like China are increasing theirs,” added Lowey.Lowey has been an advocate for increased federal investments in biomedical research on diseases like cancer, diabetes, and Alzheimer’s at the National Institutes of Health. Called a “champion of increased funding for breast cancer research” by The Washington Post, Lowey has helped increase NIH’s budget for cancer research by more than ten times. ###
02.28.2013	Lowey:“This is a hard won and long overdue victory for millions of women and families in our country.”Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY), the senior Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, today released the following statement after the House passed the Senate’s bipartisan Violence Against Women Act, for which Congresswoman Lowey cosponsored companion legislation in the House, by a vote of 286-137.The bill’s passage comes more than 500 days after the Violence Against Women Act reauthorization expired in late 2011.“This is a hard won and long overdue victory for millions of women and families in our country,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “Since its original passage in 1994, the Violence Against Women Act has helped women escape violence and abuse. While it should never have taken this long to pass, this legislation will provide women life-saving tools and help hold abusers accountable.“Republicans who stood up to their leadership, rejected the watered-down bill the House Republican leadership wanted, and demanded the House vote on the bipartisan Senate bill did the right thing. I am proud that this legislation is headed to the President’s desk for his signature to expand important protections for all women, including tribal women, immigrants, the LGBT community, and women on college campuses.”###
02.25.2013	Congresswoman Nita Lowey Releases Report on Impacts of Looming Federal Budget Cuts on Westchester, Rockland Counties, New York StateSequestration would lead to loss of millions in funding for schools, first responders, law enforcement, and medical researchWashington, D.C. – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY), the senior Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, today released a new report outlining the impact of the looming federal budget cuts known as sequestration on Westchester and Rockland Counties, as well as New York State.A fact sheet with detailed information on the impacts of sequestration can be found here.“Sequestration was intended to be painful, and if Congress allows it go forward, sequestration will be incredibly painful for Westchester County, for Rockland County, and for communities across New York State,” said Lowey. “We’re facing a self-inflicted economic wound, and action cannot wait. I hope that the Republican leadership will come to the table so we can find a reasonable, bipartisan solution to avoid these senseless cuts. ”The new report finds that unless Congress acts to avoid sequestration, which is slated to take effect on March 1st, the impact would include:Approximately a $4.4 million reduction in funding for schools in Westchester and Rockland Counties, and approximately $100 million statewide;A cut of $860,000 for first responders and law enforcement in New York State$3.1 million in reduced funding toCamp Smith in Cortlandt Manor, according to the Army; andA potential loss of $1.3 million in funding for medical research in New York’s 17th Congressional District, and a loss of $105 million statewide.“Sequestration will mean lost jobs, a slower economy and cuts to programs that Democrats and Republicans care about,” added Lowey. “These senseless, indiscriminate cuts are not the right way to address our deficit or grow our economy.”As Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee, Congresswoman Lowey released a report earlier this month outlining the effects of sequestration around the country, including the impact of the furloughs of critical personnel that would be required under sequestration. The Committee report can be viewed here.###
02.21.2013	Lowey Announces $78,000 in New Federal Funding for Rockland Community CollegeFunds will support continued operation of volunteer program for local seniors; program’s volunteers provided 90,000 hours of service to Rockland County in 2012White Plains, NY– Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY), the senior Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, today announced that Rockland Community College (RCC) will receive $77, 834 in new federal funding that will allow RCC to continue to sponsor the Retired and Senior Volunteer Program (RSVP) of Rockland County.“At a time of growing need for critical services and tight budgets at every level of government, today’s announcement is welcome news for Rockland County,” said Lowey. “This new funding means that the hundreds of local seniors who have served their community will be able to continue to help address some of the most pressing challenges in Rockland County.”“In 2012, more than 600 RSVP volunteers provided approximately 90,000 hours of volunteer service to 100 non-profit organizations, government offices and proprietary health care facilities,” said Dr. Cliff Wood, President of Rockland Community College. “Their enthusiasm, expertise and vitality enhances the capacity of these organizations, which allows them to better serve the neediest citizens of the Rockland community.”The funds were awarded as part of a competitive grant process overseen by the Corporation for National & Community Service, a federal agency. The new funding is one of 206 RSVP awards provided to volunteer organizations across the country to support senior volunteer activities in areas ranging from disaster services to education, and veterans and military families.###
02.12.2013	Lowey: “Protecting women and families is more important than partisan politics.”Washington, D.C. - Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY), Ranking Democrat on the Appropriations Committee, today called on the Republican House leadership to immediately pass the Violence Against Women Reauthorization Act, which was passed by the Senate earlier today in a bipartisan vote of 78-22:“The overwhelming bipartisan support that this commonsense legislation saw from both sides of the aisle in the Senate shows that protecting women and families is more important than partisan politics,”said Congresswoman Lowey. “This legislation would not only provide life-saving assistance to women and families, it would help make sure that abusers are held responsible. Sadly, the last time that the Senate sent this legislation to the House, the House leadership refused to bring it to the floor for a vote. Now the House Republican leadership has a second chance to join with moderate Republicans and Democrats to make sure we can send this important legislation to the President’ desk for his signature. Too many Americans are counting on us to get this done to let partisan gamesmanship block the Violence Against Women Act’s vital protections.”###
02.06.2013	Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY), Ranking Democrat on the Appropriations Committee, today issued the following statement after the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development announced its first allocation of emergency Sandy aid that was passed by Congress in January 2013. Under the first allocation, the state of New York will receive $1.71 billion in Community Development Block Grants: “It’s good news for New York that this first allocation of disaster aid is now available. This is the first step in ensuring that the badly-needed legislation passed by Congress last month does lasting good for the communities impacted by Sandy. What we need now is for the Obama Administration to work closely with the state of New York to get this aid as quickly as possible to the families and communities working so hard to recover. The sooner this money gets out the door, the sooner it can jump-start efforts to rebuild the lives of those most affected by Sandy.”###
01.24.2013	Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY), Ranking Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, today issued the following statement on Defense Secretary Leon Panetta’s announcement of an end to the military’s ban on women serving in combat: “I am pleased Secretary Panetta is leading the way toward more inclusive and capable Armed Forces. This change will reflect the reality on the battlefield, where women have fought bravely for our country in Iraq and Afghanistan, while giving commanders the time and flexibility to implement this change without disruption on the ground.” ###
01.15.2013	Congresswoman Nita Lowey, Ranking Democrat on the Appropriations Committee, today issued the following statement on passage by the House of emergency disaster relief for families, businesses, and communities affected by Superstorm Sandy: "Seventy-nine days after Superstorm Sandy devastated families, businesses and communities, Congress’s action today finally puts us a step closer to recovery. I am especially proud to have helped lead the bipartisan effort to pass the full assistance package for the affected areas, as the first order of business in the 113th Congress."Sandy took the lives of 110 Americans, transportation networks and coastal areas in New York and New Jersey were devastated, 650,000 homes were damaged beyond repair, and 8.1 million homes lost power, many for weeks. In New York alone, 265,000 businesses were affected, costing jobs, paychecks, and billions in lost economic output."The desperately-needed relief in this bill will help families and individuals put their lives back together and assist in rebuilding transportation networks and public infrastructure vital to commerce and our quality of life. Small businesses, schools, health care facilities, and research institutions will have the support to restore vital services in their communities."Congress' failure to provide emergency relief before the end of the 112th Congress was inexcusable. With 146 major disasters declared in the last two years, no region of the country is immune to such tragedy. As Americans, we must never hold vital disaster assistance hostage to partisan fights about spending or political calculations."###
01.04.2013	Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY), Ranking Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, today issued the following statement on the House’s passage of an increase in borrowing authority for the national flood insurance program by a vote of 354-67: “Today’s overwhelming vote to place the national flood insurance program on sound financial footing to pay claims of those who suffered devastating losses from Superstorm Sandy is a good first step. On January 15th, we must build on this success by passing the remainder of the robust assistance package that is needed for New York, New Jersey, and other states affected by Sandy. I will continue working with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to ensure the federal government fulfills its commitment to help families, businesses, and communities recover and rebuild.” ###
01.02.2013	"House Republican leadership's decision to adjourn Congress without providing assistance to families, businesses, and communities affected by Sandy is irresponsible and inexcusable. It is an abdication of our responsibility to help those affected by natural disasters that will have real and lasting consequences. We can pass a bill right now to help those affected by Sandy with broad and bipartisan support, yet Republican leadership has refused to hold a vote. Dysfunction in this chamber should not punish victims of Sandy all over again."###
01.02.2013	Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY), incoming Ranking Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, today issued the following statement on legislation averting “Fiscal Cliff” tax hikes and spending cuts:“I supported the Biden-McConnell compromise to protect middle-income families from significant tax hikes and protect arbitrary budget cuts that could have a severe impact on critical services and economic growth and competitiveness. “The process by which we arrived at this deal – running the clock down to the last possible minute – does not inspire confidence in Congress’ ability to govern effectively. It is especially worrisome that by delaying some tough decisions or difficult issues – like reducing spending, raising the debt ceiling, and funding the federal government through 2013 – we have simply created other crises that must be addressed within weeks or months.“Nonetheless, it is good news for New York that families earning less than $450,000 will not see an increase in their income taxes and that the Alternative Minimum Tax will be permanently indexed for inflation, sparing thousands of families in our region from higher bills. I am also pleased the legislation protects important tax credits helping families send children to college and prevents reductions in Medicare reimbursements to physicians. “I hope that that this compromise will pave the way for larger deals benefiting middle-class families in New York and nationwide.”###
12.14.2012	Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today issued the following statement on today’s mass shooting at a Newtown, Connecticut elementary school: “Today’s horrific act of violence in Newtown, Connecticut is senseless and heartbreaking. There are no words to express the profound grief we all feel at the loss of so many, especially young children. My thoughts and prayers are with the victims and their friends and family and the entire Newtown community. “We cannot tolerate mass shootings as a mere inconvenience or a normal part of our everyday lives. Easy availability of the deadliest weapons to the most dangerous people has cost countless lives and caused immeasurable suffering, never more so than today. Our expressions of sympathy must be matched with concrete actions to stop gun violence.” ###
12.07.2012	Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY), incoming Ranking Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, and Congressman Peter King (R-NY), Chairman of the House Committee on Homeland Security – who co-chair the bipartisan Congressional task force on recovering from Tropical Sandy – today issued the following statement on President Obama’s emergency request for supplemental appropriations to help states affected by Tropical Storm Sandy recover and rebuild. “President Obama has acted quickly and worked closely with Governor Cuomo and the New York delegation on emergency supplemental appropriations to help states affected by Tropical Storm Sandy. “While more may be needed in the long term, this robust package is a major first step that we will work to pass as quickly as possible in Congress to help devastated communities, families and businesses.” ###
12.04.2012	Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY) today issued the following statement following her election as Ranking Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee: “It is an honor to be selected by my colleagues to serve as Ranking Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee in the 113th Congress. It is especially gratifying to be the first woman to lead either party on this powerful committee. “This important position comes with significant responsibility. In the coming weeks, Congress must extend expiring tax reductions for middle-class families and replace sequestration with budget reductions that jeopardize neither critical services nor investments for the future. Moving forward, the Appropriations Committee will play a central role in creating jobs; assisting those affected by natural disasters; rebuilding crumbling infrastructure; improving schools and health care; bolstering security at home and abroad; and reducing the deficit by eliminating wasteful and duplicative spending. “I look forward to working with the Democratic Caucus, as well as Chairman Rogers and my colleagues on both sides of the aisle, to support middle-class families, invest for the future, and ensure all Americans have the opportunity to succeed.” ###
11.30.2012	Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY) today issued the following statement on workplace rights for TSA employees: "I am pleased that the Transportation Security Administration (TSA) and the American Federation of Government Employees (AFGE) today signed an agreement that will for the first time provide TSA employees with benefits in line with other federal law enforcement employees. Under this agreement, standard processes for responsibilities, transfers and awards will enable TSA to keep experienced screeners on the job, stabilizing its workforce and protecting the traveling public. I commend Administrator Pistole for his leadership in improving the workplace rights of TSA employees and look forward to working with him to improve our nation’s transportation security."###
11.29.2012	Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY), Ranking Democrat on the Appropriations Subcommittee on State and Foreign Operations, today issued the following statement on recognition of the Palestinian Authority as a “nonmember observer state” at the United Nations. “Today’s decision by the United Nations General Assembly to grant enhanced status to the Palestinian Authority is a mistake that will set back – not hasten – prospects for a lasting peace between Israel and the Palestinians. “A genuine and lasting peace between Israel and the Palestinians can only be achieved through a negotiated settlement between the parties themselves. Rather than engaging in these direct negotiations, it is disturbing that the Palestinians have chosen instead to undertake unilateral measures through international organizations. “It is in our interest and that of Israel to support the Palestinian Authority’s ability to provide basic services through economic and security assistance, but that is predicated on the willingness of the Palestinian Authority to negotiate directly with Israel. I have encouraged the Administration to use all diplomatic tools at their disposal, monetary or otherwise, to make our opposition to such unilateral steps clear, and to encourage the Palestinian Authority to return to direct meaningful negotiations with Israel.” ###
11.21.2012	WASHINGTON DC – Members of Congress representing states affected by Tropical Storm Sandy today called on President Obama to submit to Congress a request for additional disaster assistance funds. “Funds available in FEMA’s Disaster Relief Fund are diminishing daily, and disaster assistance in related agencies will not be sufficient to help families and businesses in need,” the Members wrote. “We request the Office of Management and Budget submit an amendment to the Fiscal Year 2013 budget request, pursuant to the Budget Control Act, to provide emergency aid for federal disaster assistance programs.” The Members of Congress also called on President Obama to extend current provisions for 100 percent reimbursement for a full 30 days after a disaster, expand these provisions to cover all direct federal assistance, and increase the federal cost share for Public Assistance to 90 percent so state and local governments can respond more quickly to take steps toward a complete recovery. Congressman Peter King, Chairman of the Committee on Homeland Security, and Congresswoman Nita Lowey, a senior member of the Appropriations Committee, are leading a bipartisan task force focused on ensuring the federal government does its part to help states affected by Sandy recover and rebuild. The letter included Members of Congress representing New York, New Jersey, Connecticut, Rhode Island, Pennsylvania, and Delaware. Full letter text:President Barack ObamaThe White House1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, NWWashington, DC 20510 Dear Mr. President: We commend you and your Administration for your support of communities that have suffered as a result of Tropical Storm Sandy, which took the lives of more than 100 Americans, destroyed homes and businesses, crippled infrastructure and devastated the East Coast of the United States. Rebuilding cannot be a decade-long path; our communities must begin rebuilding today. In the wake of disasters, the federal government has a tradition of helping states recover from catastrophic damage. As the full extent of Sandy’s destruction is not yet known, it is already clear that significant federal assistance will be required. Funds available in FEMA’s Disaster Relief Fund are diminishing daily, and disaster assistance in related agencies will not be sufficient to help families and businesses in need. We request the Office of Management and Budget submit an amendment to the Fiscal Year 2013 budget request, pursuant to the Budget Control Act, to provide emergency aid for federal disaster assistance programs. In addition, we ask that you extend current provisions for 100 percent reimbursement for a full 30 days after the disaster and expand these provisions to cover all direct federal assistance. As there is no doubt that the damage in the hardest hit areas will meet the threshold to allow for a cost share waiver, we ask that you exercise your discretion in this matter to increase the federal cost share for Public Assistance categories A-G to 90 percent so that state and local governments can respond more quickly to take steps toward a complete recovery. A full recovery will require disaster assistance programs through a number of agencies and departments, including the Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Agriculture, Department of Health and Human Services, Department of Housing and Urban Development, Department of Transportation, U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, Economic Development Administration, and Small Business Administration. Therefore, we hope your Fiscal Year 2014 budget proposal will reflect the financial resources each department will require to meet ongoing recovery needs. We look forward to working with you to help our families and businesses recover and stand ready to provide any information to help expedite our request.Thank you for your consideration. Sincerely, PETER T. KINGNITA LOWEYFRANK LOBIONDO JIM HIMES JERROLD NADLER PAUL TONKOJOSEPH CROWLEY ROBERT TURNER ROBERT E. ANDREWSJOE COURTNEY GARY ACKERMAN CAROLYN MALONEYMICHAEL GRIMM EDOLPHUS TOWNS ALBIO SIRESCHRIS SMITH JON RUNYAN ALLYSON Y. SCHWARTZWILLIAM OWENS RUSH HOLT FRANK PALLONE, JR.JOSÉ SERRANO JOHN LARSON CAROLYN MCCARTHYBILL PASCRELL, JR. CHRIS GIBSON RODNEY P. FRELINGHUYSENROSA DELAURO LEONARD LANCE CHRISTOPHER S. MURPHYYVETTE D. CLARKE ELIOT ENGEL STEVEN R. ROTHMANSTEVE ISRAEL CHARLES RANGEL TIMOTHY H. BISHOPDAVID CICILLINE JAMES LANGEVIN GREGORY W. MEEKSNYDIA VELAZQUEZ DONALD PAYNE, JR. BRIAN HIGGINSMAURICE HINCHEY CHAKA FATTAH JOHN CARNEY
11.02.2012	Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today issued the following statement on the FEMA major disaster declaration (MDD) for Westchester and Rockland Counties: “I am pleased Westchester and Rockland Counties have received a major disaster declaration from FEMA, making both counties eligible for both public and individual assistance. This is an important step as it gives residents and local leaders confidence that federal aid will be available to help recover from this disaster. That is why I immediately called on FEMA to issue this declaration after the storm.To learn about these federal assistance programs, begin the application process, or check your application status, please visit www.DisasterAssistance.gov, m.fema.gov on your smartphone, or call 1-800-621-3362.“The top priorities now are speeding the pace of power restoration to both Westchester and Rockland Counties; and easing the gasoline shortage, particularly for emergency vehicles.” ###
10.30.2012	Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today issued the following statement regarding damage to New York from Hurricane Sandy:“My thoughts and prayers go out to those who lost loved ones in Hurricane Sandy, and to those who were injured or lost homes, businesses, and property. I offer my thanks to first responders and rescue personnel and to utilities crews working to restore power. “When search and rescue efforts are completed, I have urged the Federal Emergency Management Administration (FEMA) to conduct a Preliminary Damage Assessment in the lower Hudson Valley, and to amend New York’s federal disaster declaration to include Westchester and Rockland Counties. I am working closely with Governor Cuomo and I have urged local town, village, and county officials to document and estimate damages incurred from the storm, and offered any assistance I can provide. Judging by the scale of the impact, I expect the lower Hudson Valley to qualify for federal public assistance and individual assistance.“As a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee, I will also work with Congressional leadership and the White House to determine whether additional disaster relief appropriations from Congress are necessary to help New York and other states that experienced severe damages.” ###
10.22.2012	Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY), Ranking Democrat on the House Appropriations Subcommittee on State and Foreign Operations, today issued the following release on the release by the House oversight and Government Reform Committee of sensitive documents naming Libyans working with the United States. "It is outrageous that, in their zeal to score political points against the President, the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee released sensitive documents naming Libyans working with the U.S. Government. This reckless and irresponsible release jeopardizes the lives and safety of our partners and their families. There is no justification for playing political games with our national security and the wellbeing of Libyans working with us to achieve a more secure future." ###
10.01.2012	Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today issued the following statement regarding the spray-painting of a swastika on a New City street near the home of a respected Jewish activist: “I am outraged by anti-Semitic vandalism in New City near the home of a prominent member of the Jewish community whose parents survived the Holocaust. “I know Clarkstown Police Department will investigate this crime and hold accountable anyone who would deface public roads with such a symbol of hate. “This shocking act is another reminder that even in the most diverse and educated areas of the country, the scourge of intolerance and anti-Semitism must be erased. All members of our community have a responsibility to reject intolerance and speak out against hate speech directed against individuals for no reason other than their religion.” ###
09.21.2012	WASHINGTON, DC—Representatives Rosa DeLauro (D-CT), Frank Pallone (D-NJ) and Nita Lowey (D-NY) announced they will introduce legislation today to limit the amount of arsenic permitted in rice and rice-based products. A recent Consumer Reports investigation revealed alarmingly high levels of arsenic in rice and rice-based products, such as cereal. There are currently no federal standards for arsenic in most foods, including rice and rice-based products. “The idea that high levels of arsenic, a known carcinogen, are present in rice, cereal and other common, everyday foods is absolutely outrageous,” DeLauro said. “The federal government has an obligation to every American family to ensure that the food they consume is safe and should not make them sick. This is not the first time we have been alerted to the dangers of arsenic, and quite simply we must do more to ensure that our food supply is safe. This bill is a step in that direction.” “The recent Consumer Reports investigation finding of measurable amounts of arsenic in a range of rice products is cause for concern for consumers, and parents in particular,” said Pallone. “The health risks associated with inorganic arsenic as a carcinogen are widely known and there absolutely should be a federal arsenic standard for rice products similar to those for bottled water.” “Ensuring the safety of our food supply is among the most important responsibilities of the federal government,” said Lowey. “It is inexcusable that no standards exist to keep arsenic, a known carcinogen, out of rice and rice-based products like cereal. This legislation will help protect families from this unacceptable risk.” Ami Gadhia, senior policy counsel for Consumers Union, the policy division of Consumer Reports, said, “This bill would help ensure that we have standards in place to reduce arsenic in rice and rice products. Based on our findings, we strongly believe that the government needs to set these limits. We commend the sponsors of this legislation for standing up to help consumers.” The R.I.C.E Act (Reducing food-based Inorganic and organic Compounds Exposure Act) requires the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to set a maximum permissible level of arsenic in rice and food containing rice. FDA currently has standards for bottled water, but nothing else. The Consumer Reports investigation found arsenic in more than 200 samples of rice and rice-based products. Arsenic is known to contribute to the likelihood of developing multiple cancers and other serious health problems. In February, Pallone was joined by DeLauro and Lowey in introducing the Arsenic Prevention and Protection from Lead Exposure in Juice Act of 2012 or “APPLE Juice Act” which would require the FDA to establish standards for arsenic and lead in fruit juices after a separate investigation revealed alarmingly high levels of arsenic and lead in apple and grape juice in New Jersey, New York and Connecticut.
09.19.2012	Congresswoman Nita Lowey (NY-18) and Congressman Eliot Engel (NY-17) today announced Westchester Community College and Rockland Community College will receive a total of $210,408 in federal funding to help workers and veterans gain skills to find good jobs in advanced manufacturing. “Helping train and educate displaced workers and veterans for careers in advanced manufacturing is a win-win for workers and for New York,” said Congresswoman Nita Lowey. “Working in advanced manufacturing requires education and skills far beyond the jobs of the past. I am thrilled community colleges in Westchester and Rockland Counties will be at the forefront of helping workers find new careers.” Rep. Engel said, “This grant will allow our two community colleges to provide the education and training to enable workers to find high quality jobs in the advanced manufacturing sector in two years or less. Even in these tough economic times there are jobs available, but they require advanced abilities. This is a great help to those who had their jobs outsourced, and it keeps our promise to veterans by helping them find work when they come home.” “We are excited about this grant which will allow us to develop small manufacturing skills classes. These workforce development courses will help those seeking entry level positions to gain the skills needed for local employment,” says Dr. Joseph N. Hankin, President of Westchester Community College. “This grant money will help us develop new services and expand upon existing services.” Dr. Cliff Wood, President of Rockland Community College stated, “We are delighted to be part of this exciting project, which represents new training and educational pathways for training in advanced manufacturing for TAA eligible populations in our region. It represents a significant investment in our ability to help prepare students for careers in advanced high-tech manufacturing, one of the most important economic growth sectors for our region and New York State.” With these resources, eligible institutions of higher education will be able to expand their capacity to provide quality education and training services to individuals to improve their knowledge and skills, to enable them to obtain high-quality employment to support their families. ###
09.13.2012	Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today announced the Village of Bronxville will receive a $4.375 million grant from the Federal Emergency Management Administration (FEMA) to mitigate repetitive flooding in the vicinity of Midland Avenue and Pondfield Road. “This federal grant is great news for Bronxville, one of several Westchester communities affected by persistent flooding,” said Lowey. “I have consistently fought for hazard mitigation funding to protect homes, businesses, roads, and infrastructure in our region from the dangers of severe storms and resulting floods.” “We in the Village of Bronxville are so very pleased that the federal government has seen fit to grant us the money we need to fix the long term flooding problems at our school campus and adjacent neighborhoods,” said Bronxville Mayor Mary C. Marvin. “I can’t thank Congresswoman Nita Lowey enough for her hard work in making this happen. Nita’s persistence and special ability to use good arguments with government agencies won the day for Bronxville. This project will go a long way in helping to protect our school and its neighbors in times of severe weather. Thank you Nita.” The federal funding is one of four Hazard Mitigation Grants awarded by FEMA to recipients in New York, Illinois, Kansas, and Missouri. Lowey, a senior member of the Appropriations Subcommittee on Homeland Security, has consistently fought for this federal funding to help New York communities prevent persistent and severe flooding. The grant will be used to construct a below grade detention storage system, including a network of drains to maintain groundwater levels, allowing the area to be used as a field instead of as a pond. A pump station will be constructed to direct storm water runoff from the detention storage system to the Bronx River.###
09.12.2012	Congresswoman Nita Lowey, Ranking Democrat on the Appropriations State and Foreign Operations Subcommittee, today issued the following statement on the attack on the U.S. consulate in Libya: “I condemn in the strongest possible terms the attack on the U.S. consulate in Libya, which resulted in the death of four Americans including Ambassador Chris Stevens. The diplomatic personnel who died in Benghazi were serving their country and helping the people of Libya make the transition to a more secure and democratic future.“Attacks on diplomatic missions cannot be tolerated and the Libyan government must identify and hold accountable those individuals who were responsible for this deadly attack.“My thoughts and prayers are with the victims and their families, and I will work with the Administration to ensure sufficient resources are available to increase security and protection at U.S. embassies and consulates around the world.” ###
09.10.2012	Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today announced seven local organizations will receive a total of $875,000 in federal grants for innovative and effective youth anti-substance abuse initiatives. “Helping youth avoid the dangers of substance abuse is critical to healthy communities and thriving families,” said Lowey. “Each of these initiatives is a model of effective programming that involves the community in keeping our children safe from the dangers of drugs and alcohol. I am so pleased the federal government will support these worthy initiatives.” In New York’s 18th Congressional District, seven local initiatives were awarded grants of $125,000 each:· Westchester Coalition for Drug and Alcohol Free Youth (Westchester County)· PACT – Parents and Community Together (Pelham)· Port Chester Cares Community Coalition· Ossining Communities That Care· Ardsley SAYF Coalition· Larchmont-Mamaroneck Responsible Action: Drug and Alcohol Resource (RADAR) Coalition· White Plains Community That Cares“Over the past decade, this federal funding has provided opportunity to build our coalition, create community awareness, and impact youth substance abuse through prevention, planning, and programming.” said Alice Joselow, Coordinator of Ossining Communities That Care. “This funding makes possible assemblies and web-based prevention education in the schools, enforcement activities including alcohol compliance checks and prescription take back efforts, and leadership and youth activities across the community. We are so grateful and we thank Congresswoman Lowey for her support of our efforts at the local, county and national levels.” The $875,000 in federal grants were awarded by the Office of National Drug Control Policy (ONDCP) Drug-Free Communities (DFC) Program. The DFC Program provides grants to community coalitions that facilitate citizen participation in local drug prevention efforts. Since 1998, ONDCP has awarded more than 2,000 Drug-Free Communities grants to local communities nationwide. ###
09.10.2012	Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), a senior member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Homeland Security, today made the following statement in reaction to the addition of certain cancers as WTC-Related Health Conditions, established originally by the James Zadroga 9/11 Health and Compensation Act of 2010: “The attacks of September 11th scarred our nation, and those who died will always be in our thoughts and prayers. It is our solemn obligation to ensure that first responders and survivors receive the medical care they need to treat illnesses incurred from toxic conditions at Ground Zero. “I commend Administrator Howard and the Scientific/Technical Advisory Committee for recognizing certain cancers as WTC-Related Health Conditions. I will continue working with the New York Congressional Delegation to ensure first responders and survivors get the care they deserve.” ###
09.06.2012	Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today commended announcement of a $18 million federal grant for the New York Police Department (NYPD) through the Securing the Cities nuclear detection program. “New York is our nation’s biggest, most populous, and most vibrant city, and remains a top target for terrorists around the world,” said Lowey. “Securing the Cities provides critical funding to increase federal and local coordination and help discover and prevent a catastrophic attack. I will work with Mayor Bloomberg and the New York Congressional delegation to ensure this funding and coordination continues.” “Since 9/11, New York City has been the target of at least fourteen terrorist plots,” said Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg. “Thefunding provided by the Securing the Cities Initiative will ensure that the NYPD has the tools to detect nuclear or radioactive devices intended to harm the City. I would like to thank Congresswoman Lowey and the entire New York delegation for their leadership in safeguarding this critical homeland security funding for New York City.” Lowey, a senior member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Homeland Security and the only member from New York, has fought successfully each year to ensure Securing the Cities is funded to help protect New Yorkers from nuclear and radiological threats. Funds are awarded to sustain developed capability, purchase equipment, and train personnel. Previous allocations were used by NYPD and regional partners to coordinate and integrate detection and interdiction of nuclear materials that may be used as a weapon within high-threat, high-density urban areas. ###
09.05.2012	WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY) today announced the White Plains Fire Department will receive a $23,600 federal grant to support the Juvenile Fire Setter Program, helping to keep Westchester County communities safe. “Local fire departments help keep our communities safe not just by putting out fires, but also by stopping them before they occur,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “I am pleased the Department of Homeland Security is supporting this worthy program to help prevent children from starting fires.” Lowey is a senior member – and the only New Yorker – on the Appropriations Subcommittee on Homeland Security, where she has strongly advocated initiatives to support local fire departments. White Plains Mayor Tom Roach said, "I would like to thank the White Plains federal delegation -- Representative Lowey and Senators Schumer and Gillibrand -- for helping White Plains secure this funding. The White Plains Fire Department Juvenile Fire Setter program provides valuable education and assistance to juveniles who have been involved in or are at risk for fire-related activity. These funds will assist us in maintaining this important community-wide education and awareness program." More than half of arson fires nationwide are started by children. That includes 53 incidents of juveniles starting fires in White Plains in 2011. The officers involved in the Juvenile Fire Setter Program will receive training from the National Fire Academy. The grant will assist with training costs, educational materials, and public education.The Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) program, which is administered by the Department of Homeland Security Office of Grants and Training in coordination with the U.S. Fire Administration, awards grants directly to fire departments and EMS agencies. Funds may be used to increase the effectiveness of firefighting operations, firefighter health and safety programs, emergency medical service programs, fire prevention and safety programs, and to purchase new fire equipment. ###
08.30.2012	Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today announced a $328,000 federal grant for New York Medical College to support creation of the New York BioHud Valley Training Center. “The Lower Hudson Valley has one of the most capable, highly educated workforces in the country, making it an ideal location to support a growing biotechnology industry,” said Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland). “I am thrilled the federal government is supporting this emerging industry in Westchester County, which holds the potential to create hundreds of new jobs in the years to come.” This Economic Development Administration (EDA) investment funds renovation of an existing building at New York Medical College (NYMC) to create the New York BioHud Valley Training Center in Valhalla. The new training center will allow the BioHud Valley Initiative, a consortium of biotech firms, universities, and government entities, to provide training in various biotechnology curricula. These training opportunities will address the shortage of trained personnel in the region’s emerging biotechnology cluster. EDA grants are awarded through a competitive process based upon the application’s merit, the applicant’s eligibility, and the availability of funds.
08.30.2012	Nyack, NY – Standing at Maria Luisa's Boutique in Nyack, U.S. Senator Kirsten Gillibrand and Congresswoman Nita Lowey announced federal legislation designed to extend targeted tax breaks for small businesses. Women-run small businesses are among the fastest growing segments of the economy, but start with eight times less capital. Senator Gillibrand urged the U.S. Senate to vote on the SUCCESS Act of 2012, legislation that would provide investors with strong incentives to invest in small business stock, double deductions for start-up expenses, purchase new equipment, and continue tax credits that small businesses can take advantage of. “Small businesses are the backbone of our economy and the most powerful job creators we have,” Senator Gillibrand said. “I’ve heard from women in the Hudson Valley and across the state. I know women are ready to lead us to a thriving and stable economy, with new good-paying jobs that can support a family. When we provide the tools that small business leaders need, we can help this economic engine take off.” “Small businesses owned by women are growing quickly in number, and their success and expansion are critical to our economic recovery,” said Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland). “Like all entrepreneurs, women who own small businesses need access to affordable capital and long-term tax policies that encourage growth and hiring, and reduce economic uncertainty. I am proud to stand by Senator Gillibrand in support of creating the conditions necessary for women-owned small businesses to thrive.”Harriet Cornell, Chairwoman of the Rockland County Legislature, said, "Senator Gillibrand’s legislation to encourage investment in and extend tax credits for small businesses could not be better timed. The NY Stock Exchange just released its annual survey of the economy and found that a majority of small businesses are currently having difficulty accessing capital, hurting job growth and the economy. Women-owned businesses now represent roughly 1/3 of all small business owners, and they are an economic engine. Senator Gillibrand's legislation will provide needed tools to create jobs and grow the economy." Nyack Mayor Jen White said, "Senator Gillibrand is a consistent, loud and powerful voice for women and small businesses, both facing particularly tough times. We are so proud and honored to have her announcing this initiative right here in Nyack, a place that thrives on the success of small businesses and rejoices in the number of women who own them." Dara L. Onofrio, Esq., President of the Rockland Business Women’s Network, said, “For over 30 years, the Rockland Business Women's Network (RBWN) has offered resources and support to women business leaders in Rockland County. We know our women-run businesses are in need of assistance. We appreciate all that Senator Gillibrand is doing to help provide the tools our members need to succeed," Michael J. DiTullo, President and CEO, Rockland Economic Development Corp, said, “Driving down risk and enhancing revenue is imperative to successful small business. More than 50% of early stage businesses are headed by women. The legislation proposed by Senator Gillibrand would help female entrepreneurs grow their book of business, thus create jobs and wealth in Rockland County and the Hudson River Valley. Research has shown that Federal tax credits and carryback provisions afford incentives and confidence for nimble firms to invest and take risk”. New York State Senator David Carlucci said, “Small businesses are the heart and soul of New York State's economy, and by reducing red tape and providing tax incentives, we can foster real economic growth. Senator Gillibrand's legislation offers fresh thinking and a new approach that will help U.S. small businesses keep more of their hard earned money, reduce operating expenses, and ultimately invest in job creation.” Last fall, Senator Gillibrand held women’s economic empowerment roundtables across the state, and heard firsthand from small business owners. Small businesses play a critical role in the national and local economy, with more than 10 million firms owned by women. Between 1997 and 2007, women-owned businesses added roughly 500,000 jobs, while other private firms lost jobs. However, women, on average, start their business with eight times less funding than men, making tax credits a critical part of their business plan. To bolster small business growth, Senator Gillibrand and Rep. Lowey have been working with a group of bipartisan women Senators to extend targeted small business tax benefits, which expired at the start of 2012, through at least 2013. These tax breaks are included in a larger bill aimed to help small businesses grow, called the Success Ultimately Comes from Capital, Contracting, Education, Strategic Partnerships and Smart Regulation (SUCCESS) Act of 2012. In September 2010, Congress passed the Small Business Jobs Act, which provided a number of key tax benefits to American small businesses, such as eliminating capital gains tax on investments in small business, and cutting taxes for businesses that invest in new equipment. With roughly two-thirds of new jobs in the U.S. generated by small businesses, extending these tax provisions for businesses is a key way to encourage growth and hiring. Small Business Tax Breaks Under the SUCCESS Act These tax benefits include a number of provisions that help give small businesses the ability to grow and expand now by providing incentives to invest in small businesses, helping businesses make new investments in equipment, and extending benefits that help out new start-ups. Tax Relief for Small Business Capital Gains: This provision would provide investors a strong incentive to invest in small business stock. Prior to 2009, 50 percent of the gain of a small business stock was subject to tax. Senator Gillibrand supported legislation that increased this exclusion to 75 percent and the Small Business Jobs Act expanded that benefit to 100 percent of the gain. Eligible small businesses are defined as those with gross assets under $50 million and the stock must be held for at least five years. Doubles Existing Deductions for Start-up Costs for New Small Businesses: New start-ups typically face a number of substantial expenses in their first year they get off the ground, such as permits, consulting costs, expenses in finding clients and customers and other needs, but are limited in the amount of expenses they can deduct that year on their taxes. This provision would extend the increased deduction for start-up expenses, from $5,000 to $10,000. Eligible expenses include studies of potential markets, products, labor markets, or transportation systems; advertisements for the opening of a new business; compensation for consultants and employees undergoing training and their instructors; and travel for the purpose of securing suppliers, distributors, and customers. Extends Section 179 Expensing: This provision allows small businesses to write-off up to $500,000 in tangible property, such as investments in machinery and plant equipment, or other physical equipment (such as refrigerators or stoves for a restaurant or gas pumps for a gas station). General Business Credit Carryback: This provision would allow businesses to continue to carryback (i.e., count against profits from previous years) general business credits for up to five years. This helps businesses who are currently not profitable by allowing them to claim credits against years where they were making money. Another measure included in the SUCCESS Act is the Expanding Access to Capital for Entrepreneurial Leaders (EXCEL) Act, which would modify the Small Business Investment Company (SBIC) program to raise the amount of SBIC debt the Small Business Administration (SBA) can guarantee from $3 billion to $4 billion. It would also increase from $225 million to $350 million the amount of SBA guaranteed debt a team of SBIC fund managers who operate several funds can borrow. # # #
08.09.2012	34 People are Killed Every Day Because of Gun Violence NEW CITY – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) was joined today by local law enforcement officials to call on Congress to pass the Stop Online Ammunition Sales Act and other measures to protect the American public from senseless gun violence. “Assault weapons and high-caliber ammunition should not be available to the general public. They are not used to protect one’s home and are not used for hunting,” said Lowey. “They are, quite simply, weapons of war designed to kill as many people as possible as quickly as possible. With the recent tragedies in Aurora and Oak Creek, Congress must take action to prevent gun violence.” Rockland County District Attorney Thomas Zugibe said, "The practice of purchasing large amounts of ammunition over the Internet is fraught with potential dangers. For one, the buyer has no human interaction with a trained weapons retailer, allowing possible warning signs to go unnoticed. This proposal to ban anonymous bullet purchases on the web will not infringe upon Second Amendment rights, but would simply help ammo dealers spot trouble through photo ID checks and mandated record keeping. Limiting online ammunition sales will keep our communities safer." New Yorkers Against Gun Violence Executive Director Jackie Hilly said, “Our nation has been shocked by two horrific massacres in as many weeks with 70 people shot in Aurora and 7 more in Oak Creek, Wisconsin. We can and must do more to prevent this senseless violence in the future. The Stop Online Ammunition Sales Act is an important step to make our communities safer. We need leadership in preventing deaths and not just condolences. Congress must act to adopt this common sense legislation now and show commitment to saving American lives.” The Stop Online Ammunition Sales Act would ensure that ammunition dealers responsibly distribute their products. Ammunition would have to be purchased in person so that a proper inspection could be conducted. Additionally, the bill would require dealers to alert the authorities to the sale of more than 1,000 rounds within five days in order to help law enforcement monitor potential threats. Lowey is an advocate of a number of other measures aimed at reducing the number of casualties that are a by-product of gun violence. She has supported legislation that would prohibit ammunition colloquially referred to as “cop-killer bullets;” close loopholes that allow people to avoid background checks when attaining weapons; and improve digital records of gun transactions. “It should not take another tragedy for us as a society to evaluate our laws and debate the merits of commonsense gun policies,” continued Lowey. “An average of 34 people per day is killed due to preventable gun violence. After Columbine, Virginia Tech, Tucson, Aurora and now Oak Creek, we cannot wait until the next tragedy to act.” ###
08.06.2012	Congresswoman helped obtain overdue recognition WHITE PLAINS, NY – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) presented the Silver Star today to Thomas Giorgi, a Vietnam War veteran from Rye Brook. “I was very moved when I heard of Thomas Giorgi’s heroic actions on July 3rd, 1966,” said Lowey. “His selfless act is a reminder of the immense sacrifices made by our veterans to defend this country, and I was honored to help him obtain the recognition he’s deserved for almost fifty years. I’ve made it a priority to help veterans in any way I can, whether it’s supporting legislation that improves benefits to veterans, assisting with the veterans’ claims process, or helping our heroes obtain medals.” “It is hard to find the words to explain how I feel about being awarded the Silver Star,” said Giorgi. “It's a bitter-sweet occasion because 20 men from my Company lost their lives in the battle that earned me this most prestigious recognition which, without the help of Congresswoman Nita Lowey and her staff, would have never happened. She has my deepest thanks on this occasion.” The Silver Star is the third-highest combat military decoration and is awarded by all branches of the Armed Forces to any person who, while serving in any capacity, is cited for gallantry in action against an enemy of the United States. On July 3rd, 1966, PFC Tom Giorgi and 17 other members of his squad from the Army’s 25th Infantry Division were on a patrol near the Cambodian border when they came across a deserted enemy base camp. The squadron engaged a battalion-sized force of 200 or more enemy soldiers armed with automatic weapons, mortars, grenade launchers and light anti-tank weapons. He witnessed his squad leader, Staff Sgt. Gilberto Garcia, get shot during the battle. Despite the chaos in the clearing, Mr. Giorgi grabbed his shotgun and sprinted 20 yards to where his squad leader had been shot and was laying unconscious. Staff Sgt. Garcia was too big to be moved, so Mr. Giorgi provided him with medical attention until a medic arrived. After the medic arrived, Mr. Giorgi provided cover fire. Enemy soldiers shot and killed both the medic and Staff Sgt. Garcia and Mr. Giorgi was shot and critically wounded. He received two Purple Hearts. With help from Congresswoman Lowey’s office, Giorgi compiled and submitted to the U.S. Department of Defense the necessary documentation demonstrating sacrifices meriting the Silver Star. Today, he finally received the recognition he has deserved for almost 50 years. ###
08.02.2012	TSO Officers will have same rights as other Federal Law Enforcement Officers for the first time WASHINGTON – This morning, the Transportation Security Administration (TSA) and American Federation of Government Employees (AFGE) signed a collective bargaining agreement which would, for the first time, grant Transportation Security Officers (TSOs) collective bargaining rights so they may receive fair pay in line with other federal law enforcement employees, as well as a standard process for responsibilities, transfers, and awards. The agreement awaits final sign off by union members but is expected to pass. “I commend the TSA and Administrator Pistole for increasing aviation security by professionalizing the TSO workforce,” said Lowey. “By allowing TSOs to bargain collectively, TSA will engage employees, improve morale, and increase our national security. This is critical to keeping experienced screeners on the job and protecting the safety of the traveling public.” In the 111th Congress, Congresswoman Lowey introduced legislation that would grant TSOs collective bargaining rights. The bill had 147 cosponsors and passed in the Committee. Last year, TSA Administrator Pistole announced that he would take steps to grant collective bargaining rights to TSOs. With the signing of the agreement this morning, a vote by members on the agreement will be held in the next 60 days. The agreement ensures that for the first time, TSOs have the same rights as other federal law enforcement workers. “I look forward to continuing to work with Administrator Pistole, Secretary Napolitano, and Congressional homeland security leadership to ensure the safety of the traveling public is paramount and our transportation security workforce is prepared to meet continuing threats.” ###
08.01.2012	WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY) today strongly criticized comments that compared health reforms providing free preventive health care to women to the September 11th and Pearl Harbor attacks. “Republicans deny there is a war on women yet one likens access to contraception to acts of war and terrorism,” said Lowey. “Congressman Kelly’s comparison of women’s health to Pearl Harbor and the 9/11 attacks is reprehensible.” Beginning today, newly issued health plans will be required to provide free preventive services to women, including contraceptives, HPV screening, and annual preventive care exams. An Institute of Medicine recommendation on women’s preventive care indicates this policy can greatly improve women’s health and reduce health care costs in the long-term. Many House Republicans have objected to the coverage requirements, which exempt churches from providing contraceptives. Rep. Mike Kelly even went so far as to compare today’s implementation date to Pearl Harbor and the terrorist attacks on 9/11. “It is outrageous that in 2012, House Republicans want to prevent women from accessing health services and that anyone would compare giving women control of their health to terrorism. I am appalled at Rep. Kelly’s ignorant and insensitive comments.” ###
07.27.2012	“We must recognize the tragedies of the past to promote peace for the future.”Washington, DC – Congresswoman Nita Lowey and colleagues in the House of Representatives made one final call yesterday for the International Olympic Committee to hold one minute of silence during the opening ceremonies in London in memory of the 11 athletes and coaches who were killed at the 1972 games. Lowey also observed a Minute of Silence on the House Floor. Her “one minute” speech during which she remembered the Munich 11 can be found on her You Tube Channel at https://www.youtube.com/user/nitalowey/videos.Lowey made the following statement at the press conference:“Today I stand with my colleagues to remember the Munich 11. With two weeks of Olympic events ahead, we asked the International Olympic Committee for just one minute. One minute of silence. One minute of calm amidst the excitement. One minute of reflection on the tragic loss of eleven lives. “40 years after this tragedy, it is unacceptable that the Olympics have yet to properly recognize this atrocious event. Today we urge the International Olympic Committee to reconsider holding just one short minute of silence during the Opening Ceremonies tomorrow. “As John Williams, composer of the Olympic theme said, "The Olympics are a wonderful metaphor for world cooperation, the kind of international competition that's wholesome and healthy, an interplay between countries that represents the best in all of us.” “Honoring the Munich 11 would show the world that every Olympian is part of a family that is stronger than prejudice and hatred. “It would also demonstrate to youth around the globe a commitment to a world void of intolerance and violence. We must recognize the tragedies of the past to learn and promote peace for the future.“I urge the IOC to do the right thing and hold this minute of silence.”In May, Reps. Lowey, Engel, Israel, Hanna and 19 other Members of Congress sent a bipartisan letter to Dr. Jacques Rogge, president of the IOC, calling on the committee to reconsider its rejection of requests to hold a moment of silence during the opening ceremonies of this year’s Olympic Games. Family members of victims of the massacre, like Ankie Spitzer, and community organizations like the Jewish Community Center (JCC) of Rockland, launched an online petition urging the IOC to include a minute of silence. They received over 103,000 signatures and they were not alone: President Obama also added his voice, calling on the IOC to act. At the same time, Reps. Lowey and Engel introduced a resolution in the House calling for a minute of silence to give the 11 Israeli athletes and coaches the recognition they deserve 40 years after the Munich massacre. Unfortunately the IOC has repeatedly denied these requests and the Opening Ceremonies will pass without a tribute to the victims of the Munich 11.###
07.24.2012	Expired Ban & other Commonsense Legislation would Prohibit Sale of AR15-Rifle and High Capacity Magazines used in Aurora ShootingCongresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today called for reinstatement of the Assault Weapons Ban, which lapsed in 2004, in order to protect Americans from military-grade weapons capable of inflicting severe casualties, such as AR-15 assault rifles and high-capacity magazines. “Even more Americans would have lost their lives had one of the Aurora shooter’s guns not jammed. It’s not enough to hope and pray that every shooter’s weapons malfunction. We can and must mitigate gun violence through commonsense restrictions on high-capacity magazines and military-style weapons.”According to reports, the alleged Aurora, Colorado gunman was armed with four legally-purchased weapons including an AR-15 assault rifle and a high-capacity drum-style magazine capable of holding 100 rounds. He had purchased more than 6,000 rounds of ammunition.Lowey was a cosponsor of legislation introduced by Congresswoman Carolyn McCarthy (D-NY) to reinstate the assault weapons ban. Lowey is also a cosponsor of legislation recently introduced by McCarthy designed specifically to restrict sale of large capacity magazines that can hold dozens of rounds of ammunition.Dan Gross, President of the Brady Campaign to Prevent Gun Violence said this week, “This tragedy is another grim reminder that guns are the enablers of mass killers and that our nation pays an unacceptable price for our failure to keep guns out of the hands of dangerous people…As someone who has suffered the lasting impact of gun violence, and President of Brady, I can tell you that we don’t want sympathy. We want action.”"Enough is enough,'" said Lowey. "While demented individuals intent on killing will find a way to commit murders, it is clear that access to high capacity weaponry and ammunition dramatically increase the likelihood of mass casualties as a result of shootings like those at Virginia Tech; Fort Hood; Tucson, Arizona; and Aurora, Colorado.”# # #
07.19.2012	Lowey Continues to Press for IOC to Honor Memory of Victims of Terror at 1972 Games Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY) today issued the following statement on President Obama’s support for a minute of silence at the upcoming Olympics to honor the Israeli Olympic team members who were killed at the 1972 Games in Munich: I am pleased the President Obama has added his voice to our calls to the International Olympic Committee (IOC) to observe a minute of silence to honor the Munich 11 at the opening ceremonies of this year’s Olympics. I am disappointed that so far, the IOC has refused to do so. A minute of silence would honor the memories of the Israeli athletes, coaches, and referees who lost their lives while representing their nation at the 1972 Olympics, and it would remind the world of the terrible consequences of hatred and intolerance. I hope that the President’s support will prompt the IOC to reconsider. ###
07.19.2012	WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Lowey (D-NY) today announced that Rockland County will receive a Department of Transportation FY2012 Bus Livability Program grant of $2.4 million. “I am proud to see that the Rockland County public transit system will benefit from these federal funds,” said Rep. Lowey. “With increased congestion and rising fuel costs, public transit is an essential mode of transportation for local residents. The addition of ITS systems will not only enhance productivity but will help ensure quality transit service for Rockland.” "We are pleased to hear that Rockland County was awarded this Bus Livability Program grant, and we are grateful to the FTA for providing these vital funds," said Rockland County Executive C. Scott Vanderhoef. "The funds will enable Rockland County to provide advanced technologies and equipment onboard our buses, which will improve and modernize service for our residents." Rockland County Legislature Chairwoman Harriet Cornell expressed appreciation for the assistance of Congresswoman Lowey in attaining this sizable grant and said, "public transit in Rockland will be enormously enhanced by the addition of ITS equipment which will benefit the 3.5 million annual riders who use the TOR and TZx bus services. The first phase of the project will be to modernize the fare collection method enabling the ability to generate and store ridership data as well as a way to introduce new and better payment options. Later phases will allow internet-based, real-time information to passengers." Chairwoman Cornell went on to say that "these efficiencies will attract riders and lessen the number of single occupant vehicles on our roads." The Bus Livability Program grants are highly competitive and are awarded to areas in order to best provide mobility choices, improve economic competitiveness, support existing communities, create partnerships and enhance the value of communities and neighborhoods. Rockland County will be able to use the funding to purchase ITS Equipment, which will greatly enhance the County’s public transit system. ###
07.19.2012	WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Nita Lowey and Congressman Eliot Engel today announced that the Westchester Community Opportunity Program (WestCOP) will receive a renewal grant of $936,025 to provide supportive services for 750 local veterans’ households. “America made a pledge to its veterans and this is part of the effort to fulfill that pledge,” said Rep. Engel. “These men and women served their country and have come upon hard times. This money will provide supportive services to very low-income veteran families living in, or transitioning to, permanent housing.” “We are indebted to our veterans for the sacrifices they have made for our country,” said Rep. Lowey. “These brave men and women deserve our praise and support, and I am pleased WestCOP will receive this renewal of funding, enabling the organization to continue to provide vital supportive services for our local veterans.” Public Law 110-387 authorized the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) to develop the new Supportive Services for Veteran Families (SSVF) Program. Under the SSVF Program, VA will award grants to private non-profit organizations and consumer cooperatives, which will provide supportive services to low-income Veteran families residing in or transitioning to permanent housing. The grantees, including WestCOP, will provide a range of supportive services designed to promote housing stability to eligible low-income Veteran families. “We view this renewal grant as recognition of the work we do and the accomplishments we have made,” said Winston Ross, Executive Director of WestCOP. “We plan to continue to work in the Hudson Valley to help veterans and their families get the support they need.” Veterans will be eligible for supportive services such as health care, daily living, financial planning, transportation, and child care services. For more information, please click here. ###
07.02.2012	Federal Funds will Support Valhalla Institute’s Crucial Community Programs Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today announced that the Westchester Institute for Human Development (WIHD) will receive a $554,000 University Center for Excellence in Development Disabilities (UCEDD) grant from the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. “For years WIHD has worked to promote the health and well-being of people with disabilities and special heath care needs in our community,” said Lowey. “The HHS grant will enable WIHD to advance their vision of a future where all people with disabilities are able to fully participate in society, live healthy and productive lives, and gain access to the services and support they need. I am proud that this funding will strengthen programming for individuals with disabilities in our community.” “We are so pleased to receive the University Center for Excellence in Developmental Disabilities grant from the Administration on Intellectual and Developmental Disabilities at the Westchester Institute for Human Development,” said Dr. Ansley Bacon, President and CEO of WIHD. “It will allow us to continue our training and research efforts to enable people with intellectual and developmental disabilities and their families to live healthy, productive lives as full members of their communities. We especially appreciate Congresswoman Lowey’s leadership on disability issues; she is truly one of our champions in the Congress.” The funding will be used to support key leadership staff to coordinate four core functions: interdisciplinary leadership training, community services and training, research, and dissemination of information. It will also support staff to develop additional programs and activities in our priority areas of health and disability, self determination and community living, and child welfare and disability. ###
06.29.2012	Vital Programs that Support Jobs & Infrastructure Safety and Lower Student Loan Rates to Continue Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY), today spoke in support of the Passage of the Surface Transportation Reauthorization Conference Report: “I am proud that the House passed a bipartisan agreement today to ensure stable funding of transportation projects through Fiscal Year 2014, helping New York State and industry and labor partners plan for long-term projects. While this bill has been needlessly delayed for months by House Republicans, I am glad this bill was passed to create jobs and alleviate the uncertainty that businesses and state and local governments have faced across the country. “Twenty-seven months of stable transportation funding will have a profound effect on New York. More than 100,000 jobs will be created and supported in the State, providing the support to our local economy and infrastructure projects. “In addition, substantial federal investments in our infrastructure will be possible through the Transportation Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act (TIFIA) program. The TIFIA authority funds will increase tenfold to $1 billion for FY2014, and the federal share of project costs will be raised from 33% to 49%. Together, these provisions will increase the likelihood that projects like the Tappan Zee Bridge will receive critical funding and provide a boost for our local economy. “Additionally, I am very pleased Congress passed student loan provisions to prevent the interest rate on new student loans from doubling on Sunday. Without action, 7.4 million students would have been hit with the higher rates, and student debt would have risen by $6.3 billion in one year alone. With young Americans suffering from the highest unemployment rate of any other group, this action will help maintain the low rates and improve students’ access to affordable education so that they can gain the skills to compete in the global economy.” ###
06.28.2012	Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY) today issued the following statement on the Supreme Court upholding the Affordable Care Act: “I am pleased the Supreme Court today upheld the Affordable Care Act, protecting access to health insurance and quality of coverage for millions of Americans. This decision protects the coverage of 17 million children with pre-existing conditions, 6.6 million young adults on their parents’ plans, and 86 million seniors and families receiving free preventive care. I will continue to work with my colleagues to improve the law and make health care more affordable for New Yorkers.” ###
06.26.2012	Congresswoman, Local University President Discuss Consequences of Doubling Student Loan Interest Rates Interest Rates on New Loans will Rise to 6.8% in a Mere Five Days if Congress does not Act WHITE PLAINS – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) was joined by Stephen J. Friedman, the President of Pace University, today in urging Congress to act immediately to prevent student loan interest rates from doubling on July 1. “It is unacceptable that the House Majority has stood in the way of protecting American students from an interest rate hike that will affect 7.4 million students,” said Lowey. “Failing to maintain low-interest student loans is irresponsible and will put an unnecessary burden on students and families. In order to be competitive in the global economy, we must invest in and protect access to affordable education.” “Higher education is a central component of both a just society and a market economy because it is about creating equal opportunity for all,” said Friedman. “There can be no doubt about the stunning correlation between education, employment, and income in the United States, so it is imperative that we maintain access to low-interest student loans for all qualified Americans, like the 60 percent of undergraduates at Pace University who borrowed federal loans last year. By doing so, we will live up to the ideals of our history, as expressed in the American dream, while we continue to advance as a nation in today’s global world.” In March 2012, the House Republican majority passed a budget that included doubling interest rates on new student loans. The budget would impose additional financial burdens on college students, including drastic cuts to Pell Grants for more than 9.6 million students and elimination of federal work study funding for 166,000 more students. An estimated 7.4 million students would be affected by the doubling student loan interest rates on July 1, and with each year Congress allows the rates to double, the average student would accrue an additional $1,000 in debt. “It is critical for the Republican Majority to stop playing politics and start working with the Democrats to prevent this increase in the cost of education,” said Lowey. “This should not be a partisan issue - we must preserve the economic security of the middle class and strengthen our economy.” ###
06.25.2012	Federal Funds will Help Protect Local Jobs & Keep Community Safe Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today announced that Yonkers will receive a $2.5 million Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS) Hiring Program grant, for 15 police officers. “Police officers serve their communities by responding to emergencies and helping those in need of assistance,” said Lowey. “This funding will help preserve the vital programs in Yonkers, which contribute greatly to the quality of life in our community. Yonkers plays a key role in keeping the entire region safe, and I am pleased that the COPS Office is addressing the department’s needs.” Yonkers Mayor Mike Spano said, “We are pleased to have been awarded the COPS grant by the Department of Justice. We look forward to reviewing the applicable conditions associated with the grant acceptance. We want to thank our federal delegation for securing the funding which will assist our efforts in keeping Yonkers streets safe.” Keith Olson, president of the Yonkers PBA, said, "On behalf of the men and women of the Yonkers PBA and as a lifelong resident of Yonkers, I thank all of our elected officials whose hard work and dedication helped Yonkers obtain the much needed COPS grant. At a time where it appears that violent crime is on the rise and the YPD's staffing levels are at an all time low, the timing of this grant could not have been better." The Department of Justice COPS Hiring Program (CHP) grants are awarded to local law enforcement agencies across the country to create and/or preserve law enforcement jobs. This year, CHP awarded $111 million nationwide and, in an effort to put veterans back to work, required that all new hires be military veterans who have served at least 180 days of active military service. Congresswoman Lowey wrote a letter in support of the COPS Grant for Yonkers and recently voted to increase funding for the COPS program in the Fiscal Year 2013 Departments of Commerce and Justice, Science, and Related Agencies Appropriations Bill. ###
06.22.2012	Measure in FDA Safety and Innovation Act to Stop Further Delays VALLEY COTTAGE – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today was joined by Chuck Bell, Programs Director of Consumers Union, to slam the FDA’s recent delay on implementing sunscreen labeling regulations and to tout House passage of the FDA Safety and Innovation Act, which includes a provision to prevent the FDA from further compliance delay beyond December 17, 2012. “I am deeply concerned for the safety of American families as we move into the peak of summer,” said Lowey. “With the FDA delay in implementing the requirement for sunscreen manufacturers to disclose the protections offered by products from UVB and UVA rays, consumers are forced to spend another summer questioning their sunscreen labels. As a grandmother of eight who spends a lot of time outdoors with family, I stock up on sunscreen every summer. Every year I and millions of Americans find the labels more and more confusing. We must ensure that consumers are confident they are receiving the protections they need during the summer months.” “Consumers are being misled by the SPF ratings that are used today, and they need better information now,” said Bell. “Consumer Reports tests have repeatedly shown that sunscreens with a high SPF rating may not actually protect people against the sun’s UVA and it is essential that the FDA require better labeling to reflect the effectiveness of these products. The FDA and the sunscreen manufacturers have already had plenty of time to fix this problem. We commend Rep. Lowey and the House of Representatives for their leadership in taking action to expedite accurate product labeling requirements for sunscreens.” In August 2007, in response to legislation drafted by Lowey, the FDA issued draft regulations to require sunscreen manufacturers to disclose the protection their products offer not just against sunburn-causing UVB rays, but against skin cancer-causing UVA rays. The regulations also include limiting SPF labels to no higher than 50, prohibiting sunscreens from using misleading claims such as “sweat-proof” or “waterproof,” and requiring labels to indicate how long you can expect the product to last while swimming or sweating. The regulations were finalized on June 15, 2011, and manufacturers were given twelve months to comply. In May, the FDA announced that manufacturers would be given an additional six months to comply, citing manufacturers’ need for additional time to finalize their new labels and a potential shortage of sunscreen for the summer months. On Wednesday, the House passed the final version of the FDA Safety and Innovation Act, which includes a provision that will prohibit the FDA from delaying implementation beyond December 17, 2012. “This must be the last summer that American families endure inadequate labeling of sunscreen,” said Lowey. “Consumers need the peace of mind that the sunscreen they use will protect them from both UVB and UVA rays.”###
06.14.2012	Congresswoman, Local Officials Urge Bipartisan Reauthorization to Spur Job Creation and Complete Infrastructure Projects House Majority Continues to Drag Feet on Urgent Priority ELMSFORD – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today was joined by Westchester County elected officials and business and labor leaders to call for an immediate reauthorization of federal transportation programs, which will expire on June 30 without action by Congress. “It is absolutely vital for the House and Senate to reach agreement on transportation reauthorization,” said Lowey. “Kicking the can down the road with another extension fails to provide businesses with the certainty they need to invest and hire workers to rebuild our nation’s infrastructure. If the conferees are unable to reach agreement, Speaker Boehner should bring the bi-partisan, Senate passed, transportation reauthorization bill to the floor for a vote. We must exhaust all options before bringing another extension up for a vote.” “We commend Congresswoman Lowey and local officials for supporting reauthorization of the federal transportation act that will create 113,000 jobs in New York rebuilding our roads, bridges and mass transit systems,” said Ross Pepe, President of the Construction Industry Council of Westchester and Hudson Valley, Inc. “While much of today’s discussion about transportation needs of the Hudson Valley region centers on the Tappan Zee Bridge, reauthorization is key to the success of New York State and local governments’ ability to keep state and local highways safe and in a state of good repair. After two years of discussing a new transportation funding measure the time is now for House and Senate leaders to work together in approving a new multi-year funding bill with increased resources. Doing so will be a tremendous economic boost for our nation and the region as a whole.” The House of Representatives is currently operating on its ninth transportation extension since the law expired on September 30, 2009. The uncertainty has meant less investment in regional local infrastructure projects, a stagnant construction workforce due to lack of work, and frustration for commuters and travelers in the Hudson Valley. Lowey supports the bipartisan Moving Ahead for Progress in the 21st Century Act (MAP-21), which would create a million jobs nationally and provide support for the continuation of 1.8 million jobs—113,000 of those in New York State—without adding to the federal deficit. “The reauthorization of the Federal Transportation Bill has been one of the top priorities for The Business Council of Westchester’s Government Action Council’s Legislative Agenda,” said John Ravitz, Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer of The Business Council of Westchester. “Our members understand the importance of Congress passing this bill immediately because it will create jobs in our region for numerous projects including building the new Tappan Zee Bridge. We thank Congresswoman Lowey for her leadership in this effort.” Lowey and the group stood just off Route 9A in Elmsford at Flooring Liquidators to call on immediate passage of the transportation bill. “Over the years, the town of Greenburgh has pushed for a 9A bypass to reduce traffic congestion near the Elmsford 9A corridor,” said Paul Feiner, Greenburgh Town Supervisor. “This has been a top priority for the town for decades. Everyone agrees that we need the bypass—the county, the state, local governments—and while the bypass is ready to be built, the money is not there. If the federal government would authorize funding for this project, the quality of life for residents and businesses who work and live near the corridor would be greatly enhanced. The 9A bypass project will create jobs and open up development opportunities for the town in the future.” “Reaching an agreement on the transportation reauthorization bill will give our economy the tune-up it needs to support more middle-class jobs and grow,” said Lowey.###
06.01.2012	Port Chester, New Rochelle, Yonkers, and White Plains to Benefit from Federal Investment Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today announced Family Services of Westchester, Inc. will receive a $318,600 AmeriCorps Grant from the Corporation for National and Community Service (CNCS). “Since 1954, Family Services of Westchester has provided critical services to meet the needs of children, teens, adults, and the elderly throughout the county,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “The AmeriCorps grant will enable FSW to broaden its impact on the community through 33 volunteer positions. I am proud that this funding will strengthen education initiatives in our community.” “At a time when local governments can no longer afford to provide needed services to local communities, AmeriCorps members are increasingly filling the gap and meeting the ever-growing needs of Americans in these difficult economic times,” said Irina Miagkova, AmeriCorps Program Director at FSW. “We are grateful to Congresswoman Lowey for her continued support of the AmeriCorps program. The AmeriCorps members have contributed to the work of FSW for years, and we are proud to have the opportunity to continue the program.” AmeriCorps grants support organizations that sponsor service programs to meet pressing needs in local communities. Competitive grants have been awarded across the nation to support programs focusing on education, veterans and military families, economic opportunity, health, environmental stewardship, and disaster service. The grants cover some of the cost of operating the program, in addition to a small stipend for the AmeriCorps members, which is matched by the recipient organization. Family Services of Westchester, Inc. will be using the grant to continue to serve the four target communities of Port Chester, New Rochelle, Yonkers, and White Plains. AmeriCorps members will work at elementary schools and public libraries to enhance academic performance by providing one-on-one academic support, mentoring services, literacy skill building activities and homework assistance to targeted high schools, middle school, elementary and pre-school students. “Every child deserves the chance to succeed, which is why investing in our students is one of my top priorities,” said Lowey. “I congratulate Family Services of Westchester on this achievement and look forward to their many future accomplishments.” ###
05.24.2012	Proposal From President’s ‘To-Do List’ WouldIncentivize Hiring, Promote Business Growth During Small Business Week, Lawmaker Also Calls for100% Expensing of Equipment Purchases ELMSFORD – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), in recognition of Small Business Week, today was joined by Westchester County small business owners at the Captain Lawrence Brewing Company to call for immediate passage of tax credits to help businesses hire new employees. “When small businesses are able to hire and expand, our entire economy and community benefits,” said Lowey. “That is why incentivizing the hiring of new employees and providing full expensing of equipment are two of the smartest investments we can make right now. 26 straight months of job creation is a great streak – but we all know it is not enough. Congress should act on these common-sense proposals now.” “For small businesses to grow and hire, access to capital at an affordable rate is critical,” said Captain Lawrence Brewing owner Scott Vaccaro. “Federal and state lending and loan guarantee programs make expansion possible for businesses like Captain Lawrence Brewing. Due to public investment in loan guarantees, our bank could lend us more money at a lower rate, enabling us to expand our facilities and hire four more employees.” “The proposed legislation would have a profound effect on small businesses,” said Oscar Nordstrom, President of Nordstrom Contracting & Consulting Corp. “The combination of the 10% tax credit for new hires and 100% expensing would facilitate growth and have a snowball effect on manufacturing. Should this legislation pass, we would be able to purchase the equipment we currently rent and employ full-time help for our office operations.” President Obama last month presented Congress with a ‘To-Do List,’ including a 10 percent tax credit for businesses that hire new employees, which would jumpstart job growth in the private sector. Full 100 percent expensing would allow businesses to deduct the full cost of equipment purchased from federal taxes, rather than a smaller deduction after accounting for depreciation of the investment. A growing business, like the Captain Lawrence Brewing Company, could purchase equipment and hire new employees more affordably, helping to create jobs and expand. “To compete in the global economy, we need to make it easier – not more expensive – for small businesses to flourish. It is critical that Congress takes immediate action to support the efforts of small businesses,” said Lowey. ###
05.22.2012	Leaders Urge Employment Assistance,Highlight Critical Services for Returning Veterans 12.1% Average Unemployment Rate for Post-9/11 Veterans NEW CITY – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today was joined by Rockland County leaders to call for immediate passage by Congress of the Veterans Job Corps initiative, which would create 20,000 jobs for veterans rebuilding and repairing local infrastructure. “Caring for our returning veterans is a sacred responsibility,” said Lowey. “For all that veterans have sacrificed for our nation, ensuring they are able to find steady work that takes advantage of their unique abilities is the least we can do. With average post-9/11 veterans unemployment above 12 percent in 2011, we can and must do better.”“After the Vietnam War, things were rough for veterans upon their return, but there were real jobs for them,” said Jerry Donnellan, Director of the Rockland County Veterans Services Agency. “Today, troops who were leading forces in combat just weeks ago are fighting for jobs that do not reflect the skills and leadership they have gained through their service.” President Obama first proposed a Veterans Jobs Corps initiative in his 2012 State of the Union address, a new fund to put 20,000 veterans to work over five years repairing trails, roads, levees and recreational facilities in national parks and other federal, state, and local lands, including right here in Rockland County. The Veterans Job Corps initiative is one of five items on President Obama’s “To-Do List” when Congress reconvenes after Memorial Day. Also on Tuesday, Lowey met with the Rockland Business Association and urged business owners to consider hiring veterans to fill open positions due to the unique skills and leadership ability they have developed through their service. “The best way we can honor the service of current former members of the Armed Forces is to ensure they have access to the health, education, and job resources they need when their service is over,” said Lowey. ###
05.18.2012	Resolution Expresses Sense of Congress that 11 Israeli Athletes & CoachesDeserve Recognition 40 Years After Munich Massacre On the heels of the International Olympic Committee again refusing to honor the 40th anniversary of Israeli athletes and coaches murdered at the 1972 Olympic Games, Congressman Eliot Engel and Congresswoman Nita Lowey today announced the introduction of House Resolution 663, Congressional legislation calling on the IOC to commemorate the Munich 11 during the 2012 London Olympic Games opening ceremonies. “Forty years after a terrorist attack that reverberated far beyond the Olympic Games, the International Olympic Committee has a moral responsibility to commemorate the Israeli athletes and coaches who died. We’re not asking for a gold medal – just a minute of silence. That is why we introduced House Resolution 663 expressing the sense of Congress that IOC should provide a solemn recognition to the horror that befell the Games in 1972 through a minute of silence at the 2012 opening ceremonies. “The Munich 11 were part of the Olympic family, and IOC’s rejection thus far of a minute of silence is unacceptable. We intend to put the U.S. Congress on record that those who died deserve to be remembered in a respectful manner to mark this anniversary.” ###
05.17.2012	Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY), Ranking Democrat on the Appropriations State and Foreign Operations Subcommittee, today delivered the following opening statement at mark-up of the Fiscal Year 2013 State and Foreign Operations Appropriations Act: Thank you, Chairwoman Granger and Chairman Rogers. It is appropriate that we are considering the State & Foreign Operations bill at the same time as evaluating funding for the Department of Defense: both bills encompass critical components of our national security. While perhaps less obvious than weapons and military programs the programs implemented by the State Department and the U.S. Agency for International Development, as well as the other agencies in this bill, represent long-term investments in security and stability. They are a down payment for a peaceful future and cuts come with great risk to our nation’s security and future prosperity. I am therefore extremely disappointed in the allocation for these critical programs which shortchanges our diplomatic and development efforts, and could weaken America’s standing in the world. As we move forward I will be working to address a number of very serious concerns with the bill; however, several important accounts are fully funded, and there is language in both the bill and report that reflects top national priorities. I want to thank Chairwoman Granger for working cooperatively with me to include these provisions. For example, the bill includes: · Full funding for Israel as well as continued conditions on aid to the Palestinian Authority, Egypt, and other countries in the region;· Ongoing restrictions on Iran, as part of our effort to prevent the Iranian regime from acquiring a nuclear weapon;· Increased funding for Jordan, reflecting the critical role that country plays in the Middle East;· Full funding for basic education programs, which are essential to fostering healthy, democratic societies;· Robust funding for our global health efforts, through which we save thousands of lives each year;· Support for multilateral health programs, including the Global Fund and GAVI, which allow us to leverage our investments with funds from the international community;· Language highlighting the importance of USAID’s efforts to combat malnutrition, which is fundamental to many other development programs;· Language calling on the Administration to develop a strategy for increasing access to qualified health workers, which is an important step to building local capacity;· Continued strong language on gender and efforts to eliminate gender-based violence;· Robust funding for our public diplomacy programs as well as for the Broadcasting Board of Governors;· Strong funding for the Peace Corps as well as our Educational and Cultural Exchange programs, both of which offer opportunities for Americans to interact directly with local populations; and· Full funding for the Millennium Challenge Corporation, whose programs are delivering promising results. That said, the bill also contains cuts and policy riders that are very problematic: · Deep cuts to multilateral organizations, including the United Nations and the international development banks, will weaken U.S. influence. These organizations do significant and important work throughout the world, including supporting U.S. efforts in places like Afghanistan and Iraq. · The lack of a working capital fund impedes USAID’s ability to implement the oversight and accountability requirements that we all agree are critical to our international development work. We should not be setting USAID up to fail.· The bill rolls back the cap on U.S. contributions to peacekeeping activities and limits the U.S. contribution to current year levels, which will not only underfund these activities but will put the U.S. into arrears at the UN.· The absence of human rights conditions on aid to Mexico, Colombia, and Central America sends a troubling signal that the U.S. either no longer prioritizes human rights, or that these countries have adequately addressed all human rights concerns, neither of which is the case.· Substantial cuts to bilateral economic assistance will limit our ability to engage with critical partners and open potential new markets for American goods.· And finally, the counterproductive, harmful, and unnecessarily divisive cuts and policy riders – including reinstatement of the global gag rule and a ban on funding for the United National Population Fund – on international family planning programs will leave millions of women without access to critical and often life-saving health services, and will result in 1.4 million more abortions next year. It is unconscionable that the majority insists on including these provisions, which run counter to our shared goals of saving mothers’ and children’s lives, and reducing unwanted pregnancies and abortions. The allocation for this bill is inadequate. However, I want to again thank the Chairwoman for her cooperation with us in making many hard choices. I also want to thank the staff for their hard work: Anne Marie Chotvacs, Craig Higgins, Alice Hogans, Susan Adams, Clelia Alvarado, Jamie Guinn, Johnnie Kaberle, and Scott Alexander; as well as my staff: Steve Marchese, Erin Kolodjeski, and Talia Dubovi. The programs and initiatives in this bill are strongly supported by the military, the faith community, and national business leaders because they are essential to our national security, our moral leadership, and our economic prosperity. I hope we can all work together to improve this bill as we move through the appropriations process.
05.17.2012	Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY) today blasted the House Republican majority reauthorization of the Violence Against Women Act (VAWA), which would strip away critical protections for victims of domestic and sexual violence: “The Violence Against Women Act is the cornerstone of federal efforts to prevent domestic and sexual violence and hold perpetrators accountable. That is why it has always received strong bipartisan support since enactment in 1994, just as the Senate reauthorization did when it passed last month. “It is outrageous that the House majority is seeking to turn protection of women and families into a political football by stripping away protections for same-sex partners, immigrants, Native Americans, and others. “Every member of our community deserves protection from domestic abuse and sexual violence. The House majority should take up the bipartisan Senate legislation, which maintains and expands protections that all women and families deserve. Since the first federal Violence Against Women Act in 1994, VAWA has protected women and children from domestic abuse and sexual violence, held abusers accountable, and offered a lifeline to those trying to escape violence. It included grant programs to fund local organizations to ensure assistance for those seeking help, and it has been reauthorized several times with bipartisan support. On April 26, the Senate passed a bipartisan VAWA Reauthorization by a strong bipartisan vote of 68-31, which maintains and expands the protections that have existed since 1994. The House Republican VAWA Reauthorization Bill passed yesterday on a largely party-line vote of 225-205. More than 300 organizations oppose the House GOP bill, including the U.S. Conference of Mayors, National Coalition Against Domestic Violence, National Network to End Domestic Violence, National Coalition of Anti-Violence Programs, Break the Cycle, Legal Momentum, Leadership Conference on Civil and Human Rights, National Organization for Women, Feminist Majority, YWCA USA, AAUW, Business and Professional Women’s Foundation, National Women’s Law Center, Planned Parenthood Federation of America, American Bar Association, NAACP, National Council of La Raza, Human Rights Campaign, United Church of Christ, United Methodist Church, Jewish Council for Public Affairs, and National Congress of American Indians. On April 2, Lowey was joined by Westchester County District Attorney Janet DiFiore and Jane Aoyama-Martin, Executive Director of the Pace Women’s Justice Center, which receives VAWA grants, to call for a responsible and bipartisan reauthorization. ###
05.11.2012	Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY) today blasted the latest delay by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) in implementing a requirement for sunscreen manufacturers to disclose the protection products offer not just from sunburn-causing UVB rays, but also from skin cancer-causing UVA rays. “Nearly five years after the FDA issued draft regulations to protect consumers and their children from skin cancer, it is an embarrassment that the regulations are still not finalized. I am appalled to learn that yet another summer will go by without consumers having adequate information to protect themselves and their family. “Comprehensive and accurate information about skin protection is critical to decrease incidence of skin cancer. “A rule for UVA protection was first proposed five years ago. The foot-dragging at FDA must stop.” In August 2007, in response to legislation drafted by Lowey, FDA issued draft regulations to require sunscreen manufacturers to disclose the protection their products offer not just against sunburn-causing UVB rays, but against skin cancer-causing UVA rays. Lowey also successfully included requirements to finalize the regulations through the 2012 Agriculture Appropriations Act. The regulations were finalized on June 15, 2011 and manufacturers were given 12 months to comply. FDA announced today through the Federal Register that manufacturers will be given an additional 6 months to comply, denying consumers this important information for yet another summer. ###
05.09.2012	Thank you, Chairwoman Granger. I want to express my appreciation for your hard work on this bill and that of your staff: Anne Marie Chotvacs, Craig Higgins, Alice Hogans, Susan Adams, Clelia Alvarado, Jamie Guinn, and Johnnie Kaberle; as well as my staff: Steve Marchese, Erin Kolodjeski, and Talia Dubovi. The agencies and programs funded by the bill we consider this morning make up only a tiny portion of our overall budget, yet they are critical to our national security, economic prosperity, and leadership in the world. The allocation that has been given to these important programs would result in cuts to foreign aid and diplomacy that will not solve our budget woes, but will substantially weaken America’s standing in the world and hamper our nation’s ability to protect and promote our interests overseas. When we weaken programs that foster stable societies, it costs us more in the long run in both treasure and, all too often, with the lives of our brave men and women in uniform. I appreciate efforts by Chairwoman Granger to include some of my top priorities. Aid to Israel, our important ally and a strong democracy in a volatile region of the world, is critical to our national security interests, and I am pleased that funding is included at the President’s request level. I also support the continued conditions on aid to the Palestinian Authority, Egypt, and other countries in the region, which will help Congress maintain oversight of programs in some rapidly-changing situations, as well as language that maintains restrictions on Iran. Full funding for basic education programs included in the bill is critical to building strong, healthy societies. Education is the foundation for democratic leadership, and we reap the benefits of every dollar invested several times over through substantial improvements in health and economic development as well as decreases in violence. I am pleased that the funding levels for Educational and Cultural Exchange Programs, the Peace Corps, and the Broadcasting Board of Governors will continue to support our public diplomacy and diplomatic efforts by providing the opportunity for American voices to directly communicate our values and engage local populations. However, some of the cuts and policies included in this bill are extremely problematic. First, the lack of a working capital fund for USAID sets up the agency to fail. The importance of transparency, accountability, and oversight in our development work cannot be overstated. I cannot understand how the Majority expects USAID to fulfill the requirements contained in this bill – and in USAID’s own policies – if we do not provide the resources to conduct the necessary oversight. At a time when we are doing everything we can to make every dollar count, it is confusing to see significant cuts to the multilateral development banks, institutions that are the most effective at leveraging their U.S. contributions. For example, U.S. contributions to the Global Agriculture and Food Security Program are matched by more than 2 to 1 from other donors, allowing more than 7.5 million farmers to reap increased incomes and improved food security. The clean technology fund, which the bill zeros out, brings in between four and five dollars of additional investment for every one dollar the U.S. contributes. Finally, while it is certainly not a surprise, it is a constant disappointment that the Majority continues to target family planning programs for cuts and divisive policy riders. Evidence has shown time and again these programs lead to fewer unwanted pregnancies, fewer abortions, and fewer maternal and infant deaths. These are goals that, in theory, both parties in Congress share. It is therefore inexplicable that the Republican Majority continues to insist on provisions that are proven to undermine those goals. This bill would cut $165 million from U.S. bilateral family planning programs and eliminate funding for the UN Population Fund, which will leave millions of women and families without access to contraceptives, prenatal care and screenings, education on birth spacing and healthy pregnancies, and other interventions aimed at improving maternal and child health. These cuts will also deeply impact UNFPA’s programs to stop female genital mutilation, repair obstetric fistulas, fight child marriage, respond to gender-based violence, and provide emergency obstetric care. These cuts will lead to an alarming 8,000 maternal deaths, 40,000 additional orphans, and 1.4 million more abortions next year. Those numbers are simply appalling. Finally, the global gag rule – which would be unconstitutional in the United States – inserts a controversial policy into private and deeply personal conversations between a woman and her healthcare provider about legal health services. This policy has real-world implications as it forces healthcare providers to choose between accepting critical funding or providing honest care – and even referrals – to patients. Simply put, these policies and funding cuts are counterproductive and harmful; stopping conversations about abortions and reducing access to family planning options simply will not make abortions and unwanted pregnancies go away. I will offer amendments to strike these provisions in Full Committee. This bill is critical to our nation’s security, and I hope we can work together to improve it as we move through the appropriations process. ###
05.04.2012	Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today announced Burke Medical Research Institute will receive a $452,500 federal grant from the National Institutes of Health (NIH) to continue brain repair research conducted by Dr. Jian Zhong. “Burke Medical Research Institute has earned a reputation for groundbreaking research that is helping to improve health and better understand diseases and injuries,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “I am proud this federal funding will support research being conducted right here in the lower Hudson Valley. This is exactly the type of investment that is critical to advancing science and improving health in New York and nationwide.” Dr. Rajiv R. Ratan, Executive Director of Burke Medical Research Institute, said, "Dr. Zhong's award from the NIH represents an enormous accomplishment in this highly competitive funding environment. His work on brain repair promises to impact those suffering from a host of neurological conditions including traumatic brain and spinal cord injuries throughout the Hudson Valley and beyond. On behalf of the Burke scientific community, I can say we are quite proud of him. We also wish to thank Congresswoman Lowey for her assistance in securing this funding." Congresswoman Lowey is a senior member of the Appropriations Subcommittee on Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education, where she has fought successfully for funding increases for the National Institutes of Health.###
05.03.2012	Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY) and Congressman Eliot Engel (D-NY) today urged the International Olympic Committee (IOC) to reconsider its refusal to honor Israeli athletes murdered by terrorists at the 1972 Munich Olympics with a minute of silence at the 2012 London Olympic Games opening ceremonies. “The murder of 11 Israeli athletes by terrorists at the 1972 Munich Olympics was a tragedy that reverberated far beyond the Games,” said Congresswoman Lowey, Ranking Democrat on the Appropriations State and Foreign Operations Subcommittee. “It is necessary, important, and right to hold a minute of silence in recognition of the victims. The continued refusal of the International Olympic Committee to honor the memories of these victims is unfathomable, and I urge the IOC to reconsider its decision. “The murder of 11 Israeli athletes and coaches can no longer be ignored by the International Olympic Committee. It’s time that the IOC set aside a moment of silence to remember all of the victims,” said Rep. Engel, a senior member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee. “I urge the IOC to reconsider its appalling decision and stop standing in the way of an appropriate, solemn recognition of the horror which befell the Games 40 years ago.” Lowey and Engel announced their intention to introduce a resolution in the U.S. House of Representatives calling on the IOC to honor the Munich 11, and released the text of a letter to be sent directly to the IOC urging reconsideration of the decision. Family members of victims of the 1972 Munich massacre like Ankie Spitzer and community organizations like Jewish Community Center (JCC) Rockland launched an online petition urging IOC to honor the victims with a minute of silence at the London 2012 opening ceremonies that has gained more than 20,000 signatures. Full Letter Text:Jacques RoggePresident, International Olympic CommitteeChâteau de VidyCase postale 3561001 Lausanne, Switzerland Dear President Rogge: This year marks the 40th anniversary of the massacre of 11 Israeli athletes at the 1972 Olympic Games in Munich. As we look forward to the 2012 Summer Olympics in London, we write to request that you schedule a minute of silence during the opening ceremonies to honor the memories of these athletes – known as the Munich 11 – and to call attention to the ongoing need to be constantly vigilant against prejudice, hate, and intolerance. In the early morning hours of September 5, 1972, eight members of a Palestinian militant group called Black September broke into the Munich Olympic village and entered the building where the Israeli team was staying. An athlete and a coach were killed in the dormitory, while nine others – four athletes, three coaches, and two referees – were taken hostage. Less than twenty four hours later, after several failed rescue attempts and a gun fight that left a German police officer dead, the nine hostages were also killed. The massacre of the Munich 11 was a jarring reminder that the Olympic Games – long a symbol of international cooperation and camaraderie – are not wholly divorced from the hatred and intolerance that still exists throughout the world. We believe that a minute of silence at this year’s games would be a powerful reminder that such terrible acts of violence will not go unremembered, and that all those witnessing the Opening Ceremonies must continue to work toward a world where people of any nation, race, or religion can live free of fear. We are not persuaded by arguments articulated by members of the IOC and others that a minute of silence would politicize the Olympic Games or risk alienating countries that have disagreements with Israel. The Munich 11 were athletes, coaches, and referees proudly representing their country when they were gunned down in an act of terrorism; a minute of silence would be a recognition of their sacrifice and a show of unity against terrorism period, not an endorsement of any political position. According to The Nielson Company, over two billion people watched the Beijing Opening Ceremonies. The Olympics provide a unique opportunity to send a message that can literally reach every corner of the globe. While the Opening Ceremonies will – and should – be a joyful celebration of the international community putting aside political differences and coming together in a time-honored tradition of friendly competition, taking a single minute of those Ceremonies to remind the world of the forces that still threaten that unity would be both powerful and appropriate. We therefore urge you to add a minute of silence to honor the Munich 11 to this year’s Opening Ceremonies. Thank you for your consideration. Sincerely,Nita LoweyEliot Engel ###
05.02.2012	PURCHASE, NY -- Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today was joined by Purchase College administrators and students in calling for an immediate extension of low student loan interest rates, protecting students and families from an unmanageable hike in college costs. “Making higher education more affordable for young people is one of the smartest investments we can make,” said Lowey. “It is outrageous that Congress is dragging its feet rather than acting immediately to protect a rate hike that will affect 7.4 million students on July 1. Students and families cannot afford the price increase that would result from higher interest rates on student loans.” “Maintaining low-interest student loans is a national imperative and an investment in our future,” said Thomas J. Schwarz, President of Purchase College, SUNY.Corey York, Director of Student Financial Services, said, “Keeping the rate at 3.4 percent would save students approximately four thousand dollars in interest while in repayment.” At Purchase College, 53 percent of students borrow to finance their education. Unless Congress steps in to extend low student loan interest rates, more than 7.4 million students with federal student loans will see their rates double on July 1. For each year Congress allows the rate to double, the average student with these loans racks up an additional $1,000 in debt. In March 2012, the House Republican majority passed a budget that would see interest rates double for students. An amendment to the budget to stop the interest rate hike was defeated by the majority. The budget would impose additional financial burdens on college students, including drastic cuts to Pell Grants for over 9.6 million students and elimination of federal work study funding for 166,000 more students. “At a time when Americans need greater levels of education and training – especially in fields like math and science – to compete in the global workforce, we should be making it easier – not more expensive – for students to afford college,” said Lowey. ###
04.30.2012	Congresswoman Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) recently honored 41 high school students from Westchester and Rockland Counties who submitted original artwork for the Lowey’s annual Congressional Art Competition. The artwork of the winning student, Alessia Solimeo of Harrison, will be displayed in the U.S. Capitol.Started in 1982, the Congressional Art Competition recognizes exceptional high school artists. Each spring, students are invited to participate in the Congressional Art Competition by submitting their work to their local representative. The artwork is then reviewed by a panel of local artists and a winner is selected. The winning entry is then displayed in the Capitol Building for a year with the other first place pieces from other participating congressional districts.This year, 41 pieces of art were submitted from 14 schools in the Congressional District. In addition to honoring the students' accomplishments, Lowey recognized the dedication and hard work of the county's high school art teachers, who work every day to encourage and inspire their students to develop their artistic talents.Those students who were honored for their achievements by Congresswoman Lowey, their hometowns, and schools, are: EdgemontNicole Im, Edgemont, Edgemont Jr/Sr High School: FIRST RUNNER UPErin Wheeler, Edgemont, Edgemont Jr/Sr High SchoolJulia Widmann, Edgemont, Edgemont Jr/Sr High SchoolRemy Valentine, Edgemont, Edgemont Jr/Sr High SchoolSara Supriyatno, Edgemont, Edgemont Jr/Sr High SchoolErin WheelerJulia WidmannRemy Valentine, EdgemontSara SupriyatnoHarrisonAlessia Solimeo, Harrison, Harrison High School: WINNERCassandre Brana, Harrison, The French American School of New YorkOlivia Pecini, Harrison, School of the Holy ChildRoi Ankawa, Harrison, Harrison High SchoolSamantha Rhodes, Harrison, Harrison High SchoolAlessia SolimeoCassandre BranaOlivia PeciniRoi AnkawaSamantha RhodesLarchmontJosephine Kehm, Larchmont, The French American School of New YorkJosephine KehmMamaroneckElle Zapata, Mamaroneck, Rye Neck High SchoolRebecca Galerne, Mamaroneck, Rye Neck High SchoolElle ZapataRebecca GalernePelhamErika Rosell, Pelham, Pelham Memorial High SchoolMervis Lampley, Pelham, Pelham Memorial High SchoolErika RosellMervis LampleyPleasantvilleAngela Calvi, Pleasantville, Pleasantville High SchoolAngela CalviPort ChesterArleny Espinosa, Port Chester, Port Chester High SchoolArleny EspinosaPurchaseEmmaline Potts, Purchase, Harrison High SchoolEmmaline PottsRyeMarianne Rouch, Rye, the French American School of New YorkMarianne RouchRye BrookLayla Santos, Rye Brook, Port Chester High SchoolLayla SantosWhite PlainsEleanor Trelstad, White Plains, White Plains High SchoolElizabeth Trelstad, White Plains, White Plains High School: SECOND RUNNER UPJustin Doherty, White Plains, Valhalla High SchoolMichelle Scott, White Plains, Valhalla High SchoolEleanor TrelstadElizabeth TrelstadJustin DohertyMichelle ScottYonkersClaybourne Ambo, Yonkers, Yonkers, Yonkers Middle/High School: HONORABLE MENTIONJoAnn Heady, Yonkers, Saunders High SchoolMargoncke Hidalgo, Yonkers, Lincoln High SchoolMarkies Val, Yonkers, Lincoln High SchoolVinny Spano, Yonkers, Saunders Trade and Tech High SchoolJoAnn HeadyMargoncke HidalgoMarkies ValVinny Spano
04.23.2012	Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today announced Sleepy Hollow Middle School will be recognized as a “Green Ribbon School” by the federal government for its successful initiatives to reduce energy consumption and enhance learning in this field. “I am proud that Sleepy Hollow Middle School is leading the way on energy efficiency, reducing environmental impact, and ensuring students have the knowledge they need to succeed in the 21st century economy,” said Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland). “I congratulate the teachers, administrators, and students for all their work to earn this national recognition.” “We are very proud that the efforts of our students and staff in promoting a greener school environment have been recognized at the national level,” said Howard Smith, Superintendent of Public Schools of the Tarrytowns. “It is the product of a number of individual and small group initiatives that have benefitted from the enthusiastic support of key staff members. Young people can become very passionate about being good stewards of the environment, and it is a great lesson for our students to learn that they can make a difference worthy of such recognition.” The Green Ribbon Schools program was created in April 2011 and is modeled after the Department of Education’s Blue Ribbon Schools Program, which annually honors public and private schools that are either high performing or have improved student achievement to high levels. Green Ribbon Schools are recognized for reducing their energy use and environmental impact, creating healthy learning environments, and providing effective environmental education that prepares students to succeed in the 21st century. Winning schools are located in 31 states and the District of Columbia and include public, both traditional and charter, and private schools at the elementary, middle, and senior high school levels. ###
04.02.2012	Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), Westchester County District Attorney Janet DiFiore, and Jane Aoyama-Martin, Executive Director of the Pace Women’s Justice Center, today called for immediate reauthorization of the Violence Against Women Act (VAWA), landmark legislation that protects New York women and families and helps victims escape abuse, which is currently stalled in Congress. “VAWA provides critical protections and assistance for women and families in New York and across the country,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “These grant programs play a central role in keeping women and children safe from domestic abuse and sexual violence, holding abusers accountable, and offering a lifeline to those who are trying to escape violence. Allowing such a critical federal responsibility to lapse would be a tragedy for women and families in New York and nationwide.” As a former chair of the Congressional Women’s Caucus, Congresswoman Lowey helped bring about passage of the first federal Violence Against Women Act in 1994, and it has been reauthorized several times with overwhelming bipartisan support. The law authorizes a wide variety of programs and services to prevent domestic violence, sexual assault, and stalking; assist victims; and hold abusers accountable. Republicans in the House and Senate oppose provisions to ensure victims aren’t discriminated against on the basis of sexual orientation or gender identity and provisions related to assistance for immigrants, and have blocked reauthorization as a result. An amendment to the House 2012 budget resolution reauthorizing VAWA was defeated due to unanimous opposition by the Republican majority last week. Westchester County District Attorney Janet DiFiore said her office relies on federal funding under VAWA to support investigations and prosecutions of domestic violence and elder abuse cases. "We have learned over the last 17 years that prosecuting domestic violence requires unique resources that both support victims and provide local prosecutors with the tools for effective enforcement of the law," said DiFiore. "This funding also enables law enforcement to work hand in hand with our community partners to serve victims throughout the County and at our Family Justice Center." In 2009, Lowey helped Westchester County secure $1 million in federal funding to establish a Family Justice Center (FJC) at the White Plains Court complex in order to provide training for police officers, prosecutors, the judiciary, advocates, and service providers. Jane Aoyama-Martin, Executive Director of the Pace Women’s Justice Center, said, “Without VAWA funds, we would not be able to provide critical and often live-saving services for domestic violence victims and survivors. Without VAWA funds, many of our clients and their children would not receive services necessary to move forward with their lives, safe and free from violence.” The Pace Women’s Justice Center, founded in 1991 and serving approximately 2800 victims and survivors each year, has received VAWA support since 1998. VAWA grants, as a major source of the Center’s funding, have been essential to the Center’s ability to continue its work. Adding her support, Senator Kirsten Gillibrand said, “Domestic violence has no place in our society. It is critical that we empower men, women, and youth to help prevent these violent crimes against women and families. The Violence Against Women Act has always rightly been a bipartisan effort, it is time to come together and protect women and families by reauthorizing this important legislation.” Since 2005, Congresswoman Lowey has helped secure more than $1.5 million in federal funding for the Pace Women’s Justice Center to assist victims of violence and abuse. ###
03.23.2012	Valhalla, NY -- Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) was joined today by health and seniors advocates to call on Congress to reject the Republican budget resolution that cleared the House Budget Committee on Wednesday because it resurrects many detrimental policies the Senate and White House already rejected last year, including draconian cuts to Medicare and Medicaid. “Fiscal responsibility cannot be achieved by endangering the health benefits of millions of seniors and families who are struggling in this tough economy,” Lowey said. “Ending the guaranteed Medicare benefits seniors have worked hard to earn and slashing Medicaid for low-income families would not only drive up health care costs for millions, they would hurt the health care industry, which is vital to New York’s economy. And, this budget does nothing to create jobs and continue the economic recovery, which is Americans’ number priority.” Larry Levine, President and CEO of Blythedale Children’s Hospital, said, “Blythedale and other children’s hospitals will continue to work with the federal and state government to thoughtfully and carefully implement health system reform measures, but we are opposed to any indiscriminate, across-the-board cuts to Medicaid, like those proposed by the Ryan Plan, that will further risk the health care of sick children, result in significant cuts to Blythedale and ultimately severely limit our ability to provide needed care to many young and vulnerable patients.” The House Republican budget proposal could dramatically increase health costs and compromise coverage for New Yorkers on Medicare and Medicaid with the following policies. MEDICAID:Medicaid funding would be transformed into “block grants,” which would slash over $810 billion in federal support over 10 years, leaving states to pick up a much greater portion of Medicaid costs in order to sustain the current level of coverage. CBO reported that it cannot estimate how the Republican budget would affect access to health care, quality of care, or state budgets, and that even with significant efficiency gains, states will need to increase spending, cut back services, or both.Over five million senior citizens and disabled individuals and 539,614 children in New York who are covered by Medicaid could have their coverage jeopardized or costs increased to maintain current benefits. MEDICARE:Medicare vouchers would replace the current Medicare system for 2,878,691 New Yorkers who are currently between the ages of 47 and 56 when they retire. Seniors would be forced to select between traditional Medicare and private plans and pay the difference in cost between the plan and voucher. Voucher increases would be capped at a rate lower than health costs are expected to increase, and according to the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office (CBO), out-of -pocket costs could increase by as much as $5,900 per beneficiary.Prescription drug costs would increase to approximately $11,794 between 2012 and 2020 for seniors who fall into the “donut hole,” which would force seniors to pay the full cost of their prescription drug expenses between $2,840 and $6,447 per year. Since health reform was enacted, 333,536 New York seniors have saved over $236 million on prescription drugs, but the Republican budget would reverse this important benefit.Cancer screenings, mammograms, and other preventive screenings would require deductibles and co-payments, which could result in fewer patients seeking these services and higher overall health costs should they be diagnosed in later stages of a disease. “The latest budget introduced by Representative Ryan is still a voucher plan that ends the Medicare program as we know it,” said Doug Goggin-Callahan, New York State Policy Director at the Medicare Rights Center. “Under this plan, Medicare beneficiaries, half of whom have an income of about $25,000 or less per year, pay more for health care and the federal government pays a lot less. It does nothing to address the bad deal that all Americans receive on health care because of inflated costs, and it fails to recognize that rising costs in the Medicare program are the result of rising costs in the health care sector overall. In fact, Medicare is more efficient and has a lower per enrollee growth rate than its private counterparts. From 2002 to 2009, Medicare spending grew by 4.6 percent per enrollee compared to private health insurance, which grew by 6.7 percent for similar benefits.” “Over 9000 seniors in my district have received prescription drug cost relief, and 74,000 Medicare beneficiaries and 130,000 other adults are benefitting from free preventive services to stay healthy,” said Lowey. “We cannot allow the Republican Majority to undo the accomplishments of health reform and increase health costs for American families.” The Republican budget proposal is expected to be considered on the House floor next week. Lowey pledged to fight to restore support for these vital programs that provide millions of New Yorkers with health care they need and deserve. # # #
03.16.2012	“The retirement of Congressman Gary Ackerman is unfortunate news for the people of Queens and Long Island who have benefitted from his strong and committed representation, for his colleagues who have gained from his wisdom and friendship, and for Congress, which will lose one of its sharpest and most judicious intellects. “Gary has built a legacy of dedicated representation for his constituents and the entire New York metropolitan area. He has been a leading voice on behalf of hard-working middle-class families, reforming Wall Street to prevent another financial crisis, and protecting consumers, and his commitment to advancing human rights and a strong U.S.-Israel relationship is second to none. “As a colleague and friend, I wish Gary the best in the next chapter in his life.” ###
03.13.2012	Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today urged Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) Chairman Gregory Jaczko to expand NRC evacuation plan requirements to include areas within 50 miles of a nuclear facility, which would be evacuated in the event of a Fukushima-level nuclear emergency. Current regulations require evacuation planning for areas located within a 10-mile radius of nuclear facilities. On March 17, 2011, Bill Borchardt, NRC executive director for operations, stated that if a meltdown on a similar scale as Fukushima happened in the United States, the evacuation zone would extend to 50 miles. 17 million people in parts of New Jersey, Connecticut, and New York City live within 50 miles of the Indian Point Energy Center. “Given the geography and transportation infrastructure of the region,” wrote Lowey, “a timely evacuation would be nearly impossible and requires further review by the many federal, state, and local entities that would be involved in such a massive undertaking.” Full letter:Chairman Gregory B. JaczkoU.S. Nuclear Regulatory CommissionMail Stop O-16G4Washington, DC 20555-0001 Dear Chairman Jaczko: On March 9, 2012, the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) announced that it will begin implementing several enhanced safety recommendations of the Japan Near-Term Task Force. While I strongly support the NRC’s actions to better secure, monitor, and equip nuclear sites to deal with Fukushima-level meltdowns and gather additional data to shape future risk mitigation efforts, I am very disappointed that the NRC’s actions do not address the alarming deficiencies in evacuation plans for surrounding communities. As you know, under rules in force for more than 30 years, surrounding communities, within 10 miles of a plant, must prepare federally reviewed evacuation plans. For citizens living within a 50-mile radius, there is no requirement for communities to create evacuation plans. In the event of a nuclear accident, the NRC operates under the policy that citizens outside the 10 mile radius will stay put until otherwise directed. This policy contradicts the likely scenario that would play out in the event of a Fukushima-level incident. On March 17, 2011, Bill Borchardt, NRC executive director for operations, stated that if a meltdown on a similar scale as Fukushima happened in the United States, the evacuation zone would extend to 50 miles. The Indian Point Energy Center is built on two fault lines and is located 25 miles outside of New York City’s northern border. A 50-mile evacuation order for Indian Point would include over 17 million people in parts of New Jersey, Connecticut and New York City. Given the geography and transportation infrastructure of the region, a timely evacuation would be nearly impossible and requires further review by the many federal, state, and local entities that would be involved in such a massive undertaking. A year after the Fukushima nuclear meltdown, the Near-Term Task Force presents an opportunity to update our best practices to reflect lessons learned from the disaster. I encourage the NRC to require evacuation plans that extend to 50 miles so that we can have an accurate assessment of the public safety impacts that a Fukushima-level accident would have on our citizenry. Sincerely, Nita M. Lowey Member of Congress
03.13.2012	On March 13th Congresswoman Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) honored, at her annual Service Academy Review Board (SARB) recognition ceremony, the 30 students from Westchester and Rockland Counties she nominated this past December for admission to our nation’s service academiesfor admission to the U.S. Military Academy (West Point), U.S. Naval Academy, U.S. Air Force Academy, or U.S. Merchant Marine Academy. As of today, eight students have been accepted for admission this summer.Congresswoman Lowey also paid tribute to Joseph P. Murphy of Rye, a retired Naval officer, who for 22 years served as the chairman of her all-volunteer, non-partisan Service Academy Review Board.Lowey thanked local veterans attending the ceremony for their service to our country, and informed them of her work to promote hiring unemployed veterans and to expand veterans’ access to quality healthcare.Those students who received nominations from Congresswoman Lowey, their hometowns, schools and the academy to which they were nominated and in some cases accepted, are: Chappaqua1) John Gladstone, Chappaqua, Horace Greeley High School, nominated to the United States Naval Academy. Greenburgh1) Alexandra Baker, Hartsdale, graduate of The Ursuline School, current student at Schreiner University, accepted at the United States Military Academy, West Point.Harrison1) Michael Gray, Harrison, Fordham Preparatory School, nominated to the United States Naval Academy.2) Christopher Woodford, Harrison, graduate of Harrison High School, currently at University of Arizona , nominated to the United States Air Force Academy. Hawthorne1) Ryan Ferguson, Hawthorne, graduate of Iona Preparatory School, currently at High Point University, accepted at the United States Air Force Academy. Mamaroneck1) Eric Derecktor, Mamaroneck, Horace Mann School, accepted at the United States Naval Academy.Mount Pleasant1) Louis DePaolis, Valhalla, Fordham Preparatory School, nominated to the United States Naval Academy.2) Matthew MacFarlane, Briarcliff Manor, Hackley School, accepted at the United States Military Academy, West Point.3) Jack Stapleton, Pleasantville, Fordham Preparatory, nominated to the United States Military Academy, West Point.Louis DePaolisMatthew MacFarlane New Rochelle1) Alexander Barbaria, New Rochelle, New Rochelle High School, accepted at the United States Naval Academy.2) Victor Muntean, New Rochelle, New Rochelle High School, nominated to the United States Air Force Academy.Pelham Manor1) Lindsay Gabow, Pelham Manor, The Loomis Chaffee School (Windsor, CT), accepted at the United States Military Academy, West Point.Rockland1) Evan Farrell, Congers, Clarkstown North High School, nominated to the United States Merchant Marine Academy.2) Brian Foley, Congers, Clarkstown South High School, nominated to the United States Naval Academy.3) Joseph Frullaney, New City, Clarkstown North High School, accepted at the United States Military Academy, West Point.4) Joseph Laible, West Haverstraw, North Rockland High School, nominated to the United States Air Force Academy.5) Brendan McCullagh, New City, Bergen Catholic High School, nominated to the United States Naval Academy.6) Sung Park, New City, Clarkstown North High School, nominated to the United States Air Force Academy.Brendan McCullaghRiver Villages1) Kevin Chen, Dobbs Ferry, Ardsley High School, accepted at the United States Military Academy, West Point.2) John DiLorenzo, Tarrytown, Hackley School, nominated to the United States Air Force Academy.3) Pilsun Kwak, formerly of Tarrytown, currently in Roswell, NM, New Mexico Military Institute, nominated to the United States Air Force Academy.Kevin ChenRyeTown1) Jack Lahey, Rye, graduate of Iona Preparatory School, currently at the University of Maryland, nominated to the United States Naval Academy.2) Christopher Mott, Port Chester, Port Chester High School, nominated to the United States Merchant Marine Academy.Christopher MottScarsdale1) Lawrence Patrizio, Scarsdale, Scarsdale High School, nominated to the United States Military Academy, West Point.Tuckahoe and Eastchester1) David Cho, Tuckahoe, Rye Country Day School, nominated to the United States Military Academy, West Point.2) Daniel Hendry, Eastchester, Eastchester High School, nominated to the United States Merchant Marine Academy. White Plains1) Peter Carbone, White Plains, Iona Preparatory School, nominated to the United States Military Academy, West Point.2) Nolan Baker, White Plains, Iona Preparatory School, nominated to the United States Military Academy, West Point.Peter CarboneNolan BakerYonkers1) Jose Arroyo, Yonkers, Riverside High School, nominated to the United States Naval Academy, and accepted to the Naval Academy Preparatory School.2) John Zatkovich, Yonkers, graduate of Sacred Heart High School, currently at SUNY Maritime, nominated to the United States Naval Academy.Jose ArroyoJohn Zatkovich
03.06.2012	Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today issued the following statement on the passing of Congressman Donald Payne (D-NJ). “I am so saddened by the passing of my good friend and Congressional classmate Donald Payne after his fight with colon cancer. “As head of the Congressional Black Caucus and as a leading voice on expanding access to health and education at home and abroad, Donald leaves a legacy of wisdom, integrity, and exceptional service for those he represented in Congress. Among his many contributions, his expertise on HIV/AIDS and other global health, education, and democracy challenges facing African nations will be sorely missed. “Donald’s brother and his children, grandchildren, and great-grandchild are in my thoughts and prayers during this difficult time.” ###
03.06.2012	I join the Chairwoman in welcoming you today. I would like to take this opportunity to thank you for your leadership and hard work to restore the capacity of a critically important element of our national security strategy and for your diligent pursuit of improving the lives of the most vulnerable in the world. USAID is a reflection of the best of America. It is on the front lines fighting poverty, working to cure disease, feeding the hungry, and improving the lives of the most vulnerable peoples in the world. While USAID represents only a tiny portion of our annual budget, its motto – “from the American people” – speaks volumes about the kind of nation we are and what we still aspire to be. The Agency’s work promotes stability overseas and reduces the threats we face at home. This year’s request continues the Obama Administration’s investment in USAID as the premier development agency in the world. Under your leadership, USAID has become more impactful and more innovative, where projects are based on evidence and implementation is focused on delivering measurable results. We all appreciate your efforts to ensure that each and every dollar appropriated by Congress is spent wisely and effectively. While we could talk for hours about the many areas of focus facing USAID I want to highlight four areas that I hope you will discuss today. First, the request includes authorization for a Working Capital Fund to ensure that the resources we are providing are being used efficiently and effectively. It is my sense that if we did not provide you with this tool, you may very well be asking us to increase your operating expenses to support additional contracting officers. So I hope you will discuss further the impact having such a fund would have on improved oversight and accountability of precious foreign assistance resources. Second, the Global Health Initiative is a centerpiece of our development efforts, but the request includes a substantial cut from the FY2012 levels. How can we make these reductions while still maintaining the strength of our efforts? While I certainly appreciate all efforts to be more efficient and cost effective, we must be extremely thoughtful about how we transition programs to greater country ownership. I also hope you will address USAID’s work to build a better health workforce in developing countries, which is an essential component of sustainability and is critical to country ownership of these life-saving programs. Third, it is a tragedy that when the United States has worked for such a long time on nutrition programs worldwide there has been such little progress. We know early interventions make a difference in preventing stunting, supporting healthy brain development, and improving maternal health and child survival rates. But the request decreases nutrition activities under global health programs account. I hope you will discuss USAID’s plans to improve nutrition, especially for mothers and children, both through the Global Health Initiative and Feed the Future. Finally, I remain extremely troubled by this Administration’s failure to prioritize basic education. We know the facts: · A child born to an education mother is twice as likely to survive to the age of 5;· Personal earnings increase 10% for every of schooling an individual receives;· A girl who completes her basic education is 3 times less likely to contract AIDS;· In sub-Saharan Africa, a focus on girls education could boost agricultural productivity by 25%; and· Each additional year of schooling of a country’s population reduces a country’s chances of falling into civil war by 3.6%.As these numbers make clear, education directly impacts every development priority of this Administration, from poverty reduction to improvements in agricultural production to decreased maternal and child mortality. I have worked for a decade now to increase funding for education because I believe it is the key to making our development efforts successful and sustainable, and I hope you will explain today why this year’s request would so drastically underfund these critical programs. Thank you again, and I look forward to your testimony.
03.02.2012	Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY) today issued the following statement on the retirement of Congressman Norm Dicks at the end of the 112th Congress: “Norm Dicks has served the people of Washington State with great distinction for 36 years. His successful work to protect the Puget Sound and maintain our strong national defense will benefit Washington State and our nation for many years to come. Having served with Norm Dicks on the Appropriations Committee for nearly two decades, I wish my trusted colleague and cherished friend the best as he moves on to the next chapter in his life.”
02.29.2012	Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today announced The Burke Medical Research Institute in White Plains will receive a $654,343 grant from the National Institutes of Health (NIH) to continue research regarding strokes and brain function. “Investing in medical research stands to improve our health, wellness, and quality of life,” said Lowey. “I am thrilled NIH has recognized the brilliant scientists and high quality research taking place at The Burke Medical Research Institute, and I am confident this investment will help increase scientific understanding that can improve stroke prevention and treatment.” Dr. Mary Beth Walsh, Executive Medical Director/CEO of The Burke Rehabilitation Hospital, said, “We are thrilled that our superb young neuroscience investigators have been awarded these funds to continue their investigation into facilitating brain function after stroke. Stroke is a major cause of disability in the US, despite our current rehabilitation efforts. We here at Burke Rehabilitation Hospital are committed to seeking basic scientific discoveries that will directly improve our treatment of functional disability. Their award of these grant funds in such a time of fiscal austerity evidences the high quality of their work.”###
02.15.2012	WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY) today announced the New Rochelle Fire Department will receive a $316,082 federal grant to replace aging equipment, helping to keep Westchester County communities safe. “First responders serve their communities by responding to emergencies and helping those in need of assistance,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “It is our responsibility to ensure they have the equipment and training they need to help keep us – and themselves – safe. I am pleased the Department of Homeland Security is addressing this need in New Rochelle.” Lowey is a senior member – and the only New Yorker – on the Appropriations Subcommittee on Homeland Security, where she has strongly advocated initiatives to support local fire departments. Captain Barry Nechis of the New Rochelle Fire Department said the funding will be used to replace thermal imaging cameras, which help to find missing individuals inside burning structures. “It will also allow NRFD to upgrade self contained breathing apparatus (SCBA), which will improve the safety of firefighters and save the city a substantial amount of capital funds,” said Nechis. “It would be much harder for us to protect our community without Congresswoman Lowey’s long standing efforts for emergency services.” The Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) program, which is administered by the Department of Homeland Security Office of Grants and Training in coordination with the U.S. Fire Administration, awards grants directly to fire departments and EMS agencies. Funds may be used to increase the effectiveness of firefighting operations, firefighter health and safety programs, emergency medical service programs, fire prevention and safety programs, and to purchase new fire equipment. ###
02.13.2012	“At a time when the most urgent need facing the federal government is continuing our economic recovery, this budget request proposes smart investments in education, training, and job creation. “Increasing the maximum Pell Grant award would help many of the 12,715 Pell recipients in Westchester and Rockland Counties, and President Obama’s Community College to Career Fund would train students for 21st century jobs in high-need fields like advanced manufacturing. Creating a National Infrastructure Bank to invest in roads and bridges, water systems, electrical grids, and wireless networks would create jobs while repairing and upgrading our region’s aging infrastructure. “Homeland security grant programs are critical to the safety of families and individuals who live and work in the New York metropolitan area. I am pleased President Obama has proposed a $525 million increase in grants to help train and equip first responders whose work is critical to preventing and responding to emergencies. Throughout the budget process, I will advocate robust funding for port and transit security, the Urban Areas Security Initiative (UASI), and the areas at greatest risk, like New York. “During these difficult budget times, I am pleased President Obama is working to ensure taxpayer money is spent efficiently by including robust funding to crack down on Medicare and Medicaid fraud, which saves $7.20 for every dollar spent. “Through the budget process, I will work with the Administration and my Congressional colleagues to make targeted and fiscally responsible investments in New York’s safety, security, and prosperity.” ###
02.13.2012	Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY), Ranking Democrat on the Appropriations State and Foreign Operations Subcommittee, today issued the following statement on President Obama’s budget request for diplomacy and development programs: “Diplomacy and development – along with defense – are key pillars of our national security. I am pleased President Obama has presented a budget request that recognizes the importance of American engagement and leadership. “As our nation makes the transition to a civilian role in Iraq and begins the process of drawing down U.S. forces in Afghanistan, the demands on our diplomatic and development workforce will only increase, particularly in relation to fighting terrorism, training and equipping allies, and preventing the spread of extremism. We also continue to face monumental challenges in fighting hunger, poverty, and disease and expanding access to basic education and health systems, which are critical for American leadership. “During these difficult budget times, I commend President Obama for his continued effort to find operational efficiencies and focus on meaningful, outcome-based evaluation systems to ensure taxpayer funding is used effectively. “I look forward to working with Chairwoman Granger, the Administration, and my Congressional colleagues to advance our nation’s diplomatic and development priorities.” ###
02.10.2012	Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today issued the following statement regarding the Administration’s compromise regarding coverage of contraceptive services: “What is most important is that women have access to free contraceptive coverage as a preventive service, as recommended by the Institute of Medicine. The President has proposed a reasonable solution that protects women’s access to free contraceptive coverage while accommodating religiously-affiliated institutions’ objections to paying for this service. I am hopeful this will put an end a political firestorm that has been a distraction from what should be Congress’ top priority – creating jobs and continuing our economic recovery.” ###
02.08.2012	Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today issued the following statement defending women’s access to contraceptive services as preventive health care. “Speaker Boehner and the Republican majority should concentrate on creating jobs and continuing our economic recovery – not decreasing access and increasing costs for women’s health. “Increased access to birth control is directly linked to declines in maternal and infant mortality, protects women for whom pregnancy could cause medical problems, and reduces incidence of abortion by reducing unintended pregnancies. Women employed by any hospital, college, or nonprofit are just as entitled to these health benefits as women who work for any other employer. “President Obama made the right decision when he acted to protect access to birth control for hundreds of thousands of American women, and we can’t backtrack now.” ###
02.06.2012	Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) was today joined by the family of drunk driving victim Burton Greene, Mothers Against Drunk Driving (MADD), and Westchester County District Attorney’s Office in calling for tough national standards on minimum penalties for drunk driving repeat offenders, including ignition interlock devices. “We have made tremendous progress in reducing drunk driving deaths,” said Lowey, “but there is still much more we can do to keep unsafe drivers off the road. Congress is due to reauthorize the federal transportation bill this year, and it must contain strong minimum standards for repeat drunk driving offenders, including ignition interlock devices and other technology that prevents impaired drivers from operating a vehicle.” According to the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA), in 2010, almost one out of every three vehicle fatalities involved a drunk driver. In New York, 364 of 1,200 traffic fatalities involved a drunk driver. According to Mothers Against Drunk Driving (MADD), people who have previous drunk driving convictions make up approximately one-third of drunk drivers. “Because of a repeat offender, my children know their grandpa only through photos, stories about him, and visits to the cemetery,” said Lisa Heller, daughter of Burton Greene. “Because of a repeat offender, my father was robbed of the pleasure of knowing and loving my girls. We are grateful to Congresswoman Nita Lowey for her efforts to pass the Burton H. Greene Memorial Act in memory of a remarkable man who loved life and touched countless lives.” Carole Sears, President of the Westchester County chapter of Mothers Against Drunk Driving (MADD), said “Ignition interlocks work. The fact is that every driver in every state should be protected from drunk drivers.” States make their own laws regarding traffic safety and penalties, but the federal government has authority to enforce minimum standards. Following the death of Burton Greene in Scarsdale in 1997 at the hands of a repeat drunk driver, Congresswoman Lowey successfully led the effort requiring states to enact a minimum standard of .08 Blood Alcohol Concentration (BAC) to receive federal transportation funding. All fifty states enacted a .08 BAC standard as a result. The Burton Greene Higher-Risk Impaired Driver Act, which Lowey last introduced in 2003, included both incentives and sanctions to get states to enact laws targeting high-risk drivers convicted of repeat offenses or a BAC above .15, as well as minimum standards for penalties. The last major transportation reauthorization in 2005 included incentives for states to enact higher-risk driver laws and increased penalties for repeat offenders.In the upcoming transportation reauthorization, Lowey is working to preserve programs and penalties aimed at higher-risk drivers, including the use of ignition interlock devices to reduce repeat offenses by preventing impaired drivers from operating their vehicles. Just as the National Restaurant Association, led at the time by Herman Cain, opposed stronger drunk driving standards when Lowey established a .08 BAC standard in 2000, the American Beverage Institute is fighting to remove existing incentives for states to enact ignition interlock laws, and opposes Lowey’s effort to require states to enact ignition interlock laws. ###
02.03.2012	Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today issued the following statement regarding reversal of Susan G. Komen for the Cure’s decision to de-fund Planned Parenthood: “I am pleased Susan G. Komen for the Cure has reversed its decision to stop providing grants to Planned Parenthood for breast cancer detection. The strength of women’s health advocacy is rooted in its nonpartisanship, and there must be no doubt that organizations will stand on the side of awareness, research, treatment, and support – not ideology. “I look forward to continuing to work in partnership with Susan G. Komen for the Cure, Planned Parenthood, and other organizations dedicated to advancing women’s health.”###
02.02.2012	Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today issued the following statement on the Susan G. Komen for the Cure’s decision to defund Planned Parenthood: “The most effective advocacy campaigns are those that enjoy broad grassroots support and are independent from politics and ideology. For 30 years, the Susan G. Komen Foundation has been a leader in making breast cancer research and awareness such a cause. “Susan G. Komen Foundation for the Cure’s policy change regarding grant recipients fails the test of nonpartisanship and jeopardizes the broad and widespread backing that breast cancer research and awareness enjoys today. It also puts women’s health at risk by defunding one of the most effective women’s health providers. “Allowing a sham political ‘investigation’ to derail widespread support for breast cancer research, as well as survivors, their families, and millions of other Americans would be a tragedy. “I encourage Susan G. Komen for the Cure to reverse its ill-considered decision, which will jeopardize women’s health and long-term support for breast cancer awareness and research.” ###
01.31.2012	Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today visited the Rye Brook Senior Center and issued the following statement on the 72nd anniversary of issuance of the first Social Security checks in 1940: “Creation of the Social Security program in 1935 represented a commitment by the American people to ensure that Americans who have worked throughout their lives and helped build our country will not suffer from hunger or poverty in old age. “That commitment still stands even stronger today than it did nearly 80 years ago. Nearly 55 million Americans receive an average monthly benefit of more than $1,000 from Social Security Old Age Insurance, Survivors Insurance, or Disability Insurance, including more than 3.2 million New Yorkers. This benefit provides a lifeline not just for retired workers and older Americans, but for widows and widowers, children, and individuals with disabilities. “I will continue to oppose privatization of Social Security, which has served Americans well for 72 years. As Congress and the Administration discuss the important goal of reducing the federal deficit, I will oppose slashing Social Security benefits for families and individuals who depend on this stable and reliable assistance.”###
01.20.2012	Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today issued the following statement regarding the Administration’s decision regarding birth control coverage as a preventive service. “I am pleased the Administration has re-affirmed that women will have access to the full range of preventive services recommended by independent experts at the Institute of Medicine. “Hundreds of thousands of American women are employed by colleges, universities, hospitals, and nonprofit organizations affiliated with religious institutions. These women are no less deserving of contraceptive coverage through their health insurance than women who work for the federal government, private corporations, or any other employer. “Maintaining this strong requirement will help reduce unintended pregnancies, lower health care costs, and protect women’s health. At a time when women’s rights have too frequently become a target for divisive attacks, this is a clear win for women.” ###
01.12.2012	WHITE PLAINS, NY – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY) today urged the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to increase testing and research of arsenic in apple, grape, and other juices to determine whether the lack of a federal standard creates a public health risk. “There is no more basic federal responsibility than ensuring the safety of our food supply,” said Lowey. “The lack of a federal standard on arsenic levels in juice products is alarming, particularly given the high quantities of apple and grape juice that many children drink. We must determine whether this lack of a federal standard could place consumers at risk.” A recent study by Consumer Reports found that ten percent of apple and grape juices it sampled had total arsenic levels exceeding the federal drinking water standard of 10 parts per billion. There is currently no federal standard on the amount of arsenic in juices. Full letter to FDA Commissioner Hamburg and EPA Administrator Jackson:Dear Commissioner Hamburg and Administrator Jackson: On Wednesday, the Food and Drug Administration halted orange juice imports to the U.S. following the discovery of illegal fungicide found in some products. It is alarming that American consumers could purchase juice on supermarket shelves containing chemical compounds that are not approved for use in the U.S. I support strong actions to ensure that food products are safe for consumption. As this story has garnered significant coverage, I would like to draw your attention to a recent study by Consumer Reports that found that ten percent of apple and grape juices it sampled had total arsenic levels that exceeded the federal drinking water standard of 10 parts per billion. The Consumer Reports study is alarming, particularly given the fact that many children drink juice in quantities exceeding amounts recommended by physicians. I encourage the Food and Drug Administration and Environmental Protection Agency to increase testing and research of arsenic in apple, grape, and other juices to determine whether the lack of a federal standard creates a health risk. There is currently no federal standard on the amount of arsenic in apple juice, and I believe we should seriously consider setting a standard to ensure the products we purchase are safe. Sincerely,Nita Lowey
01.10.2012	RYE BROOK – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) was today joined by local business owner Daniel Magnus to tout job-creating federal assistance for local businesses and call for greater investment in small business loan programs. Mr. Magnus received a $1.3 million loan, 90% guarantee, and fee waiver from the U.S. Small Business Administration (SBA), saving $35,000 as he opens Elevation Burger franchises in Rye Brook and Yonkers, which will create dozens of local jobs. “This public-private partnership is a great example of how the federal government can promote economic activity and job creation,” said Lowey. “Helping Daniel Magnus secure the capital he needed – without the typical fees – made it possible for him to purchase franchises, offer a competitive product, and create local jobs.” "Working closely with Hudson Valley Bank and the New York Business Development Corporation to secure SBA financing and a waiver of lending fees helped to make my first two Elevation Burger locations a reality,” said Daniel Magnus. “Between our newly-opened first location at the Rye Ridge Shopping Center in Rye Brook and our second location in Yonkers, which will open early this year, we will have created more than 65 new jobs in the county.” With the help of the U.S. Small Business Administration (SBA), Mr. Magnus opened the first Westchester County franchise of Elevation Burger, utilizing sustainable building materials and serving 100% organic food. Mr. Magnus received the capital to open his first two stores through the SBA 7(a) loan program, which works with financial institutions to provide a 90% guarantee on the loan to qualified applicants. SBA waived fees associated with the loan, saving Mr. Magnus $35,000, valuable capital he is using to expand his business. The Small Business Jobs Act, enacted in September 2010, contained legislation sponsored by Lowey to increase SBA loan limits and guarantees and waive loan fees. This is critical for business owners in high cost-of-living areas, like Mr. Magnus, where the price of goods and services is higher than the rest of the country. In addition to franchises in Rye Brook and Yonkers, Mr. Magnus intends to open a third Elevation Burger in Westchester County in 2012. By the end of 2012, his three stores will create more than 65 jobs, not including construction and service sector jobs contributing to the transformation and maintenance of the new stores. “Last month marked 22 straight months of private sector job growth, but there is still more to do,” said Lowey. “We must expand successful and job-creating initiatives like SBA loan programs for small businesses and extend the payroll tax holiday through 2012, which will save hard-working families nearly in New York’s 18th Congressional District $1,700 this year.” ###
12.22.2011	WASHINGTON, DC – Reps. Nita Lowey (D-NY) and Scott Garrett (R-NJ) today introduced bipartisan legislation to permanently exempt middle-class taxpayers from the threat of higher taxes resulting from the Alternative Minimum Tax (AMT). H.R. 3747, the Permanent AMT Relief Act, would increase the exemption levels to $100,000 for married couples and $75,000 for individuals. In addition, it would index AMT exemption levels to inflation to shield additional taxpayers from AMT liability in the future. Lowey made the following statement after introducing the bill in the House: “Hard-working middle-class families in high cost-of-living areas like ours are disproportionately affected by the Alternative Minimum Tax, said Lowey. “The AMT requires additional tax calculations and prevents many middle-class families from taking exemptions and deductions available to other taxpayers, costing them time and money. Congress must increase the AMT exemption levels to protect millions of middle-class taxpayers from a tax burden they were never intended to shoulder.” Garrett made the following statement after introducing the bill in the House: “Year after year Congress is forced to step in at the last minute to protect middle-class taxpayers from the far-reaching tentacles of the AMT. Finding a permanent solution to address this arbitrary tax hike on hard working Americans is not only good public policy, it’s the right thing to do. Part of the reason Americans are so pessimistic about their financial future is they are uncertain how they will be taxed from one year to the next. One year fixes to the problem are no longer acceptable; we need a permanent solution to address the problem once and for all.” Background The Alternative Minimum Tax (AMT) was established to prevent a small group of wealthy Americans from claiming so many deductions that they did not pay a cent in federal taxes. Unfortunately, the AMT has not been adjusted for inflation, which means that year after year more and more middle-class families are subject to this unfair tax. On January 1, 2012, the current AMT patch will expire, decreasing the exemption level for married couples from $74,450 to $45,000 and the exemption level for individuals from $48,450 to $33,750. Unless Congress takes action, an estimated 34.4 million taxpayers—an 8-fold increase from 2011—will be subject to higher rates in 2012. ###
12.20.2011	Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today issued the following statement regarding the House Republican majority’s rejection of a bipartisan bill to continue tax relief for hard-working, middle-class families:“The House Republican majority’s decision to reject tax relief for hard-working, middle-class families is outrageous and inexcusable. There could be no clearer illustration of the majority’s misplaced priorities. Rather than accepting a bipartisan compromise passed by a vote of 89-10 in the Senate, they choose to play political games.“Failure to extend the payroll by the end of the year will mean an average tax hike of $1,689 per family in New York’s 18th Congressional District, and potentially as much as $2,136. “This holiday season, 160 million Americans cannot afford the collateral damage that the Republican majority’s political games will cause.” ###
12.16.2011	Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY), Ranking Democrat on the Appropriations State and Foreign Operations Subcommittee, today delivered the following statement on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives regarding the Omnibus Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year 2012:As Ranking Member of the State, Foreign Operations subcommittee, I congratulate Chairwoman Granger, Chairman Rogers, and Ranking Member Dicks and thank you for working together with me on a bill that will help maintain our global leadership, protect national security and promote economic growth.Our wise investments in better health and education systems, economic opportunity in the developing world, humanitarian assistance, international financial institutions, development assistance, economic support funds, and international family planning will help to save lives, develop the next generation of U.S. trading partners to boost job growth domestically, and confront the conditions that foster the radicalism and instability that threaten the long-term security of the United States. This bill also fully funds our agreements with vital allies including Israel, Jordan, and Egypt, and supports governance and development activities in Egypt to aid the transition to democracy.However, we do not write blank checks. Stringent conditions on continued assistance for Egypt, the Palestinian Authority, Pakistan and Afghanistan will help ensure accountability and responsible use of tax-payer dollars. This bill is aimed at advancing our economic and strategic interests around the world through effective and efficient diplomacy and development, and I urge my colleagues to support it. ###
12.13.2011	WHITE PLAINS - Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today called on the U.S. Congress not to leave Washington, D.C. for the holidays until it has acted to protect New Yorkers from severe tax hikes in 2012 by extending the payroll tax reduction. “Just a few weeks remain before hard-working middle-class families in New York and across the country will face a tax hike of nearly $1,700 on average,” said Lowey. “This is not the time for politics and brinkmanship – Congress should act immediately to avoid this tax hike, and we should not leave Washington, D.C. for the holidays until it is done.” Last year, Congress implemented a one-year reduction of the employee portion of the payroll tax paid by all American employees and employers from 6.2 percent to 4.2 percent. This tax reduction benefits hard-working, middle-class families by reducing taxes they pay on wages up to $106,800. If the payroll tax reduction is allowed to expire, the average Westchester or Rockland County family will pay an additional $1,689 in taxes in 2012. The maximum tax increase would be $2,136. “There is no question that expiration of the payroll tax cut will increase taxes for local families and slow economic and job growth in 2012,” said Rachel Estroff of Westchester for Change. “Our economy and the American people cannot afford Congressional inaction.” Lowey also called on Congress to act before the end of the year to protect more middle-class families from being subject to the Alternative Minimum Tax (AMT). The AMT was established to prevent a small group of wealthy Americans from claiming so many deductions that they did not pay a cent in taxes. Unfortunately, the AMT exemption was not adjusted for inflation, and year after year more middle-class families are subject to an unfair tax that requires them to pay more than their fair share. “Our region is among the most affected by the Alternative Minimum Tax,” said Lowey. “We must act to protect middle-class families who were never intended to be targeted by the AMT.” ###
11.22.2011	NEW ROCHELLE - Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) was joined today by Westchester County mayors, law enforcement officials, and gun safety advocates in calling on the U.S. Senate and President Obama to prevent dangerous federal legislation invalidating New York gun safety measures from becoming law. “Our state has strong and appropriate laws preventing violent individuals from gaining permits to carry concealed firearms,” said Lowey. “This is critical for the safety of both law enforcement and the general public. It is outrageous that instead of focusing on America’s top priority – job creation – the Republican majority is spending its time on divisive efforts to invalidate common-sense restrictions states like New York have imposed on gun possession by violent residents of other states.” The National Right-to-Carry Reciprocity Act, passed last week by the U.S. House of Representatives despite the opposition of Lowey and others, would force states that issue permits to carry concealed weapons to recognize any concealed carry gun permit issued by another state, even if that individual has a violent record making him or her ineligible for a permit under New York laws. This act would endanger New Yorkers by: · allowing the loosest laws in the country for concealed weapons to supersede New York’s common sense gun safety laws;· preventing law enforcement from knowing who is allowed to carry a concealed weapon, and;· facilitating illegal gun trafficking across state borders.Currently, 30 states recognize the concealed carry permits of other states. New York does not have any reciprocity agreements. "In most states, if you've been convicted of assault, or haven't completed a gun safety training program, you can't carry a concealed, loaded gun in public," said Mayors Against Illegal Guns co-chair Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg. "This bill would override those laws and make communities across the country less safe, which is why so many police and law enforcement organizations strongly oppose it, and why our bipartisan coalition of mayors is committed to stopping it." "This misguided legislation would undermine the critical work of our Police Department and place residents throughout New York at greater risk of gun violence from those who have no business carrying concealed weapons,” said New Rochelle Mayor Noam Bramson. “It's outrageous that the House majority would sweep away our rights as New Yorkers to enforce common sense gun safety standards." "National Concealed Carry Reciprocity represents a real danger to public safety by undermining the ability of states with strong gun laws like New York to keep those from other states with weak permitting standards from carrying in our state. A broad coalition of groups, including Mayors, law enforcement, faith leaders and domestic violence advocates all oppose this legislation, which was defeated in the Senate in 2009," said Andy Pelosi, director of GunFreeKids.org. Due to the threat this legislation poses to law enforcement and other New Yorkers, Lowey has called on the U.S. Senate not to act on the bill and reject the act if a vote is forced. Should the Senate pass this bill, Lowey is urging President Obama to use his veto power. Lowey said, “I stand with over 600 mayors, police organizations, and domestic violence organizations in strong opposition to this legislation that threatens New Yorkers’ safety and usurps our state’s ability to make and enforce its own laws.” ###
11.10.2011	Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) was joined today by local veterans, veterans service organizations, and business leaders to call for immediate actions to help veterans returning from Iraq and Afghanistan find jobs. Lowey also presented overdue service medals to veterans from Rye City and Mamaroneck. “It is unacceptable that so many of the brave men and women who have served our nation in Iraq, Afghanistan, and elsewhere have such difficulty finding a job after their service is done,” said Lowey. “Our responsibility to veterans entails more than just health care or retirement benefits. It is a basic and fundamental responsibility to ensure they have the ability to provide for themselves and their families after they leave the Armed Forces.” Lowey called for immediate passage of the American Heroes Act, which would:· provide tax credits for hiring veterans looking for work,· strengthen much-needed training programs for separating service members,· encourage businesses and government contractors to hire the brave men and women who have developed valuable skills and professionalism in the armed forces, and· ensure that servicemembers leave the military career-ready. “The Senate must pass this critical legislation today, and Speaker Boehner should follow suit and put this at the top of the House agenda,” Lowey said.Lowey also presented overdue service medals to two local veterans – Hollis Chase of Rye and Joseph Ferraro of Mamaroneck. Mr. Chase, 85, joined the Air Force in 1942. He flew more than 41 combat missions as a B-24 pilot stationed in the South Pacific during World War II. He has earned the Distinguished Flying Cross, the Air Medal, the Philippine Liberation Campaign Ribbon, the Asiatic-Pacific Campaign Medal, the World War II Victory Medal and a Presidential Unit Citation. Mr. Ferraro, 89, served in the U.S. Army from 1941 to 1946. He was an infantryman and medic stationed in France. He has earned the Bronze Star Medal, the Purple Heart, the Good Conduct Medal, the American Campaign Medal, the European-African-Middle Eastern Campaign Medal, the World War II Victory Medal, the Combat Infantryman Badge and Honorable Service Lapel Button for his service. “Our nation owes brave veterans like Mr. Chase, Mr. Ferraro, and all those who have served in the Armed Forces a debt of gratitude,” said Lowey. “This Veterans Day, we must recommit ourselves not only to ensuring veterans have the health care and financial security they deserve, but also the ability to find good-paying jobs after their service.” ###
11.09.2011	Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY), Ranking Democrat on the Appropriations State and Foreign Operations Subcommittee, today issued the following statement on the U.S. Government’s commitment to support the Global Partnership for Education: “I am pleased the United States will support the Global Partnership for Education to advance basic education around the world. Illiteracy and lack of access to basic education are among the most severe obstacles to overcoming crushing poverty and lack of opportunity in the developing world, particularly for girls. In addition to our bilateral education assistance, I will work to support this important ongoing relationship with the multilateral Global Partnership for Education in order to help children in the developing world have the opportunity they deserve.” ###
10.31.2011	PORT CHESTER, NY – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today visited senior citizens in Port Chester to announce they will receive an average increase of approximately $50 per month in Social Security benefits in 2012.“Senior citizens and all hard-working families know that the cost of living continues to increase for basic necessities like housing, health care, transportation, and more,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “I am pleased these higher costs will be reflected with a cost of living adjustment (COLA) benefiting nearly 55 million Social Security beneficiaries nationwide, including more than 115,000 in New York’s 18th Congressional District."115,213 Social Security beneficiaries in the 18th Congressional District will receive an average COLA of $47.21. Of those, 84,898 beneficiaries who are retirees will receive an average COLA of $50.50. Congresswoman Lowey also alerted senior citizens in Port Chester that Medicare open enrollment opened on October 15th and runs through December 7th, which is an earlier open season period than in previous years.“As costs continue to rise for basic necessities, I will continue working to ensure Social Security benefits are protected for current and future generations,” said Lowey. ###
10.31.2011	Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY), Ranking Democrat on the Appropriations State and Foreign Operations Subcommittee, today issued the following statement regarding the U.N. Educational, Scientific, and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) granting full membership to the Palestinian Authority:“The mission of every agency affiliated with the United Nations is to foster – not thwart – conditions for peace and stability. Today’s action by UNESCO fails that test.“By taking this premature and counter-productive step, UNESCO is interfering with the prospects for direct negotiations between Israel and the Palestinians at a time when both parties have taken the positive step of committing to present comprehensive proposals on borders and security.“In addition, consistent with current law, UNESCO’s action has also put at risk its funding from United States taxpayers, who provide more than one-fifth of UNESCO’s budget. I am pleased the Administration has acted quickly to cancel an upcoming $60 million payment to the agency. UNESCO must understand that such irresponsible actions have serious consequences.” ###
10.21.2011	Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY), Ranking Democrat on the Appropriations State and Foreign Operations Subcommittee, today issued the following statement on the death of Libyan dictator Moammar Qadhafi: “In the past six months, Osama bin Laden, Anwar al-Awlaki, and Moammar Qadhafi have been killed. In three different countries, in three unique operations, the Administration has taken a leading role in neutralizing the threat posed by terrorists who have proven willing to target American citizens, troops, and interests at home and abroad. President Obama, Secretary Clinton, and the U.S. Armed Forces deserve the thanks and praise of the American people for decisive and judicious actions that have made our nation more secure.” ###
10.20.2011	WHITE PLAINS - Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) was joined today by White Plains and Yonkers elected officials, first responders, and educators to call for immediate action on components of the American Jobs Act that would invest $35 billion to help states and localities prevent and reverse layoffs of up to 280,000 teachers, while supporting hiring tens of thousands more and keeping cops and firefighters on the job.“At a time of high unemployment and underemployment, we owe it to our children and our neighbors to ensure communities still have qualified teachers, police officers, and firefighters on the job,” said Lowey. “The federal government can and should act to help local governments avoid and reverse layoffs that have plagued first responders and educators. This piece of the American Jobs Act, which is critical for our public safety and our children’s education, should receive wide bipartisan agreement."The City of White Plains has a great advocate in Representative Lowey,” said White Plains Mayor Tom Roach. “In a time of tight municipal budgets, she understands that all levels of government need to work together to address our present challenges."Senate Republicans last week unanimously blocked the Senate from even debating or voting on the American Jobs Act, a comprehensive plan proposed by President Obama to create jobs and jumpstart our economy through aggressive investments and tax relief for hard-working middle-class and working families. The House Republican majority has also refused to consider this plan to create jobs.The Teachers and First Responders Act is one component of the American Jobs Act focused on shoring up employment for teachers, police officers, and firefighters and helping municipalities avoid or reverse layoffs as a result of local government budget cuts. The Teachers and First Responders Act would provide $1.8 billion for New York to support up to 18,000 educator and first responder jobs.“While our economy has seen improvement with nineteen straight months of private sector job growth, a decrease in the number of jobless claims, and private sector payrolls increased by 137,000 in September, continued unemployment of 9% demands we act,” said Lowey. “The House of Representatives must consider this critical bill immediately.” ###
10.11.2011	Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today issued the following statement on expedited permitting and environmental review for the Tappan Zee Bridge: “I am pleased the Tappan Zee Bridge is one of 14 high-priority projects that will benefit from expedited permitting and environmental review, which will help to begin construction of a new bridge soon. Reconstruction of the Tappan Zee – which is critical for commuters and travelers – will accelerate local job creation while maintaining and improving a critical link in our region’s transportation network. I look forward to working with state and local officials to continue streamlining regulations and ensure construction begins as soon as possible. I also call on Congress to do its part to by passing a bold and aggressive investment in our nation’s roads and bridges so that construction of high-priority projects like the Tappan Zee can commence.” ###
10.05.2011	Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY), Ranking Democrat on the Appropriations State and Foreign Operations Subcommittee, today issued the following statement regarding the U.N. Educational, Scientific, and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) executive board decision to send the Palestinian Authority’s request for full membership to a vote of UNESCO’s members:“Today’s action by the UNESCO executive board was premature and counter-productive. No agency of the United Nations should consider accepting membership of the Palestinian Authority before the responsible authority charged with making a decision on membership – the UN Security Council – has acted. “Most importantly, UNESCO’s action will assuredly interfere with the prospects for direct negotiations between Israel and the Palestinians, which are the only means to achieve a just and lasting peace in the region. “It is incumbent on every agency affiliated with the United Nations to do its utmost to foster – not thwart – conditions for peace. Toward that end, I urge the full membership of UNESCO to reject this destructive gambit and urge the Palestinian Authority to return to direct negotiations with Israel.”Lowey sent a letter to UNESCO on Tuesday, October 4th urging the body to cancel today’s vote on full recognition of the Palestinian Authority.
09.30.2011	WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today announced that the Westchester Library System will receive a National Leadership Grant of $450,000 from the federal Institute of Museum and Library Services (IMLS) to create a model for public libraries of instructional arts programming for an aging population.“I am thrilled that the Westchester Library System will receive federal support to engage senior citizens with educational and instructional arts programs,” said Lowey. “This initiative will serve as a model for other library systems around the country to keep aging populations connected with their neighbors and communities.”“The Westchester Library System and Lifetime Arts have successfully partnered to implement creative aging programs in public libraries throughout Westchester County since 2008,” said Fran Feuerman, Chief Financial Officer of the Westchester Library System. “These popular educational, innovative and interactive programs have provided opportunities for participants to learn new skills, expand their social networks and improve their quality of life. This latest grant will teach others how to establish and implement creative aging programs in urban, suburban and rural library systems, and will serve as a model for similar initiatives in libraries across the United States.”The Westchester Library System has partnered up with Lifetime Arts, Inc., as well as the American Library Association’s Public Programs Office, to demonstrate a new and robust model for public libraries to deliver and sustain meaningful instructional arts programs for an aging population. Creative aging focuses on the integral and positive role of the arts in enhancing the quality of life for the elderly. These programs will act as a model for initiatives in various other communities across the country. ###
09.26.2011	NEW YORK – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today delivered the following remarks at a press conference with the Jewish Community Relations Council (JCRC) and members of the New York Congressional Delegation: “President Abbas and the Palestinian Authority have made a choice. They have not been forced into this position, and circumstances are not beyond their control. They have chosen to discontinue negotiations with Israel and pursue a counter-productive publicity stunt.“Abu Mazen’s speech last week made clear he’s not interested in peace. Peacemakers are not obstinate, cynical, incendiary, and inflammatory. Peacemakers don’t blatantly disregard those who have invested $2.9 billion since 2005 in enhancing their security, improving basic services, and supporting economic progress. Peacemakers take constructive – not destructive – actions toward the goal of peace.“President Abbas has been warned repeatedly. I remain firm: his action crosses a line and should lead to a reevaluation of U.S. assistance for the PA. “I commend President Obama and Secretary Clinton for staying strong in the face of this provocative and counter-productive action. I hope that, working with the Quartet, we can facilitate the conditions for resumption of good-faith negotiations. “A just and lasting peace agreement can only be achieved through negotiations between the parties themselves. As President Obama stated last week, peace is hard. “President Abbas, discontinue this destructive path and make the hard choice. Return to negotiations with Israel so that we can revive the prospects of a negotiated two-state solution.”###
09.23.2011	Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today announced that Mercy College has been selected to receive a federal grant of $787,824 to support the teaching of science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM) fields. “I am thrilled that Mercy College will benefit from this federal grant, which will help fulfill its mission of supporting Hispanic and low-income students in the STEM fields,” said Lowey. “Our future competitiveness is directly dependent on our ability to educate and train promising young people in innovative fields like science, technology, engineering, and mathematics, and public-private partnerships like Mercy College’s ‘Step Up to STEM’ are critical to that effort.” “We are honored to be awarded funding from the United States Department of Education’s Title V STEM and Articulation programs," said Mercy College President Dr. Kimberly Cline. “As an Hispanic-Serving Institution with many first-generation college students, Mercy College is well-positioned to provide a high quality, affordable education to academically talented students interested in exciting careers in science, technology and math.” The purpose of the Hispanic-Serving Institutions STEM Program at the U.S. Department of Education is to develop and carry out activities to improve and expand the capacity of institutions of higher education to serve Hispanic and low-income students. Mercy College’s “Step Up to STEM” initiative works in coordination with the City University of New York (CUNY) and IBM Corp. to support Hispanic and low-income students attaining degrees in science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM) fields. ###
09.23.2011	Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) this week delivered the following statement on the floor of the House of Representatives in opposition to Palestinian Authority’s counter-productive and dangerous gambit to declare statehood unilaterally through the United Nations: “Mr. Speaker, I rise in opposition to the Palestinian Authority’s counter-productive and dangerous gambit to declare statehood unilaterally through the United Nations. “As we all know, a genuine and lasting peace between the Israelis and the Palestinians can only be achieved through a negotiated settlement between the parties themselves. A lasting peace cannot be imposed on Israel and the Palestinians by an outside country – like the United States – or organization – like the United Nations. “That is why it is so disturbing that the Palestinian Authority has chosen to discontinue direct negotiations with Israel and instead pursue a unilateral declaration of statehood through the United Nations. This action will indisputably set back the prospects of a settlement between the parties and call into question the commitment of Palestinian leaders to genuine and lasting peace. “The Palestinian Authority receives more than $500 million in economic and security assistance from the United States each year because it is in our interest and that of Israel to support the ability of the PA to provide security and basic services. But that assistance is predicated on the willingness of the Palestinian Authority to negotiate directly with Israel toward its own state. President Abbas has been warned repeatedly, and I remain firm that this counter-productive action by the PA crosses a line and should lead to a re-evaluation of this assistance. “Despite the provocative decision of the Palestinian Authority to abandon negotiations and pursue instead a unilateral declaration of statehood, I remain optimistic that the Administration, working in concert with the Quartet, can facilitate the conditions for a resumption of good-faith negotiations. “I commend President Obama and Secretary Clinton for standing firm in support of a negotiated settlement and for re-affirming the unbreakable bond between Israel and the United States. I support the Administration’s tireless work to prevent a unilateral declaration of statehood from coming to a vote before the United Nations, and to defeat this gambit if a vote does occur. “As President Obama stated before the United Nations, peace is hard. But we also know that it is very much worth the effort. I encourage President Abbas to make the hard choice to return to negotiations with Israel. It is the only way to achieve the lasting and genuine peace that both Israelis and Palestinians deserve.” ###
09.21.2011	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (Westchester/Rockland) announced today that the White Plains Housing Authority (WPHA) will receive $3.5 million in federal funding for job training and educational programming. “I am delighted that the White Plains Housing Authority will receive federal support to create early childhood education centers and adult training facilities,” said Lowey. “Every dollar of federal support our municipalities receive for critical priorities like job training helps to alleviate strain on local budgets and support the community at large.” Mack Carter, Executive Director of the White Plains Housing Authority, said, “This funding is going to help the downtown White Plains community support job training and educational programming for both low income families and the White Plains community at-large. We’re going to build a community center and this will help support the building of that community center. The Board of Commissioners has worked hard to secure this grant and this will be simply amazing for us.” The White Plains Housing Authority was awarded the $3.5 million federal grant through the Capital Fund Education and Training Community Facilities (CFCF) initiative, managed by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD). The purpose of CFCF grants is to aid in the construction of facilities to provide early care childhood education, adult education, and job training programs for public housing residents. WPHA hopes to use the Winbrook Community Education Center to support existing programs as well as support the expansion of job skills training and adult education problems to better serve the White Plains community. “High-performing housing authorities like WPHA are frequently at a disadvantage in obtaining federal grants,” said Lowey. “I am pleased HUD has recognized the importance of this initiative for our community.” ###
09.21.2011	Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY), the sole New Yorker on the Appropriations Homeland Security Subcommittee, today issued the following statement in opposition to the Republican majority’s Continuing Resolution, which insufficiently funds disaster relief that New York homeowners and business owners need to recover from Hurricane Irene and resulting flooding. “It is inexcusable that the Republican majority continues to play political games with disaster relief funding that is critical for New York families, homeowners, and business owners to recover from Hurricane Irene and the resulting flooding. “This Continuing Resolution merely kicks the can down the road by funding FEMA’s Disaster Relief Fund (DRF) at a level that is below FEMA’s stated need. Among the most basic responsibilities of government is helping families and individuals recover from natural disasters. This legislation falls far short of meeting that responsibility. “I call on House leadership to schedule immediately a vote on bipartisan legislation passed by the U.S. Senate that would provide the assistance that New York homeowners and small business owners need.” ###
09.14.2011	WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY) was joined today by Appropriations Committee Democrats who represent Congressional Districts affected by Hurricane Irene in calling on Chairman Hal Rogers to immediately replenish FEMA’s Disaster Relief Fund (DRF) and increase 2012 funding for the DRF in the upcoming Continuing Resolution. The senior lawmakers called on Chairman Rogers to include $500 million for the DRF to last through the end of Fiscal Year 2011 and to fully fund President Obama’s FY 2012 request, including an additional $4.6 billion requested last week. Full letter follows:Dear Chairman Rogers: As Appropriations Committee members whose states are still recovering from the impact of Hurricane Irene, we are writing to urge you to incorporate President Obama’s recent request for additional funding for the Federal Emergency Management Agency’s (FEMA) Disaster Relief Fund (DRF) as you prepare the Continuing Resolution (CR) for Fiscal Year (FY) 2011. In his letter to Speaker Boehner, the President specifically requested $500 million for the DRF to make it through the remainder of FY 2011 and an amendment of $4.6 billion in additional funding for the DRF beyond his original FY 2012 budget submission. We support immediately granting this request as part of the CR. The nation continues to reel from devastating tornadoes, hurricanes and fires over the course of 2011. FEMA must be able to address the immediate needs of communities and individuals as well as provide the long-term relief expected by the American people. Unfortunately, the DRF is perilously low on cash and the only way to ensure FEMA has the resources it needs to assist communities is to immediately replenish the DRF. There has been much discussion in recent weeks about the possibility of offsetting any replenishment of the DRF for FY 2011. While we are committed to working with you to find cost savings throughout the federal budget, needlessly delaying aid to communities by prompting a fight over spending offsets in the CR would be irresponsible. We look forward to continuing to work with you to address the needs of those affected by these disasters. Sincerely, Nita M. Lowey David E. Price Rosa L. DeLauro John W. Olver Jose E. Serrano Steven R. Rothman Chaka Fattah Maurice D. Hinchey James P. Moran
09.07.2011	TARRYTOWN - Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) was joined today by Westchester County municipal, business, and labor leaders in highlighting the benefits of federal infrastructure investment and calling for the creation of a National Infrastructure Bank to finance job-creating projects that improve local communities. “Investing in roads, bridges, and public infrastructure is critical for areas like the New York metropolitan area, with aging transportation networks and civic facilities,” said Lowey. “It is also one of the fastest and most direct ways government can facilitate job creation. A National Infrastructure Bank would provide a stable and secure source of funding for infrastructure improvements in the lower Hudson Valley and nationwide, and it must be part of the federal recovery plan.” The Full Water Supply Project, part of a joint effort to construct and consolidate fresh water supply for the Villages of Briarcliff Manor, Tarrytown, and Sleepy Hollow, received $18.9 million from the federal Recovery Act. The project since its inception has generated over 66,000 work hours, leading to more than 131 full-time equivalent positions, according to New York State. A National Infrastructure Bank would provide loans, loan guarantees, bonds, and even startup capital to finance rehabilitation and construction of water systems, roads, energy grids, broadband communications, and other critical infrastructure assets. Every $1 billion of infrastructure investment creates at least 30,000 jobs and generates more than $6 billion of economic activity. Lowey supports legislation introduced by Congresswoman Rosa DeLauro (D-CT), the National Infrastructure Bank Development Act (H.R. 402) that would kick-start this endeavor by investing $5 billion each year for the next 5 years. “This was a shovel-ready project that addressed a serious infrastructure need facing local communities. The project created jobs directly and indirectly by using American-made products,” said Briarcliff Manor Village Manager Phil Zegarelli. “The Westchester County Association commends Congresswoman Lowey for her leadership in creating a National Infrastructure Bank,” said William Mooney, President of the Westchester County Association. “As we've identified in our economic development initiative The Blueprint for Westchester, the region's economy--and our ability to attract and retain business here--is dependent on a functional infrastructure system. A more modern infrastructure will help Westchester and the region meet future energy, technology, transportation, and telecommunications needs, and bring needed jobs to the region." “A National Infrastructure Bank will provide millions of dollars of private capital to improve the nation’s infrastructure while creating thousands of immediate jobs that will help lift the economy and improve business conditions,” said Ross Pepe, President of the Construction Industry Council of Westchester and Hudson Valley, Inc. “Congress should take action now.” ###
09.01.2011	TARRYTOWN - Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) was today joined by Westchester County vaccine and pharmaceutical companies as she called for a reduction in the employer payroll tax and an extension of the reduced employee payroll tax in order to encourage job creation and economic growth. “Keeping taxes low for millions of working Americans will help to spur economic growth as they use that extra money to purchase goods and services,” said Lowey. “Reducing the cost of hiring new workers will make it easier for corporations, organizations, and other employers to create the jobs that our state and nation need.” The vast majority of workers pay a tax of 6.2 percent on wages earned up to $106,800 per year. Their employer pays an equivalent amount for a total of 12.4 percent per worker, which is designated for Social Security. In December 2010, Congress approved a reduction in the employee-paid portion of the payroll tax to 4.2 percent, but that reduction will expire at the end of 2011, raising taxes for millions of working Americans. The average tax increase for families in New York’s 18th Congressional District would be $1,689 per year and the maximum tax increase would be 2,136 per year. An extension of this employee tax benefit and a reduction in the employer portion of the payroll tax would encourage job creation and promote economic growth. Lowey also highlighted the innovative work that local companies TechnoVax, Inc. and Acorda Therapeutics are conducting to fight disease and improve wellness. “TechnoVax, like most small biotech companies today, relies on Federal research grants and incentives,” said Jose Galarza, CEO, TechnoVax, Inc. “In return the largest part of our resources is re-invested into hiring educated and well trained scientists. Every dollar we can stretch allows us to increase our workforce, focus on advancing our innovative vaccines and keep cutting edges technologies being developed in the USA.” “Biotechnology companies develop innovative therapies that treat previously untreatable diseases and bring enormous benefits to millions of patients in need,” said Ron Cohen, M.D., Acorda’s president and chief executive officer. “In doing so, they ease the personal and economic burdens of illness while creating new, high-paying jobs. One of the most important investments Federal, state and local governments can make is in partnering with biotechnology companies to invest in research, rationalize tax burdens and expedite regulatory processes, so that this key industry can remain an engine of employment and economic growth. ” ###
08.30.2011	Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today urged President Obama to grant Governor Andrew Cuomo’s official request for a federal major disaster declaration for New York State, including Public and Individual Assistance for Westchester and Rockland Counties. “The damage in Westchester and Rockland Counties resulting from Hurricane Irene is severe. Municipalities, homeowners, businesses, and other residents have suffered major damages and loss of property as a result of the storm and flooding. “I commend Governor Cuomo for moving quickly to request an expedited disaster declaration including Public and Individual Assistance. Such a declaration would allow municipalities to be reimbursed for significant costs associated with recovery, and provide and provide New York homeowners and business owners access to a variety of federal disaster response assistance initiatives. “I hope and expect President Obama will move quickly to grant Governor Cuomo’s request for an expedited federal major disaster declaration for New York State.” ###
08.29.2011	After touring the flood-affected business district of Rye City with Senator Gillibrand and local officials, Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today issued the following statement on flooding in the lower Hudson Valley: “The impact of Hurricane Irene is severe throughout municipalities in Westchester and Rockland Counties. “I have called on FEMA to expedite its process for assessing local damages and setting up regional response offices where homeowners, business owners, and other victims can gain federal assistance. Once affected counties and states have reported their damages, FEMA must move quickly to provide aid to both municipalities and individuals. “The damage wrought by Hurricane Irene makes clear what many of us already knew: FEMA’s 2011 and 2012 funding levels are insufficient to ensure a robust response to this and other disasters. When Congress reconvenes, I will be urging immediate action in the Appropriations Committee to provide FEMA the funding it needs to help localities, businesses, and homeowners rebuild and recover. “We offer deep thanks to emergency personnel, local officials, and volunteers whose preparations helped mitigate the impact of Irene and whose ongoing response is helping local residents. I will work to ensure the full resources of the federal government are available to help affected families, businesses, and individuals.” ###
08.22.2011	Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY), Ranking Democrat on the Appropriations State and Foreign Operations Subcommitte, today issued the following statement on the apparent end of the Qadhafi reign in Libya: “The apparent end of Muommar Qadhafi’s 42-year hold on Libya is a victory for the Libyan people, the NATO alliance, and the world. The Qadhafi regime employed brutal repression to intimidate and silence Libyans, and deposing this tyrant demonstrates the power of the international community to advance global security.“The Transitional National Council (TNC) now has the chance to lead the Libyan people to a more stable and prosperous future through democratic reform. In addition, the TNC should begin to engage responsibly with the world community by extraditing Abdel Baset al-Megrahi to the United States to face justice for the Lockerbie bombing of Pan Am Flight 103.”###
08.18.2011	Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY), Ranking Democrat on the Appropriations State and Foreign Operations Subcommittee, today issued the following statement on new sanctions against the Syrian regime and President Obama calling on President Assad to resign: “Since the beginning of the Syrian unrest, President Assad’s regime has used violence, mass arrests, and torture to silence democratic opposition. These repressive and inhumane actions have only increased as the Syrian people legitimately demand reform and democratic transition. The Syrian government must immediately release arbitrarily detained persons and cease violence, persecution and arbitrary arrests of lawyers, human rights advocates, journalists, and others. “President Assad should prioritize the future of the Syrian people ahead of his own political survival and heed President Obama’s call to step down. His desperate bid to maintain his own power by imprisoning, torturing, and murdering his own people is intolerable. “New sanctions blocking the property of the Syrian government, banning Americans from new investments or exports to Syria, and banning the import of Syrian petroleum products are an important means of pressuring President Assad to respect the desire of the Syrian people for universal rights and democratic reform.” ###
08.01.2011	WASHINGTON- Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY) issued the following statement today on the deal reached by Congressional negotiators to end the default crisis: “It is outrageous that the need to prevent a default on the federal debt enabled ideologues to push our economy to the brink of another depression. Painful cuts to health, education, and infrastructure priorities will make it harder – not easier – to create jobs and grow the economy. However, default would have even more catastrophic consequences for Americans’ jobs, interest rates, retirement and investments, and economic security. “Our current debt challenge was caused by charging fiscally irresponsible special-interest tax breaks, costly wars, and a prescription drug benefit to the national credit card – policies advanced by some of the very individuals who now refuse to pay for them. Now and in the future, the budget must not be balanced on the backs of senior citizens, hard-working middle-class families, and vulnerable Americans. That is why I am pleased this legislation does not slash Social Security, Medicaid, and Medicare benefits. “I am hopeful that this legislation has opened the door for comprehensive tax reform that creates jobs, simplifies the tax code, and closes indefensible special interest tax breaks and loopholes.”
07.27.2011	WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY), Ranking Democrat on the Appropriations State and Foreign Operations Subcommittee, today delivered the following statement at subcommittee markup of the FY2012 State and Foreign Operations Appropriations Act. “The bill we consider today is only one and a quarter percent of the overall budget, yet it has an enormous impact on our national security, economic prosperity, and leadership in the world. I thank Chairwoman Granger for accommodating some of our concerns; however, this legislation would be a step back from U.S. leadership and substantially weaken the United States’ efforts overseas by decreasing economic opportunity, stability, and access to critical services for millions of the world’s poorest people. “It does include several critical measures I fully support. First, security assistance for Israel is critical to U.S. national security interests. In a dangerous and volatile region of the world, Israel is a stable, strong democracy, and I am pleased this bill fully funds our important ally and continues strong restrictions on funding for the Palestinian Authority. It also continues strong language on Iran sanctions that is critical to our continued efforts to prevent Iran from acquiring nuclear weapons. “I support language that encourages the Administration to contribute to a multilateral education fund. Our participation in the Fast-Track Initiative will allow the U.S. to leverage funds from other donors to multiply the impact of each U.S. dollar spent to increase access to basic education. Education is the backbone of healthy, stable societies, and our investment today will reap great rewards in the future. “Funding at the FY11 level has been included for two important programs: the Peace Corps and the Broadcasting Board of Governors. Both effectively communicate American values and directly engage local populations, which are invaluable to our diplomatic efforts. “Finally, given the constantly changing and endlessly challenging situations in countries like Yemen, Lebanon, Egypt, and Pakistan, I appreciate the responsible approach of the Chairwoman to expand certification requirements before funding can be directed to those countries.“Given the many challenges facing us here at home, we expected an appropriate reduction in our overall foreign operations spending. However, even within the confines of a reduced allocation, many of the cuts are deeply problematic. “The operating budgets for the State Department and USAID have been cut by 35%. These cuts will substantially diminish capacity at both agencies and reverse our bipartisan efforts to rebuild our corps of diplomatic and development professionals. This raises questions of how the majority plans to continue the work that we all agree is vital. Neither of the likely scenarios – either cutting back programs that are necessary to our national security, or returning to an overreliance on private contractors – is acceptable. As we speak, we are trying to transition from military- to civilian-lead in Iraq and Afghanistan, protests across the Middle East are bringing down governments, and famine is spreading across the Horn of Africa. We cannot cripple the agencies whose missions address these volatile situations. “Multilateral development banks and strategic investment funds are being scaled back at a time when our domestic economy could benefit from access to overseas markets. Last month, more than 50 leading American businesses and associations, including the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, Caterpillar, Lockheed Martin, Ford, Boeing, Johnson & Johnson, General Electric, Cargill, Microsoft, Xerox, and Pfizer, sent a letter to Congress in which they wrote, “U.S. businesses understand that international development and diplomacy programs play a vital role in creating American jobs and spurring U.S. economic growth… The International Affairs Budget funds valuable tools for advancing U.S. economic and strategic interests around the world and is vital for achieving a more prosperous future for American workers and businesses.” When job creation should be our top priority, it is unacceptable that the majority is not adequately supporting programs that directly impact economic growth here at home by helping developing countries become reliable trading partners, increasing transparency, promoting good governance, and opening markets to U.S. exports and investment. “The Development Assistance account – which funds a wide array of programs including education, microcredit, environmental protection, agriculture development, democracy promotion, and women’s empowerment – is cut by nearly 20%. The programs in this account represent America at its best because they reduce human suffering and empower people throughout the world to live healthy and productive lives. Cuts to this account threaten both our ability to be an effective agent of change as well as our longstanding global leadership. “Finally, it is beyond dispute that international family planning programs, which include providing contraceptives, prenatal care and screenings, education on birth spacing and healthy pregnancies, and other interventions aimed at improving maternal and child health, lead to fewer unwanted pregnancies, fewer abortions, and fewer maternal and infant deaths. Yet this bill cuts these critical programs by $115 million, which would lead to millions of women and families without access to basic reproductive care, including contraceptive services and prenatal screenings. “In addition to the funding cuts, it is extremely disappointing that outrageous, divisive policies have been included, such as the ban on funding for the United Nations Population Fund and the global gag rule. The UN Population Fund is frequently the only provider of critical and often life-saving services in the poorest parts of the world; in fact, UNFPA operates in over 110 countries where the U.S. does not provide family planning assistance. “The combined effect of the funding cuts to our bilateral programs and UNFPA will lead to 7,700 maternal deaths, 35,000 orphans, and 1.3 million more abortions next year. I’ll say that again: The funding level proposed by the majority would lead to 1.3 million more abortions – most of which would be unsafe. “And the global gag rule – which would be unconstitutional in the United States – inserts a controversial policy into private and deeply personal conversations between a woman and her healthcare provider. It muzzles doctors and nurses throughout the world who work for entities receiving any U.S. assistance – even in places were abortion is legal. In real world terms, that means an expectant mother who has walked six hours while bleeding to reach the only health clinic in the region may not get the life-saving care she needs – or even a referral. Or consider the village where the only health provider must close without U.S. assistance, denying a full range of care – including, for example, HIV screenings and treatment – to the entire local population. “Whether you call yourself a Republican or a Democrat, pro-choice or pro-life, it is clear these unconscionable and unnecessarily divisive policies and cuts are counterproductive to our shared goals of reducing unwanted pregnancies, maternal and infant deaths, and abortions. “It is deeply troubling that this bill fails to maintain our longstanding tradition of a more bipartisan proposal. Many of the cuts as well as the problematic policy riders would hurt America’s standing on the international stage; impede our ability to save lives and help build healthy, stable societies; diminish our economic prospects; and undermine our national security interests. As we move through the appropriations process, I hope that we can work together to improve this bill.” ###
07.26.2011	WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY), Ranking Democrat on the Appropriations State and Foreign Operations Subcommittee, today issued the following statement after public release of the FY2012 State and Foreign Operations Appropriations bill text: “I am disappointed that the 2012 State and Foreign Operations Appropriations Act funds priorities that are critical to our national security and global leadership at inadequate levels, and includes divisive and partisan policy riders that are counter-productive to effective diplomacy and development. “At a time when the demands we place on our diplomatic and development workforce are increasing, it is short-sighted to downsize the Department of State and USAID. Funding levels are also inadequate to maintain global leadership on global health, development, and disaster relief. “It is unacceptable that the majority proposes to reinstate the Global Gag Rule, which prohibits recipients of U.S. health assistance from providing the most truthful and comprehensive health care possible to women in need. The bill also slashes funding for family planning and defunds UNFPA, the only access millions of women in the developing world have to health care. “I am pleased the 2012 State and Foreign Operations Act fully funds our commitment to ensure our ally Israel maintains its qualitative military edge, and provides robust funding for important priorities like basic education, the Peace Corps, and the Broadcasting Board of Governors. “As this legislation moves through the appropriations process, I am hopeful it will be improved through more responsible funding levels for important priorities and removal of counter-productive and divisive policy riders.” ###
07.26.2011	WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY) today called on airlines to pass savings on to customers, rather than overcharging customers and inflating profits in the wake of expiration of the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) authorization. “It is unacceptable that rather than passing savings on to customers, airlines continue to charge the same price and pocket the extra profit,” said Lowey. “It is shameful that as families across the country struggle, airlines have opted for more profit over customer savings.” As a result of the expiration of the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) authorization and failure by Congress to re-authorize the agency, the federal government is no longer able to collect the 7.5% excise tax built into domestic airfares to fund the agency. Rather than lowering prices for consumers, most domestic airlines hiked fares by an equivalent amount, keeping prices constant and pocketing the extra profit. Full letter to Nicholas Calio, President and CEO, Air Transport Association:Dear Mr. Calio: I write with deep concern over the actions of many airlines to overcharge passengers while Congress continues to negotiate a Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) Authorization package. As you well know, when the current FAA Authorization expired last week, so too did the FAA’s ability to collect the 7.5% federal excise tax built into domestic ticket purchases. Rather than pass this limited time savings onto consumers, many of your member airlines hiked fares by a similar percent. It is shameful that while families across the country continue to struggle, airlines have opted for more profit over consumer savings. While the majority of passengers do not understand the nuances of federal taxes on their tickets, your airlines do. By making it seem as though ticket prices are remaining steady, your members are unnecessarily deceiving air travelers into paying more than is necessary. I urge your member airlines to halt this deceptive practice and request your prompt reply. Sincerely, Nita M. Lowey Member of Congress ###
07.26.2011	WASHINGTON - Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY), Ranking Democrat on the House State and Foreign Operations Appropriations Subcommittee, today introduced the Global Democracy Promotion Act to permanently repeal the Global Gag Rule, which prohibits international health care providers receiving U.S. assistance from providing patents the most comprehensive, truthful information possible. “A fundamental principle of medical ethics holds that health care providers must deal honestly and openly with patients,” said Lowey. “However in sixteen of the last twenty-six years, the Global Gag Rule has forced eligible health providers to choose between receiving U.S. aid or upholding their medical obligation to patients. The Global Democracy Promotion Act would end this counter-productive requirement.” The Global Gag Rule prohibits foreign NGOs from receiving any U.S. assistance unless they agree not to use their own funds to perform abortions, promote legalization of abortion, or provide patients referrals or counseling for these services. While the Obama Administration took the responsible step of repealing the Global Gag Rule in 2009, only Congress can make this repeal permanent. The House Foreign Affairs Committee last week approved the Foreign Relations Authorization Act including the Global Gag Rule, and the State and Foreign Operations Appropriations Act, due to be considered this week, is expected to contain this counter-productive prohibition. The Global Democracy Promotion Act would ensure our foreign aid policy promotes the American standards of freedom of speech and democratic participation in other countries. It would prevent foreign NGOs from being forced to sacrifice their right to free speech and their obligation to provide truthful, comprehensive information to patients in order to participate in U.S. supported programs. Permanent repeal is critical to create a predictable policy climate for organizations that provide family planning and reproductive health services in poor communities overseas. Some service providers in poor countries have had their U.S. program funding stopped then restored four times, leaving clinics, patients, doctors, and communities uncertain about prospects for U.S. support.###
07.19.2011	Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today issued the following statement on Republicans’ so-called Cut, Cap & Balance plan, which would eliminate jobs, harm economic growth, and end Medicare as we know it for seniors. “In just two weeks, without action by Congress, the nation will default on its debt for the first time with potentially catastrophic consequences. Yet the obstinate, cynical Republican majority is wasting our time on a political message that has no chance of passage instead of debating a balanced plan to close loopholes; eliminate waste, fraud, and abuse; and end the default crisis. “The Republican plan would be more accurately described as “Slash, Burn & Dismantle.” It would eliminate jobs, harm economic growth, and end Medicare as we know it for seniors. It would protect tax breaks for special interests and hold the American economy hostage to a radical Constitutional amendment, making it easier to dismantle Medicare than to close corporate tax loopholes. “Instead of wasting time on extreme and partisan schemes, we should end the default crisis with a balanced plan that does not seek to balance the budget on the backs of senior citizens and vulnerable Americans.” ###
07.19.2011	WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY) today announced Open Door Family Medical Centers will receive $210,000 in federal funding from the Affordable Care Act to provide and expand health care services in Port Chester schools. “Ensuring children are healthy at school is critical to their academic and personal development,” said Congresswoman Nita Lowey. “I am pleased Open Door Family Medical Centers, which has a sterling reputation in Westchester County, will receive federal funding to continue and expand its work to provide high-quality health care for children.” “Open Door is thrilled to have additional resources to enhance our work in the Port Chester schools serving thousands of local children,” said Open Door Family Medical Centers President and CEO Lindsay Farrell. “Some of our accomplishments include improved immunization rates and better management of asthma as well as prevention efforts aimed at childhood obesity through nutrition education and physical activity.” The funding for Open Door Family Medical Centers is part of $95 million in awards to 278 school-based health center programs across the country, authorized through passage of the Affordable Care Act. Awardees are currently serving approximately 790,000 patients. The awards will enable expansion by over 50 percent, serving an additional 440,000 patients. ###
07.13.2011	WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today called on the Appropriations Committee to close a gaping loophole in gun safety by empowering the Attorney General to prevent individuals on federal terrorist watch lists from purchasing guns that may be used in commission of a terrorist act. “We prohibit convicted felons, domestic abusers, and the mentally ill from owning or purchasing firearms,” said Lowey. “Why on earth would we allow known or suspected terrorists to buy guns? The American public rightly expects the government to keep potential terrorists off airplanes. There is no reason why they should be allowed to purchase weapons that could be used in commission of an act of terrorism.” “Since September 11, counterterrorism investigators have worked constantly to stop threats from Al Qaeda and lone-wolf terrorists,” said New York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg, co-chair of the bipartisan Mayors Against Illegal Guns coalition. “The Bush and Obama administrations have both asked that the FBI be given the discretion to intervene when terror suspects try to buy guns or explosives from gun dealers, but Congress has refused to act. I’d like to thank Congresswoman Lowey for urging her colleagues to have the courage to finally pass this common-sense national security measure.” A recent Government Accountability Office (GAO) report found that between February 2004 and February 2010, 1,228 individuals on terrorist watch lists underwent background checks to purchase firearms or explosives. An astounding 91 percent were approved. An additional 200 similar transactions took place between March and December of last year, and several of the prospective buyers were in the FBI’s Known and Suspected Terrorist Files and on TSA’s No-Fly List. Convicted felons, domestic abusers, and the seriously mentally ill are prohibited from buying or owning firearms, but no prohibition currently exists against known or suspected terrorist from buying or owning firearms. Lowey’s amendment would give the Attorney General the authority to deny the sale of firearms when there is reason to believe buyers may use weapons in connection with terrorism. The amendment failed on a party-line vote.
07.06.2011	Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) and Mercy College VP of Student Services Margaret McGrail today announced that effective July 1, the interest rate on federally subsidized college loans was reduced to 3.4 percent, just half the interest rate three years ago, as a result of the College Cost Reduction and Access Act, passed in 2008. “Lowering the cost of borrowing for college tuition is among the wisest investments we can make,” said Lowey. “Cost should never be a disqualifying factor for students considering college, and cutting the interest rate on loans in half helps make the high cost of college easier to repay.” “As a designated Hispanic servicing institution, Mercy College serves a significant population of students that have benefited from both the reduction in the Stafford Loan interest rates and the increase in the federal Pell grant allocations,” said Margaret McGrail, VP of Student Services at Mercy College. “The interest rate reduction and Pell grant increase has made earning a Mercy College degree an attainable goal for our students.” In 2007 Congress passed the College Cost Reduction and Access Act, lowering interest rates on subsidized student loans. As a result, two important changes took effect July 1 to help students afford the skyrocketing cost of college tuition. · The interest rate on subsidized loans has decreased to 3.4%, cutting rates in half from just three years ago.· New college affordability information is now available to help prospective college students and their families shop for the best value for a college education at www.collegecost.ed.gov. Students and their families can estimate annual and total costs of a college education and financial aid available from various schools. In addition to the College Cost Reduction Act, Lowey has also supported other legislation to make college more affordable for Hudson Valley families, including: · Establishing an income-based repayment program that makes student loan payments more manageable by guaranteeing that borrowers will not have to pay more than 15% of their discretionary income in loan repayments.· Providing loan forgiveness for graduates who become teachers, public defenders, firefighters, police officers, nurses, and other public servants.· Increasing the maximum Pell Grant award from $4,000 to $5,500 per year, which is vital for 373,238 students in the New York area who depend on financial assistance for college. ###
06.27.2011	Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY) and 61 other Democrats and Republicans urged Senate Appropriations Chairman Daniel Inouye and Homeland Security Subcommittee Chairwoman Mary Landrieu to restore unnecessary and dangerous cuts to first responder grant programs included in the House-passed Homeland Security Appropriations Act. Full letter text:Dear Chairman Inouye and Chairwoman Landrieu: As you prepare the Fiscal Year 2012 Homeland Security Appropriations bill, we urge you to restore the unnecessary and dangerous cuts to first responder grant programs included in the House-passed bill, H.R. 2017. By providing just $1 billion for FEMA’s State and Local Programs, more than 65 percent below the Administration request, the House-passed proposal will leave communities across the country unprepared to address potential threats. Further, with intelligence gathered at Osama bin Laden’s compound indicating a clear intent to strike our nation’s railways, slashing the Transit Security Grant Program would be unconscionable. Additionally, while the House restored $320 million in Firefighter Assistance Grants on the floor, H.R. 2017 still provides a woefully inadequate level of assistance to our firefighters. If we do not increase funding for firefighter grants we will shift the burden to local communities to either slash services or increase taxes to ensure adequate fire coverage. We all agree that difficult spending choices must be made to reduce the deficit. However, the cuts included in H.R. 2017 are simply dangerous choices that will endanger our homeland security. We urge you to restore funding for first responder programs in the Subcommittee mark and look forward to working together to ensure our nation is protected.Sincerely,
06.23.2011	Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY), Ranking Democrat on the Appropriations State and Foreign Operations Subcommittee, issued the following statement on President Obama’s commitment to draw down American forces in Afghanistan: “I commend President Obama for his commitment to bring home 10,000 American troops by the end of 2011 and an additional 23,000 by next summer. Thanks to the brave and effective service of the men and women in our Armed Forces, the ability of extremists in Afghanistan to target Americans has been severely diminished. We must now redouble efforts to transition responsibility for providing security and basic services to Afghans themselves and remain committed to diplomacy and effective development that are critical to sustaining military gains in Afghanistan and stability in the region.” ###
06.23.2011	WASHINGTON - Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) was today joined by food and nutrition advocates in detailing the severe impact that Republican cuts to vital food assistance programs will have on New Yorkers, particularly senior citizens, pregnant women, infants, and children. “It is indefensible to make such severe cuts to food assistance, which is critical for thousands of New Yorkers, particularly those who are most vulnerable,” said Lowey. “These cuts will mean fewer senior citizens, pregnant women, infants, and children will be able to access the nutritious food they need to remain healthy. The Republican majority must stop slashing this lifeline for millions of Americans facing economic hardship, including the 9% of households right here in Westchester County who struggled to meet their families’ food needs over the last year.” The Agriculture Appropriations Act, passed this week by the House of Representatives, included:$650 million, or 10%, in cuts to the WIC program that could result in up to 19,500 low-income New York women and children losing assistance next year. $38 million (22 percent) in cuts to the Commodity Supplemental Food Program (CSFP), which provides nutritious food packages to more than 600,000 low-income families, 96 percent of whom are seniors, every month.$51 million in cuts to The Emergency Food Assistance Program, or TEFAP, which provides our nation’s emergency food bank network with food commodities and storage and distribution support. “These cuts could have a disastrous impact on the ability of food banks and food pantries to provide wholesome, nutritious food to people who are most vulnerable, like senior citizens, pregnant women, infants, and children,” said Christina Rohatynskyj, Executive Director of the Food Bank for Westchester. “These programs are just a tiny part of the federal budget, but they are critical to thousands of New Yorkers. It is not right to balance the budget on the backs of children and seniors.” ###
06.15.2011	WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY) today praised the U.S. Food and Drug Administration for finalizing regulations that will require sunscreen manufacturers to disclose whether products offer protection against cancer-causing UVA rays. “I am pleased that the FDA has finalized regulations requiring sunscreen manufacturers to disclose whether their products offer protection against not just sunburn, but skin cancer. Consumers deserve to know whether the sunscreen they buy will protect their family from cancer-causing UVA rays. “I am especially pleased that products that do not offer broad spectrum protection will have a warning label informing consumers: “This product has been shown only to help prevent sunburn, not skin cancer or early aging.” “While my preference for the labeling rule would have been a clear graphic indicating whether a product offers UVA protection, this is certainly a step in the right direction. I will review the final rule carefully and continue working to ensure labels on sunscreens – and other cosmetics and consumer products – provide the information consumers need to make informed decisions.” In August 2007, in response to legislation drafted by Lowey, FDA issued draft regulations to require sunscreen manufacturers to disclose the protection their products offer not just against sunburn-causing UVB rays, but against skin cancer-causing UVA rays. Lowey recently introduced legislation (H.R. 2132) that would require implementation of the rule, and this week the House of Representatives will consider the Agriculture Appropriations Act, which contains language authored by Lowey requiring the FDA to take action by the end of the year. ###
06.10.2011	RYE BROOK – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY) called on the U.S. Food and Drug Administration to finalize standards for sunscreen that will disclose the protection offered against skin cancer-causing ultraviolet rays. “Nearly four years after FDA issued draft regulations to protect consumers and their children from skin cancer, the regulations are still not finalized,” said Lowey. “Every summer that goes by with substandard disclosure rules is another season that consumers are at risk. Comprehensive and accurate information about skin protection is critical to decrease incidence of skin cancer.”Michael Hansen, PhD, senior scientist with Consumers Union (publisher of Consumer Reports) says: "Consumer Reports tests have repeatedly shown that sunscreens with a high SPF rating may actually not protect people effectively against the sun's potentially cancer-causing UVA rays. We therefore strongly support Representative Lowey's sunscreen legislation. It is essential that FDA require the labeling on sunscreens to reflect not just effectiveness against the primarily sunburn-causing UVB rays, but also the more cancer-causing UVA rays. As is, consumers are often misled by SPF ratings." In August 2007, in response to legislation drafted by Lowey, FDA issued draft regulations to require sunscreen manufacturers to disclose the protection their products offer not just against sunburn-causing UVB rays, but against skin cancer-causing UVA rays. Nearly four years later, the regulations are still not finalized.Lowey recently introduced legislation that would require implementation of the rule, and this week the House of Representatives will consider Lowey’s proposal to require FDA to take action by the end of the year.According to the American Cancer Society, skin cancer is the most common of all cancers. More than one million new cases will be diagnosed this year, and one in five Americans will develop skin cancer in their lifetime.In addition to her effort to finalize these FDA regulations, Lowey has worked to increase federal funding for cancer research and outreach and improve coordination across federal agencies.###
05.27.2011	WHITE PLAINS – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today announced new services are available to support individuals who are caring for a family member seriously injured in the line of duty in Iraq or Afghanistan.“The physical and psychological wounds of war are severe for thousands of veterans who have served in Iraq or Afghanistan,” said Lowey. “Nobody knows that better than family members who must quit their job and drop everything to provide the personal day-to-day assistance that is required. I am pleased Congress recognized the selfless actions of veterans’ caregivers, and that the Department of Veterans Affairs and Easter Seals are teaming up to provide these necessary services.”The Caregivers and Veterans Omnibus Health Services Act of 2010 authorized comprehensive training on caring for loved ones at home, which was developed by the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) and Easter Seals. The law also authorized stipends, health insurance, mental health assistance, and other support directly to caregivers who provide day-to-day care that helps keep veterans in their own homes. To qualify for caregiver benefits, individuals must provide necessary personal care services that a veteran is incapable of performing due to serious physical or psychological injury incurred in the line of duty.VA officials anticipate more than 3,500 veterans will qualify to receive benefits during the first year of the program. Training courses are expected to begin in June and monthly stipends could begin as early as July.“As Memorial Day approaches, we honor the memory of those who have made the ultimate sacrifice for our country, pledge to care for the brave men and women returning home from service, and honor the critical role family caregivers play in allowing our heroes to recover from the wounds of war,” said Lowey.The family caregiver program application can be downloaded at www.caregiver.va.gov. The application enables the veteran to designate a primary family caregiver and secondary caregivers. Caregiver support coordinators are stationed at 153 VA medical centers and available by phone at 1-877-222 VETS (8387) to assist Veterans and Family Caregivers with the application process. ###
05.17.2011	NEW CITY – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), joined by Rockland County small business owners and business leaders, today called on Congress to protect businesses with fewer than 50 employees against unfair and deceptive practices by credit card companies. “Small businesses in New York and around the country rely on credit cards to purchase inventory, pay bills, and invest,” said Lowey. “Protecting these businesses from unfair and deceptive billing practices by credit card companies – as we do already for individual consumers – is the least we can do to help small businesses grow, expand, and hire. We must stop credit card companies from pulling the rug out from under these small businesses.” “Our state and local economies are dependent on the success of small businesses,” said Steven Weissblatt, President of the New City Chamber of Commerce and owner of Original Designs jewelry store. “Ensuring small businesses are not exploited by unfair credit card rates and practices is critical, and I’m happy to see Nita Lowey standing up for this critical part of our community.” “Small businesses are the cornerstone for the success of our national and local economy,” said Roxanne Perrone, owner of Perronucci’s Italian Market and Deli. “We all have an interest in making sure small businesses are given the consideration they need and deserve.” As a result of the Credit Card Accountability, Responsibility, and Disclosure (CARD) Act passed by Congress last year, individual consumers are protected from a variety of unfair and deceptive practices used by credit card companies to increase fees. Lowey introduced the Small Business Credit Card Act to extend these same protections to small businesses. The bill would:· Prevent credit card companies from arbitrarily raising interest rates on small businesses without proper notice· Prohibit interest rate increases on existing balances· Prohibit interest charges on debt paid on time· Require that any payment over the minimum apply to the balance with the highest interest rate Lowey’s legislation is supported by the National Small Business Association, which recently wrote, “It is inconceivable that Congress would knowingly allow issuers to perpetuate – with impunity – practices recognized as “unfair” and “deceptive” against America’s small businesses.”###
05.16.2011	Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY), Ranking Democrat on the Appropriations State and Foreign Operations Subcommittee, today issued the following statement about this weekend’s events in the Middle East: “This weekend’s events in the Middle East illustrate once again the existential threats Israel faces. As protesters rebel against authoritarian regimes throughout the Middle East, the prospect of hostility and violence against Israel – the only democracy in the region – is real and dangerous. “Israel is a sovereign nation with every right to defend its borders from incursions or attacks originating in Syria, Lebanon, or within Palestinian-controlled Gaza and the West Bank. “It is not surprising that President Assad is using Palestinian protesters to distract from the democratic uprising that is occurring within Syria’s own borders. But it nonetheless displays a shocking level of cynicism to risk provoking war in order to maintain a grasp on power. President Assad must end the violent crackdown in Syria, stop his collaboration with Iran, and respect Israel’s right to exist.” ###
05.10.2011	BUCHANNAN, NY – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today delivered the following remarks following a tour and security briefings at Indian Point Energy Center with Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) Chairman Gregory Jaczko:“I would like to thank Chairman Jaczko for coming to New York to see Indian Point for himself to gain firsthand knowledge of the unique challenges of this nuclear facility. I appreciate the tour and briefings today.“The safety and security of New Yorkers are my top priority, and must be the top priority of the NRC. “As I have repeatedly stressed to Entergy and NRC, I continue to have serious concerns about several specific issues related to Indian Point. 1. Relicensing standards: Aging nuclear power plants should be held to the same high standards that new plants are required to meet. Rep. Engel and I have introduced a bill requiring NRC to consider all factors, including terror threats, seismic risk, population density and evacuation concerns in relicensing decisions.2. Exemptions: Indian Point has requested and received exemptions from NRC regulations, including insulation on electrical cords and fire safety. NRC should disclose the exemptions Indian Point has received so compliance, health, and safety information is public at relicensing.3. Seismic Data:New data shows Indian Point is located at two fault lines, which increases the threat of an earthquake. NRC should evaluate the probability of a leak in the spent fuel pools and the loss of power as a result of a seismic event. 4. Security:Indian Point has a history of security lapses and inadequate training of security forces, including security guards falling asleep on the job and guards being under the influence while on duty. The safety and security of New York residents is too important for careless actions. Finally and most importantly, evacuation:Each of these issues is critical to the safety of Indian Point, but even responsible operation of a nuclear facility does not make a region immune from danger. The NRC advised Americans to evacuate within a 50-mile radius from the Japanese reactors. In the event of a catastrophic failure at Indian Point – due to natural disaster, terrorist event, or some other factor – evacuating 20 million people within a 50 mile radius of Indian Point would be a near impossibility. It would be reckless and irresponsible for relicensing to go forward with an evacuation plan that we know to be inadequate. “I will continue working to ensure the security of all New Yorkers.”###
05.06.2011	WHITE PLAINS – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today pointed to high oil and gas prices and record industry profits, urging an end to federal taxpayer subsidies for oil and gas companies to engage in domestic fossil fuel production. “At a time when prices and profits are both off the charts, there is no reason American taxpayers need to subsidize oil and gas companies with generous tax credits to pad their bottom line even more,” said Lowey. “Families and businesses are having trouble making ends meet, and it is unconscionable to fatten the wallets of big oil companies with their hard-earned dollars.” According to the American Automobile Association (AAA), the current price for regular gasoline in the New York metropolitan area is $4.28 per gallon. This price is up $0.08 from one week ago, up $0.37 from one month ago, and up $1.15 from one year ago. Last week the Big 5 oil companies (ExxonMobil, BP, Chevron, ConocoPhillips, and Royal Dutch Shell) reported quarterly profits of $32 billion, up 30 percent from the first quarter of 2010. Lowey urged Congress to pass immediately the Big Oil Welfare Repeal Act, introduced by Congressman Tim Bishop (NY-01). The Big Oil Welfare Repeal Act, of which Lowey is a cosponsor, would repeal the Domestic Production Activities Deduction for the “Big 5” oil companies. Enacting this legislation would save American taxpayers more than $12 billion over the next decade. Repealing these generous subsidies should not be a partisan issue. In 2005, President George W. Bush said, “With oil at more than $50 a barrel, by the way, energy companies do not need taxpayer-funded incentives to explore for oil and gas.” Today, oil is trading at more than $100 per barrel. Yet, House Republicans have defeated Democratic efforts to repeal these tax credits three times in recent weeks. High gas prices have had a severe impact on local small businesses and nonprofit organizations that rely on transportation, including dry cleaners, restaurants, taxi cab companies, and Meals on Wheels. High gas prices raise the cost of doing business and providing vital services. “The escalating gas prices are inhibiting agencies’ efforts to hire nurses that visit clients’ at home,” said Carol Greenberg, President and CEO of Concept: CARE, a licensed home health care agency. “Under regulatory guidelines from the Department of Health, licensed home care agencies must provide visits to their clients and supervisory visits for their employees. Travel becomes burdensome with gas costs rising, hindering our ability to provide services to clients.” “The rising cost of gas creates a disincentive to doing any volunteer work that involves driving,” said Paul Schwarz, President of Meals on Wheels of White Plains. “All programs that use volunteers are going to feel this pressure, and at some point these agencies, including Meals-on-Wheels, are going to lose part of this vital work force.
05.02.2011	Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY), Ranking Democrat on the Appropriations State and Foreign Operations Subcommittee, today issued the following statement on the death of Osama bin Laden: “The innocent men, women, and children who died on September 11th will forever be in our thoughts and prayers, and no victory on the battlefield can erase the sorrow for their loss. However, we can take comfort knowing the mastermind of these evil acts has been brought to justice. “I commend our Commander in Chief and his national security team for their leadership as well as the members of the Armed Forces and the intelligence communities for their dedication to completing this mission. “As President Obama stated last night, this is an important step in defeating global terrorist entities, but it is not the final step. Risks to innocent men, women, and children still exist at home and abroad, and we must stay on the offense against those who seek to do us harm.” ###
05.02.2011	Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY), Ranking Democrat on the Appropriations State and Foreign Operations Subcommittee, today slammed Hamas for condemning the killing of Osama bin Laden: “It took less than one week since news of a potential Palestinian unity government for Hamas to demonstrate to the world that they are not a responsible partner for peace in the Middle East. “It is appalling that Hamas would praise Osama bin Laden as a holy warrior, true believer, and martyr, and condemn his killing. But it is not surprising, considering Hamas’ long and continuing record of targeting innocent men, women, and children in Israel with terrorist attacks. “The Palestinian Authority should immediately abandon the formation of a unity government that includes Hamas, which continues to prove that peace is not their priority.” Lowey and SFOPS Chairwoman Kay Granger (R-TX) last week sent a letter to Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas informing him that the formation of a unity government with Hamas “undermines the purposes and threaten the provision of United States’ assistance and support” for the PA.###
04.29.2011	For Immediate Release: April 28, 2011 House Foreign Operations Subcommittee Chair and Ranking Member Warn PA on US AssistanceLowey and Granger Letter to Abbas: “Your actions threaten U.S. assistance” Congresswomen Kay Granger of Texas and Nita Lowey of New York, Chair and Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Subcommittee on State and Foreign Operations, today wrote Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas about the threat of a Fatah-Hamas unity government to U.S. Government assistance to and support of the Palestinian Authority. In response to reports about the power-sharing agreement yesterday, Lowey urged the PA to abandon the plan, which could endanger assistance from the U.S. aimed at helping to build a viable partner for peace in the PA, and to return to the negotiating table with Israel. “For decades, the United States has provided assistance to the Palestinian Authority to build government institutions, strengthen security forces, and promote economic development,” Lowey said. “This aid is predicated on the PA’s commitment to pursuing efforts to establish peace with Israel. A unity government with Hamas would put U.S. assistance and support at risk, based on restrictions I authored as Chair of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on State and Foreign Operations. Below is the full text of the letter Granger and Lowey sent to Abbas today: April 28, 2011 His Excellency Mahmoud AbbasChairman of the PLO Executive CommitteePresident of the Palestinian National AuthorityAl Muqata'a, Ramallah West Bank Dear Mr. President: We write to express serious concerns about your intentions to seek recognition of an independent Palestinian state at the United Nations and the pursuit of a unity government with Hamas, which has not recognized the Jewish state of Israel’s right to exist. We urge you to end these actions and return to direct negotiations with Israel, which will provide the only path to a viable and durable two-state agreement. The 1993 Oslo Accords were explicitly understood to be part of an ongoing, negotiated peace process. In fact, a letter from the Palestinian leadership stated that the PLO “commits itself to a peaceful resolution of the conflict between the two sides and declares that all outstanding issues relating to permanent status will be resolved through negotiations.” That understanding enabled Israel to turn over governance of significant aspects of Palestinian society to an elected Palestinian government. Since that time, the U.S. Congress has been a strong partner in your government’s efforts to build the institutions that will someday govern an independent Palestinian state. The U.S. government has provided billions of dollars as well as technical assistance and training to increase security, promote economic growth and fiscal independence, strengthen public institutions, and meet humanitarian needs. U.S. aid is predicated on the premise that your government has demonstrated a firm commitment to pursuing efforts to establish a just, lasting, and comprehensive peace with Israel. As you know, U.S. law also requires a commitment to countering terrorism, confiscating weapons, and dismantling terrorist infrastructure. In addition, it prohibits aid to Hamas, Hamas-controlled areas, and any power-sharing government that includes Hamas, until Hamas publicly acknowledges the Jewish state of Israel’s right to exist and commits to a two-state solution Your current courses of action undermine the purposes and threaten the provision of United States assistance and support. We have been strong supporters of aid to the Palestinian Authority in the hopes of ensuring prosperity, stability, and peace for the Palestinian people and all people in the region. However, our ability to support current and future aid would be severely threatened if you abandon direct negotiations with Israel and continue with your current efforts. Sincerely, KAY GRANGER, Chairwoman, Subcommittee on State and Foreign Operations, Committee on Appropriations NITA LOWEY, Ranking Member, Subcommittee on State and Foreign Operations, Committee on Appropriations # # #
04.28.2011	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: April 27, 2011 Lowey: Unity Government between Fatah and Hamas would be Deathblow to Peace Process In response to reports that the Fatah party has reached a tentative power-sharing agreement with Hamas, Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey, the highest ranking Democrat on the House foreign aid subcommittee, released the following statement: “Unless Hamas accepts the Quartet Principles, which include renouncing violence and recognizing Israel, the formation of a unity government with Fatah will be a deathblow to the peace process. “For decades, the United States has provided assistance to the Palestinian Authority to build government institutions, strengthen security forces, and promote economic development. This aid is predicated on the PA’s commitment to pursuing efforts to establish peace with Israel. A unity government with Hamas would put U.S. assistance and support at risk, based on restrictions I authored as Chair of the HouseAppropriations Subcommittee on State and Foreign Operations. “I strongly urge the leadership of the Palestinian Authority to reconsider forming a unity government with Hamas and to instead return to negotiations with Israel, which are the only hope for a peaceful, stable, and prosperous future for both Israelis and Palestinians.” # # #
04.27.2011	In response to reports that the Fatah party has reached a tentative power-sharing agreement with Hamas, Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey, the highest ranking Democrat on the House foreign aid subcommittee, released the following statement: “Unless Hamas accepts the Quartet Principles, which include renouncing violence and recognizing Israel, the formation of a unity government with Fatah will be a deathblow to the peace process. “For decades, the United States has provided assistance to the Palestinian Authority to build government institutions, strengthen security forces, and promote economic development. This aid is predicated on the PA’s commitment to pursuing efforts to establish peace with Israel. A unity government with Hamas would put U.S. assistance and support at risk, based on restrictions I authored as Chair of the HouseAppropriations Subcommittee on State and Foreign Operations. “I strongly urge the leadership of the Palestinian Authority to reconsider forming a unity government with Hamas and to instead return to negotiations with Israel, which are the only hope for a peaceful, stable, and prosperous future for both Israelis and Palestinians.” # # #
04.23.2011	Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today announced Sleepy Hollow Middle School will be recognized as a “Green Ribbon School” by the federal government for its successful initiatives to reduce energy consumption and enhance learning in this field.“I am proud that Sleepy Hollow Middle School is leading the way on energy efficiency, reducing environmental impact, and ensuring students have the knowledge they need to succeed in the 21st century economy,” said Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland). “I congratulate the teachers, administrators, and students for all their work to earn this national recognition.”“We are very proud that the efforts of our students and staff in promoting a greener school environment have been recognized at the national level,” said Howard Smith, Superintendent of Public Schools of the Tarrytowns. “It is the product of a number of individual and small group initiatives that have benefitted from the enthusiastic support of key staff members. Young people can become very passionate about being good stewards of the environment, and it is a great lesson for our students to learn that they can make a difference worthy of such recognition.”The Green Ribbon Schools program was created in April 2011 and is modeled after the Department of Education’s Blue Ribbon Schools Program, which annually honors public and private schools that are either high performing or have improved student achievement to high levels. Green Ribbon Schools are recognized for reducing their energy use and environmental impact, creating healthy learning environments, and providing effective environmental education that prepares students to succeed in the 21st century. Winning schools are located in 31 states and the District of Columbia and include public, both traditional and charter, and private schools at the elementary, middle, and senior high school levels. ###
04.20.2011	VALHALLA - Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today visited senior citizens at the Mount Pleasant Senior Center to detail her opposition to the Republican majority’s plan to privatize Medicare. “Ensuring senior citizens have access to high-quality health care is among our most basic responsibilities,” said Lowey. “The plan passed by the House of Representatives would radically restructure Medicare, jeopardizing the coverage that seniors know and trust. Shifting health care costs on the backs of senior citizens in the name of deficit reduction is a dishonest and cynical approach to the serious economic challenges our nation faces.” The 2012 budget plan passed by the House of Representatives last week would end Medicare as we know it. The current Medicare program – which has served seniors well since 1965 – would be dissolved, and seniors would be forced to purchase their own private insurance with payment vouchers on a sliding income scale. If the costs of health care rise – as we know they will – and federal payments do not keep pace, seniors would be forced to shoulder more of the burden of premiums and other out-of-pocket costs. Ten years from now, 65 year-olds eligible for Medicare would have to pay more than $6,000 more under the Republican plan than they do today. The proposal would also transform Medicaid, which is the primary source of coverage for most individuals who reside in long-term care facilities or nursing homes. The proposal would shift costs and risks to the states, jeopardizing the guarantee of care that working families and many seniors need. Lowey voted for a Democratic alternative budget that would reduce the federal deficit by $1.2 trillion more than President Obama’s plan while protecting Medicare and Medicaid. “There is no doubt that Congress should work together to eliminate wasteful or duplicative spending,” said Lowey. “But raising costs for seniors by radically restructuring Medicare and Medicaid, which provide more efficient coverage than private insurance, is the wrong thing to do.” ###
04.18.2011	Congresswoman Nita Lowey (NY-18) and Congressman Steve Israel (NY-02) last week introduced legislation that would restrict to 25 the number of urban areas receiving funding through a key homeland security grant program, which would protect the share of at-risk areas like New York City. “It is outrageous that areas facing minimal risk continue to receive funding from grant programs intended to benefit the most at-risk areas while New York is short-changed,” said Lowey. “Particularly at a time when the pool of resources is shrinking, we cannot afford to divert resources that could be used to address real – not imagined – risks.” “Federal homeland security formulas give too much to localities that don't need it and too little to those that are true targets,” said Israel. “The legislation Nita Lowey and I are proposing corrects that and ensures the continued safety of New York and other top targets for terrorism.” “A decrease in the amount of money available to the many cities eligible for UASI means New York will have a tougher time receiving the homeland security funding it badly needs to keep the biggest city in the country safe,” said Mayor Bloomberg. “The grants should be distributed based on risk, and capping the number of eligible cities means the most at-risk cities can get their fair share. Representative Lowey’s bill is commendable and I urge its swift passage.” The legislation introduced by Lowey and Israel would:· Limit to 25 the number of areas eligible for federal funding, with recipients to be selected by DHS;· Require DHS to prioritize its consideration of threat facing an area in its grant award system; and· Remove the high-risk grant program from the minimum guarantee calculation for state grants.The Urban Areas Security Initiative (UASI) was created in 2003 (P.L. 108-7) to provide preparedness and anti-terrorism funding to the most at-risk (Tier I) areas in the country and initially benefited only seven cities. Since then, the number of eligible recipients has ballooned to 64 regions, many of which face minimal risk. In February 2011, an amendment to H.R. 1 introduced by Lowey and Israel passed the U.S. House of Representatives. It would have restricted to 25 the number of UASI grant recipients, but the amendment was removed by the Senate during negotiations over a final 2011 funding bill. The final agreement also slashed the overall funding level for the Urban Areas Security Initiative from $887 million in 2010 to $725 million in 2011 (a 18% decrease). Based on previous years’ allocations, New York could lose $27 million from this cut. “A unified House position and common sense should have been enough to convince the Senate to provide the most at-risk areas like New York adequate anti-terror funds before areas that face minimal threat,” said Lowey. “I will continue working to ensure New York is not short-changed on this vital anti-terrorism and preparedness funding.” ###
04.14.2011	Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today issued the following statement on passage of a spending bill for the remainder of Fiscal Year 2011:The fiscal challenges our nation faces are the result of the irresponsible policies of the Bush Administration and costly wars in Afghanistan and Iraq as well as necessary measures that continue helping our economic recovery after the most severe financial crisis since the Great Depression. The high federal deficit is not, as some claim, due to over-investment in Head Start, schools, roads, bridges, medical research, or other critical priorities.The federal government must operate more efficiently, eliminate waste, and find cost-savings and efficiencies that jeopardize neither vital services on which Americans rely, nor critical investments in our economic growth. The Administration and Congressional negotiators made progress toward that end in this bill.We were successful in restoring funding for critical programs like Head Start, Pell Grants, public broadcasting, and Title I aid to local schools, and that the damage was mitigated for programs like family planning and medical research at the National Institutes of Health. The draconian cuts prescribed in H.R. 1 for these and other vital initiatives would have hurt our ability to grow the economy, create jobs, and compete in the future.I commend President Obama and Senator Reid for refusing to give in to Republican demands to de-fund Planned Parenthood and Title X family planning programs, which would have denied millions of women access to contraception, breast exams, Pap tests, and other critical health services. While the bill is a significant improvement over H.R. 1, it is far from perfect. Among its flaws, I am extremely disappointed that the Urban Areas Security Initiative (UASI) and State Homeland Security Grant Program (SHSGP) have been slashed by 18% and 24%, which will hurt New York’s preparedness. It is shameful that my amendment to restrict UASI funding to 25 at-risk, densely populated cities, passed by the House of Representatives, was removed, allowing the program’s recipients to continue to balloon and further dilute this already insufficient account. A unified House position and common sense should have been enough to convince the Senate to provide the most at-risk areas like New York adequate anti-terror funds before areas that face minimal threat. I call on Secretary Napolitano to use her authority to limit the number of grant recipients to 25 and will introduce stand-alone legislation today to make it a statutory requirement.Many will reject this agreement on the grounds that the cuts are not severe enough while others will oppose it based on what they consider excessive reductions. However, to govern is to make tough choices, and I am working with my colleagues in a responsible and bipartisan way to protect vital services and investments in our future while reducing spending. My vote in support of this bill is not an endorsement of cuts to many important programs I believe are beneficial to economic growth, health, education, and public safety, and I will continue fighting against drastic and irresponsible proposals like H.R. 1.As difficult as it was to reach agreement for 2011 spending levels, the challenges ahead are even greater. Moving forward, Democrats and Republicans must work together to eliminate wasteful or duplicative spending while protecting investments in our future and essential services like Social Security, Medicare, and Medicaid. ###
04.12.2011	WASHINGTON - Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY), Ranking Democrat on the Appropriations State and Foreign Operations Subcommittee, today hailed the reversal of cuts to diplomacy and development priorities passed in H.R. 1, which would have been counter-productive to our national security. “National security is a three-legged stool of defense, diplomacy, and development,” said Lowey. “H.R. 1 would have chopped two of these legs at the knees. I am pleased the agreement reached by the White House and Congressional negotiators would restore many of the ill-advised cuts passed by the House of Representatives in February.” Prior to passage of H.R. 1, Lowey authored a column published by POLITICO, in which she argued that diplomacy and development are critical to our national security even in a belt-tightening atmosphere and haphazard cuts to the State and Foreign Operations budget put our nation at greater risk. “Diplomacy and development help avoid military deployments, and civilian aid workers are essential to the success of our Armed Forces in Iraq and Afghanistan,” said Lowey. “These limited resources help stabilize conflict zones; expand global markets; respond to humanitarian crises; counter extremism; and protect Americans. I am pleased we will restore funding for vital programs.” The agreement would provide:· $2.525 billion for Development Assistance, an increase of $752 million over the H.R. 1 level;· $5.958 billion in Economic Support Funds, an increase of $252 million over the H.R. 1 level;· $5.345 billion for Global HIV/AIDS, an increase of $500 million over the H.R. 1 level; Cuts from H.R. 1 to other critical priorities like Global Health and Child Survival, International Disaster Assistance, and Migration and Refugee Assistance were also restored. Lowey also expressed support for family planning provisions in the final agreement, including an increase over the H.R. 1 level for bilateral family planning, removal of language re-imposing the Global Gag Rule, and restoration of funding for UNFPA. “While I am still reviewing the budget agreement’s impact on priorities critical to New York, I am pleased many of the most draconian and counter-productive cuts to foreign aid in H.R. 1 have been restored,” said Lowey. “I look forward to continuing my work to protect diplomacy and development in the 2012 process.” ###
04.06.2011	Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY), Ranking Democrat on the Appropriations Subcommittee on State and Foreign Operations, today issued the following statement on impact of the Republican budget blueprint on international affairs:“Presidents and leaders of both political parties have recognized that our national security is a three-legged stool of defense, diplomacy, and development. The Republican budget blueprint would effectively chop two of these legs at the knees.“Cutting international affairs spending on this scale would put our nation at higher risk of terrorism, hamper our ability to achieve vital security objectives, and result in a retreat from our leadership role in the global community. It is senseless to respond to a fiscal challenge by creating a national security emergency.“I will do everything in my power to ensure diplomacy and development remain vital parts of our national security.” ###
04.04.2011	Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY) today issued the following statement on Attorney General Eric Holder’s announcement that 9/11 mastermind Khalid Sheikh Mohammad will be tried in a military commission.“I am pleased 9/11 mastermind Khalid Sheikh Mohammad and other conspirators will be held accountable for their crimes. Nearly 10 years after September 11th, it is critical that these individuals be tried and convicted for their role in the worst terror attack in our nation’s history.“While I believe our federal justice system is up to the task of prosecuting the most heinous of criminals, these commissions will bring these terrorists to justice in a safer and more secure venue than federal courthouses in Manhattan, White Plains, or elsewhere. As I told AG Holder in February 2010, the federal courthouse in White Plains simply was not a realistic option for a trial of this magnitude given the potential security costs and disruption to the community.” ###
04.01.2011	Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY), Ranking Democrat on the Appropriations State and Foreign Operations Subcommittee, today issued the following statement on the attack and murder of United Nations workers in Afghanistan: “The attack and murder of United Nations workers in Afghanistan is an abhorrent reminder of the serious risk diplomatic and development personnel face in dangerous areas around the world. Those responsible for the violence and incitement must be held accountable for their actions. My thoughts and prayers are with the victims and their families after this tragic incident.” ###
03.30.2011	WHITE PLAINS – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) this week honored students from Westchester and Rockland Counties she nominated for admission to our nation’s service academies at her annual Service Academy Review Board (SARB) ceremony.“Every year, it is such a pleasure to nominate so many impressive young and women for admission to our nation’s service academies,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “These individuals have achieved excellence inside and outside of the classroom. I have every confidence that those accepting admission to a service academy will thrive there and serve our nation with honor and distinction.”Congresswoman Lowey nominated 30 students from Westchester and Rockland Counties for admission to the U.S. Military Academy (West Point), U.S. Naval Academy, U.S. Air Force Academy, or U.S. Merchant Marine Academy. As of today, 10 students have been offered appointment.Alexandra Baker of Hartsdale, student at Ursuline School, nominated to U.S. Military Academy.Anthony Romero of Port Chester High School, nominated to U.S. Military AcademyBart Czarnik of New City, a student at Clarkstown High School North, nominated and offered appointment to U.S. Military Academy.Brian Melendez of White Plains, student at the Monfort Academy, nominated to U.S. Merchant Marine Academy and U.S. Air Force AcademyChris Lyvner of Tuckahoe, student at Fordham Prep, nominated to U.S. Air Force Academy, U.S. Naval Academy, U.S. Military Academy, and U.S. Merchant Marine AcademyDan Sherman of Tarrytown, a student at Irvington High School, nominated to U.S. Naval AcademyGreg Kravit of Scarsdale High School, nominated and offered appointment to U.S. Naval AcademyIan Motley of Ossining High School, nominated and offered appointment to U.S. Merchant Marine AcademyJack Lahey of Rye, student at Iona Prep, nominated to U.S. Naval Academy\Jeremy Kleiman of New City, student at Clarkstown High School North, nominated and offered appointment to U.S. Naval AcademyJoseph DeMarzo Sanchez of Yonkers, student at Cardinal Spellman High School, nominated to U.S. Military Academy and U.S. Air Force AcademyJoseph Van Essche, student at Ardsley High School, nominated to U.S. Military AcademyLeo Matthews of Rye High School, nominated and offered appointment to U.S. Military AcademyMatthew Coughlin of Pelham, student at Fordham Prep, nominated to U.S. Naval AcademyPatrick Goldstein of Pelham Memorial High School, nominated to U.S. Naval AcademyPaul Tomeo of New City, student at Clarkstown High School North, nominated to the U.S. Military Academy and U.S. Naval AcademyRoss Behren of Millwood, student at The Harvey School, nominated to U.S. Military AcademyRyan Ferguson of Hawthorne, student at Iona Prep, nominated to U.S. Air Force AcademyThomas Galvin of Chappaqua, student at Horace Greeley High School, nominated and offered appointment to U.S. Air Force Academy
03.29.2011	WHITE PLAINS – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), joined by several Westchester County small business owners, today called on Congress to protect businesses with fewer than 50 employees against unfair and deceptive practices by credit card companies. “Small businesses in New York and around the country rely on credit cards to purchase inventory, pay bills, and invest,” said Lowey. “Protecting these businesses from unfair and deceptive billing practices by credit card companies – as we do already for individual consumers – is the least we can do to help small businesses grow, expand, and hire. We must stop credit card companies from pulling the rug out from under these small businesses.” Irwin Katz, owner of Helicon Records, Ltd, a small business in White Plains, recently saw the interest rate on his business credit card raised from 15 percent to 29 percent without advance notice, despite having made timely payments. “It is imperative that small businesses are protected from the unfair practices of banks, which increase interest rates on credit cards without notice,” said Katz. As a result of the Credit Card Accountability, Responsibility, and Disclosure (CARD) Act passed by Congress last year, individual consumers are protected from a variety of unfair and deceptive practices used by credit card companies to increase fees. Lowey introduced the Small Business Credit Card Act to extend these same protections to small businesses. The bill would: · Prevent credit card companies from arbitrarily raising interest rates on small businesses without proper notice· Prohibit interest rate increases on existing balances· Prohibit interest charges on debt paid on time· Require that any payment over the minimum apply to the balance with the highest interest rate Lowey’s legislation is supported by the National Small Business Association, which recently wrote, “It is inconceivable that Congress would knowingly allow issuers to perpetuate – with impunity – practices recognized as “unfair” and “deceptive” against America’s small businesses.” ###
03.24.2011	WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (NY-18) and Congressman Eliot Engel (NY-17) today called on the House Energy and Commerce Committee to hold hearings on the licensing of nuclear facilities located within an evacuation area containing a high population. “It is unacceptable that the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) is not required to take into account factors like population, national security, and evacuation plans in determining the relicensing of aging nuclear power plants like Indian Point,” said Lowey. “In the event of a terrorist event, earthquake, or other natural disaster affecting Indian Point, the entire population of New York City and its suburbs would need to be evacuated. New Yorkers deserve to know relicensing decisions are made taking these basic factors into account.” Rep. Engel, a senior member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, said, “It is time for the NRC to realize that natural disasters and terrorism are all too real. The terrorists flew over Indian Point on 9/11 going to the World Trade Center. Because of its location, it is too inviting a target. In addition, because it is located near two seismic faults, it is also vulnerable to earthquakes. The condition of the plant should be enough to have it closed, but the NRC seems to be too tolerant of nuclear facilities’ condition in renewing licenses. The fact that 25 million people could be in grave danger if an incident such as what happened in Japan took place in New York should be ample reason to close a well-maintained facility, much less one with Indian Point’s spotty record.” Next week Lowey and Engel will re-introduce the Nuclear Power Licensing Reform Act of 2011, which would require the NRC to evaluate aging power plans to be re-licensed with the same stringent criteria used to license new plants. Lowey first introduced this legislation in 2005. Specifically, the Nuclear Power Licensing Reform Act would:· Ensure a nuclear facility not pose an unreasonable threat to persons or the environment, including vulnerability to terrorist attacks;· Require adequate evacuation plans for emergency events with approval from Federal agencies and states within 50 miles of the facility;· Require that any re-licensing be subject to the same stringent criteria that would be used in an original application for initial construction; and· Instruct the NRC to determine whether changes in the size or distribution of the surrounding population have resulted in the facility utilizing a site on which a new facility would not be allowed.###
03.16.2011	WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today issued the following statement on the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) rating the Indian Point Nuclear Facility at highest risk for an earthquake causing catastrophic failure. “We have always known that a nuclear facility in our nation’s most densely populated region could pose serious risk to the public and must be operated with the highest safety standards. Coming on the heels of a potentially catastrophic meltdown in Japan following an earthquake, news that Indian Point is at greatest risk in the U.S. of earthquake-related failure is highly alarming, made even more so considering flaws in Indian Point’s emergency preparedness and evacuation plans in the event of an incident. “A 1 in 10,000 chance that the core could be damaged by an earthquake, exposing the public to radiation, is greater than the chance of winning the lottery, getting struck by lightning, or being attacked by a shark. That is not acceptable. “NRC should not consider relicensing Indian Point reactors 2 and 3 in 2013 and 2015 until the risk the public faces has been addressed.” ###
03.15.2011	WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today called on the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) to evaluate all possible threats, including terrorism and natural disasters, as well as safety and evacuation procedures in determining the re-licensing of the Indian Point Nuclear Facility in Buchanan, New York. “In our densely-populated region, families deserve to be assured that the Indian Point nuclear facility could withstand a potential natural disaster or terrorist event,” said Lowey. “The tragedy in Japan only underscores the need for adequate preparation to prevent a catastrophe from occurring, and to respond quickly if one occurs.” Full letter follows: Chairman Gregory B. JaczkoU.S. Nuclear Regulatory CommissionMail Stop O-16G4Washington, DC 20555-0001 March 15, 2011 Dear Chairman Jaczko: The tragedy in Japan and the threat of meltdowns at the Fukushima Daiichi Nuclear Power Station shine a new light on the need for the heightened evaluation of nuclear power plants within high-population areas. Following the Japan tragedy, it is imperative that the NRC evaluate all possible threats, including terrorism, natural disasters, and the challenges that must be met in developing safety standards and evacuation procedures while determining the re-licensing of the Indian Point Nuclear Facility in Buchanan, New York. A 2008 study by seismologists at the Columbia University Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory found that earthquakes in the New York metropolitan area are common and that risks are particularly high due to infrastructure and high population. A 3.9 magnitude earthquake occurred in the Atlantic Ocean approximately 80 miles off Long Island as recently as November 30, 2010. In fact, there have been five earthquakes in the same area in the past two decades, including a 4.7 magnitude earthquake in 1992. The Ramapo Seismic Zone is a particular threat because the zone passes within two miles of Indian Point. The Ramapo Seismic Zone includes the Dobbs Ferry fault in Westchester, which generated a 4.1 magnitude earthquake in 1985. The Columbia University study suggests that this pattern of subtle but active faults increases the risk to the New York City area and that an earthquake with a magnitude of 7.0 on the Richter scale is within reach. Disturbingly, Entergy measures the risk of an earthquake near Indian Point to be between 1.0 and 3.0 on the Richter scale, despite evidence to the contrary. As our nation stands ready to assist the Japanese to calm this potential nuclear meltdown and disaster, we must not let the same mistakes happen on our shores. The NRC should study Indian Point’s risk of and ability to sustain a disaster, including the impact of earthquakes and hurricanes, as well as collateral impacts such as loss of power, inability to cool reactors, and emergency evacuation routes. The NRC should evaluate how a similar incident in the New York metropolitan area could be further complicated due to a dramatically higher population and the effectiveness of proposed evacuation routes. We simply cannot allow those who live in the New York metropolitan area to be susceptible to such risks. Sincerely, Nita M. Lowey Member of Congress ###
03.14.2011	EASTCHESTER – Student Assistance Services Corp., a Tarrytown-based nonprofit organization, and Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today announced SASCorp received a $831,313 federal grant to fight underage drinking among Westchester County high school students. "We look forward to continuing to work closely with the Westchester Coalition for Drug and Alcohol Free Youth and all the local community coalitions to implement Countywide prevention strategies" said Ellen Morehouse, Executive Director of Student Assistance Services Corp., “This grant will fund activities to better understand why Westchester teens use alcohol; fund social and traditional media messages for high school students and parents; and fund training for youth leaders, healthcare professionals, and law enforcement on how to intervene with alcohol using teens and promote being alcohol free." The funding which begins March 1 is from the federal Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration's (SAMHSA) Center for Substance Abuse Prevention (CSAP) to the NY State Office of Alcohlism and Substance Abuse Services (OASAS) Prevention First-NY initiative. Westchester was one of 11 coalitions funded in NY State because teen alcohol rates exceed the state average (as determined by a 2008 NY State survey) and because of the coalition's strong capacity to meet the grant requirements. The current underage drinking prevalence among students in grades 9-12 in Westchester County is over 13% higher than the state average, according to the 2008 survey with past 30 day use rates in Westchester exceeding the State rates at each grade level. 1(See charts below.) In addition data from the same survey indicated that Westchester 9-12 graders’ binge drinking rates are also higher than the state’s rates. “Drinking among high school students is a serious issue that we must confront, and that requires a productive partnership between parents, students, schools, and government” said Lowey. “As a mother and grandmother, I know there is nothing that is more important than ensuring our children are safe and healthy. I am thrilled SASCorp will receive this important grant to help fight underage drinking among high school students.” Congresswoman Lowey has long taken an active role in federal efforts to curb alcohol abuse. She authored legislation, signed into law in 2000, requiring states to enact laws limiting maximum blood alcohol content (BAC) to .08 for individuals operating a motor vehicle. She was named Mothers Against Drug Driving (MADD) “Legislator of the Year” for this effort and for her leadership in authoring the nation's "Zero Tolerance" law, which made it illegal for minors to drive after consuming any alcohol. “Alcohol abuse has destroyed too many lives and has torn apart too many families,” said State Senator Jeffrey D. Klein, (D-Bronx/Westchester), chairman of the Standing Senate Committee on Alcohol and Drug Abuse. “During my career in public service, I have fought to protect minors and families from alcohol and drug abuse and stand up for communities that have been harmed by its side effects. I applaud Congresswoman Lowey for helping secure this much needed funding so the Westchester Coalition for Drug and Alcohol Free Youth can continue to combat underage drinking now, and prevent future misery caused by alcoholism.” Vito Pinto, the Director of the Westchester County Office of Drug Prevention and STOP DWI and the Director of Veterans Affairs, chairs the Westchester Coalition for Drug and Alcohol Free Youth stated, “Since 2003, the Westchester Coalition has worked to prevent and reduce teen drinking. We have made some real progress but there is more work to be done. The grant provides valuable resources for us to increase our efforts to protect the health and safety of our youth.” "The grant builds on the Eastchester coalition's successful 'In Our Backyard' initiative to address substance abuse. We believe that ‘Westchester is one big backyard’ because a teen may live in Eastchester, have a part-time job in White Plains, play on a travel sports team based in Pelham, take horseback riding lessons in Bedford, go to religious services in Hastings, take an SAT prep course in Yorktown, and have a parent who works in Sleepy Hollow" according to Judy Mezey, the Project Director. "Public libraries provide the perfect place to bring together students, parents, elected officials, law enforcement, school and community groups, healthcare providers, and local business to discuss teen drinking and identify solutions" During spring break parents are urged to make time to talk to their teens not only about the dangers of alcohol use but also about ways to socialize and deal with stress, without drinking. Vacations can be a time for parents to provide opportunities for teens to have fun and de-stress. N Y State Office of Alcoholism and Substance Abuse Services Commissioner Arlene González-Sánchez said, “Underage drinking continues to be a serious and persistent problem across the state and nation. This funding will allow the Westchester communities to implement effective prevention programs, policies and practices that best address their local needs in reducing underage drinking and its related problems. There is strong evidence that the earlier in life a person starts drinking alcohol, the more likely he or she is to have alcohol-related problems throughout life. Community leaders, such as the Westchester Coalition for Drug and Alcohol Free Youth, have a critical role in shaping the environment to prevent underage drinking, and can guide adolescents through this very important period in their lives.” ###
03.10.2011	YONKERS – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today joined Secretary of Transportation Ray LaHood and Consumers Union in highlighting the dangers posed by distracted driving and the particular threat to young drivers. “The threat of fatalities and injuries resulting from distracted driving is severe and increasing, particularly for young drivers,” said Lowey. “I encourage all drivers to focus their full attention on the road, and all states should act as New York has to ban texting while driving. Secretary LaHood has provided commendable leadership on efforts to curb this dangerous practice, and I am always pleased to work with Consumers Union on issues critical to safety in our community.” “Distracted driving has become a deadly epidemic on America’s roads, and teens are especially vulnerable because of their inexperience behind the wheel and, often, peer pressure,” Secretary LaHood said. “Behind the statistics are real families who have been devastated by these tragedies. We’re pleased to be working with Consumer Reports to raise awareness and help communities fight this problem.” Jim Guest, the president of Consumers Union, the nonprofit publisher of Consumer Reports, said, “It only takes a moment of distraction to cause a tragedy. No text or call is worth a life.. We're spreading the word about the risks of distracted driving and the steps you can take to make a difference. We thank Rep. Lowey for her commitment to educating consumers and helping save lives.” In 2009, the last year for which data is available, 5,474 people were killed in crashes involving driver distraction, accounting for 16 percent of total auto-related fatalities. This was an increase from 10 percent in 2005. Those most at risk of fatal crashes due to distracted driving are drivers under the age of 20. Additionally, one in five crashes resulting in an injury is a result of distracted driving. Lowey, a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee, supports full funding of the Distracted Driving Prevention Grants program at $50 million, the 2012 budget request level. She also is an original cosponsor of the ALERT Drivers Act with Congresswoman Carolyn McCarthy, which would establish a minimum standard of protection for states to reduce distracted driving in order to receive their full share of federal transportation funding. ###
03.04.2011	MAMARONECK – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) was today joined by Head Start providers and parents to announce the spending plan passed by House of Representatives Republicans would push 10,000 New York children out of the successful early childhood learning program and result in 3,000 layoffs in New York. “As a mother and grandmother, I know that nothing is more important to a child’s development and education than early childhood learning,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “All children deserve to have the opportunity to learn and develop healthfully that Head Start provides. It is shocking to me that the Republican spending plan would push thousands of New York children out of this successful program.” The spending plan for the remainder of Fiscal Year 2011, passed last week by the U.S. House of Representatives, would cut $1.1 billion from Head Start. According to the National Head Start Association, these cuts would result in 10,000 New York children being pushed out of the program and 3,000 layoffs of educators and other Head Start staff. “Head Start is a critically important program for children and families in Westchester County,” said Barbara Sommer, Senior Program Director for Family Services of Westchester. “The children in our programs will eventually age into kindergarten, and without the opportunity to learn and develop that Head Start provides, they will not be on a level playing field with their peers. Head Start is critical to children and families in our community.” “Head Start is critical to the health, education, and overall development of low-income children, said Ellen Farrar, Deputy Director and Head Start Director of Westchester Community Opportunity Program (WestCOP). “In addition to supporting families with learning, health, feeding, and other development issues, Head Start also invests in our community by paying rent and purchasing food and supplies from local vendors. A failure to support this successful program would have a damaging impact not just on families, but on our entire community.” "Any cuts to the head start programs would be devastating,” said Ouida Foster Dawson, Executive Director of Head Start Rockland. “Invest in children now! For every dollar invested in a child early, you save $7-$9 later.” ###
03.02.2011	Congresswoman Nita Lowey, Ranking Democrat on the Appropriations State and Foreign Operations Subcommittee, today issued the following statement on the Administration’s intent to consider prosecution of Mu’ammar Qadhafi for the 1988 bombing of Pan Am Flight 103 over Lockerbie, Scotland: “The situation in Libya is untenable. The international community must do everything in its power to stop the atrocities against innocent civilians, demand accountability for human rights violations, and provide humanitarian relief for those in need. “I fully support the Administration’s intent to consider prosecution of Mu’ammar al-Qadhafi for the Pan Am Flight 103 bombing, which resulted in the deaths of 190 Americans, as well as implementation of unilateral sanctions against Colonel Qadhafi and his regime, including freezing assets, imposing a travel ban on senior officials, and suspending military aid. I also applaud the steps taken by the UN Security Council, the European Union, and other nations to impose further restrictions. “During this time of transition and instability throughout the Middle East, the international community must work together to ensure the violence in Libya ends so that the people can reclaim their country and pursue an open, democratic society.” ###
02.18.2011	Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY), Ranking Democrat on the Appropriations State and Foreign Operations Subcommittee, today issued the following statement regarding the United States veto of United Nations Security Council resolution regarding Israeli settlement activity: “The United Nations Security Council resolution on settlements is a distraction from efforts to advance the peace process. The Obama Administration was right to exercise its veto power and defeat this counterproductive resolution. I urge the Palestinians to join Israel in agreeing to begin negotiations immediately without pre-conditions.”
02.18.2011	(WASHINGTON) – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (NY-18) and Congressman Steve Israel (NY-02) today announced a victory in ensuring homeland security funding is reserved for highest-risk regions like the New York metro area. The lawmakers passed an amendment limiting grant recipients from the Urban Area Security Initiative (UASI), which will result in a larger share for top terror targets like NY.“I have visited lovely small towns and rural areas across this country and appreciate their unique challenges,” said Lowey. “But New York should not lose vital prevention and preparedness funding to cities facing minimal risk. I am pleased this amendment passed to ensure UASI grants benefit highest-risk cities and will work to ensure the Senate passes this provision and President Obama signs it into law.“Federal homeland security formulas give too much to localities that don't need it and too little to those that are true targets,” said Israel. “The amendment Nita Lowey and I offered corrects that. I’m pleased that we were able to work in a bipartisan manner to ensure this amendment was adopted.”The Urban Area Security Initiative was created to help secure the highest-risk cities and began with just seven recipients. In recent years, it has ballooned to include 64 cities, diluting the share for top terror targets like New York City. The amendment proposed by Lowey and Israel and approved Thursday by the House of Representatives would limit the number of cities benefiting from the grants to 25, resulting in a larger share for the highest-risk cities.The Continuing Resolution debated in the House of Representatives would slash overall UASI funding by $87 million, which could cut New York City’s allocation by $10-15 million. The amendment passed by Lowey and Israel would protect New York City’s allocation. “Homeland Security funds to combat terrorism are too important to be spread around the country without taking risk into account,” said Mayor Bloomberg. “We have long argued that the money needs to be allocated based on threats so that frequently targeted cities like New York get the vitally important resources needed to prevent attacks. I would like to thank Congresswoman Lowey and Congressman Israel for offering this amendment and am extremely grateful for its passage.”“In reducing the number of eligible cities, the legislation facilitates the common sense application of scarce resources to where the threat is greatest,” said Police Commissioner Raymond W. Kelly. ###
02.17.2011	Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY), Ranking Democrat on the Appropriations State and Foreign Operations Subcommittee, today issued the following statement in response to reports that the United States sought to avoid a vote in the UN Security Council related to Jewish settlements."Compromising our support for Israel at the United Nations is not an option. The United States must veto the UN resolution on settlements to make clear we will not support such a blatant attempt to derail the peace process."###
02.16.2011	(WASHINGTON) – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today delivered the following statement in opposition to cuts in foreign aid funding contained in the Fiscal Year 2011 Continuing Resolution: I rise in opposition to irresponsible cuts to the State and Foreign Operations budget, which would threaten global stability and security. Despite broad agreement that U.S. national security is supported by a three-legged stool of defense, diplomacy, and development, this bill dramatically weakens diplomacy and development. On a positive note, I am pleased by the inclusion of $3 billion pursuant to the MOU between the United States and Israel and continued commitments to Egypt and Jordan. However, especially given the ongoing developments in Egypt, throughout the region, and around the world, drastic cuts, including to democratic governance, alternative development options, international financial institutions, conflict mitigation and reconciliation, disaster assistance, and global health priorities, would significantly impede our ability to achieve our security objectives. I am also disappointed by the Republican leadership’s partisan approach. During my four years as chair of the subcommittee, I did not include divisive social issues in our bills, yet this CR would reinstate the global gag rule and prohibit funds for the United Nations Population Fund, denying millions of women abroad family planning and basic health services. Finally, while all these measures are brought to the floor under the guise of fiscal responsibility, they endanger our long-term economic security and fail to create jobs. I urge my colleagues to oppose this bill. ###
02.15.2011	(WASHINGTON) – Congresswoman Nita Lowey today issued the following statement regarding the detrimental impact that proposed cuts in the 2011 Continuing Resolution would have on New York: “The drastic cuts proposed by Republicans will have a real and severe impact on New Yorkers,” said Lowey. “It is easy to rail against government spending during campaigns, but the reality is that Republicans’ haphazard proposal will hurt health care providers and schools in our state and make the communities of New York less safe.” Lowey released the following list of the Top 10 ways cuts proposed in the 2011 Continuing Resolution would hurt New York. 1. Title I, the primary source of federal funding for many schools, would be cut by 5%, costing Yonkers more than $628,000, $66,000 for White Plains, $112,000 for New Rochelle, and $62 million statewide.2. New York’s allocation from the Port Security grant program would decrease by more than $11 million, putting our ports, harbors, and waterways at greater risk.3. Head Start would be cut by $1.1 billion, or 14%, pushing more than 200,000 children across the country out of the program, including more than 10,000 in New York, and leading to 3,000 layoffs in our state.4. New York’s allocation from the Urban Area Security Initiative (UASI) and State Homeland Security Grant Program (SHSGP) would be cut by a total of more than $28 million, making our region less safe.5. More than 90,000 New York students who use the maximum Pell Grant amount to afford the cost of higher education would see a hike $845 for higher education costs. 6. Supplemental Nutrition Programs for Women, Infants and Children (WIC) would be cut by nearly $750 million, jeopardizing the health of more than 500,000 pregnant and nursing women and infants who rely on the program in New York.7. NIH would be cut by $1.6 billion, resulting in a loss of more than $110 million in grant funding to universities and research institutions in New York.8. The SAFER program, which in the last two months helped re-hire 16 laid-off Yonkers firefighters and 9 laid-off White Plains firefighters , would be eliminated entirely.9. Transit security for systems like Metro North would be cut by 67 percent, costing New York more than $50 million and making our region less safe.10. Funding for Title X family planning facilities would be completely eliminated, leaving no health care options for the 340,000 New York women who rely on these facilities for cancer screenings, Pap Smears, contraception, and other basic care. “If the Republicans really believed the name they gave HR 2 - the “Repealing the Job-Killing Health Care Law,” then I propose they rename the CR,” said Lowey. “The “Laying off Everyone from Teachers and Firefighters to Bert and Ernie Act” would better reflect the real impact of this draconian legislation.” ###
02.14.2011	(WASHINGTON) – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY), Ranking Democrat on the State and Foreign Operations Appropriations Subcommittee, today commended President Obama for a 2012 budget request that recognizes diplomacy and development are key pillars of our national security. “Even in these difficult economic times, we cannot afford to enact broad and haphazard cuts to key pillars of our national security. We must not allow our response to an economic challenge to create a national security crisis. President Obama’s 2012 budget request would invest wisely to promote security in front-line states and encourage stability around the world through military, economic, health, and education assistance. I commend President Obama for proposing targeted efficiencies and spending reductions without jeopardizing successful initiatives that make our nation more secure.” “I will work with Chairwoman Granger, the administration, and my congressional colleagues to ensure Congress provides sufficient funding for our diplomatic and development priorities that are key to our security.” ###
02.14.2011	(WASHINGTON) – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY) today commended President Obama for a 2012 budget request that proposes investing smartly in our nation’s competitiveness and innovative capacity while making some tough choices and laying the groundwork for long-term deficit reduction. “The most important issue facing our nation is creating jobs and getting our economy back on track,” said Lowey. “President Obama’s budget 2012 reflects that urgency by investing in areas critical to job creation and economic growth now and in the future. The request also provides a blueprint for long-term deficit reduction, which is a key priority in the coming years. We are facing difficult economic times, and this budget request reflects that reality.” Job Growth The budget request would provide robust funding for loan programs critical to helping small businesses grow, hire, and expand, including the Small Business Administration (SBA) 7(a), 504, and microloan programs, which will guarantee higher loan amounts as a result of legislation passed by Congresswoman Lowey. Tax ReliefThe budget request plans for a 3-year fix to the Alternative Minimum Tax (AMT), which disproportionately affects middle-class families in New York. It would provide a permanent extension of the Research and experimentation Tax Credit and a 20 percent increase in the credit to help spur innovation and competitiveness. EducationThe budget request recognizes that we cannot win the future with a 20th century education system. That is why it sustains the maximum Pell Grant – which allows more than 11,000 students in Westchester and Rockland Counties to attend college – at $5,550. The budget would increase the afterschool education program Lowey helped to create by $100 million and provide $80 million to prepare 100,000 science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM) teachers for the classroom. HealthThe 2012 budget request would ensure doctors are reimbursed fairly for Medicare patients. It would increase funding for biomedical research at NIH, help allow more children in Westchester and Rockland Counties to enroll in Head Start, and include mandatory funding for responders stemming from the James Zadroga 9/11 Health and Compensation Act. Public SafetyThe 2012 budget request recognizes that New York is our nation’s top terror target and provides robust funding for grant programs critical to our security. Specifically, the State Homeland Security Grant Program (SHSGP) and Urban Area Security Initiative (UASI) programs – which benefit New York and other cities – would receive increases over current funding levels. The Securing the Cities nuclear detection program would receive a $7 million increase over the current funding level. ###
02.14.2011	(WHITE PLAINS) – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) was joined today by Westchester County community organizations in calling on Republican Congressional leadership to focus on the issues most important to American people – creating jobs and getting our economy on track – rather than restricting women’s health choices. “As I visit all the communities of my district, I am asked about high unemployment, how government can help promote job growth, and how we can get the economy working again for families trying to make ends meet,” said Lowey. “Not once have I heard that it is important for the government to get to work on restricting women’s health choices and denying basic care. It is shocking to me that at a time of high unemployment and enormous economic challenges ahead of us, Congressional leaders are focusing on extreme and divisive social issues. It must stop now.” H.R. 3, the so-called “No Taxpayer Funding for Abortion Act,” would eliminate tax breaks for private employers who provide health coverage if their plans offer the full range of women’s health services, and would forbid women who use a flexible spending plan to use pre-tax dollars on certain legal health procedures. Federal law already prohibits use of taxpayer funds for abortion services. H.R. 3 would also undercut an important exemption on this ban by re-defining rape in a way that could limit health choices for victims of statutory rape and other crimes. Another bill, the so-called “Protect Life Act” would prohibit Americans who receive insurance through state exchanges from purchasing health plans that cover the full range of health services, even though they would already pay for that coverage with their own money. It would also permit hospitals to refuse to perform abortions even if necessary to save the life of the mother. Finally, Congressional leadership has proposed eliminating federal funding for Title X of the Public Health Service Act. This would deny federal funding for health care providers that provide cancer screenings, Pap Smears, contraception, immunizations, blood-pressure testing, and much more if they also provide the full range of women’s health services. Title X funding has played a critical role in reducing unintended pregnancies, decreasing infant mortality, and detecting cancer at early stages. “The Pence and Smith bills are the most devastating legislative assaults on women’s health care in American history,” said Reina Schiffrin, CEO of Planned Parenthood Hudson Peconic. “These ideological attacks overlook the fact that Planned Parenthood doesmore to prevent unintended pregnancies than any other organization.” “The YWCAs in New York are proud to be joining Congresswoman Lowey and our sister organizations in calling for the leadership of the House of Representatives to focus on the real work that they were elected to do,” said Maria Imperial, CEO of the YWCA White Plains and Central Westchester. “The Gender Wage Gap continues. Women and their families are living in poverty. We need to address these issues rather than attacking healthcare options for women. Women make up nearly 50% of this nation’s workforce. They need to be trained for our new economy; we don’t need to work on restricting their rights. The conversation has to change now. We simply cannot afford it any more. “ May Krukiel, Director of the Westchester Women’s Agenda, said, “Reproductive freedom is the law of the land. Efforts to restrict access to reproductive health care should be seen as illegal and cannot be tolerated.”“The newly-elected reactionary Congress is determined to destroy women’s health. Instead of creating jobs, these extremists are savaging women’s health care. They want to prevent millions of women from obtaining health insurance coverage for abortion services – even insurance paid for with private dollars or provided by employers in the private marketplace. These zealots are amending a law decades old to make it legal for doctors and hospitals to stand by and allow pregnant women to die if intervention to save them would kill the fetus. Congresswoman Lowey and our other pro-choice representatives are fighting off three devastating bills plus budget cuts as we speak. We stand with Congresswoman Lowey and our allies to defend the rights of America’s women,” stated Catherine Lederer-Plaskett, President, WCLA – Choice Matters.More than one million women in the United States are unemployed. The number of abortions in the United States decreased from 2000 to 2008, the most recent year for which data is available. ###
02.11.2011	Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY), Chairwoman of the Appropriations Subcommittee on State and Foreign Operations today issued the following statement on the resignation of Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak: “The scenes out of Egypt are riveting, and today represents a new beginning for the Egyptian people. I commend the millions of demonstrators for conducting their protests peacefully and courageously. “I urge the Egyptian military to follow through on its commitment to lift emergency rule and schedule free and fair elections, and accountability and democratic governance must be central tenets of the new government. “I am hopeful that a free, stable, and peaceful Egypt will be a linchpin for greater regional security, international cooperation, and basic freedoms for citizens.” ###
02.08.2011	Congresswoman Nita Lowey (NY-18), Ranking Democrat on the Appropriations State and Foreign Operations Subcommittee, today released the following statement on the results of southern Sudan’s vote in favor of secession. “It is not every day that we witness the birth of a nation. Today’s official announcement that the people of southern Sudan have voted overwhelmingly to form their own independent country continues the path toward a peaceful resolution to the decades-long conflict in Sudan. “Just as the United States and others in the international community helped to negotiate the process leading up to the election, we must continue to support southern Sudan as it begins the daunting task of setting up its government and navigating the challenges of independence. “I applaud the people of both northern and southern Sudan for maintaining the peace throughout the referendum and hope its success will prompt a renewed focus on other regions of Sudan, such as Darfur, that still await peaceful resolution to tragic conflict.” ###
02.04.2011	Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY) today issued the following statement regarding collective bargaining for Transportation Security Administration (TSA) employees: “I commend the Transportation Security Administration (TSA) and Administrator Pistole for taking a step that will increase aviation security by professionalizing the Transportation Security Officer (TSO) workforce. By allowing TSOs to bargain collectively on issues like seniority, bids, transfers, and awards if a majority votes for union representation, TSA will engage employees and improve morale. I have advocated this step since 2006 because it is critical to keeping effective and experienced screeners on the job and protecting the safety of the traveling public. “I look forward to continuing to work with Administrator Pistole, Secretary Napolitano, and Congressional homeland security leadership to ensure the safety of the traveling public is paramount and our transportation security workforce is prepared to meet continuing threats.” Lowey is the sponsor of the Transportation Security Workforce Enhancement Act from the 111th Congress to authorize limited collective bargaining for TSOs. ###
02.03.2011	WASHINGTON – Committee on Homeland Security Chairman Peter King (NY-3) and Congresswoman Nita Lowey (NY-18) today called on President Obama to request robust funding in his Fiscal Year 2012 budget for anti-terrorism and homeland security programs critical to the safety and preparedness of the New York City metropolitan area. “Democrats and Republicans who represent the metropolitan area of our nation’s most at-risk city understand the need to support our public safety workforce and invest in the training and equipment necessary to prevent and respond to emergencies,” said Lowey. “Even in these difficult economic times, President Obama’s 2012 budget must request funding levels sufficient to meet the needs of our nation’s top terror target.” “It’s clear that we have to bring federal spending under control,” said King, “but we cannot afford to shortchange our homeland security needs, particularly those of New York City, which remains al Qaeda’s top terror target. Since 9/11, New York City has been the target of at least 11 failed or foiled terror plots, a number far greater than any other place in this country. It is imperative that the Obama Administration continue funding critical homeland security programs.” Congressman Peter King is the Chairman of the Committee on Homeland Security. Congresswoman Nita Lowey is a senior member of the Appropriations Committee, where she is the sole New Yorker on the Homeland Security Subcommittee. President Obama’s Fiscal Year 2012 budget request is due to Congress February 14th. Full letter text:Dear President Obama:As you finalize your Fiscal Year 2012 budget proposal, we urge continued robust funding for the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) to protect against future terrorist attacks. While these are difficult economic times, as the sole New York representative on the Appropriations Subcommittee on Homeland Security and the Chairman of the Committee on Homeland Security, we cannot stress enough how critical it is for DHS to continue to address the real, evolving and continuous threat our region – the top U.S. terror target - faces. Last year’s attempt by Faisal Shahzad to detonate explosives in Times Square was yet another reminder that continued funding for the Securing the Cities program is vital to not only the security of the New York City region but to our nation as a whole. In the event of a dirty bomb attack in the New York City area, the ripple effect and economic consequences throughout the nation would be catastrophic. A continued federal, state and municipal collaboration in protecting the homeland is absolutely imperative. We urge you to maintain substantial funding for the state homeland security grant program, urban area security initiative, and assistance to firefighter grant programs, which help bolster our law enforcement and public safety workforce and training. This past October’s Yemen cargo plot underscores the importance of enhancing our cargo screening procedures for both cargo on all cargo aircraft and air cargo entering the United States on passenger aircraft. We hope that sufficient funding is requested for enhancing air cargo security. Similarly, the Transportation Security Administration’s efforts to detect and deter terrorist activity among air passengers is vital to aviation security. We must continue to invest in the most advanced technologies available and adequately train transportation security officers to the highest levels of professional standards. Any reduction in funding for the purchase and deployment of Advanced Imaging Technology machines or Federal Air Marshals would create a security vulnerability, putting air travelers at substantial risk. Further, your Fiscal Year 2011 budget request eliminated the Coast Guard’s Maritime Safety and Security Team (MSST) based in New York City. The New York MSST is located near the financial center of the United States and is a multi-mission counterterrorism unit that conducts waterborne patrols around the United Nations, monitors the entrance to New York Harbor around the Verrazano Bridge, and boards and searches high interest or especially dangerous vessels approaching the region. The proposed elimination of the New York MSST was rejected by the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Homeland Security, and we urge you to continue funding for the New York based MSST in FY 2012. While we recognize the serious constraints in developing a Fiscal Year 2012 federal budget proposal, it is imperative the budget fully support our national security requirements, including homeland security. We stand ready to work with you to do everything possible to address our homeland security needs in the coming year. Sincerely,Nita LoweyPeter King ###
02.03.2011	WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY) today announced the Yonkers Fire Department will receive $256,000 in federal funding to purchase thermal imaging cameras, which will enhance firefighter safety in responding to emergencies. “First responders serve their communities by responding to emergencies and helping those in need of assistance,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “It is our responsibility to ensure they have the equipment and training they need to help keep us – and themselves – safe. I am pleased the Department of Homeland Security is addressing this need in Westchester County.” Lowey is a senior member of the Appropriations Subcommittee on Homeland Security, where she has strongly supported initiatives to support local fire departments.The Yonkers Fire Department will use the funding to purchase thermal imaging cameras for use while battling blazes. The cameras allow firefighters to remain in contact with one another and find each other if they become separated in a smoke-filled environment. Yonkers Fire Department Chief Bill Fitzpatrick said, ““This is going to greatly increase the personal safety of our firefighters with the equipment we will be purchasing”.The Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) program, which is administered by the Department of Homeland Security Office of Grants and Training in coordination with the U.S. Fire Administration, awards grants directly to fire departments and EMS agencies. Funds may be used to increase the effectiveness of firefighting operations, firefighter health and safety programs, emergency medical service programs, fire prevention and safety programs, and to purchase new fire equipment. ###
01.28.2011	Congresswoman Nita Lowey (NY-18), Ranking Democrat on the Appropriations State and Foreign Operations Subcommittee, today released the following statement on protests and demonstrations in Egypt. “Ever since the historic Camp David peace accords more than 30 years ago, Egypt and the United States have been partners in seeking a just resolution to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. “During that time, the United States has encouraged the Egyptian government to move toward a more open society respecting individual freedom of expression and human rights. All parties must refrain from violence and the Egyptian government must restore access to the internet and social media. “It is in the interest of the United States and regional stability that this period of turmoil and uncertainty be resolved peacefully and that Egypt remain a strong ally.” ###
01.28.2011	YONKERS– Congresswoman Nita Lowey (NY-18) and Congressman Eliot Engel (NY-17) today announced 16 Yonkers firefighters who had been laid off due to budget shortfalls will be re-hired as a result of a $4,846,034 federal grant the City received from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security. “I am thrilled the Yonkers Fire Department will benefit from this federal grant, which will help ensure we have the personnel necessary to keep our community safe,” said Lowey, the sole New Yorker on the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Homeland Security. “It is particularly important that this federal grant has come through at a time of high unemployment, because it will directly create jobs in our community.” Congressman Eliot Engel said, "No community can be safe without fire protection. This SAFER grant will help Yonkers to have trained firefighters on duty to answer the 15,000 emergency calls made here every year. These grants are even more necessary for localities suffering through the economic downturn. The economy may be coming back but emergencies don't wait. This is why I wrote a letter of support for this grant to assist our brave firefighters in doing their heroic work. The grant will allow the people of Yonkers to sleep a little better knowing their Fire Department is there for them." Yonkers Mayor Philip Amicone said, ““At a time when we’re trying to restore essential services during this tough budget year, this grant comes as a huge lift for the Fire Department and the City. I want to thank our Congressional delegation for their continued support and especially for their support on securing this grant.” Yonkers City Council President Chuck Lesnick stated, “I want to express my sincere thanks and gratitude to the Department of Homeland Security and our Congressional delegation for supporting this SAFER grant and coming to the rescue of our city’s fire department during these tough economic times. This grant allows us to rehire firefighters and that will have an immediate impact on the safety and security of our City.” Barry McGoey, President of IAFF Local 628, said, “I thank our Congressional delegation on behalf of all Yonkers firefighters, especially the 16 who will be re-hired. I know they are looking forward to getting back to work protecting the people of Yonkers.” “This is great news for Yonkers,” U.S. Senator Kirsten Gillibrand said. "During these tough economic times, these federal funds are critical to putting our local firefighters to work. I will continue to fight to ensure the Yonkers Fire Department and our first responders have the resources needed to continue their excellence and keep our communities safe." The Department of Homeland Security’s (DHS) Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency Response program (SAFER)is a funding initiative designed to strengthen the nation’s ability to respond to fire and fire-related hazards and improve the nation’s overall level of preparedness. The goal of any SAFER grant is to enhance the ability of grantees to attain and maintain 24-hour staffing and to assure that their communities have adequate protection from fire and fire-related hazards. The objective of the program is to award grants directly to volunteer, combination, and career fire departments to help the departments increase the number of frontline firefighters, and to rehire firefighters who were laid-off due to the economy. ###
01.27.2011	WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Nita Lowey, Ranking Democrat on the Appropriations Subcommittee on State and Foreign Operations, today issued the following statement in response to Senator Rand Paul’s (R-KY) advocacy for ending assistance to Israel: “It is shocking that Senator Paul wants our nation to renege on our commitment to a vital ally, which is necessary to assure Israel’s continued qualitative military advantage in a dangerous region. “Israel is the only democratic nation in the Middle East and one of our most stalwart allies. A stable and secure Israel is in our national security interest and has been a staple of our foreign policy for more than sixty years. Using our budget deficit as a reason to abandon Israel is inexcusable. “It is unclear to me whether Rand Paul speaks for the Tea Party, the Republican Party, or simply himself. I call on all those who value the U.S.-Israel relationship to make it clear that our nation will not abandon our ally Israel.”
01.26.2011	WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY) today urged the Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA) to investigate the origins of ingredients in products marketed as bath salts that could have dangerous effects on consumers including hallucinations and suicidal thoughts. “Consumers have a right to be sure that easily accessible products are safe and do not contain ingredients that could have dangerous effects,” said Lowey. “The DEA has a responsibility to investigate and act promptly to protect the public from products that could cause people to injure themselves or others.” According to press reports, law enforcement authorities in states that have outlawed products containing the ingredients mephedrone and methylenedioxypyrovalerone – also known as MDPV – report that users have crossed state lines to purchase the products in states where they are not outlawed. Lowey is a senior member of the Appropriations Subcommittee on Labor, Health, and Education. Full letter text below:Dear Administrator Leonhart: I write with great concern over the continued usage of mephedrone, methylenedioxypyrovalerone (MDPV), and other stimulants in easily accessible bath salts. These ingredients, commonly used in seemingly innocuous products, are actually deeply harmful chemicals that can cause individuals to harm themselves and others. While these products may not be directly marketed for human consumption, their illicit use in numerous cases – similar to ingredients in over-the-counter products used to create crystal methamphetamine – make clear action must be taken to protect consumers. Perhaps even more disturbing, according to press reports, is that the origins of these ingredients remain unknown, despite their widespread use. The Drug Enforcement Administration must proactively investigate any substances whose effects include hallucinations, paranoia, rapid heart rates and suicidal thoughts, particularly when they are easily accessible to minors across the country. I urge you to immediately begin investigating the origins of these harmful, manmade chemicals and to take the necessary steps to protect the public. Sincerely, Nita M. Lowey Member of Congress
01.20.2011	WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY) today announced the Mamaroneck Emergency Medical Services (EMS) will receive $99,750 in federal funding to purchase a new ambulance. “First responders serve their communities by responding to emergencies and helping those in need of assistance,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “It is our responsibility to ensure they have the equipment and training they need to do their jobs reliably and efficiently. I am pleased the Department of Homeland Security is addressing this need in Westchester County.” Lowey is a senior member of the Appropriations Subcommittee on Homeland Security. The Mamaroneck EMS will purchase a new ambulance with the funding. The total cost of the vehicle acquisition project is $105,000, so the federal investment will cover more than 95 percent of the cost that otherwise would have been borne by local taxpayers. “It’s wonderful news that the Mamaroneck Emergency Medical Services will receive the $99,750 grant from Congresswoman Lowey’s office,” said Mamaroneck Supervisor Valerie O’Keeffe. “This grant will go a long way to help purchase a much-needed, modern ambulance. Our thanks to Congresswoman Lowey for continuing to work on behalf of all our citizens.” The Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) program, which is administered by the Department of Homeland Security Office of Grants and Training in coordination with the U.S. Fire Administration, awards grants directly to fire departments and EMS agencies. Funds may be used to increase the effectiveness of firefighting operations, firefighter health and safety programs, emergency medical service programs, fire prevention and safety programs, and to purchase new fire equipment. ###
01.19.2011	WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY) today announced the White Plains Fire Bureau will receive a $1.9 million federal grant to re-hire firefighters who had been laid off. “I am thrilled the White Plains Fire Bureau will benefit from this federal grant, which will help ensure we have the personnel necessary to keep our community safe,” said Lowey. “At a time of high unemployment, I am particularly pleased this federal investment will create jobs in our community.” Lowey is the sole New Yorker on the Appropriations Subcommittee on Homeland Security. Department of Public Safety Commissioner David Chong said, “This is tremendous news for the City of White Plains and its outstanding Fire Bureau. Thanks to the Congresswoman and other elected officials, we were able to make the case that these positions are valuable.” The White Plains Fire Bureau will use the federal grant to re-hire nine firefighters who were previously laid off due to budget cuts. The Department of Homeland Security’s (DHS) Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency Response program (SAFER)is a funding initiative designed to strengthen the nation’s ability to respond to fire and fire-related hazards and improve the nation’s overall level of preparedness. The goal of any SAFER grant is to enhance the ability of grantees to attain and maintain 24-hour staffing and to assure that their communities have adequate protection from fire and fire-related hazards. The objective of the program is to award grants directly to volunteer, combination, and career fire departments to help the departments increase the number of frontline firefighters, and to rehire firefighters who were laid-off due to the economy. ###
01.11.2011	Congresswoman Nita Lowey (NY-18) today released the following statement regarding the resignation of Special Inspector General for Afghanistan Reconstruction (SIGAR) Arnold Fields: “Ensuring reconstruction funding in Afghanistan is accountable and effective is critical to our mission of defeating Al Qaeda and facilitating the formation of a stable society that can provide basic services. It is also among our most basic responsibilities to U.S. taxpayers. “As Chair of the State and Foreign Operations Subcommittee, I focused aggressively on accountability of development funding in Afghanistan because of the corrosive effect that corruption and misuse of funding can have on our mission in Afghanistan. I intend to continue this focus in the 112th Congress. “I thank Arnold Fields for his service and call on President Obama to appoint expeditiously a successor who is qualified, aggressive, and dedicated to the job of protecting U.S. taxpayer funds and giving our mission in Afghanistan its greatest chance for success.” ###
12.17.2010	I rise in support of H Con Res 335, a concurrent resolution in remembrance and appreciation of Ambassador Richard Holbrooke. The passing of Ambassador Holbrooke on Monday, December 13th, is a great loss for the American people. One of our nation’s most talented diplomats, Richard Holbrooke possessed a fierce determination and unsurpassed brilliance in advocating for American security, diplomatic, and development interests around the world – in Southeast Asia and post-Cold War Europe, at the United Nations, and most recently in Afghanistan and Pakistan. His exceptional accomplishments as a peace-maker, diplomat, writer, scholar, manager and mentor will define his legacy as one of the true great foreign policy giants of our time. I was honored and privileged to have known Richard Holbrooke from his time brokering the Dayton Peace Accords, helping to end the ethnic cleansing and genocide in the Balkans. His political acumen, deft maneuvering, and relentless, dogged pursuit of peace saved tens of thousands of innocent lives in Bosnia and helped to stabilize one of the most volatile regions in the world. In his role as Special Representative to Afghanistan and Pakistan, it was a privilege to work with him as our nation navigates an intractable situation for regional and global security. Throughout his career, he served the United States as a tireless advocate, loyal patriot, and a tenacious fighter for U.S. interests. Richard Holbrooke was a giant of diplomacy and a trusted voice for me and many other Members of Congress who valued his counsel. Our nation owes him a debt of gratitude for his many years of service. I urge all of my colleagues to support this resolution in honor of one of our country’s greatest diplomats. ###
12.17.2010	WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY) today announced the Eastchester Fire Department will receive $204,418 in federal funding to update equipment, helping to keep firefighters safe while working in smoke-filled or otherwise toxic environments. “First responders serve their communities by responding to emergencies and helping those in need of assistance,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “It is our responsibility to ensure they have the equipment and training they need to help keep us – and themselves – safe. I am pleased the Department of Homeland Security is addressing this need in Westchester County.” Lowey is a senior member of the Appropriations Subcommittee on Homeland Security. The Eastchester Fire Department will use the funding to replace Self-Contained Breathing Apparatuses (SCBA), which allow firefighters to breathe in smoke-filled environments. The entire cache of air packs is old and requires updating, with some dating back to 1981. The new SCBA packs feature individual face piece regulators, radio tracking systems, and a visual display allowing the firefighter to assess remaining air supply. “We are so very appreciative for the assistance of Congresswoman Lowey and others in receiving this fire grant,” said Assistant Chief Ralph Stupple. “This grant will help enhance the safety of firefighters and of our community. In these harsh economic times, all government agencies face challenges, and Eastchester Fire Department is no exception. Without the assistance of AFG, we would be less able to update our equipment, keeping firefighters and the public safe.” The Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) program, which is administered by the Department of Homeland Security Office of Grants and Training in coordination with the U.S. Fire Administration, awards grants directly to fire departments and EMS agencies. Funds may be used to increase the effectiveness of firefighting operations, firefighter health and safety programs, emergency medical service programs, fire prevention and safety programs, and to purchase new fire equipment. ###
12.08.2010	(WASHINGTON) – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY), Chairwoman of the Appropriations Subcommittee on State and Foreign Operations, today criticized the governments of Brazil and Argentina for circumventing a negotiated Middle East peace settlement by recognizing an independent Palestinian state, and called on Uruguay and other nations to refrain from taking the same counter-productive step. “Peace between Israel and the Palestinians is critical for regional security,” said Lowey. “But this can only be achieved through a negotiated settlement – not strong-arm tactics designed to pressure the one side that has shown a willingness to bargain in good faith.”This week, the governments of Brazil and Argentina each recognized an independent state of Palestine defined by 1967 borders. The government of Uruguay intends to take a similar step. These unilateral recognitions undermine diplomatic efforts by the United States and others to facilitate a negotiated settlement that would lead to a lasting peace. Lowey also called on states around the world – particularly other Latin American states – not to take the same action, which is counter-productive to a lasting peace agreement. Lowey spoke by phone with Uruguayan Ambassador Carlos Gianelli Deroisto to encourage the government of Uruguay to focus instead on actions that would be productive in facilitating lasting peace in the region. “If countries around the world want to encourage peace, they should join me in calling on the Palestinian Authority to return to the negotiating table,” said Lowey.###
11.30.2010	WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today sent three letters to the Spanish and U.S. Governments regarding the case of Laura Cerna, a former resident of Larchmont, NY, who was brutally murdered in Spain on August 30, 2010. Lowey urged a more severe penalty on the accused murderer and more assistance for the family of the deceased. On August 30th, Laura Cerna was brutally murdered; her body was decapitated and dismembered, shoved into a suitcase, and dumped into the Guadalquivir River. A suspect, Antonio Gordillo, has been apprehended, but was arraigned on the lowest charge of Basic Homicide, which carries a penalty of only 10 to 15 years in jail. “It is outrageous that the Spanish government has arraigned this alleged murderer on a low charge carrying such a light penalty for such a brutal and heinous crime,” said Lowey. “Justice demands a stiffer sentence, and common decency dictates that the Spanish and the United States governments should provide a greater level of assistance to the Cerna family than they have been receiving.” · Lowey requested Spanish Prime Minister José Luis Rodriguez Zapatero urge the Prosecutor to pursue the maximum punishment possible. She also urged Zapatero to ensure the Cerna family is provided the same level of legal assistance provided to Spanish victims of violent crimes since Laura Cerna lived and worked in Seville for six years as an English professor. · Lowey requested U.S. Ambassador to Spain Alan Solomont convey to the Government of Spain support for the maximum possible penalty, provide the Cerna family the support they need to navigate an unfamiliar legal process, and ensure the family receives proper legal and victim’s assistance from local support mechanisms. · Lowey requested U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder ensure the Cerna family is eligible for assistance from the Office for Victims of Crime (OVC) within the U.S. Department of Justice (DoJ), based on her U.S. citizenship despite her lack of state residency. OVC reimburses victims for crime-related expenses such as medical costs, mental health counseling, and funeral and burial costs. “When an American is the victim of a crime abroad – particularly one as brutal as this one – it is critical that the perpetrator meet a swift and strong penalty and that the family receive support and assistance in navigating victim’s services,” said Lowey. “I call on the Spanish and U.S. Governments to ensure these responsibilities are fulfilled.” ###
11.29.2010	WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY), Chairwoman of the Appropriations State and Foreign Operations Appropriations Subcommittee, today released the following statement on classified and sensitive diplomatic cables made public by the WikiLeaks organization: “The leak and dissemination of a quarter-million sensitive and classified diplomatic cables is an outrageous and reckless act. It is intended to damage our security, weaken alliances, and undermine our credibility in the world. “Anybody who would leak sensitive and classified information with the potential to harm our national security – or disseminate these documents publicly – should be prosecuted expeditiously and to the fullest extent of the law. I call on the Obama Administration to conduct a full review of its procedures for safeguarding sensitive and classified materials, and to pursue all legal means for shutting down WikiLeaks, which has proven it poses a severe threat to our national security.” ###
11.23.2010	WASHINGTON -- Congresswoman Nita Lowey, Chairwoman of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on State and Foreign Operations, today released the following statement regarding North Korea’s attack on a South Korean island. “North Korea’s outrageous artillery attack against a civilian-inhabited South Korean island is destabilizing for security in the region and a clear provocation of tensions on the Korean Peninsula. My thoughts and prayers are with the families of those killed and those injured in today’s unprovoked attack by North Korea. “North Korea’s actions today – coupled with revelations last week of a previously unknown uranium enrichment plant – indicate the nation is destabilizing the region and provoking violence. North Korea should immediately put an end to its provocative actions, which are a clear violation of the 57 year-old armistice agreement. “The global community – including the United Nations, as well as North Korea’s neighbor and trading partner China – should unequivocally condemn this unwarranted attack. “The Republic of Korea is a stalwart ally and a partner in regional and global security. The United States and the global community must stand in solidarity with the South Korean people as they deal with a neighbor that threatens their peace and security.” ###
11.02.2010	WASHINGTON, DC – Following an attempted terrorist attack involving air cargo, Congressman Edward J. Markey (D-MA) and Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY) today sent a letter to President Barack Obama, calling to immediately begin screening all cargo originating from ‘countries of interest.’ “We know that al Qaeda will continue to look for any vulnerability in our national security system. Which is why I plan to introduce legislation when Congress reconvenes later this month to address the air cargo screening gap for cargo planes,” said Congressman Markey. “As an immediate response, intensifying our screening efforts of all cargo from these countries of interest is a smart and straightforward step we can take to ensure that both passenger and cargo planes don’t become carriers for bombs meant to harm our country.” “This most recent attempted attack shows again that cargo can be just as dangerous as passengers,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “All cargo on flights originating from high-risk countries should be screened. Terrorists do not restrict their plots to a particular type of plane, so our security procedures should not either.” Full letter text follows: Dear President Obama: First we want to commend your National Security team for their response to the latest threat brought against the American people. By quickly moving on actionable intelligence the loss of life was avoided. However, as authors and conferees of the Implementing Recommendations of the 9/11 Commission Act, we believe there is more we can do to protect our citizens and our interests, domestically and abroad. This latest incident highlights the aggressive nature of Al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula (AQAP) and shows that we must maintain an enhanced posture toward their network. To that end, it is necessary for the United States to immediately begin screening all air cargo originating from “countries of interest.” This list should include, but not necessarily be limited to, those same nations for which the Transportation Security Administration (TSA) ordered enhanced screening techniques for passengers bound for the United States following the failed attack of Umar Farouk Abdulmutallab last year. Although current law requires the screening of cargo only on passenger aircraft, a requirement TSA has still not met for all international flights, we must insist that we immediately screen all air cargo originating in these nations and bound for the United States regardless of whether the flight carries passengers or not. We look forward to working with your Administration to improve our nation’s security. ###
11.01.2010	Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY), a senior member of the House Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee, today called for enhanced screening techniques on air cargo bound for the United States. “A quick response to actionable intelligence prevented a potentially tragic attack,” said Lowey. “But there is more that can and should be done to keep Americans safe.”Following the attempted terrorist attack by Umar Farouk Abdulmutallab last Christmas Day, the Transportation Security Administration (TSA) ordered enhanced screening for air travelers arriving in the United States on flights originating from one of 14 ‘countries of interest’. “This most recent attack shows again that cargo can be just as dangerous as passengers,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “The cargo on all international flights arriving in the United States originating from these 14 countries of interest should be subject to enhanced screening.” Although current law requires the screening of cargo only on passenger aircraft, a requirement TSA has still not met for all international flights, Lowey called for screening of all air cargo originating in these nations and bound for the United States regardless of whether the flight carries passengers or not. “Al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula (AQAP) will stop at nothing to do us harm,” said Lowey. “All cargo on flights originating from countries of higher risk should be screened, regardless of what type of plane it arrives on.” ###
10.25.2010	Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY), Chairwoman of the Appropriations State and Foreign Operations (SFOPS) Appropriations Subcommittee, today issued the following statement in response to Minority Whip Eric Cantor’s proposal to move U.S. assistance to Israel from the SFOPS Appropriations Act to the Defense Appropriations Act. “Minority Whip Cantor’s proposal is as transparent as it is reckless. Manipulating aid to Israel in this way would dangerously threaten continued bipartisan agreement on national security policy and programs other than direct assistance to Israel that aid in its security. “The foreign aid bill funds U.S. diplomatic efforts at the State Department, including diplomacy related to peace in the Middle East. It aids other countries in the region to help defeat al Qaeda and other terrorist organizations and includes non-proliferation initiatives. In addition, the bill addresses moral imperatives that are also destabilizing factors, like hunger, poverty, and disease, which too often create a fertile environment for terror recruitment. Because it is inextricably linked with broader U.S. national security goals, separating assistance for Israel in order to make it easier for Republican members to vote against the foreign aid bill would be counterproductive. “Too much is at stake to give Republicans in Congress a license to vote against the foreign aid budget, and it is clear that Eric Cantor’s outrageous proposal is based purely on political motives, not what is best for U.S. or global security.” ###
10.18.2010	WEST HAVERSTRAW – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today visited Dana Pest Control, a Lower Hudson Valley small business that will receive a $100,000 Express Loan from the U.S. Small Business Administration (SBA), which will help the company expand its bedbug detection service and hire a new employee. “Small businesses are the engine of job creation and innovation in our region and nationwide,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “As traditional small business lending from financial institutions has dried up, these companies need access to low-interest capital in order to expand and hire. The federal government should be supporting promising small businesses like Dana Pest Control, which are investing in promising new business opportunities.” “These are tough economic times, and this loan will help our business weather the difficult circumstances,” said Kristine Dana, president of Dana Pest Control. “This loan will help us pursue a promising new line of business – finding bedbug infestations with canine detection teams. We will also hire a new employee to handle an additional dog.” Dana Pest Control’s canine detection teams travel to client sites from Virginia to Massachusetts and into the Midwest to inspect for bedbugs. The loan will allow the company to have an additional dog and handler, and to provide road transportation for the teams as they travel to client sites. The Small Business Jobs Act, recently passed by Congress and enacted into law, strengthened and expanded successful SBA lending programs, including Express Loans. The Express Loan program incentivizes lending by guaranteeing up to 75 percent of the loan. The law also included a bill authored by Lowey to increase the maximum size of federal small business loans and micro-loans. This is crucial to releasing capital into the market and helping small businesses grow and create jobs. ###
09.30.2010	WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY) today announced the Elmsford Police Department will receive a $258,312 federal Secure Our Schools (SOS) grant to enhance emergency preparedness and response for Elmsford students. “Keeping our children safe is one of our most basic responsibilities,” said Congresswoman Nita Lowey. “This federal grant will help enhance both preparedness and response to emergencies in Elmsford. I am pleased the federal government has responded to this local need.” Elmsford Mayor Robert Williams said, “This federal grant will be a huge help in keeping students safe, and we are grateful for Congresswoman Lowey’s assistance. The Village of Elmsford will work with the local school district on this critical joint effort to enhance school security.” SOS grants provide funding to state, local, or tribal governments to assist with the procurement of school safety resources and the opportunity to establish and enhance a variety of school safety equipment and/or programs to encourage school safety efforts meant to prevent school violence within their communities. Each SOS grant is two years in duration. Funding under this program may be requested for: placement and use of metal detectors; locks, lighting, and other deterrent measures; security assessments; security training of personnel and students; coordination with local law enforcement; and any other measure that may provide a significant increase in security.###
09.29.2010	WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY) today delivered the following statement on the House floor in support of the James Zadroga 9/11 Health and Compensation Act. “More than 70,000 Americans from every state, including more than 1,100 from my district, descended upon ground zero to recover and rebuild after 9/11. They ran into burning buildings. They rescued trapped workers. They sorted through destruction. “Just as we provide medical care for our troops, we must care for the 13,000 who are now sick as a result of their heroic actions in a toxic environment. “They disregarded their personal safety for our country. We must pass the bipartisan bill before us today. “Nearly all of us represent a responder, and nine years later, we have a responsibility to do what is right – vote for the rule and for the bipartisan bill.” ###
09.23.2010	WHITE PLAINS - Congresswoman Nita Lowey (NY-18) today announced that the Westchester County Career Fire Chiefs Association will receive $352,000 from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security to update equipment used by fire departments in several Westchester County municipalities. “First responders serve their communities by responding to emergencies and helping those in need of assistance,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “It is our responsibility to ensure they have the equipment and training they need to help keep us safe. I am pleased the Department of Homeland Security is addressing this need in Westchester County.” “This grant comes at a critical time,” said Retired Eastchester Fire Chief Keith Fennelly, President of the Westchester County Career Fire Chiefs Association. “Our region is densely populated and in close proximity to New York City, so fire departments must be prepared at a moment’s notice to respond to emergencies that endanger the lives and safety of New Yorkers.” The Westchester County Career Fire Chiefs Association is a consortium of six professional fire departments in Westchester County that conduct joint planning and training and share equipment to respond jointly to severe emergencies. The consortium has proven critical, including when the departments responded jointly to a trench collapse that trapped a worker. Using equipment purchased with federal funding secured by Lowey, firefighters were able to rescue the worker. The Westchester County Career Fire Chiefs Association will use the $352,000 grant to update equipment in several fire departments throughout Westchester County. It will also continue investing in interoperable communications equipment, and specialized emergency training, such as collapse scenarios. The Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) program which is administered by the Department of Homeland Security Office of Grants and Training in coordination with the U.S. Fire Administration, awards grants directly to fire departments and EMS agencies. Funds may be used to increase the effectiveness of firefighting operations, firefighter health and safety programs, emergency medical service programs, fire prevention and safety programs, and to purchase new fire equipment. ###
09.20.2010	PELHAM, NY – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today announced Congress will pass legislation she introduced, increasing the amount of money small businesses may borrow while meeting with several small business owners in Westchester County. “Small businesses are the engines that drive job creation and our economic recovery,” said Lowey. “They need access to capital in order to expand inventory, find more customers, and grow. In our expensive region, it is particularly important to increase the size of loans small businesses may access. I am thrilled Congress will pass my legislation to increase the size of small business loans and micro-loans to help businesses expand and grow our economy.” The Small Business Access to Capital Act was passed by the U.S. Senate on September 16. The legislation included a bill introduced by Congresswoman Lowey to increase the maximum size of U.S. Small Business Administration (SBA) 7(a) loans from $2 million to $5 million. It will also increase the maximum size of micro-loans from $35,000 to $50,000. The U.S. House of Representatives is expected to pass the bill this week, sending it to President Obama for enactment. Higher Small Business Administration (SBA) loan limits will provide urgent help to small businesses that must keep a relatively expensive product inventory. Higher limits will also help small manufacturers, hotels, restaurants, franchises and businesses located in high-cost areas.According to the U.S. Small Business Administration, small businesses create 64 percent of new jobs in our economy. Kim Jacobs, Executive Director of Community Capital Resources, the region’s SBA micro-lender, said, “We want to thank Congresswoman Lowey for helping make it possible for small business owners to secure loans of up to $50,000 to start or grow their companies and invest in marketing, equipment, inventory, working capital and other expenses that are key to their growth and survival. The higher loan cap is especially critical during this economic downturn because so many small businesses cannot secure loans from bank lenders, and because so many displaced workers are turning to self employment. “The majority of jobs are provided by firms with fewer than ten employees, so the growth of small businesses is a crucial catalyst to the creation of new jobs for our region. We are thrilled and eager to get to work, providing capital to the entrepreneurs in our communities.” ###
09.02.2010	YONKERS -- Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) was today joined by Consumers Union and local food safety advocates in calling on the U.S. Senate to pass the Food Safety Enhancement Act, which would increase the authority of the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to protect consumers from tainted food like salmonella-contaminated eggs. “Americans expect the food they purchase for their family to be safe,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “It is outrageous that the FDA is so severely lacking in the basic authority it needs to protect the public from contaminated food products. When the Senate reconvenes this month, they should immediately follow the lead of the House of Representatives by passing the Food Safety Enhancement Act, which could have prevented or mitigated the most recent salmonella outbreak.” "Consumers have waited too long and experienced far too many food recalls -- the FDA needs better powers to protect consumers from things like contaminated eggs, greens, and cookie dough,” said Ami Gadhia, Policy Counsel for Consumers Union, the nonprofit publisher of Consumer Reports. “Consumers Union urges the Senate to pass S. 510 as soon as it returns from recess." The House of Representatives, on a bipartisan vote, passed the Food Safety Enhancement Act in 2009 with the support of Congresswoman Lowey. The bill would make several critical improvements to enhance the safety of food products, including:· Preventive controls to stop outbreaks before they occur;· Mandatory inspection of high-risk facilities;· Mandatory recall authority for the Food and Drug Administration; and· Stronger enforcement and increased civil penalties. Congresswoman Lowey today released a letter to Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid, encouraging the Senate to quickly pass the Food Safety Enhancement Act when Congress reconvenes this month. Had this bill already been signed into law, the current salmonella outbreak may never have occurred. Preventive measures would have been taken and Wright County Egg, which has a history of health violations, would have been more closely scrutinized. In addition, instead of allowing companies to drag their feet before issuing a voluntary recall, the FDA could recall tainted food as soon as it learned of a problem. ###
08.23.2010	WHITE PLAINS – Community Capital Resources, a Westchester County nonprofit community lending organization, was awarded a federal grant of $598,752 to expand access to capital for underserved communities throughout the Lower Hudson Valley. “Community Capital Resources plays a vital role in expanding access to capital for small businesses in Westchester and Rockland Counties and elsewhere,” said Lowey. “I am pleased the federal government has recognized the importance of developing small businesses in underserved communities, and will help CCR continue and expand its work.” Community Capital Resources (CCR) is a certified Community Development Financial Institution (CDFI) established in 1989 that provides financial products and services to a target market in seven counties within the lower Hudson Valley of New York. CCR focuses on affordable housing, small business development, and financial education. CCR will use its $598,752 grant for a combination of affordable housing and small business loans and operations and staff support. Kim Jacobs, Executive Director of CCR, said, “We are thrilled and eager to put these dollars to work to help boost the economy in the Lower Hudson Valley. Entrepreneurs have been shut out of conventional capital markets due to tight credit standards, and we are delighted to gain the resources we need to help them.” The CDFI Program Financial and Technical Assistance awards build the capacity of for-profit and nonprofit community based lending organizations known as CDFIs. These organizations serve rural and urban low-income people and communities across the nation that lack adequate access to affordable financial products and services. Awards are granted through an annual competitive application process. Grantees may use funds awarded through the Financial Assistance program and Technical Assistance program to finance capital, loan loss reserves, capital reserves or operations, personnel costs, training, travel, professional service costs, materials and equipment. ###
08.23.2010	Congresswoman Nita Lowey (NY-18) and Congressman John Hall (NY-19) today announced two new critical consumer protections that went into effect Sunday, August 22, as a result of the Credit Cardholders’ Bill of Rights, passed by Congress and signed into law in May 2009. “Protecting consumers from deceptive practices and providing New Yorkers with financial security is necessary for our economic recovery,” said Rep. John Hall. “This legislation will prevent credit card companies from charging excessive penalty fees and enable consumers to obtain adjustments to unfair interest rates. The changes going into effect now put the control back where it belongs--in the hands of consumers.” “For too long, credit card companies have preyed on consumers through deceptive practices and unfair rates and fees,” said Lowey. “The Credit Cardholders’ Bill of Rights will protect consumers who are one day late or one dollar short from being penalized excessively. I am pleased these two critical protections will stop excessive penalty fees and give cardholders an opportunity to lower high interest rates.” On August 22, two critical consumer protections from the Credit Cardholders’ Bill of Rights went into effect: 1) requiring penalty fees for late or returned payments or declined account access to be reasonable and proportional; and 2) requiring credit card companies, if they raise your interest rate, to re-evaluate that rate increase every 6 months and reduce that rate within 45 days after completing the evaluation if the factors leading to the rate increase are no longer present. Until yesterday, an individual who is a mere hour late with a credit card payment could be charged a late fee many times larger than the size of the bill itself. The changes that went into effect yesterday will also ensure individuals who have paid down a large balance or who have begun successfully paying their credit card bill on time will see their interest rate reduced. According to the Pew Charitable Trust, a cardholder with a balance of $3,000 will have a minimum monthly payment of about $69. If the consumer falls into penalty status they will be hit with higher interest rates and fees, which may raise the minimum payment by 104 percent — to $141. In addition to these key consumer protections, many provisions from the Credit Cardholders’ Bill of Rights have already gone into effect. The law:Prohibits retroactive interest rate hikes on existing balances.Bans double-cycle billing (charging interest twice on balances paid on time).Ensures fairness of due dates, including requiring statements be mailed 21 days in advance of the payment date and requiring the payment date to remain the same each month.Requires 45-days’ advance notice of interest rate, fee and finance charge hikes.Strengthens credit card protections for young people.Requires that billing statements from credit card companies be clear, be in plain English, and show how long a balance will take to be fully paid off if only the minimum payment is made. A recent report from the Pew Charitable Trust called the Credit Cardholders’ Bill of Rights “a major milestone in the move to make credit cards safer, transparent and more fair for consumers.” In addition, a recent analysis by USA Today concluded that the new credit card protections, along with debit-card overdraft reforms recently instituted by the Federal Reserve, will save U.S. consumers at least $5 billion in fees this year alone. Lowey has also introduced legislation that would extend to small businesses the same consumer protections guaranteed in the Credit Cardholders’ Bill of Rights. “With unemployment on the rise locally and job creation a top priority throughout the country, we must protect small business owners from abusive practices that threaten their businesses’ financial security and ability to hire new workers and expand,” said Lowey. ###
08.09.2010	YONKERS - Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) was joined today by Westchester County leaders in health care and education to call for quick passage of legislation preventing damaging cuts to health care facilities and teaching job losses.“This federal assistance is critical to mitigating the damage of state budget cuts for health care facilities and keeping teachers in classrooms,” said Lowey. “New York’s families cannot continue to absorb job losses and funding cuts to high-quality health care facilities. I supported this critical relief to states when it initially passed the House of Representatives, and I intend to support it again tomorrow. “The House of Representatives will vote tomorrow on emergency legislation providing $16 billion in fiscal relief to improve health services and $10 billion to prevent teacher layoffs. This would provide New York an additional $2 billion, improving health services and restoring cuts made in the state budget.St. John’s Riverside Hospital stands to gain $1 million and the nursing home $300,000 through the Federal Medical Assistance Percentage (FMAP) program. Westchester County will receive nearly $15 million. “This federal assistance will play a critical role in mitigating the damage that state budget cuts could have had our facility,” said St. John’s Riverside Hospital President and CEO Jim Foy. “The people of Westchester County deserve first class health care, and this federal assistance will help ensure they continue to receive it.”County Executive Robert P. Astorino said, "I thank all of our federal officials who are working to get this funding for Westchester. The county government faces a deficit next year of $80 million to $100 million. This money will certainly help as we make the tough decisions on spending, but it doesn't solve our structural problems."This legislation includes a $10 billion Education Jobs Fund, which will help keep at least 8,200 teachers in the classroom in New York State. “As an urban school district facing the prospect of opening in September with over 10% fewer employees, Yonkers is extremely enthusiastic with the prospect of rehiring some of the valuable teachers who were recently laid off,” applauded Bernard P. Pierorazio, Yonkers Public Schools Superintendent. “This legislation demonstrates our federal government’s commitment to providing educational excellence. Yonkers appreciates the leadership role by New York’s representatives in the Senate & the House to move these critical funds to our community.”###
07.30.2010	WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee, today announced the House-passed 2011 Transportation Appropriations Act contains $3.3 million for federal investments in roads, bridges, and public transportation in Westchester County.“Federal assistance helps our communities finance important transportation infrastructure without raising local property taxes, and I am pleased that our region stands to benefit greatly from the 2011 appropriations process,” said Lowey. “The Transportation, Housing and Urban Development Appropriations Act will help many of our local governments create jobs while making our communities even greater places to live, work, and do business.”Congresswoman Lowey successfully included funding for the following projects in the House version of the 2011 Transportation and Housing and Urban Development (THUD) Appropriations Act:$600,000 to replace the Locust Avenue Bridge in the City of Rye, which has fallen below the floodplain, resulting in diminished structural integrity and serving as an unintended dam along the Blind Brook waterway.$500,000 to repave and repair 19 miles of roads in the Village of Ardsley, reducing upkeep costs and mitigating the tax burden on local residents.$200,000 to construct sidewalks in the most densely populated areas in the Town of North Castle, linking them to downtown businesses and increasing pedestrian safety.Additionally, Lowey and Congressman Eliot Engel (NY-17) worked together to secure $2 million in federal funds to replace Bee Line buses in Westchester County with new, fuel-efficient hybrid buses.“This project would help ease congestion on our roads and pollution in our air, while relieving local taxpayers of this financial burden,” said Lowey. I will work with Congressman Engel to ensure this important priority receives federal support.”Lowey is a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee, where she chairs the State and Foreign Operations Subcommittee and sits on the Homeland Security and Labor/Health and Human Services/Education Subcommittees. The 2011 THUD Appropriations Act was passed last night by the U.S. House of Representatives. It remains to be passed by the U.S. Senate and signed into law by President Obama. ###
07.22.2010	WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today voted to extend unemployment benefits for millions of Americans who have earned them through a lifetime of work and lost their jobs through no fault of their own.“Unemployment benefits are a lifeline to families in which one or both wage earners lose their job,” said Lowey. “They help families to pay bills and afford groceries and other necessary commodities during the transition period between jobs. In this difficult economy, families deserve no less.”In the Lower Hudson Valley, which includes Westchester and Rockland Counties, more than 18,000 individuals who have lost their job will receive an extension of unemployment benefits when President Obama signs the Unemployment Compensation Extension Act.This bill extends the Emergency Unemployment Compensation and Extended Benefits programs through November 30, 2010 and retroactively restores benefits to some people who already lost theirs.The non-partisan Congressional Budget Office has found extending unemployment compensation to be one of the most cost-effective and fast-acting ways to stimulate the economy, creating up to $1.90 in economic activity for every dollar in unemployment benefits.Lowey criticized Republican Senators for their attempted filibuster of unemployment benefits to needy families and procedural tactics that delayed passage of the legislation.“It is shameful that nearly unanimous Republican obstruction delayed critical assistance to 2.5 million families nationwide. Holding these benefits hostage in an act of political gamesmanship is not leadership.” ###
07.19.2010	PORT CHESTER – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today visited the headquarters of Mercury Solar Systems, one of the leading solar integrators on the East Coast, to promote state and federal investments in clean, renewable energy.“One of the smartest investments we can make for the sake of our national security, economic competiveness, and environment is in clean and renewable sources of energy,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “Mercury Solar Systems’ rapid growth since it was founded in 2006 shows that it also happens to be an industry with enormous growth potential, capable of producing good jobs in our region and around the country.”“Congresswoman Lowey has been one of our strongest local advocates and we believe she has played a critical role in the adoption of solar energy by New Yorkers,” said Jared Haines, President, Mercury Solar Systems. “With appreciate her ongoing support of an industry that has experienced tremendous momentum the past several years. We look forward to furthering the adoption of this renewable energy resource in the years to come.”The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act included more than $3.3 billion for investments in clean energy technology. For example, the Residential Renewable Energy Tax Credit provides a 30% tax credit towards the purchase and installation of solar energy systems, including solar water heaters and electric systems, geothermal heat pumps, and residential fuel cell systems.To help promising companies expand, Lowey sponsored the Small Business Job Creation and Access to Capital Act, which would increase federal loan guarantees from $2 million to $5 million, which is crucial in high cost-of-living areas like Westchester County.“Helping small business gain access to reliable and low-interest loans will promote job growth and expansion, particularly in expensive areas like New York,” said Lowey.Mercury Solar Systems recently partnered with the U.S. Department of Energy’s (DOE) National Renewable Energy Laboratory (NREL) to advance solar energy research. NREL will extract data for its own long-term research from Mercury Solar System’s solar test-bed, the first solar photovoltaic testing facility in the Northeast. The system is being constructed on the roof of Mercury Solar Systems’ corporate headquarters in Port Chester, and is expected to be operational by the end of the summer. A grant from The New York State Energy Research and Development Authority (NYSERDA) will help finance the project.The 106 kilowatt (kW) solar PV system will consist of several hundred panels from nine different manufacturers. It is expected to generate more than 90,000 kilowatt hours (kWh) each year or approximately 75% of the building’s annual electricity needs. The system will also incorporate a hybrid PV/solar hot water system. ###
07.16.2010	ARDSLEY – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today visited the swimming pool at Anthony F. Veteran Park in Greenburgh to highlight simple steps public, private, and residential pools should take to keep children and other swimmers safe.“Since Memorial Day, 70 children have drowned in pools, and many more have nearly drowned nationwide,” said Lowey. “Taking some simple preventative steps at public, private, and residential pools will help keep all swimmers safe and make this summer one to remember – for the right reasons.”In 2007, Congress passed the Pool and Spa Safety Act. Under the law, all public pools and spas must have drain covers to protect children from the tragic and hidden hazard of drain entrapments and eviscerations in pools and spas. Congresswoman Lowey called for all private and residential pools to comply with this federal law as well.“Ensuring children and other swimmers are protected from suction that can grab hair or swimsuits is critical,” said Lowey. “I encourage all private pool operators and residential pool owners to install drain covers that are safe for swimmers. In addition, I urge parents to ask questions about the safety of the pools where their children swim and to ensure supervision by an adult or certified lifeguard anytime kids are in or around pools.”The U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission (CPSC) has partnered with the American Red Cross and YMCA of the USA to produce public service announcements intended to encourage water safety steps that save lives: door alarms, knowledge of CPR, fencing around pools and spas, and safe drain covers. John Ravitz, CEO of the American Red Cross of Westchester County, said, “A critical goal of the American Red Cross of Westchester is to provide pool owners and operators the tools they need to keep swimmers safe during the summer months, including training lifeguards and educating about water safety." ###
07.15.2010	The State and Foreign Operations and Related Programs Subcommittee serves a vital role in supporting our national security by appropriating funds for diplomacy, development and humanitarian response worldwide. Civilian contributions to the Administration’s strategy are integral to the success of the military and the stability of Afghanistan and the region. For example, there are effective programs funded by the US government like the National Solidarity Program and Maternal and Child Health programs, that have contributed to local development and increased stability in regions of the country.However, due to recent allegations of rampant corruption and theft of U.S. government assistance, concerns with billions in cash leaving Kabul airport, and alleged influence peddling and interference with and obstruction of corruption investigations by Afghan officials, I deferred consideration of the $3.9 billion requested for foreign assistance to Afghanistan in Fiscal Year 2011. The State Department’s assessment that such activities undermines our civil-military mission and our responsibility to ensure Americans’ hard-earned tax dollars are not squandered or mismanaged, especially in this time of economic recovery, require our urgent and thorough examination.I want to make it very clear that $4.1 billion has been appropriated for civilian-led assistance programs in Afghanistan in the FY 2010 bill and $1.7 billion has been appropriated in the FY 2010 Supplemental for civilian-led assistance programs in Afghanistan that passed the House July 1st and which the Senate will consider in the coming weeks. The 2011 bill will not become law until the fall, after both Chambers consider it. We have the responsibility, the obligation and the time to protect taxpayer money and get the process right. I am pleased that the Administration understands that we need accountability and have agreed to work with us. I welcome the Special Inspector General for Afghanistan Reconstruction, Retired Major General Arnold Fields, the USAID Inspector General, Donald A. Gambatesa, and the Director of International Relations and Trade of the Government Accountability Office, Charles Johnson. These government watchdogs will provide insight into their audit and investigation findings to date, existing mechanisms to safeguard our assistance dollars, any gaps in oversight, and any evidence they have uncovered of corruption and graft within programs under this Committee’s jurisdiction. Just yesterday, the GAO released a report entitled, “Enhancements to Performance Management and Evaluation Efforts Could Improve USAID’s Agricultural Programs,” which outlined concerns with management and oversight of significant U.S. funded agriculture and alternative development programs in Afghanistan. Similar to previous reports, its findings indicate compromised effectiveness, including the lack of project management, defined goals and outcomes, and direct oversight. Please outline for us today additional procedures USAID should implement to more clearly define goals and measure and validate outcomes. Because the President’s strategy depends on the capability of the Afghans to govern effectively, we look forward to your evaluation of the level of commitment of Afghan officials to improve governance and accountability. For example, are senior Afghan Government officials impeding investigations into bribery and corruption and, if so, what action is being taken by United States Government and Afghan officials to stop such interference and move forward with prosecutions? What steps has the Afghan government taken to support anti-corruption efforts and do you believe they are effective?Especially given President Karzi’s call this past Monday for the international community to channel 50 percent of donor assistance through Afghan government ministries, it is essential that the Government of Afghanistan be capable of managing international assistance in an effective, transparent, and accountable manner. Have the Department of State and USAID established conditions on the provision of direct assistance to Afghan ministries? If so, what are they? Are the conditions adequate? Are assessments, or certifications, of Afghan ministries underway? If so, who is undertaking those assessments and what is the process? What recommendations do you have for the Administration and Congress to strengthen the assessment and certification process and provide greater assurance that any funding channeled through Afghan ministries is properly monitored, programmed and executed? Finally, this Committee is under no illusions about the difficulty of implementing programs in Afghanistan, including security threats, a nascent banking system, and challenges in identifying and developing credible local partners, among many other factors. Just in the last two days, 8 American Service men were killed and today five Ministry of Health employees were kidnapped in Kandahar while on a health mission to help their countrymen. Our hearts and prayers go out to both our soldiers and their families who have made this ultimate sacrifice and to the Afghans who are risking their lives to rebuild their country. To ensure effectiveness of our assistance in this environment, this Committee has increased funding for Inspectors General and mandated close consultation on implementation of U.S.-funded programs. In fact, some of the concerns we will address today may have been uncovered as a result of this expanded investigative capacity and the Government of Afghanistan’s increasing ability to monitor funds and programs. Our discussion today of the systems currently in place to safeguard United States assistance from fraud and abuse, and your insights on additional steps the Subcommittee should take, will help us in refining the fiscal year 2011 bill.Before turning to Ranking Member Granger, let me close by saying that the Subcommittee intends to hold an additional hearing and briefings with other top Administration officials to examine ongoing efforts to provide accountability and thwart corruption in Afghanistan. With such high stakes, any gaps identified by our witnesses today must be immediately addressed to provide confidence that funds for assistance for Afghanistan continue to advance our mission and support our troops in the field.
07.12.2010	Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) announced today federal funds for the ongoing repairs to the storm-damaged Historic Rye Playland.“FEMA’s assistance and funding has been a vital part of the repairs to Playland Amusement Park. They have helped to preserve the historic landmark and their quick response has ensured that everyone can enjoy the park, pier, and beach throughout the summer,” said Congresswoman Nita Lowey. Rye Playland was damaged by a Nor’Easter that ravaged much of the New York City metro area, including Westchester and Rockland counties, on March 13th-15th, 2010. Congresswoman Lowey urged President Obama to authorize the implementation of FEMA’s Public Assistance and Hazard Mitigation Program to help state and local governments, along with non-profit organizations, in the aftermath of the Nor’Easter, which caused an estimated $85 million in damages. Repairs on damaged sand dunes, piers, the Ice Casino, and the roofs of several rides, including the Carousel, the Whip, and the Log Flume at Playland began in April. Despite ongoing repairs, the park opened on schedule in May. According to Playland director Dan McBride, “Without the Federal Emergency Management Agency’s (FEMA’s) assistance and funding, timely restoration of our park would have been more difficult or even impossible.”Because Playland is designated as a National Historic Landmark, FEMA and the State Emergency Management Office (SEMO) consulted with the State Historic Preservation Office (SHPO) to ensure that the integrity of the site’s natural heritage was not compromised during the repair process. Due to its location along the shoreline of Long Island Sound, it is extremely vulnerable to damage by storms. Repairs are scheduled to be completed by mid -July.“These repairs to this historic recreational site are an example of how all levels of government can work together effectively to respond to emergencies and improve our quality of life,” Lowey closed.
07.02.2010	This week the State and Foreign Operations Appropriations Subcommittee agreed to defer consideration of President Obama’s 2011 budget request for aid to Afghanistan. I am pleased the committee’s action has already helped to spur increased scrutiny of funds, including an investigation by Afghanistan's top anticorruption agency of the billions in cash that has left the country, the Afghan Ministry of Finance’s announcement of a joint international investigation into the country’s hawala network, and the creation of a U.S. government task force to review contracting practices. U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder’s trip to Afghanistan helped send a strong message that rooting out corruption is critical for our governments’ continued partnership, and Dr. Omar Zakhilwal, the Afghan Minister of Finance, has expressed a strong commitment to exploring additional measures that will provide proper oversight and mitigate corruption that undermines the Afghan state and threatens our troops safety. The funds the subcommittee provides - including reconstruction, redevelopment, health, education, and counter-narcotics assistance – play a vital role in protecting and supporting the mission of our troops and civilians in Afghanistan. Given our serious responsibility to ensure that they are spent properly and aimed at fostering a stable, secure society, the Subcommittee will continue to investigate allegations of corruption involving our foreign assistance, determine what additional safeguards are needed to ensure it is spent responsibly, and press the Afghan government to aggressively investigate and prosecute corruption.
07.02.2010	Congresswoman Nita Lowey, Chairwoman of the Appropriations State and Foreign Operations Subcommittee, today issued the following statement on today’s attack on a USAID contractor compound in Afghanistan:“I am deeply saddened by today’s attack of a USAID contractor compound in Afghanistan. It is a tragic reminder of the dangers civilian aid workers face in war zones. We honor the memory of those killed and keep their families in our thoughts and prayers.“Terrorist attacks against individuals attempting to help the Afghan people build a decent and prosperous life are contemptible, and all those responsible should be held accountable for their violent and hateful actions.” ###
07.01.2010	Following two coyote attacks in Westchester County in the last week, Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today sent the following letter to the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) urging it provide any assistance requested by the City of Rye, NY in addressing this threat to families and children.July 1, 2010Martin LowneyState DirectorNew York Wildlife ServicesU.S. Department of Agriculture1930 Route 9Castleton, NY 12033-9653 Dear Mr. Lowney:As you are aware, in the last week two children in Westchester County have been attacked by coyotes. I am very concerned about this threat to families and children.I urge the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) to provide any assistance the City of Rye, NY, is requesting in removing the coyotes and protecting our community. The City of Rye has sought help from Westchester County and neighboring municipality law enforcement, the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation, and professional trappers. Assistance from wildlife experts from the USDA would help ensure the safety of our residents. I appreciate your attention to this urgent matter. Sincerely, Nita M. Lowey
06.17.2010	WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today announced Philips Electronics of Briarcliff Manor will receive $2.1 million in federal recovery funding to support development of energy-efficient technology for lighting and heating, ventilation, and air conditioning (HVAC) systems in buildings.“The tragic BP oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico is only the latest reminder that our dependence on fossil fuels has drastic consequences for our economy, our security, and our environment,” said Lowey, who toured the Philips campus in June 2009. “That is why it is so important to support both alternative energy research and development, and efficiency initiatives like this that will help reduce energy consumption. I am pleased Philips Electronics will gain federal support in its efforts to conserve energy through green construction.”Philips Electronics’ $2.1 million grant is part of $76 million in funding from the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act to support advanced energy-efficient building technology projects and training for commercial building equipment technicians, building operators, and energy auditors. Philips Electronics will use the federal grant to develop advanced building control technology to be used with lighting and HVAC systems in existing buildings. The project will employ an estimated 12 individuals in Briarcliff Manor, and could create thousands of new jobs in the areas of manufacturing and deploying the systems, and servicing the systems once operational.The 58 projects receiving federal recovery funding will help make the nation’s buildings more energy efficient and cost-effective. They will also support programs to train workers to service and operate new and existing buildings, to develop and deploy best practices resulting in fewer greenhouse gas emissions, and to establish a green workforce with technical expertise to reduce energy costs for consumers. ###
06.09.2010	Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY), Chairwoman of the Appropriations State and Foreign Operations Subcommittee, today released the following statement on the United Nations Security Council vote to impose multilateral sanctions on Iran:The United Nations Security Council vote to impose multilateral sanctions on Iran is an important step toward addressing the most urgent threats to security in the Middle East and the world. It demonstrates international unity in confronting Iran’s reckless pursuit of nuclear weapons. Holding accountable the Iranian regime and its enablers is critical to global stability.While this is an important first step, Congress should also move forward quickly with strong bilateral sanctions to further impede Iran’s nuclear ambitions. I also call on our European allies to follow suit and impose strong, bilateral sanctions.###
06.07.2010	Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today visited Flooring Liquidators in Elmsford, the recent recipient of a federal loan guarantee that enabled the company to expand and create jobs, to call for an increase in loan guarantee limits for small businesses, critical for companies in expensive areas where more capital is needed to expand and hire.“Small businesses are the engine that powers our economic recovery,” said Lowey. “Flooring Liquidators’ use of this federal loan guarantee to expand and create jobs is exactly what we should be doing to promote growth and employment in our community and nationwide.”Flooring Liquidators received a loan guarantee from the U.S. Small Business Administration (SBA) and the New York Business Development Coalition (NYBDC), which it used to create 6 jobs and build a new facility. Without these loan guarantees, Flooring Liquidators would not have been able to secure a loan from a bank.“If it wasn’t for this loan guarantee from the SBA and NYBDC, I would not have been able to secure this loan, which has helped me to expand my business and hire new employees,” said John Posimato, President of Flooring Liquidators.One of the most serious challenges small businesses face today is access to capital. In fact, nearly 75 percent of domestic banks have tightened lending for business borrowers. That is why Lowey called on Congress to immediately pass legislation she introduced to raise the limit that the federal government may guarantee for small business loans.Lowey’s bill, The Small Business Job Creation and Access to Capital Act, would permanently extend higher loan guarantees and fee waivers for the largest SBA loan programs in order to provide more options to small businesses. This is especially critical for small businesses in high cost-of-living areas like New York.“Raising the federal loan guarantee limit is a critical investment that we can make immediately in the prosperity of small businesses and job opportunities for those who are out of work,” said Lowey. “It is especially important for companies based in our expensive region, where money does not go as far as it would elsewhere.”Specifically, HR 4302 would:• Increase the loan limit on SBA 7(a) loans from $2 million to $5 million; and• Increase the loan limit on 504 loans for fixed assets — buildings and equipment — from $1.5 million to $5.5 million.###
06.01.2010	Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY), Chairwoman of the Appropriations Subcommittee on State and Foreign Operations, today released the following statement regarding Israel's raid on a flotilla attempting to breach a blockade around Gaza:“Israel has the right to inspect and reject illicit material being shipped to Gaza, which is controlled by a terrorist organization intent on destroying Israel and harming its people. The loss of life and injuries to flotilla participants and Israeli soldiers is regrettable. The international community should wait until the facts are known – including the actions of flotilla organizers and participants – before rushing to assign blame for this incident.“This incident should not distract from the most pressing issues facing the international community – working cooperatively to prevent Iran from acquiring nuclear capabilities, and developing a lasting peace agreement between Israel and the Palestinian Authority.” ###
05.25.2010	WASHINGTON – In the wake of a damning report on sunscreen safety and effectiveness by the Environmental Working Group (EWG), Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today called on the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to finalize guidelines and provide critical safety information to protect consumers from ineffective and dangerous sunscreen.Lowey introduced legislation in July 2007 requiring FDA to establish standards for sunscreens to protect individuals from not just sunburn-causing UVB rays, but also cancer-causing UVA rays. One month later FDA issued a proposed rule that would require UVB and UVA testing and labeling to provide consumers with information on products’ effectiveness. Nearly three years later, the regulations are still not finalized.Lowey also called on FDA to determine immediately whether Vitamin A and its derivatives, found in many sunscreens, may accelerate the spread of skin cancer.Lowey’s letter to FDA Commissioner Margaret Hamburg follows:Dear Dr. Hamburg:This month the Environmental Working Group (EWG) published its annual sunscreen report, which once again highlights the Food and Drug Administration’s (FDA) failure to finalize guidelines to protect consumers from ineffective and dangerous sunscreen. It also contains troubling allegations that vitamin A and its derivatives may speed the growth of cancerous skin tumors. I urge you to immediately issue a final rule and publish results of any study relating to vitamin A and its derivatives.Current regulations, which pertain to only UVB radiation, do not adequately protect individuals from harmful UVA rays that dermatologists agree are a major cause of skin cancer and premature aging. In July 2007, I introduced legislation requiring the FDA to establish standards for UVA protection. The next month the FDA issued a proposed rule for over-the-counter sunscreen that would require UVB and UVA testing and labeling to provide consumers with information on products’ effectiveness. Due to FDA inaction, the Fiscal Year 2010 Department of Agriculture and Related Agencies spending bill required it to issue the final rule before December 31, 2009. Nearly three years after the proposed rule was announced, and five months after the congressional deadline, the FDA has still not acted.Consumers should know whether a product will protect them from both sunburn and skin cancer, as well as whether vitamin A or any other additive may accelerate cancerous growth. The FDA has a responsibility to issue standards, and sunscreen manufacturers should not be allowed to make unproven and deceptive claims. As millions prepare for a summer of outdoor activities, the FDA must provide Americans with peace of mind that products they purchase will keep them safe.###
05.25.2010	WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY), Chairwoman of the State and Foreign Operations Appropriations Subcommittee, and Congressman Steve Israel (D-NY) today announced the FY10 Supplemental Appropriations Act to be considered this week by the House Appropriations Committee will include the language Rep. Israel requested, which prohibits federal tax dollars from benefiting federal contractors violating the Iran Sanctions Act.In a hearing with Treasury Secretary Tim Geithner held earlier this year Rep. Israel announced his intention to add language to appropriations bills that would prohibit any funds in the acts from going to companies that are in violation of the Iran Sanctions Act. Chairwoman Lowey has worked to close loopholes in existing sanctions and supported the Israel language.“The Iran Sanctions Act restricts business activity within the Iranian energy sector for a very good reason – to prevent businesses from propping up the tyrants and thugs who jeopardize our national security and that of our ally Israel,” said Chairwoman Lowey. “As the Administration and Congress move forward on passing multilateral sanctions and strengthening bilateral sanctions, this prohibition will prevent taxpayer dollars from benefiting contractors and subcontractors engaged in business activities that violate the Iran Sanctions Act.”“Instead of enforcing the Iran Sanctions Act, too many federal agencies have winked and nodded at companies that want to do business in Iran. The language I inserted in the Supplemental Appropriations bill uses the power of the purse to compel compliance with the law. It will prohibit any company from getting a penny from a U.S. contract if they’re also doing the wrong kind of business in Iran. And I'm going even further by seeking to add my language to every single appropriations bill this year and in the years to come, as well,” said Rep. Israel.The effort to include the Israel language was supported by Congressman Mark Kirk (R-IL), Congressman Steve Rothman (D-NJ) and Congressman Ben Chandler (D-KY).“If the Administration will not act to enforce the Iran Sanctions Act, Congress will,” said U.S. Rep. Mark Kirk (R-Ill.). “Our legislation stands for a simple principle—if you do business in Iran’s energy sector you will not do business in the United States of America.”“This provision of the Supplemental Appropriations Act of 2010 sends a very clear message to all companies that you can either do business with the U.S. government or with the government headed by the brutish, tyrannical, and deranged President of Iran, but not both. For the first time, the U.S. House of Representatives and the Appropriations Committee will prohibit companies from gaining U.S. government contracts if they are also engaged, directly or indirectly, in business with Iran,” said Rep. Rothman.“Economic sanctions on Iran exist for a reason, and American companies need to take them more seriously,” Rep. Chandler said. “This bipartisan effort led by Rep. Israel will close this loophole and put an end to this abuse.”The State and Foreign Operations title of the Supplemental Appropriations Act, which will be considered Thursday May 27 by the House Appropriations Committee, contains strict language authored by Rep. Israel and supported by Chairwoman Lowey as well as three subcommittee members that cracks down on companies in violation of the Iran Sanctions Act. The language would require any company seeking a contract from money appropriated by this Act to certify in writing that neither it nor any of its subcontractors are engaged in any activities in violation of the Iran Sanctions Act.The only way this requirement could be waived on national security grounds is through the direct intervention of the President of the United States.The Iran Sanctions Act imposes penalties on individuals or companies that make investments of $20 million or more that directly and significantly contribute to the enhancement of Iran’s ability to develop petroleum resources.The Supplemental Appropriations Act to be considered this week would appropriate tens of billions for international and domestic priorities.###
05.18.2010	Congresswoman Nita Lowey, Chairwoman of the Appropriations State and Foreign Operations Subcommittee, today released the following statement on the Administration’s announcement regarding Iran sanctions:"The Administration’s announcement today of an agreement with Russia and China to impose new sanctions on Iran is welcome news that will send an unmistakable message: the international community will not sit idly by in the face of Iran’s threat to global security. Through multilateral efforts, we must end Iran’s nuclear capabilities and ensure accountability for the Iranian regime and the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps for violations of international law, human rights’ abuses, and violence against democratic activists. “The United States will not accept Iran’s delay tactics and cat-and-mouse games. As the Administration continues its efforts to rally the international community for strong multi-lateral sanctions, Congress should move forward with bilateral sanctions.”###
05.14.2010	NEW ROCHELLE – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) was joined today by New Rochelle Council Member Barry Fertel, Mayor Noam Bramson, and residents of the Forest Heights neighborhood to announce an abandoned and deteriorating home owned by the Somali government will be demolished and improvements made to the property at no cost to New Rochelle taxpayers.“This abandoned residence is an eyesore to the community,” said Lowey. “It is unsafe and it reduces property values for the homes in the surrounding area. I am pleased we have reached a resolution that will be beneficial to the Forest Heights neighborhood without any cost to New Rochelle taxpayers.”“The removal of this unwelcome eyesore in a beautiful residential neighborhood, after years of neglect, is but one example of how we can improve the quality of life for our residents,” said New Rochelle Council Member Barry Fertel."I am thrilled with the decision reached by the State Department to demolish the abandoned and neglected house,” said Forest Heights resident Lynn Breindel. “It has been an eyesore and a nuisance to our neighborhood for many years now."Upon hearing neighbors’ concerns, Congresswoman Lowey worked with the Forest Heights neighborhood association, the City of New Rochelle, and the U.S. Department of State to determine a course of action for the property, 250 Elk Avenue in New Rochelle, which is to demolish the property and maintain the lot.Congresswoman Lowey chairs the Appropriations Subcommittee on State and Foreign Operations, which funds the Department of State and foreign assistance.The demolition of the house and improvements to the property will be funded through Somali government funds that the U.S. government is holding in trust, generated by sale of Somali Embassy property in Washington, D.C.###
05.13.2010	Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY), the only New Yorker on the Appropriations Homeland Security Subcommittee, today released the following statement on reductions in New York’s allocation in homeland security grants just 11 days after an attempted terrorist attack in Times Square:“The attempted attack on Times Square is evidence that New York needs more federal help to prevent terrorism, not less. Just 11 days after this near miss, $50 million in cuts in security funds for New York City makes absolutely no sense . When DHS announces UASI allocations in the coming weeks, it must focus on the highest risk targets instead of diluting the city’s share in order to fortify lower-risk areas.”Lowey, who has introduced legislation to make risk the highest consideration for security grants, said the Administration must include more funds for these grants in its budget to prevent weakening defenses for our highest-risk areas.###
05.11.2010	WASHINGTON – Congressman Joseph Crowley (NY-07), Congresswoman Nita Lowey (NY-18), and Congressman Steve Israel (NY-02) today called for airlines to submit passenger manifests to federal authorities at least 24 hours in advance of a flight’s departure in order to give law enforcement officials more time to catch terror suspects before they can board a plane.“It is senseless to arbitrarily hamstring the ability of federal authorities to catch terrorism suspects by allowing flight manifests to be disclosed a mere 30 minutes before a flight departs anywhere in the world,” said Lowey. “We now have two incidents since Christmas proving law enforcement personnel need more time to review flight information. Time is often the enemy when it comes to catching suspected terrorists, and it is time we help authorities beat the clock.”“Americans have the right to know that when they step onto an airplane, they are not going to sit down next to someone who the government has already banned from flying,” said Crowley. “This common-sense proposal will give Americans more peace of mind while ensuring that terrorists can’t board airplanes.”“There is no excuse for the no-fly flaw that nearly let the Times Square terrorist escape. This was an incredible effort by law enforcement. But we need to make sure we are giving our security officials the opportunity to do their job and do it right. Congresswoman Lowey’s legislation is commonsense and will put us on the right track to fix the problems in our no-fly system,” said Rep. Israel.Airlines are currently required to disclose their passenger manifests a mere 30 minutes before a flight departs, giving federal law enforcement officials little time to check for suspected terrorists like Umar Farouk Abdulmutallab and Faisal Shahzad.Lowey introduced legislation to mandate airlines submit passenger manifests at least 24 hours in advance of a flight’s departure and immediate disclosure of individuals who purchase tickets within the 24-hour window. The legislation would also require airlines to re-check their passenger manifests against the federal no-fly list one hour before a flight departs.Umar Farouk Abdulmutallab, the attempted Christmas Day bomber, boarded a flight to the United States despite being on the no-fly list, and Customs and Border Protection discovered he was on the flight while the plane was in the air. Faisal Shahzad boarded an international flight to Dubai despite being on the no-fly list, and Customs and Border Protection discovered he was on the flight before the plane departed New York.In both cases, earlier disclosure of the flight manifest could have prevented a suspected terrorist from boarding the plane.###
05.06.2010	WHITE PLAINS – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today honored students from Westchester and Rockland Counties she nominated for admission to our nation’s service academies at her annual Service Academy Review Board (SARB) ceremony.“Every year, it is such a pleasure to nominate so many impressive young and women for admission to our nation’s service academies,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “These individuals have achieved excellence inside and outside of the classroom. I have every confidence that those accepting admission to a service academy will thrive there and serve our nation with honor and distinction.”In December 2009, Congresswoman Lowey nominated 36 students from Westchester and Rockland Counties for admission to the U.S. Military Academy (West Point), U.S. Naval Academy, U.S. Air Force Academy, or U.S. Merchant Marine Academy. As of today, 18 students have been accepted for admission this summer.Congresswoman Lowey also presented service medals that are more than 60 years overdue to Hartsdale resident George Frank, which she successfully had issued by the federal government. At the age of 18, Mr. Frank began serving in the United States Navy during the Second World War, traveling more than 70,000 miles in the North Atlantic, Caribbean, and Pacific. After his honorable discharge, he finished his studies at White Plains High School, then attended Concordia College in Bronxville and Boston University, where he graduated magna cum laude. He has lived and worked in Westchester County since then.Lowey thanked local veterans attending the ceremony for their service to our country, and informed them of her work to promote hiring unemployed veterans, expand veterans’ access to mental health services, and improve military hospitals. Lowey also recently contacted U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs Secretary Eric Shinseki to urge him to take immediate steps to cut the long backlog for veterans filing health claims with the VA. Kevin Barry, White Plains, White Plains High School, Accepted to U.S. Military AcademyBenjamin Berkey, Chappaqua, Horace Greeley High School, Accepted to U.S. Naval AcademyJohn Sullivan, Pleasantville, Fordham Preparatory, Nominated to U.S. Military AcademyChristina Caragine, Ossining, The Ursuline School, Nominated to U.S. Air Force AcademyMatthew Golden, Briarcliff Manor, Briarcliff High School, Nominated to U.S. Naval AcademyKristian Hill, Ardsley, Ardsley High School, Accepted to U.S. Military AcademyMichael La Pietra, Hartsdale, Ardsley High School, Nominated to U.S. Naval AcademyDaniel Spies, Valhalla, Archbishop Stepinac High School, Accepted to U.S. Military AcademyChristopher Cioffoletti, Armonk, Byram Hills High School, U.S. Military AcademyNeil McMillan, Larchmont, Mamaroneck High School, Accepted to U.S. Naval AcademyJohn Robertson, Pelham, Pelham Memorial High School, Accepted to U.S. Military AcademySteven Trizano, Yonkers, Iona Preparatory School, Nominated to U.S. Military AcademyVincent Young, Rye, SUNY Maritime, Accepted to U.S. Naval AcademyJack Mandy, Rye, Rye Country Day School, Nominated to U.S. Naval AcademyMatthew O'Dowd, Congers, St. Joseph Regional High School Accepted to U.S. Naval Academy and U.S. Merchant Marine Academy###
05.05.2010	Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY) issued the following statement today on reports that law enforcement officials discovered Faisal Shahzad’s travel plans upon receiving the flight manifest 30 minutes before departure. “Reports that law enforcement officials were not aware of Faisal Shahzad’s travel plans until they received Emirates Airlines’ flight manifest 30 minutes before departure are only the latest reminder of the inadequacy of the policy. Had it taken more than 30 minutes for law enforcement officials to discover Shahzad’s name on the manifest, the flight would have departed.“It is senseless to arbitrarily hamstring the ability of our law enforcement personnel to catch terrorism suspects by allowing flight manifests to be disclosed a mere 30 minutes before a flight departs anywhere in the world.“Airlines should be required to submit flight manifests 24 hours in advance of flights arriving or departing the United States, and to add to their manifests immediately individuals who purchase tickets within twenty-four hours of such a flight.”Lowey is introducing today legislation requiring airlines to disclose flight manifests 24 hours before departure, and immediately disclose passengers purchasing last-minute tickets. She initially called for earlier disclosure of passenger manifests in March 2009 and again after Umar Farouk Abdulmutallab boarded a flight to the United States despite his known status.Lowey, a senior member of the Appropriations Subcommittee on Homeland Security, has also called for continued funding of Securing Our Cities, a pilot program to protect New York City against radiological and nuclear threats.###
05.02.2010	Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today issued the following statement regarding the attempted attack in Times Square:"The attempted attack in Times Square is yet another reminder of the constant need to remain prepared and vigilant against those who would senselessly target innocent men, women, and children."New Yorkers and all Americans should be proud and thankful for the quick and professional work of NYPD and City authorities."The targeting of one of the most known landmarks in our nation's most populous city demonstrates again the high risk our city faces and the need to prioritize risk in our homeland security policymaking."Congresswoman Lowey is a senior member of the Appropriations Subcommittee on Homeland Security and has led the fight in Congress to for increased homeland security funding for New York and for risk-based funding allocations. ###
04.30.2010	Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY), Chairwoman of the Appropriations State and Foreign Operations Subcommittee, today released the following statement regarding Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad’s expected visit to New York for the United Nations Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty Review Conference:“New Yorkers are proud to be home to the United Nations, which entails the unpleasant task of hosting some of the world’s most loathsome dictators. Mahmoud Ahmadinejad’s denial of the Holocaust, commitment to the destruction of Israel, and reckless pursuit of nuclear weapons make him unwanted and unwelcome in New York, but we will live up to our responsibilities as UN host.“In 2007, President Ahmadinejad used his visit to pull offensive PR stunts like attempting to visit the World Trade Center and spouting off inflammatory remarks and conspiracy theories at Columbia University. He should use this trip to join the community of nations by answering long-overdue questions about Iran’s nuclear program, coming into compliance with the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty (NPT), and ceasing his pursuit of nuclear weapons.”###
04.17.2010	ARDSLEY – As Earth Day approaches, Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today announced the Village of Ardsley will receive $140,000 in federal funding to purchase and install a solar energy system on the roof of the Ardsley Public Library.“From the parts manufacturers, to the assembly lines, to those installing the solar panels, this project will create jobs that advance a green economy,” said Lowey. “It will result in lower energy costs for the Village of Ardsley and its residents while using a cleaner and more sustainable form of energy. I am pleased our community will benefit from this federal investment.”"I am very grateful to Congresswoman Lowey for helping to see that Ardsley received this grant,” said Ardsley Mayor Jay Leon. “Our Village Board and many of our residents are very concerned about the environment, so we are thrilled that we can reduce the carbon footprint of our library building while lowering our energy costs. I greatly appreciate that Mrs. Lowey was able to support us so effectively with this worthy endeavor."The Village of Ardsley was awarded the grant of $140,000 in federal funding by the New York State Energy and Research Development Authority (NYSERDA) as a result of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act. The Recovery Act included more than $3.3 billion for environmental initiatives to develop and utilize clean energy technology.In addition to this green energy project in Ardsley, the Town of New Castle will receive $126,000 for a solar wall, Briarcliff Manor will receive $248,000 for solar panel systems, and Tarrytown will receive $15,000 for energy-efficient traffic signals.###
04.06.2010	YONKERS – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) was joined today by local elected officials, schools superintendents, community leaders and representatives of the U.S. Census Bureau to describe the critical importance of participating in the 2010 Census and to urge residents to complete and return their forms.“In just minutes, you can help our schools, hospitals, transportation systems, and even our local economic recovery by completing and returning your 2010 Census form,” said Lowey. “Participating in this critical count will help ensure our high cost-of-living and densely-populated region receives the federal resources we need and deserve to maintain and improve our community.”Census data are used by the federal government to apportion more than $400 billion each year. Accurate data will help New York and the lower Hudson Valley get the federal resources for hospitals, schools, senior centers, job training centers, and emergency services. Census data are also used to allocate funds for job-creating infrastructure projects like construction of roads, bridges, and tunnels.“Our Founding Fathers recognized that having an accurate count of ‘we the people’ was crucial to good government,” said Westchester County Executive Rob Astorino. “It is even more important today, as we make public policy decisions in difficult financial times about which programs should be maintained and how to pay for them. I strongly urge all our residents to fill out their Census forms.”“The 2010 Census is so critical for Westchester, as Census data is used to determine the need for essential services within our communities,” said Chairman of the Westchester County Board of Legislators Kenneth Jenkins. “Census information helps determine locations for schools, roads, hospitals, child-care and senior centers, among other things. It is critically important that the Census accurately capture the great diversity of our County, especially for neighborhoods and groups that have been traditionally undercounted for decades.”“Yonkers Public Schools is experiencing enrollment surges of almost 1,000 students annual, and we expect this trend to continue,” said Yonkers Public Schools Superintendent Bernard P. Pierorazio. “To meet the diverse needs of our students we need every federal dollar for education as well as vigorous legislative representation. We need every member of every household counted. Ten questions, ten minutes can mean tens of thousands of dollars for our schools.”Without an accurate count, our community will suffer. An under-count may result in our school districts receiving less federal funding for nutrition and education programs, less access to federally-supported community health centers, and fewer infrastructure projects that create jobs.In addition to its impact on allocation of federal funding, the Census determines the level of representation – and influence – New York State has in Congress. New York State lost two seats in Congress after the last Census, and many are concerned that New York will lose two more.New York’s state participation is currently 50 percent, below the national average of 56 percent. The participation rate in Westchester County is 51 percent and the participation rate in Rockland County is 56 percent.For more information about the importance to the lower Hudson Valley of participating in the 2010 Census, please view Congresswoman Lowey’s website at www.lowey.house.gov. To view updated participation rates, please view https://2010.census.gov.###
03.30.2010	WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today contacted President Barack Obama in support of Governor David Paterson’s request for a major disaster declaration and implementation of federal assistance as a result of the Nor’easter that occurred between March 13th and March 15th.Full text of letter:Dear President Obama:I am writing to express my strong support for New York Governor David Paterson’s request for a major disaster declaration in six New York counties and the implementation of FEMA’s Public Assistance and Hazard Mitigation programs as a result of a Nor’easter that occurred between March 13 and March 15th.The damage associated with this storm left hundreds of thousands in the region without power and resulted in the tragic death of one of my constituents from a fallen tree.Local governments have estimated that as a result of this storm at least $85 million in damages were incurred. The availability of the FEMA programs would be invaluable to state and local governments, as well as eligible non-profit entities, as they recover from the storm. The damage has clearly overwhelmed State and local resources, which had already spent more than $45 million in these counties recovering from record snowfall this winter.Further, more than $45 million in claims have already been submitted to the New York State Insurance Department by homeowners for private property damages caused by the storm.I urge you to act promptly on Governor Paterson’s request in order to aid the people of New York.Sincerely,Nita M. LoweyMember of Congress###
03.21.2010	“Today’s historic vote for health insurance reform ensures no American is denied their right to affordable, high-quality health care. This bill will give all Americans the same health insurance options as Members of Congress, while reining in the most egregious practices of the insurance industry and strengthening Medicare. I fought successfully for changes to treat New York fairly, and I am proud to support this fiscally and morally responsible health reform legislation.”Congresswoman Lowey’s full statement on health insurance reform.Stories from Westchester and Rockland County residents supporting health insurance reform.How Westchester and Rockland County will benefit from health insurance reform.Congresswoman Lowey’s Health Insurance Reform Clearinghouse###
03.16.2010	Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY), Chair of the Appropriations State and Foreign Operations Subcommittee, today released the following statement:“Israel is and will remain the United States’ most stalwart ally. As the chair of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on State and Foreign Operations, I stand firm in my commitment to maintaining Israel’s qualitative military edge and a strong U.S.-Israel relationship.“Having just returned from the region, where I urged Arab leaders to support sanctions on Iran and efforts to achieve peace between Israel and the Palestinians, I believe the stakes are too high and the threats are too urgent to allow the unfortunate recent exchange between Israel and the United States to derail ongoing diplomacy. I urge Senator Mitchell to return to the region as soon as possible and all parties to come back to the table.”###
03.16.2010	WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today urged the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) to assist New York State in conducting a Preliminary Damage Assessment for the New York City metro area, including Westchester and Rockland Counties, in response to this weekend’s severe storm.“FEMA’s expertise will allow for a swift and accurate damage assessment and greatly aid the ability of local, state, and federal efforts to both recover from this storm and assist affected individuals and businesses,” wrote Lowey to FEMA Administrator Craig Fugate.A Preliminary Damage Assessment will help New York State determine whether the damage resulting from this weekend’s storm is sufficient to request a federal disaster declaration, making the region eligible for federal emergency response funding.Full letter follows:Dear Administrator Fugate,I write in support of New York State’s request for FEMA assistance in conducting a Preliminary Damage Assessment for the New York City metro area, including Westchester and Rockland Counties, which suffered significant damage as a result of severe weather this past weekend. Over the course of the weekend, this area was hit with significant rainfall and high winds, leaving many still without power.FEMA’s expertise in working with our local first responders will allow for a swift and accurate damage assessment and greatly aid the ability of local, state and federal efforts to both recover from this storm and assist affected individuals and businesses.This most recent storm compounded problems many of these communities were already facing with damage from severe weather in the last week of February.I hope that you will act quickly on this request to determine what, if any, additional federal assistance will be required in the Hudson Valley and throughout New York State.Thank you for your prompt attention to this matter.Sincerely,Nita M. Lowey
03.11.2010	WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today called on the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) to investigate a recent car accident in Harrison NY involving a Toyota Prius that accelerated suddenly, which could have resulted in a severe injury.“Drivers need answers about why their vehicles may suddenly and uncontrollably accelerate, and the problem needs to be fixed,” said Lowey. “As NHTSA investigates consumer complaints against Toyota and potential causes for these crashes, it must consider this recent crash, which could have resulted in serious injury or death.”On Tuesday, March 9, a 2005 Toyota Prius in Harrison, New York accelerated suddenly down a winding driveway, crossed a two-lane road and shoulder, and crashed into a stone wall. The crash resulted in significant property damage and a knee injury to the driver. Despite several such accidents, model years 2004-2009 Toyota Priuses have not yet been recalled because the cause of sudden acceleration is still unknown and a solution has not been developed.As Toyota continues to air television commercials, Lowey also called on the automotive company to redirect immediately planned marketing and advertising expenditures toward critical engineering research, which is needed to determine the cause of these sudden acceleration crashes and devise a solution.“Toyota has no business airing commercials at a time when their cars are malfunctioning so severely. At this time they should concentrate on protecting their customers, not selling more potentially dangerous cars.”###
03.09.2010	YONKERS – In the wake of the unemployment rate in the Lower Hudson Valley jumping to 7.6 percent, Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today announced she secured $250,000 in federal funds to support nurse training at St. John’s Riverside Hospital in Yonkers.“The health care industry is one of the few sectors that continues to expand and create jobs in this difficult economy, and nurses are in particularly high demand,” said Lowey. “I am pleased this federal funding will help St. John’s Riverside to build on its excellent school of nursing, helping to fill severe gaps in our health care workforce.”“For many individuals, a degree in nursing represents a path to the middle-class,” said St. John’s Riverside Hospital CEO Jim Foy. “The demand for nurses in our health care system is outpacing the ability of schools to train new nurses. This federal assistance will help us expand facilities to accommodate a greater number of students, who will fill the shortage in our workforce.”Congresswoman Lowey, a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee, secured $250,000 for the Cochran School of Nursing at St. John’s Riverside Hospital through the 2010 federal appropriations process.The Cochran School of Nursing expanded from 50 students to more than 300 students over ten years. The federal funding will help the school to continue to expand its facilities and enrollment.The unemployment rate in Westchester County jumped to 7.7 percent in January from 7.0 the previous month. The unemployment rate in Rockland County also increased from 6.8 percent to 7.5 percent. The Lower Hudson Valley lost a greater share of jobs than any region in New York.The health care industry provides 14.3 million jobs for wage and salary workers. According to the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, ten of the twenty fastest growing occupations are health care related. Health care will generate 3.2 million new jobs between 2008 and 2018, more than any other industry, largely in response to rapid growth in the elderly population.###
03.07.2010	Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY) issued the following statement regarding the loss of access to WABC-TV for millions of New York area households:"I am disappointed ABC Disney pulled its signal, denying millions of New York area households the ability to see WABC-TV. It is time for both parties to put consumers first."If ABC Disney and Cablevision cannot reach an agreement allowing New Yorkers immediate access to WABC-TV, both parties should agree to a binding arbitration process to resolve this matter. It is imperative that consumers be held harmless during this process by having the signal restored immediately."###
02.22.2010	SUFFERN – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today commended the New York State Small Business Development Center at Rockland Community College for helping unemployed Rockland County residents find new jobs or start their own businesses. Lowey secured $125,000 through the 2010 Appropriations process to support this initiative.“In this weak economy, it is critical for government at all levels to work with businesses and colleges to help those looking for work gain the skills they need and to support those who wish to start their own business,” said Lowey. “I am thrilled federal funding is helping the Small Business Development Center prepare employees and create entrepreneurs in our community.”As a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee, Congresswoman Lowey secured $125,000 through the 2010 Appropriations process to support this critical program.Through a network of 24 regional centers, the New York State Small Business Development Center delivers high quality business counseling and training to New Yorkers who want to start a business or improve the performance of an existing business. These services are provided free of charge.Since its start in 1984, the Center has worked directly with 303,333 businesses, helping them to invest $ 4,052,803,635 in the state's economy. They, in turn, have created or saved 141,371 jobs.“Rockland Community College and the Rockland Community are fortunate to have the excellent support of Congresswoman Lowey helping the college and community in this initiative,” said RCC President Cliff Wood. “RCC will continue to work collaboratively with the Small Business Development Center and our Center for Personal and Professional Development to assist individuals in small businesses to create and expand their work opportunities.”Lowey also called on Congress to pass immediately three specific proposals that would help create the conditions for growth: • Tax credits for companies that create jobs or increase the wages of their workers; • Tax incentives for companies that invest in new facilities and equipment; and • Increased maximum federal loan guarantees to help small businesses expand and purchase property and equipment.Lowey also called on the Senate to pass immediately the Jobs for Main Street Act, passed by the U.S. House of Representatives in December. This legislation would invest $75 billion in savings from the Troubled Assets Relief Program (TARP) in priorities like job training, infrastructure investments, and helping local governments preserve jobs like teachers and police officers.###
02.22.2010	GARNERVILLE – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today visited Haverstraw Middle School where students are using mobile devices and interactive white boards to improve their literacy skills. The project is funded by $132,000 in federal funding Lowey secured through the 2009 Appropriations process.“I am thrilled students in Rockland County are improving their reading and writing skills while becoming competent in the use of interactive technologies like mobile devices and white boards,” said Lowey. “Federal funding for worthy projects like this help mitigate the need for local tax increases on already overstressed residents.”Federal funding for local education priorities is particularly important in Rockland County following loss in tax revenue from the former Mirant power plants.Three classes of Haverstraw Middle School fifth grade students use mobile computers and white boards to improve their language skills and enhance content area learning. Learning time is extended through constant access to information. Motivated by the technology, students use the phones to work collaboratively creating multimedia documents, spreadsheets, photo journals, writing text, and creating graphics.Lowey secured the federal funding through the 2009 Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education Appropriations Act. Lowey is a senior member of the Appropriations Committee and the L-HHS-Ed Subcommittee.Congresswoman Lowey also secured $297,000 through the 2010 Appropriations process for the North Rockland Central School District to improve literacy skills for students.###
02.05.2010	WASHINGTON – Senator Christopher Dodd (D-CT) and Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY) this week introduced legislation that would help prevent Shaken Baby Syndrome through prevention and education programs and by providing support for frustrated parents and caregivers. “Shaken Baby Syndrome (SBS) is severe, tragic and entirely preventable,” said Lowey, whose constituent Darryl Gibbs of Yonkers was personally affected when his 9-month old daughter Cynthia was shaken to death by a caregiver. “By educating parents and caregivers about SBS and providing the support they need when frustrated, we can help put a stop to these fatal and devastating injuries.” “Child abuse is cruel and senseless, but it unfortunately continues to occur at an alarmingly high rate in our society,” said Dodd. “Shaking a child or baby can result in permanent injury or even death. As a father myself, it is my hope that this legislation will educate more parents and caretakers about the dangers of shaking a baby and reduce the incidence of Shaken Baby Syndrome.” The Shaken Baby Syndrome Prevention Act, introduced this week by Dodd and Lowey, would establish a national public health campaign to raise awareness about Shaken Baby Syndrome, encourage prevention programs, provide support to both families affected by abusive head trauma incidents as well as preventative support for frustrated parents and caregivers, and review data collection on SBS.Shaken baby syndrome is a type of inflicted traumatic brain injury that results in bruising, swelling, and bleeding, which can lead to permanent, severe brain damage or death. Shaken baby injuries usually occur in children younger than 2 years old, but may be seen in children up to the age of 5. Shaken Baby Syndrome is completely preventable. Prevention programs have demonstrated that educating new parents and caregivers about the danger of shaking young children can bring about a significant reduction in the number of cases of SBS. ###
02.02.2010	WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today sent a letter to U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder objecting to consideration of the federal courthouse in White Plains, New York, as a site for the trial of Khalid Sheikh Mohammed. While supporting the Administration’s efforts to bring Khalid Sheikh Mohammed to justice, Lowey raised objections to consideration of White Plains as a trial location due to local opposition; safety and security in and around the courthouse; the financial cost that would be incurred by the City of White Plains and Westchester County; and the impact on area businesses, families, and individuals. Full text of letter Dear Attorney General Holder: I strongly object to any consideration of the federal courthouse in White Plains, New York, as a site for the trial of Khalid Shaikh Mohammed. As in New York City, local opposition to shifting the trial to White Plains is strong, including opposition from Mayor Adam Bradley. Separated by less than 30 miles, the distance between White Plains and lower Manhattan is not great enough to mitigate the threats to the region that have already been raised. Further, the scenario for securing a terrorist such as Khalid Shaikh Mohammed in a facility and city unaccustomed to handling such high-profile threats raises many questions that I feel cannot be adequately addressed, including: Would the federal government be responsible for the entire bill for security preparations and precautions taken by local governments? Would Mohammed be both housed and tried at the courthouse in White Plains? Who would be primarily responsible for security of the structure and surrounding area, including the New York City area? Would local businesses surrounding the courthouse be forced to close for security precautions? Would all vehicle traffic in and around the area be subject to search? As the County Seat for Westchester County, any trial in this location could disturb the lives of area residents of White Plains as well as County government operations. As a member of the Appropriations Subcommittee on Homeland Security, I have fought to provide first responders with the tools, equipment and training necessary to respond to security threats in the Hudson Valley. While I have tremendous confidence in the local first responders, the fact remains that they do not have enough personnel or equipment to provide security for a trial of this magnitude. Further, concerns already exist over the security and evacuation procedures for known targets in the region, including the Indian Point Energy Center in Buchanan, New York. New York State, Westchester County and former Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) Administrator James Lee Witt have all indicated that a large-scale evacuation of this region, if necessary, would be nearly impossible. Therefore increasing this risk, and the possible risk of attack at other sites in the Hudson Valley, cannot be justified. While I support the Administration’s efforts to bring Mohammed to justice, I strongly object to any proposal that places the citizens of New York at risk. I look forward to your prompt response on this matter. Sincerely. Nita M. Lowey Member of Congress ###
02.01.2010	TARRYTOWN – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today said creating jobs and growing the economy must be the top priority for the federal government in 2010 and proposed policies to help businesses prosper and families thrive. “The top priority for the federal government must be creating the conditions for small and large businesses to grow and create good-paying jobs,” said Lowey. “Incentivizing job creation and encouraging investment will give businesses the assistance they need to put millions of Americans back to work.”While visiting Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, Inc, a Westchester company that has increased its workforce 55 percent since 2008 and plans another 40 percent increase by the end of this year, Lowey called on Congress to pass immediately three specific proposals that would help create the conditions for growth:· Tax credits for companies that create jobs or increase the wages of their workers;· Tax incentives for companies that invest in new facilities and equipment; and· Increase maximum federal loan guarantees to help small businesses expand and purchase property and equipment. Lowey also called on the Senate to pass immediately the Jobs for Main Street Act, passed by the U.S. House of Representatives in December. This legislation would invest $75 billion in savings from the Troubled Assets Relief Program (TARP) in priorities like job training, infrastructure investments, and helping local governments preserve jobs like teachers and police officers.“The unparalleled success of the biotechnology industry in the United States may well be the best example of the power of the uniquely American combination of innovation, ingenuity, and entrepreneurship and Regeneron is proud to be among the leading companies in this industry,” said Leonard S. Schleifer, M.D., Ph.D., Founder, President and CEO of Regeneron. “We encourage Congress to create optimal conditions to support the growth of high technology companies so we can continue to create the kind of jobs that should be the backbone of our economy in the future.” Regeneron, which opened its first research labs in Westchester County in 1989 with just four employees, now is one of the region’s fastest growing companies. The company’s workforce has steadily increased in recent years from 682 at year-end 2007 to 919 at the end of 2008 to over 1030 by the end of 2009. ###
02.01.2010	WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today commended President Obama for a 2011 budget request that invests in our nation’s top priority – creating jobs and growing our economy. “Through support for small businesses, and investments in critical priorities like clean energy and infrastructure, this budget reflects our shared commitment to create jobs and grow our economy, and reduce long-term deficits,” said Lowey. “I am particularly pleased President Obama has proposed an increase in the child care tax credit, which will provide relief for middle-class families in high cost-of-living areas like Westchester and Rockland Counties.” Tax ReliefLowey supports key tax relief priorities for middle-class families, including an extension of the Making Work Pay tax cut, which provides relief for 95% of American taxpayers. The Administration’s proposal to nearly double the Child and Dependent Care Tax Credit and expand the program to benefit families earning up to $115,000 per year would benefit families in Westchester and Rockland Counties, where incomes are higher than the national average but costs of living are among the highest in the nation. The Administration’s request for $25.5 billion for additional Medicaid assistance is critical for states like New York that are experiencing severe budget shortfalls due in part to insufficient federal matching funds, and would help mitigate the need for state and local tax increases. Job GrowthThe Administration’s proposal to increase maximum loan size for critical small business loans like the Small Business Administration 7(a) and 504 programs is vital for entrepreneurs to expand and hire new employees in high-cost areas like New York. Homeland SecurityLowey supports the Administration’s requests for $783 million to purchase and deploy 1,000 Advanced Imaging Technology (AIT) machines and explosive detection equipment for baggage screening, as well as $950 million for the Federal Air Marshal Service (FAMS) to increase FAMs on international flights. Lowey recently wrote a letter to President Obama calling for these exact steps. Based on last year’s funding allocations, New York and localities would receive federal funds from homeland security grant programs critical to our state, including:· Approximately $136.5 million from the State Homeland Security Grant Program;· Approximately $198 million from the Urban Area Security Initiative; Based on last year’s allocations, Westchester County would receive approximately $480,000 from the Public Transportation Security Grant Program, and the Port Authority of New York/New Jersey would receive approximately $39 million.EducationLowey supports the Administration’s proposal to increase the average Pell Grant amount and the maximum award, which would allow nearly 400,000 additional students to receive financial assistance for college. However, as a longstanding advocate of public broadcasting, Lowey is concerned by the Administration’s proposal to eliminate the successful Ready to Learn and Ready to Teach programs. HealthLowey supports the Administration’s proposed increase for the National Institutes of Health, including an increase of more than $70 million for the National Cancer Institute. Lowey supports the proposed increase from $71 million to $150 million to address the health needs of those who responded to the September 11 attack, but urged the Administration to endorse legislation proposed by the New York Congressional delegation to make this spending mandatory. “Those who responded to the September 11 attacks should not suffer uncertainty each year about the costs of their medical care,” said Lowey. For more information about how President Obama’s budget request would affect New York, please click here. ###
01.26.2010	Congresswoman Nita Lowey, Chairwoman of the Appropriations Subcommittee on State and Foreign Operations, today released the following reaction to a Special Inspector General for Iraq Reconstruction (SIGIR) report detailing inadequacies in contract and grant management and oversight by the U.S. Department of State Bureau for International Narcotics Control and Law Enforcement (INL).“SIGIR’s report regarding federal grants in Iraq is extremely troubling.“INL’s weak oversight of its budget, placing a $2.5 billion police-training contract at risk of fraud and abuse, is particularly galling in light of SIGIR’s 2005 and 2007 warnings that its contract oversight procedures were inadequate. It is disturbing that INL has failed to resolve this issue.“It is critical that taxpayer resources be spent in the most efficient and effective way possible. This requires diligent oversight and effective security strategies that allow civilian aid programs to focus the bulk of their resources on their critical missions.“During the FY11 budget and appropriations process, I intend to focus on improved contract management and oversight for these and other contracts within my Subcommittee’s jurisdiction.”###
01.25.2010	Washington, DC – After working to ensure that the Metropolitan Transit Authority (MTA) received $110 million in federal funds to maintain service in the Hudson Valley and prevent a tax increase, U.S. Representatives John Hall, Nita Lowey, Maurice Hinchey, Eliot Engel, and Scott Murphy are calling on Governor David Paterson to immediately introduce legislation to reduce the MTA payroll tax by $110 million, with the reduction applying to payrolls in the Hudson Valley. "The payroll tax disproportionately affects residents of the Hudson Valley, whose access to MTA services are not uniform," the Members of Congress wrote in a letter to Paterson today. "Due to the nature of the tax, it falls disproportionately on small businesses based in these counties. These small businesses, unlike the larger businesses based in New York City, and even the residents of the region, benefit the least from the MTA service. These small businesses are the region's economic engine, and they should not be hit with a regressive tax, particularly in this time of economic crisis."The U.S. Representatives worked to insert a provision into the Fiscal Year 2009 Supplemental Appropriations Act that allows transit authorities to spend up to ten percent of their American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (ARRA) funding for operating expenses. For the MTA, this would amount to approximately $110 million. This is the first time since the 1970's that Congress has allowed federal funds to be used for operating expenses. "Congress took this extraordinary step to stem reductions in service and staffing at transit agencies and also to prevent tax increases which in this time of economic crisis will only hurt small businesses and middle class families and stifle job creation and our recovery efforts," the Members of Congress wrote. "The State of New York has the responsibility to consider adjusting the payroll tax to reflect that the MTA has up to $110 million in additional revenue that it could choose to use to offset this onerous tax." The full text of the legislators' letter to Governor Paterson follows. -30- The Honorable David A. PatersonGovernorState of New YorkState CapitolAlbany, NY 12224 Dear Governor Paterson: We are writing to express our concern about the Metropolitan Transit Authority (MTA) Payroll Tax, and to bring to your attention recent Congressional action which could alleviate the affect of this tax on our constituents. The payroll tax disproportionately affects residents of the Hudson Valley, whose access to MTA services are not uniform. For example, the Port Jervis Line, which services the west side of the Hudson River, does not at this time have a one-seat ride to New York City and has only one track, significantly limiting service. Therefore you can understand why our constituents are outraged that they are paying this tax. Further, they are also outraged that the tax is only assessed on residents of New York State, while suburbanites from Connecticut and New Jersey continue to enjoy access to the MTA's services without paying the unfair and regressive payroll tax.Due to the nature of the tax, it falls disproportionately on small businesses based in these counties. These small businesses, unlike the larger businesses based in New York City, and even the residents of the region, benefit the least from the MTA service. These small businesses are the region's economic engine, and they should not be hit with a regressive tax, particularly in this time of economic crisis. Congress recently acted to provide relief to transit agencies who are struggling to meet their operating expenses due to the recession. Section 1202 of PL-111-32, the Fiscal Year 2009 Supplemental Appropriations Act allows transit authorities to spend up to ten percent of their American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (ARRA) funding for operating expenses. For the MTA, this would amount to approximately $110 million.This is the first time since the 1970's that Congress has allowed federal funds to be used for operating expenses. Congress took this extraordinary step to stem reductions in service and staffing at transit agencies and also to prevent tax increases which in this time of economic crisis will only hurt small businesses and middle class families and stifle job creation and our recovery efforts.The MTA has declined to utilize the authority granted under Section 1202. We believe that this is unfortunate. We also feel that the State of New York has the responsibility to consider adjusting the payroll tax to reflect that the MTA has up to $110 million in additional revenue that it could choose to use to offset this onerous tax. Therefore we respectfully request that you submit legislation to immediately reduce the payroll tax by $110 million, with the reduction applying to payrolls in the Hudson Valley.Thank you in advance for your consideration of our request.
01.20.2010	Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY), issued the following statement on the withdrawal of Erroll Southers, President Obama’s nominee to lead the Transportation Security Administration, from consideration:“Erroll Southers is an experienced law enforcement professional who was uniquely qualified to lead to the Transportation Security Administration. The Christmas Day attempted airline bombing is only the latest example of why TSA needs skilled leaders like Mr. Southers to make the agency effective, efficient, and professional.“It is sad that Mr. Southers’ confirmation was held hostage by Senator DeMint to make a political point regarding collective bargaining for transportation security officers. It’s time to stop playing politics with national security and recognize the threat air travelers face is from terrorism, not labor unions.“I urge President Obama to nominate and the Senate to approve quickly a skilled professional to lead the Transportation Security Administration.”Congresswoman Lowey is the sponsor of legislation that would grant transportation security officers collective bargaining rights, a right that other Department of Homeland Security (DHS) officers in Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) and Customs and Border Protection (CBP) have, as do officers in Capitol Police, New York Police Department, and Pentagon Force Protection Agency.###
01.13.2010	WASHINGTON - Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY), a senior member of the Appropriations Homeland Security Subcommittee and Select Intelligence Oversight Panel, today sent President Barack Obama a list of nine specific policy recommendations to close gaps in aviation security exposed by the Christmas Day attempted terror attack.“The near miss we experienced with the attempted bombing of Flight 253 exposed continued deficiencies in our nation’s air security,” said Lowey. “After new laws and regulations and a governmental reorganization, the American people are baffled as to how a suspected terrorist in possession of explosives could board an international flight to the U.S.”Lowey’s letter to President Obama is available here.The recommendations are:1. Requiring airlines to provide passenger lists to Customs and Border Protection 24 hours in advance;2. Expediting implementation of Secure Flight, a program intended to improve watch-list matching of individuals on No Fly and Selectee lists;3. Increasing deployment of Behavior Detection Officers at airports;4. Expanding purchase of “whole body imaging” machines for use at airports;5. Increasing the presence of TSA officers overseas;6. Requiring Federal Air Marshals on all flights originating in “countries of interest;”7. Mandating screening of not just passengers, but also employees, before entering secure and sterile areas of airports;8. Reviewing all current visa holders against terror watch-lists to ensure no other terrorists have access to the United States; and9. Expediting implementation of all-electronic nonimmigrant visa application system.These recommendations are intended to complement changes President Obama has already ordered.###
01.13.2010	Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today issued the following statement on today's tragic earthquake in Haiti:"My thoughts and prayers are with the Haitian people in the wake of this evening's tragic earthquake."The destruction that this natural disaster has wrought is particularly tragic for the people of Haiti, who have endured not only devastating storms and hurricanes, but crushing poverty.""I stand committed to helping the Haitian people recover from this disaster through emergency and humanitarian assistance, as well as through long-term development assistance."###
01.12.2010	"My thoughts and prayers are with the Haitian people in the wake of this evening's tragic earthquake."The destruction that this natural disaster has wrought is particularly tragic for the people of Haiti, who have endured not only devastating storms and hurricanes, but crushing poverty.""I stand committed to helping the Haitian people recover from this disaster through emergency and humanitarian assistance, as well as through long-term development assistance."###
01.07.2010	WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY) today pledged to introduce legislation requiring airlines to transmit passenger lists to Customs and Border Protection (CBP) at least 24 hours in advance of international flights arriving in the United States in response to a report CBP could have stopped Umar Farouk Abdulmutallab from boarding flight 253 had they had more time to review the list.It is outrageous that Umar Farouk Abdulmutallab was a known threat and could have been stopped from boarding the plane had CBP had more time to review the passenger list,” said Lowey. “I intend to introduce legislation immediately requiring airlines to give our front-line security personnel more time to intercept and stop known or suspected terrorists.”In a March 10, 2009, Appropriations Subcommittee on Homeland Security hearing, Lowey told CBP Acting Commissioner Jayson Ahern she had recently toured JFK Airport and was concerned CBP often received passenger lists from airlines only 30 minutes before flight departed for the U.S., giving officers little time to review lists for known or suspected terrorists. She asked whether airlines should provide passenger lists 24 hours in advance of international flights arriving in the United States, as incoming sea vessels are required to do.Acting Commissioner Ahern replied, “Absolutely I do not think so in the air environment.”“It should be obvious that 30 minutes is not enough time for CBP officers to screen hundreds of passengers,” said Lowey. “That is why I voiced this concern nearly a year ago. Now that we know beyond a shadow of a doubt this is a valid concern, I intend to introduce legislation immediately closing this gaping loophole.”###
01.06.2010	WHITE PLAINS – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today outlined specific and immediate steps to make aviation more secure for travelers, including more aggressive intelligence sharing, technology upgrades at airports, and strong leadership and professionalization of the transportation security workforce.“When it comes to aviation security, there is no margin for error,” said Lowey at Westchester County Airport. “Our intelligence and law enforcement services can and must act aggressively to thwart plots that endanger the safety of the traveling public. The gaps that led to a suspected terrorist boarding a flight to the United States in possession of explosives are not new, and they must be fixed once and for all.”Lowey outlined three urgent steps to improve aviation security now and in the future:Intelligence agencies must more aggressively share information to prevent known or suspected terrorists from boarding flights to the United States.We must invest in better technology at airports – puffer machines and body scans – that can detect known threats like explosives.The Senate should immediately confirm the nominee for TSA Administrator, whose confirmation is currently being delayed by a single U.S. Senator.Umar Farouk Abdulmutallab was in the Terrorist Identities Datamart Environment (TIDE) database, a list of more than 550,000 suspected terrorists, but he had not been vetted for placement on a list that would have kept him from boarding the flight altogether. Because his United Kingdom student visa was revoked, his contacts with extremists were known, and his activities were reported by his father, Abdulmutallab should not have been permitted to board the flight.Lowey also said nobody should be able to board a flight with explosives. The federal government must invest in better screening technology at airports. In addition to pat-downs, the Transportation Security Administration should use full body scanners and puffer machines on any passenger on a watch list or who could pose a threat.Westchester County Executive Robert P. Astorino said, “Keeping our citizens safe is one of the most important things any government must do. Since the recent terror attempt, our airport has been on higher alert. It is imperative that the federal government – not local counties – pay for the sophisticated screening equipment and other resources that may be needed.”A U.S. Senator is blocking confirmation of Errol Southers as TSA Administrator due to his fears that TSA employees will have rights equal to those of other homeland security and law enforcement officers. Legislation introduced by Lowey would allow TSA screeners to bargain collectively, as do Customs and Border Protection (CBP) officers, Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) officers, as well as NYPD and Capitol Police. This would promote a professionalization of the workforce and improve retention of experienced screeners. Partisan opposition to this policy blocking confirmation of a qualified TSA Administrator is outrageous in the wake of this near attack.“The greater threat facing the American people is terrorists, not labor unions,” said Lowey.###
12.26.2009	"Two aviation security incidents within three days of each other - one of which appears to be terrorism-related - are reminders that constant vigilance and aggressive deterrence are necessary to protect air travelers."President Obama's review of watch lists is prudent. It is critical that the Transportation Security Administration (TSA) is coordinating with domestic law enforcement, the intelligence community, and the U.S. Department of State to prevent individuals with ties to terrorism from entering the United States via commercial airlines."Regardless of on which watch list - if any - the suspected terrorist on board Northwest Flight 253 was listed, nobody should be able to board a commercial plane with explosives. We must invest in advanced screening technologies and a professional, highly-trained transportation security workforce to prevent explosives and other dangerous materials from being smuggled on aircrafts. This is critical not only in domestic airports, but also in those where flights arriving in the United States originate."In my role as Chairwoman of the Appropriations State and Foreign Operations Subcommittee, I intend to request detailed briefings on these incidents when Congress reconvenes in January."###
12.16.2009	WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) announced today she secured $5.732 million to support research of deadly diseases and protect against bioterrorism through the Fiscal Year 2010 Defense Appropriations Act, which was passed today by the U.S. House of Representatives“In these tough economic times, it is important for the federal government to ensure critical priorities like disease research and bioterrorism preparedness are not shortchanged,” said Lowey. “I am pleased to have secured this funding for worthy projects in New York that will help make our state healthier and safer.”Congresswoman Lowey is a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee, where she chairs the Subcommittee on State and Foreign Operations and serves on the Homeland Security and Labor | Health and Human Services | Education Subcommittees.The Defense Appropriations Act includes more than $28 billion for medical care for members of the Armed Forces, as well as $372 million for medical research and $120 million for Traumatic Brain Injury research.Lowey secured:o $2.4 million for the Women’s Cancer Genomics Center at Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory to develop new diagnostic tools and therapeutic strategies for breast and ovarian cancer;o $1.2 million for the American Museum of Natural History (AMNH) to research the global spread of emerging infectious diseases and strengthen prediction, intervention, and early warning of epidemics;o $1.2 million for Westchester County Medical Center to upgrade its imaging equipment;o $800,000 for the New York Presbyterian Hospital to continue a breast cancer research project in conjunction with the Department of defense to develop standards and protocols in utilization of new cancer treatment technologies.o $132,000 for New York Medical College’s GenNYsis Center for Biotechnology, Disaster Medicine, and Emerging Infections Training Center to research bioterrorism preparedness and response; andThese projects are funded through the Defense Health Program, a source of innovative education, medical training, research, technology, and policy initiatives to improve care for the military and develop applications for future use.The Fiscal Year 2010 Defense Appropriations Act conference report was passed today by the U.S. House of Representatives and is expected to pass the U.S. Senate this week, clearing it for President Obama’s signature.###
12.15.2009	Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY), Chairwoman of the Appropriations State and Foreign Operations Subcommittee, today delivered the following statement on the Iran Refined Petroleum Sanctions Act:“I strongly support this bill’s expansion of economic sanctions against Iran and businesses in the refined petroleum and energy sectors collaborating with the regime.“Iran’s relentless pursuit of nuclear weapons technology and defiance of international law are a great threat to world stability. All nations, including China and Russia, must understand the threat Iran poses to their own interests and world stability and support the U.S. at the UN Security Council in enacting tough multilateral sanctions. This bill sends a critical message: the American people and this Congress have little patience for Iran’s foot-dragging, and there will be serious consequences for the Iranian government if its nuclear efforts are not halted.“The 2010 foreign aid bill includes a measure to curtail the Export-Import Bank’s cooperation with foreign companies that significantly contribute to Iran’s refined petroleum industry.“Passage of H.R. 2194 will lay the groundwork for even tougher sanctions on Iran.“I thank the Gentleman from California for his efforts, and I urge my colleagues to vote in support of this bill.”###
12.10.2009	WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY), Chairwoman of the State and Foreign Operations Appropriations Subcommittee, delivered the following statement on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives during consideration of the State and Foreign Operations Appropriations conference report.Madam Speaker, I am pleased to present Division F of the FY 2010 omnibus, which includes $48.764 billion in appropriations for the Department of State, foreign operations, and related programs.At $1.235 billion, or two percent below fiscal year 2009 enacted levels including supplemental appropriations, and $3.28 billion below the President’s fiscal year 2010 request, these funds support the U.S.’s diplomatic and development priorities, a cornerstone of U.S. national security.To address security imperatives, it includes:o $4.5 billion to help stabilize, strengthen and rebuild Afghanistan, Pakistan and Iraq.o in conjunction with funding in the 2009 supplemental, full funding for our commitments to allies and partners in the Middle East, including a total of $2.775 billion in FMF for Israel, $1.3 billion for Egypt and $300 million for Jordan.o A provision to prevent the Export-Import Bank from entering into any deals with foreign companies that significantly contribute to Iran’s refined petroleum industry and gives the Secretary of State authority to exempt countries cooperating closely with the U.S. to stop Iran from acquiring nuclear weapons.o $873.6 million for counter narcotics and alternative development programs in Latin America.This bill continues the Congressional commitment to increase diplomatic and development capacity with resources to hire, train, support, and protect 700 new Department of State personnel and 300 new USAID personnel.The bill increases funding for key long-term development priorities, including:o $7.7 billion for global health activities including $5.7 billion for global HIV/AIDS.o $1.1 billion to improve access to quality basic and higher education;o $1.1 billion for food security and agricultural development;o More than $1.25 billion in bilateral and multilateral assistance for clean energy, biodiversity, and climate change initiatives;o $315 million to expand access to safe water and sanitation; and $2.57 billion for refugee and disaster assistance.Finally, to improve accountability and oversight, the bill provides $149 million for the Inspectors General of the Department of State and USAID and the Special Inspectors General for Iraq and Afghanistan Reconstruction.Madam Speaker, the bipartisan foreign assistance package before you preserves our nation’s interests. I am also pleased this Appropriations package invests in worthy initiatives in our communities that will improve health, education, law enforcement, environment, and infrastructure in New York and around the nation. I urge my colleagues to give this bill our bipartisan support.###
12.10.2009	WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY), Chairwoman of the State and Foreign Operations Appropriations Subcommittee, delivered the following statement on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives during consideration of the State and Foreign Operations Appropriations conference report.Madam Speaker, I am pleased to present Division F of the FY 2010 omnibus, which includes $48.764 billion in appropriations for the Department of State, foreign operations, and related programs.At $1.235 billion, or two percent below fiscal year 2009 enacted levels including supplemental appropriations, and $3.28 billion below the President’s fiscal year 2010 request, these funds support the U.S.’s diplomatic and development priorities, a cornerstone of U.S. national security.To address security imperatives, it includes:o $4.5 billion to help stabilize, strengthen and rebuild Afghanistan, Pakistan and Iraq.o in conjunction with funding in the 2009 supplemental, full funding for our commitments to allies and partners in the Middle East, including a total of $2.775 billion in FMF for Israel, $1.3 billion for Egypt and $300 million for Jordan.o A provision to prevent the Export-Import Bank from entering into any deals with foreign companies that significantly contribute to Iran’s refined petroleum industry and gives the Secretary of State authority to exempt countries cooperating closely with the U.S. to stop Iran from acquiring nuclear weapons.o $873.6 million for counter narcotics and alternative development programs in Latin America.This bill continues the Congressional commitment to increase diplomatic and development capacity with resources to hire, train, support, and protect 700 new Department of State personnel and 300 new USAID personnel.The bill increases funding for key long-term development priorities, including:o $7.7 billion for global health activities including $5.7 billion for global HIV/AIDS.o $1.1 billion to improve access to quality basic and higher education;o $1.1 billion for food security and agricultural development;o More than $1.25 billion in bilateral and multilateral assistance for clean energy, biodiversity, and climate change initiatives;o $315 million to expand access to safe water and sanitation; and $2.57 billion for refugee and disaster assistance.Finally, to improve accountability and oversight, the bill provides $149 million for the Inspectors General of the Department of State and USAID and the Special Inspectors General for Iraq and Afghanistan Reconstruction.Madam Speaker, the bipartisan foreign assistance package before you preserves our nation’s interests. I am also pleased this Appropriations package invests in worthy initiatives in our communities that will improve health, education, law enforcement, environment, and infrastructure in New York and around the nation. I urge my colleagues to give this bill our bipartisan support.###
12.09.2009	WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) announced today she secured $5.658 million to support projects in Westchester and Rockland Counties through the Fiscal Year 2010 Consolidated Appropriations Act, which will help ease financial strain on local governments and taxpayers.“In these tough economic times, it is critical that the federal government support projects that create jobs and ease the financial strain facing local governments and taxpayers,” said Lowey. “I am pleased to have secured this funding for worthy projects in Westchester and Rockland Counties, and I am hopeful it will help provide breathing room to mitigate the need for local tax increases to provide critical community services.”Congresswoman Lowey is a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee, where she chairs the Subcommittee on State and Foreign Operations and serves on the Homeland Security and Labor | Health and Human Services | Education Subcommittees.Lowey secured:$125,000 for the Pace University Nursing School to train additional nurses to alleviate a shortage of nurses in the workforce;$900,000 to widen Ashburton Avenue in Yonkers;$125,000 for Rockland County Community College’s Small Business Training Center to provide training to unemployed individuals and those seeking self-employment;$297,000 for after school programs and enrichment activities in the Ossining Union Free School District;$250,000 for medical equipment for St. John’s Riverside Hospital in Yonkers;$200,000 for the Clarkstown Police Department to upgrade communications systems;$350,000 to reconstruct and renovate intersections and sidewalks in Eastchester;$297,000 for family literacy activities in the Tarrytown Union Free School District;$30,000 for a fingerprint scanner for the Village of Pelham Manor Police Department;$340,000 for equipment and training for the New Rochelle Police Department;$118,000 for Jawonio, Inc. to improve educational services for children with disabilities in Rockland County;$50,000 for communications equipment in Dobbs Ferry Police Department vehicles;$297,000 for after-school and enrichment activities for Yonkers Public Schools;$250,000 to expand and modernize the emergency department of White Plains Hospital Center;$6,000 for equipment for the Town of Ossining Police Department;$297,000 to improve the English skills of non-native English speaking students in the North Rockland School District;$175,000 to renovate the Larchmont Public Library;$250,000 to support the Rockland County Interoperability Project;$297,000 for professional development and teaching tools in the Port Chester-Rye Union Free School District;$17,000 for a license plate reader for the Village of Hastings Police Department;$500,000 to reconstruct a portion of Yonkers Avenue in Tuckahoe;$100,000 for the Larchmont Police Department to upgrade its communications system;$40,000 for equipment for the Briarcliff Manor Police Department; and$50,000 for the Town of Greenburgh Adult Drug Court Treatment ProgramThe Fiscal Year 2010 Consolidated Appropriations Act conference report is expected to pass the House of Representatives this week.###
12.08.2009	WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), a senior member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Homeland Security, today praised the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) guidance for Fiscal Year 2010 grant recipients, including estimated awards, as good news for New York’s first responders.“In New York, we understand the threat of terrorism and the urgency of federal investment in our safety,” said Lowey. “I am pleased Congress has increased appropriations for critical grant programs like the Urban Area Security Initiative, and that is resulting in increased resources for high-threat regions like New York.”The New York City region is slated to receive $151.6 million from the Urban Area Security Initiative (UASI), the only grant program dedicated to high-risk urban areas. This allocation is $6 million more than the region received last year.New York public safety agencies are allocated $6.3 million from the Interoperable Emergency Communications Grant Program, which was created by Lowey following the September 11 attacks to improve first responder communications.Municipalities in New York’s 18th Congressional District will also benefit. Yonkers is expected to receive $317,419 from the Metropolitan Medical Response System to coordinate emergency management, health care, and medical systems in responding to a mass casualty incident. The Town of Harrison will receive $275,000 and the Village of Elmsford will receive $165,000 for emergency operations equipment.While today’s announcement is good news for New York’s first responders, progress remains to be made in ensuring high-threat, high population density regions remain the sole beneficiaries of grant programs designed to benefit these areas, such as UASI."We must ensure that top terrorism targets like New York receive the resources they need to protect Americans,” said Lowey.Lowey is the sponsor of legislation that would benefit high-threat, densely populated regions like New York by limiting the number of UASI recipients, requiring a risk assessment before a region may receive UASI funds, and adjusting the funding formula to make ‘threat’ as important a variable as vulnerability and consequence in determining allocations.###
12.02.2009	Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY), Chairwoman of the Appropriations State and Foreign Operations Subcommittee, released the following statement on President Obama’s speech on Afghanistan:“I commend President Obama for his deliberative process evaluating our nation’s mission, status, and future in Afghanistan. Sending our brave and patriotic service members into harm’s way is a solemn responsibility, and President Obama has provided the thoughtful leadership it requires.“Dismantling Al Qaeda and preventing Afghanistan from being a sanctuary for terrorists is critical to our security at home.“However, in my judgment, the most critical questions that must be answered are the scope of our mission, benchmarks to measure progress, and plans for transferring security and governance responsibilities to the Afghans themselves. President Karzai must demonstrate that he is a credible partner by combating corruption, improving governance, developing effective security forces, promoting economic growth, and respecting the rights of citizens, particularly women.“I look forward to Appropriations Committee hearings examining details of President Obama’s strategy.”###
12.02.2009	MAMARONECK, NY – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today announced she secured $517,000 in federal funding to help repair aged and deteriorated water mains in Harrison and Mamaroneck. This federal funding will protect residents of Mamaroneck Town, Mamaroneck Village, and Harrison from shouldering the full cost.“Keeping our water infrastructure up-to-date is critical for our communities’ ability to prevent flooding, distribute clean water to homes and businesses, and keep fire hydrants functional,” said Lowey. “Repairing these aged and deteriorated water mains is necessary, and this federal funding will protect local taxpayers from footing the full bill.”Lowey, a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee, secured $517,000 in federal funding through the Fiscal Year 2010 Interior and Environment Appropriations Act, which has been signed into law by President Obama. The funding represents 55 percent of the project’s $940,000 total cost, with an additional $423,000 investment from Westchester Joint Water Works.As a result of the funding, Westchester Joint Water Works will undertake projects in the Town of Harrison, Town of Mamaroneck, and Village of Mamaroneck. The projects will repair and replace aged and deteriorated water mains with more reliable and higher-flow water mains, and make fire hydrants more accessible and reliable.“This federal funding will help relieve local taxpayers of some of the financial burden of this critical project,” said Westchester Joint Water Works Manager Anthony Conetta. “It will improve the reliability and safety of our communities’ water distribution network.”“Every dollar the federal government invests in our local communities is one less local tax dollar that must be spent to complete these projects and I will continue fighting for the Hudson Valley to receive its fair share,” said Lowey.###
11.26.2009	"The steps announced by Prime Minister Netanyahu to stop housing approvals, new construction of housing units, and related infrastructure in the West Bank are welcome and encouraging. They indicate a willingness on the part of Israel's government and people to take difficult steps to hasten a lasting peace in the region."I am hopeful the Palestinian people and leaders will benefit from leadership that recognizes the opportunity presented by Israel's unilateral gesture. It is disappointing that Arab states in the region have failed to reciprocate by moving toward normalizing relations with Israel. "I commend Senator Mitchell, Secretary Clinton, and President Obama for their efforts to facilitate the peace process, and I look forward to the commencement of negotiations that result in a lasting peace."###
11.10.2009	WASHINGTON - Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today announced more than 9,000 New Yorkers are owed $14.5 million in tax refunds that the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) is unable to deliver, an average of $1,581.“In these tough economic times, it is critical that families and individuals are not overpaying their taxes,” said Lowey. “The First Time Homebuyer’s Credit, Recovery Rebate Credit, and other tax relief measures have increased refunds substantially this year. But in order for taxpayers to benefit, IRS must be able to find them.”Each year, IRS mails refunds to millions of taxpayers who have overpaid the amount they owe. A small percentage of these are returned by the U.S. Postal Service as undeliverable due to a change in address.The list of New Yorkers who are due tax refunds is available on Congresswoman Lowey’s website, www.lowey.house.gov.Taxpayers can update their addresses with the “Where’s My Refund?” tool on www.IRS.gov. The tool enables taxpayers to check the status of their refunds. A taxpayer must submit his or her Social Security Number, filing status and amount of refund shown on their 2008 return. The tool will provide the status of their refund and in some cases provide instructions on how to resolve delivery problems. Taxpayers can access a telephone version of “Where’s My Refund?” by calling 1-800-829-1954.Undeliverable refund checks for New York taxpayers average $1,581 this year, compared to $1,061 last year. Some taxpayers are due more than one check. Several changes in tax law likely played a role in boosting refunds, including the First-Time Homebuyer’s Credit and the Recovery Rebate Credit, among others.“If you think you may be eligible for a tax refund that you have not received, please contact my office for assistance,” said Lowey.###
11.10.2009	WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY), Chairwoman of the House Appropriations Foreign Operations Subcommittee, today released the following statement on the nomination of Dr. Rajiv Shah as Administrator of the U.S. Agency for International Development:“I welcome President Obama’s nomination of Dr. Rajiv Shah as Administrator of the U.S. Agency for International Development. The foreign policy and national security challenges facing our nation require a smart and effective development agenda to complement our diplomatic and military assets. As the premier federal agency coordinating and implementing that agenda, USAID needs an Administrator of extraordinary leadership, knowledge, and vision.“Dr. Shah’s specific expertise in agricultural development and his medical background will help him guide USAID in addressing the growing food security and health challenges that imperil the stability and growth of much of the developing world.“I look forward to working closely with Dr. Shah, Secretary Clinton, and President Obama to increase the capacity of USAID to implement the broad international development agenda our national security requires.”###
11.07.2009	WASHINGTON -- Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today issued the following statement in support of the Affordable Health Care for America Act:Over the last eight months, I have communicated with tens of thousands of my constituents in Westchester and Rockland Counties in meetings, conference calls, round-tables, telephone town halls, and neighborhood office hours.Among people from of all walks of life—small business owners, doctors, patient advocates, and seniors—one constant is the passion which most agree on the need for health care reform despite different opinions on how best to achieve reform.Since 2000, personal premiums have more than doubled. Since 1987, the cost of the average family health insurance policy has risen from 7% of the median family income to 17%. In 2007, 60% of all U.S. bankruptcies were due to medical costs. The U.S. is on track to spend nearly $33 trillion on health care over the next decade.The financial security of our families, businesses, and our overall economy depends on meaningful health care reform.That’s why I will support this bill today to:o Provide health coverage to approximately 36 million Americans, including 39,000 residents in my congressional district.o Help small businesses who are struggling to provide coverage to their employees while exempting 86 percent of the smallest businesses from the requirement to do so.o Ensure that reform is fully paid for while exempting 99.7% of all American households from paying a health care surcharge.o Guarantee additional protections to those who have insurance, including ending discrimination for pre-existing conditions; limiting annual out-of-pocket costs; and preventing insurance companies from dropping your coverage if you become sick.o Improve and strengthen Medicare.This bill is not perfect. I am deeply disappointed that the House approved language which puts new restrictions on women’s access to abortion coverage in the private health insurance market even when they would pay premiums with their own money.If we want to reduce abortions we should give millions of women health coverage so they can get regular reproductive care, contraceptives to prevent unintended pregnancies, and prenatal care to ensure healthy pregnancies.Despite this damaging provision, we must move forward in improving health coverage for those who have it, providing coverage for those who don’t, and controlling costs throughout the system.###
11.04.2009	WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY), Chairwoman of the State and Foreign Operations Appropriations Subcommittee, today released the following statement on House of Representatives consideration of a non-binding resolution opposing endorsement of the “Report of the United Nations Fact Finding Mission on the Gaza Conflict:”“Since Israel’s unilateral withdrawal from the Gaza Strip in 2005 – an act of immense courage and goodwill – it has shown remarkable restraint in the face of violent actions and inflammatory rhetoric. Terrorists shower Ashkelon, Sderot, and other communities in Southern Israel with rockets and mortars then hide cowardly in mosques and among civilian populations. No sovereign nation would permit such atrocities against its own citizens.“The Goldstone report draws unjustifiable conclusions about the Israeli military’s motives in the Gaza conflict based on sweeping and inaccurate generalizations and charges that Israel “deliberately” targeted civilians, a totally unsubstantiated allegation. It is outrageous that the United Nations General Assembly – at the urging of nations with deplorable human rights records – is poised to give its stamp of approval to this flawed report.“Israel, like all sovereign nations, has the responsibility to respect human rights and adhere to international law. However, its defense of its citizens against attacks by Hamas militants simply cannot be conflated with terrorist actions. Facilitating a lasting peace between Israel and the Palestinians is among our most important foreign policy priorities, and further consideration of the Goldstone report could hinder movement toward peace negotiations.”###
11.02.2009	Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today announced she and colleagues representing Long Island Sound Shore communities secured $7 million for the Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) Long Island Sound Program to preserve and protect the ecosystem of this region, which contributes $5 billion to our local economy.“A healthy Sound Shore bolsters our local economy and promotes recreation and tourism in our region,” said Lowey. “I am thrilled we have secured $7 million – more than double last year’s funding level – to preserve and restore this region for future generations.”Congresswoman Lowey and the Long Island Sound Congressional Caucus successfully secured $7 million in the Interior Appropriations Act conference report, passed by the House of Representatives last week. The $7 million appropriation is an increase of $4 million over last year’s funding level.Lowey is a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee, where she chairs the State and Foreign Operations Subcommittee and sits on the Homeland Security and Labor/Health and Human Services/Education Subcommittees.“Today is a great day for the Long Island Sound, and this increased funding will jumpstart desperately needed water quality improvements, habitat protection initiatives and enhanced public access opportunities ensuring future generations will enjoy a cleaner and healthier Long Island Sound”, said Albert E. Caccese, Executive Director of Audubon New York, the state program of the National Audubon Society. “We applaud Congresswoman Nita Lowey, a steadfast champion of the Sound for more than 2 decades, for her tireless efforts on behalf of this nationally significant estuary.”The U.S. Senate also passed the conference report, and it is expected to be signed into law by President Obama.###
10.29.2009	WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today announced she has secured $1.17 million in federal funding through the 2010 Interior Appropriations Act to enhance infrastructure and landmarks in local communities.“I am thrilled communities in Westchester County will be able to make investments in their infrastructure without cost to local taxpayers as a result of this federal funding,” said Lowey. “Rehabilitating water lines and preserving local landmarks will make our region an even greater place to live, work, and do business.”Lowey is a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee, where she chairs the State and Foreign Operations Subcommittee and sits on the Homeland Security and Labor/Health and Human Services/Education Subcommittees.The conference report for the 2010 Interior Appropriations Act, passed today by the House of Representatives, contains $1.17 million requested by Lowey for projects in New York, including:o $517,000 for Westchester Joint Water Works to rehabilitate aged and deteriorating water mains, helping manage water flow and reduce flooding risk.o $500,000 for the City of White Plains to construct a drinking water transmission line that will reduce chlorine contact time; ando $150,000 to restore the Tarrytown Music Hall, which has been placed on the National Register of Historic Places.In addition to these local projects, Lowey and other Members of Congress representing districts along the Long Island Sound secured $7 million dollars for the Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) Long Island Sound Program. This is an increase of $4 million over last year’s funding level, and will help preserve an area that contributes $5 billion per year to the regional economy through boating, fishing, and tourism.After the U.S. Senate passes the conference report, it is expected to be signed into law by President Obama.###
10.21.2009	WASHINGTON - Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY) today responded to Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke’s opposition to moving up the effective date of consumer protections contained within the Credit CARD Act:“I commend Chairman Bernanke for recognizing immediate implementation of consumer protections contained within the Credit CARD Act would benefit consumers. But I reject the premise that causing an inconvenience to lenders is reason enough to forestall protections that would help millions of Americans avoid mountains of debt as a result of unfair practices by credit card companies.“Just this month, Bank of America announced it would implement these consumer protections in advance of the legal requirement. If one of the largest issuers of credit cards in the world can make this work, the others can too.”Earlier this year Congress passed and President Obama signed into law the Credit CARD Act, which would protect consumers from egregious practices like double-cycle billing, universal default, and raising interest rates on a credit card based on other accounts. These consumer protections are scheduled to take effect in February 2010. In an effort to prevent banks from “beating the clock” by introducing new fees and increasing interest rates before the full implementation date of the Credit CARD Act, Rep. Lowey introduced legislation that would implement immediately the bill’s provisions.###
10.16.2009	WASHINGTON - Congresswomen Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today announced that organizations in Westchester and Rockland Counties will receive tens of thousands in federal funding to support a variety of housing and homeownership services, and the City of White Plains will receive more than $900,000 in Community Development Block Grants (CDBG) from the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD).“The housing crisis is especially severe in the New York metropolitan area where the cost of living is so high and affordable housing opportunities are so difficult to find,” said Lowey. “I am pleased this federal funding will support community organizations’ efforts to help those in need of housing assistance.”HUD is providing grants through the Housing Counseling Program to support the delivery of a wide variety of housing counseling services to homebuyers, homeowners, low- to moderate-income renters, and the homeless. The primary objectives of the program are to improve financial literacy, expand homeownership opportunities, improve access to affordable housing, and preserve homeownership.Grant recipients in Westchester and Rockland Counties include:o Community Housing Innovations ($23,496);o Human Development Services of Westchester Inc. ($42,724);o Rockland Housing and Action Coalition ($33,984); ando Westchester Residential Opportunities Inc ($39,228).“This funding will help us serve the increasing number of clients in need of assistance following the President’s introduction of the Making Home Affordable Program,” said Westchester Residential Opportunities, Inc. Director Veronica Raphael.“We are vey excited to be able to continue providing financial literacy counseling to prospective homebuyers and homeowners who are experiencing financial difficulties, with the assistance of HUD,” said Rockland Housing and Action Coalition Director Gerri Levy.The City of White Plains will receive $904,879 from the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development through the Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) program.“CDBG grants are incredibly useful due to the wide variety of programs and activities the funding may support,” said Lowey. “I am thrilled White Plains will benefit from this federal funding, which will enable the City to make investments without raising costs for local taxpayers.”CDBG grants are provided annually to states and local governments to facilitate development of viable urban communities through suitable housing and living environments and economic opportunities for those with low or moderate incomes.
10.15.2009	WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today announced she has secured $3.9 million in federal funding through the 2010 Homeland Security Appropriations Act to enhance New York’s security.“I am thrilled communities like Elmsford, Pelham, and Harrison will be able to make investments in local security without cost to local taxpayers as a result of this federal funding,” said Lowey. “This will help our local first responders prevent and respond quickly to emergencies.”Lowey is a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee, where she chairs the State and Foreign Operations Subcommittee and sits on the Homeland Security and Labor/Health and Human Services/Education Subcommittees.The conference report for the 2010 Homeland Security Appropriations Act, passed today by the House of Representatives, contains $3.7 million requested by Lowey for projects in New York, including:o $275,000 for the Town-Village of Harrison to construct an emergency operations center;o $165,000 for the Village of Elmsford to install cameras and other security equipment in the village’s emergency operations center;o $562,500 for the Village of Pelham to implement storm-water management projects to reduce or eliminate the long-term risk from flood hazards; ando $3 million for the New York State Office of Cyber Security and Critical Infrastructure Coordination to help state and local governments enhance the security of computer networks.In addition to these local projects, the conference report funds critical program Lowey has advocated that benefit urban areas like New York.Lowey, a member of the conference committee reconciling the House and Senate versions of the Appropriations Act, successfully ensured that the Securing the Cities program – which helps New York City protect against a radiological attack – would not be eliminated as the federal budget proposed. The conference report provides $20 million for Securing the Cities, equivalent to New York’s allocation in FY 2009.The conference report contains $887 million for the Urban Area Security Initiative – of which New York is the largest beneficiary – $50 million more than last year. Based on historical figures, public safety agencies in the New York metropolitan area are likely to receive more than $160 million. The conference report also includes $950 million for the State Homeland Security Grant Program, $300 million for transit security grants, $300 million for port security grants, and $340 million for Emergency Management Performance Grants.Additionally, the conference report contains $200 million for the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) Emergency Food and Shelter Program. Based on historical figures, this would result in $540,000 for Westchester County and $174,000 for Rockland County.After the U.S. Senate passes the conference report, it is expected to be signed into law by President Obama.###
10.12.2009	WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today announced she has secured $1 million in federal funding for the City of New Rochelle to make energy-efficient upgrades to City Hall, which will reduce costs to taxpayers of operating the City government and school district.“Using energy more efficiently is one of the most effective ways we can reduce costs to local taxpayers and boost the local economy,” said Lowey. “Federal assistance, along with local communities’ investments, is helping our region to take the lead in building a green economy. I am thrilled New Rochelle will benefit from this federal funding to make upgrades to City Hall.”New Rochelle Mayor Noam Bramson said: "Congresswoman Lowey's invaluable support will make a critical positive difference as New Rochelle continues its efforts to promote energy efficiency, sustainability, and cost-savings."The City of New Rochelle will use the federal funding to make several upgrades to City Hall, also the headquarters of the City School District of New Rochelle. These upgrades – which may include installation of high-efficiency insulated windows and improvements to the boiler and HVAC systems – will reduce the cost to City taxpayers of heating and cooling the facility.Congresswoman Lowey secured $1 million for these projects in the Fiscal Year 2010 Energy and Water Appropriations Act. On October 1, the U.S. House of Representatives passed the conference report for this annual funding bill, which will become law once passed by the Senate and signed by President Obama.“I urge the Senate to pass this critical funding bill so President Obama can sign it into law, helping communities like New Rochelle boost their local economy and reduce their environmental footprint,” said Lowey.###
10.06.2009	WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today announced Westchester County will receive $1.05 million from the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) to identify and eliminate lead hazards in homes and educate about the importance of lead safety.“Identifying and eliminating lead hazards in homes is critical to keeping children safe,” said Lowey. “I am pleased Westchester County will receive this federal funding to reduce dangers residents face, and to conduct outreach to thousands of individuals in New York.”The funds will be awarded by the Lead Hazard Control and Lead Hazard Reduction Demonstration Program of the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development and used to evaluate 175 homes for lead paint and lead hazards and eliminate lead hazards in 155 homes. The funds may also be used to conduct poison prevention outreach and education to at least 3,000 neighborhoods, contractors, and schools, and train and certify 45 individuals in lead safety.These funds will be used by the Westchester County in partnership with Community Housing Innovations, Human Development Services of Westchester, the Washingtonville Housing Alliance, the Housing Action Council, the Preservation Company of Peekskill, Westchester Residential Opportunities, and the Westchester County Department of Health.###
10.01.2009	WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today announced the 2010 Energy and Water Appropriations Act conference report, passed today by the House of Representatives, contains nearly $1.5 million in federal funds for important projects in the lower Hudson Valley.“Greenburgh, New Rochelle, and communities within the Bronx River Basin will benefit from this federal funding for energy efficiency and ecosystem restoration,” said Lowey. “These funds will help our communities finance important projects without raising local property taxes. This will make our neighborhoods even greater places to live, work, and do business.”Lowey is a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee, where she chairs the State and Foreign Operations Subcommittee and sits on the Homeland Security and Labor/Health and Human Services/Education Subcommittees.The conference report for the 2010 Energy and Water Appropriations Act, passed today by the House of Representatives, contains nearly $1.5 million requested by Lowey for projects in the lower Hudson Valley, including:· $169,000 for the installation of an energy-efficient solar hot water system at the Theodore Young Community Center in Greenburgh;· $1 million for energy-efficient upgrades to the New Rochelle City Hall; and· $269,000 for the Army Corps of Engineers Ecosystem Restoration along the Bronx River Basin. This investment is expected to be sufficient to finish the project.After the U.S. Senate passes the conference report, it is expected to be signed into law by President Obama.###
10.01.2009	WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today announced the City of Yonkers will receive $1.823 million to support energy efficiency, conservation, and green jobs projects from the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act.“Making the transition to use less energy and produce and use energy more efficiently is among the best long-term investments we can make for our economy, environment, and national security,” said Lowey. “I am pleased the City of Yonkers will receive federal assistance for these important goals.”Under DOE’s Energy Efficiency and Conservation Block Grant (EECBG) Program, funds are awarded to help communities improve their energy efficiency, reduce their energy use and fossil fuel emissions, and create green jobs locally.The EECBG Program was funded for the first time by the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act. Activities eligible for EECBG funding include energy audits and building retrofits in the residential and commercial sector, the development and implementation of advanced building codes and inspections, and the creation of financial incentive programs for energy efficiency improvements.###
10.01.2009	WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today announced Rockland County will receive $749,300 to support energy efficiency, conservation, and green jobs projects from the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act.“Making the transition to use less energy and produce and use energy more efficiently is among the best long-term investments we can make for our economy, environment, and national security,” said Lowey. “I am pleased Rockland County will receive federal assistance for these important goals.”Under DOE’s Energy Efficiency and Conservation Block Grant (EECBG) Program, funds are awarded to help communities improve their energy efficiency, reduce their energy use and fossil fuel emissions, and create green jobs locally.The EECBG Program was funded for the first time by the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act. Activities eligible for EECBG funding include energy audits and building retrofits in the residential and commercial sector, the development and implementation of advanced building codes and inspections, and the creation of financial incentive programs for energy efficiency improvements.###
10.01.2009	WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today announced the Town of New Castle will receive $121,525 in federal funding to improve school safety for students.“Ensuring our children have a safe and secure place to learn and grow is a basic responsibility we all share,” said Lowey. “I am pleased the Town of New Castle will receive federal assistance to help fulfill this obligation.”New Castle Police Chief Charles Ferry said, “This federal funding will help New Castle make our schools an even safer and more secure place for students.”Secure Our Schools grants, awarded by the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) Office of Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS) provide funding to state, local, or tribal governments to assist with the procurement of school safety resources and enhance school safety equipment and/or programs. Each SOS grant is two years in duration. Funding under this program may be requested for such things as: placement and use of metal detectors; locks, lighting, and other deterrent measures; security assessments; security training of personnel and students; coordination with local law enforcement; and any other measure that may provide a significant increase in security.###
09.30.2009	WHITE PLAINS – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today announced the White Plains Housing Authority will receive two $1.78 million grants from the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development to improve the Lakeview Apartment complex. These grant funds were provided in the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (Recovery Act).The Recovery Act is providing critical resources to public housing authorities in our area, said Lowey. “I am pleased the Recovery Act will help Lakeview Apartments undertake projects that will improve the efficiency of its buildings and accessibility for seniors.”“We are extremely appreciative of the Congresswoman’s support of our housing authority and our ability to be able to get this grant,” said White Plains Housing Authority Executive Director Mack Carter. “With these funds we’ll be able to strengthen and improve our infrastructure in our buildings. It will also help us to move toward a Green building for one site. For the other site, which is our predominantly senior building, we’ll be able to bring in new appliances and host ongoing programs for seniors.”This funding for White Plains Housing Authority is part of $95 million in competitive grants awarded by HUD Secretary Shaun Donovan, allowing public housing authorities throughout the country to make necessary improvements to public housing communities that will specifically address the needs of seniors and persons with disabilities. These awards will help 44 housing authorities make existing public housing units fully accessible or convert them for use by seniors and persons with disabilities.These Public Housing Capital Funds are the last round of competitive funding available to public housing authorities through the Recovery Act. Public housing authorities across the U.S. have received nearly $4 billion in funding through the Recovery Act to modernize public housing, enhance energy efficiency and create jobs, among other activities.###
09.28.2009	Washington, DC – Today Representatives José E. Serrano and Nita M. Lowey announced that they had secured $12 million for the NYPD to bolster “Securing the Cities,” a nuclear device detection program. Both Representatives serve on the House Appropriations Homeland Security Subcommittee.“New York City is always atop terrorists’ list of targets, so we have to work especially hard to thwart attacks,” said Rep. Serrano. “This $12 million will pay to continue to develop the radiation detectors that keep us safe from the threat of dirty bombs. Besides protecting us, this program is a vital testing ground for the strategies and technologies that can later be deployed to other cities in our nation. I am proud that Nita Lowey and I were able to ensure that this vital funding was prioritized in the DHS budget. This project is simply too important to fall to the bottom of any list.”“New York remains a top target for terrorists around the world, and I am pleased we have secured critical funding to help prevent a catastrophic attack,” said Lowey. “This is an example of coordination between federal and local law enforcement agencies that is so critical to discovering threats and preventing them from coming to fruition. I will work with Congressman Serrano and the rest of the New York delegation to ensure this funding is signed into law.”Securing the Cities is a program to protect New York City from a radiological or nuclear device. It has been operating in New York and the tri-state area for the past three years and has trained and equipped anti-terrorism units. It has been jointly funded and run by federal, state, and local governments. The lessons learned from the program are expected to be used in other cities around the nation. Serrano and Lowey have successfully fought each year to secure federal funding for this initiative, because of both its local and national importance.###
09.25.2009	Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY) and Congresswoman Kay Granger (R-TX), Chairwoman and Ranking member of the Appropriations State and Foreign Operations Subcommittee, today announced they requested a hold on $2.5 million in U.S. assistance to Libya due to President Qaddafi's recent celebration in honor of Abdel Baset Megrahi, the only individual convicted in the bombing of Pan Am flight 103, and his flagrant disrespect for the families of victims of the attack during his trip to the United States.To view the full text of the lawmakers' letter to Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton, please click here.###
09.23.2009	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Hall (D-NY) and Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY) today contacted Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton to urge her to prevent Muammar Qaddafi from coming to Bedford, New York, where the Libyan government has erected a tent for use during his trip to the United States.Qaddafi and the government of Libya have sponsored numerous incidents of terrorism including the bombing of Pan Am flight 103 that killed 190 Americans, many of whom were from New York.Full text of letter follows:Dear Secretary Clinton:We write with extreme concern and outrage over Colonel Qaddafi’s efforts to erect a tent in Bedford, NY, for his use during his trip to the United States. As you are well aware, Colonel Qaddafi and the government of Libya have sponsored numerous acts of terrorism, including the tragic bombing of Pan Am flight 103 in which 190 innocent Americans were murdered.Colonel Qaddafi’s hubris is despicable and inexcusable. Bedford and the Hudson Valley are home to numerous families of victims of the Pan Am bombing, and staking a tent in their community shows a complete lack of compassion and remorse. The recent fete thrown for known terrorist Abdel Baset al-Megrahi upon his return to Libya from Scotland compounds the outrage we feel over Colonel Qaddafi’s potential visit to property that straddles our Congressional districts.We implore you to do everything in your power to prevent Colonel Qaddafi from coming to the Hudson Valley. While he may have been provided a visa to attend the United Nations General Assembly, his lodging or entertaining in the community where families still grieve for loved ones lost on Pan Am flight 103 would only perpetuate ill will toward the Libyan government among the American people and the world community.We appreciate your attention to this matter and urge you to ensure that Colonel Qaddafi remains outside of our districts.Sincerely,Nita M. LoweyJohn J. Hall
09.22.2009	WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), Chairwoman of the Appropriations State and Foreign Operations Subcommittee, today expressed outrage at reports Mu’ammar al-Qadhafi will stay on property owned by Donald Trump in Bedford while at the United Nations General Assembly.“Colonel Qadhafi’s history of support for terrorism and his recent homecoming party for Pan Am flight 103 bomber Abdel Baset al-Megrahi make him unwelcome throughout the New York area.“The fete Colonel Qadhafi threw for Mr. Megrahi upon his return to Libya from Scottish prison was shameful. It showed a lack of remorse for culpability in the 1988 act of terrorism that claimed the lives of 270 individuals, including 190 Americans, some of whom were from Westchester County. His efforts since that time to re-engage in the international community ring hollow after witnessing this display, and the families of his local victims should not be subjected to his presence in our community.“I have expressed my strong objections directly to the Department of State and the Libyan government.”###
09.21.2009	WHITE PLAINS – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today called for an extension of the 65 percent federal subsidy of COBRA premiums that was authorized in the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act. Without an extension by Congress, some individuals lose these subsidies in November.“Federal subsidies for COBRA premiums are making temporary health insurance more affordable for millions of unemployed individuals and their families,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “This is not the time for those who have lost their job to have to worry about an impending drastic increase in their health insurance costs. Congress should extend these subsidies so the number of uninsured does not grow even further.”COBRA – named for the law that created it, the Consolidated Omnibus Budget Resolution Act – is a vital backstop that helps individuals maintain their insurance when they lose their job and employer-sponsored coverage. COBRA is intended to provide temporary coverage until the beneficiary can find a new job and obtain more permanent health insurance.Without an extension of the 65% federal subsidy created by the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, unemployed individuals will be forced to pay the entire cost of their transitional health insurance, costing hundreds of dollars per month beginning in November. Without an extension, individuals who lose their jobs after December will no longer be eligible for the federal subsidy.According to the U.S. Department of Labor, the current national unemployment rate is 9.7 percent and 46.3 million individuals lack health insurance.At a time of high unemployment and lack of affordable health insurance options, it is critical the federal government extend federal COBRA subsidies to maintain this vital backstop for individuals and families.###
09.15.2009	WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today announced two schools in Westchester County have been designated “blue ribbon” schools by the U.S. Department of Education in recognition of outstanding student achievement.“Preparing our children for the future is among our most important responsibilities,” said Lowey. “I am pleased these outstanding schools in Scarsdale and Mamaroneck are being recognized for the achievements of their students.”The two schools recognized are FE Bellows Elementary School in the Rye Neck Union Free School District, and Greenvale School in the Eastchester Union School District.The Blue Ribbon Schools Program honors public and private schools that are academically superior or have shown dramatic improvement in student achievement, especially among disadvantaged students. These schools serve as models for other schools throughout the nation and details of their achievements are shared on the U.S. Department of Education’s website, www.ed.gov.At the invitation of U.S. Secretary of Education Arne Duncan, the principal and one teacher from each school will be invited to Washington, DC for the November 2 and 3 awards Ceremony, at which each of the schools will receive a Blue Ribbon Schools plaque and a flag to signify its status.###
08.26.2009	Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today released the following statement on the passing of Senator Edward Kennedy (D-MA).“The passing of Senator Kennedy is a great loss for our nation. His record of accomplishment in Congress is legendary and unmatched, having spent his life fighting for those most in need – the poor, the disabled, minorities, women, children, and the civil rights of all Americans. Millions live in a healthier, more equal, and more just society due to his efforts to expand all Americans’ access to health care, education, jobs, and opportunity. “Senator Kennedy’s warmth, thoughtfulness, and ability to connect personally made him beloved among his colleagues including his adversaries. He showed the same courage fighting his fatal illness that he demonstrated throughout his life in dealing with more personal tragedy than anyone should have to experience.“I was honored to call Senator Kennedy a colleague and a friend. Honoring his legacy means selfless dedication to those less fortunate and valuing the nation and fellow citizens rather than narrow self-interest. I hope that spirit guides the efforts of Congress and advocates as we work to expand access to high-quality health care for all Americans.”###
08.13.2009	WHITE PLAINS – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today hosted a roundtable meeting of Westchester County residents who have personally dealt with the difficulties of accessing affordable health care or have been denied care by insurance companies. Lowey also detailed the urgency of health insurance reform and the benefits this reform would bring to New York.“Families and individuals across the nation – and right here in Westchester County – have real difficulties accessing affordable health insurance,” said Lowey. “Even those who are insured may be arbitrarily denied necessary treatment if it will hurt the insurance company’s bottom line. I am working to ensure health insurance reform moving through Congress makes care more affordable for individuals and families and ends egregious practices that put care out of reach for those who need it. “Evidence of the crisis in our health care system is clear:Since 2000, personal premiums have more than doubled, now consuming 17% of the median family's income.47 million uninsured often forgo preventive care and rely on hospital emergency rooms for primary care, increasing costs for all taxpayers including those with insurance.In 2008, the average individual spent $4,704 per year on health insurance premiums and the average family spent $12,680.Without reform, these trends will get worse.The cost of a family health insurance plan will increase to an estimated $24,000 per year in 2019, approximately 45% of household income.The number of uninsured will reach 66 million - including 11 million who will lose employer-sponsored health care - raising costs for all.Some individuals may be denied insurance coverage if they have a pre-existing condition. Others who have access to employer-sponsored health insurance or who can afford a family or individual policy may have their policy dropped if they become ill, or may be denied coverage or necessary treatments.Health insurance reform will make it possible to switch jobs without worrying whether your new employer offers coverage. You can get sick without facing the prospect of higher premiums. There would be no exorbitant out-of-pocket costs or lifetime limits on benefits that can lead to medical bankruptcy. And expanding coverage to those without insurance will mean lower premiums for the insured than you would see otherwise.Although the legislative process is ongoing, health insurance reform legislation taking shape in the House of Representatives would benefit Westchester and Rockland Counties:22,100 small businesses could receive tax credits to provide coverage to their employees;8,800 seniors would avoid the donut hole in Medicare Part D;460 families could escape bankruptcy each year due to unaffordable health care costs;53,000 uninsured individuals would gain high-quality, affordable health insurance; andHealth care providers would be paid for $147 million in uncompensated care each year.###
08.13.2009	WHITE PLAINS – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today announced the White Plains Fire Department will receive a $149,042 grant from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) for training in technical rescue techniques through the Assistance to Firefighters Grants (AFG) program.“First responders risk their own safety for the benefit of their community and neighbors,” said Lowey. “It is our responsibility to ensure they have the equipment and training to help them be successful and keep themselves save when responding to emergencies. I will continue working to make sure they have the resources they need to serve our communities.”White Plains Public Safety Commissioner Frank Straub said, “The funds from the Fire Act grant will be used to train firefighters in technical rescue techniques - areas such as trench rescue, building collapse, and high and low angle rescue. The Department is very grateful for Congresswoman Lowey's support and advocacy on behalf of this very important and critical grant funded training.”Grants are awarded to fire departments to enhance their ability to protect the public and fire service personnel from fire and related hazards.###
08.05.2009	WASHINGTON – The U.S. Senate yesterday passed legislation that would rename the U.S. Postal Service facility on Purdy Avenue in Rye, New York, as the “Caroline O’Day Post Office Building.” The legislation was introduced by Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) in the House of Representatives, where it passed unanimously on May 5, 2009.“Caroline O’Day was a brave suffragist who successfully enfranchised New York women three years before the passage of the Nineteenth Amendment,” said Lowey. “As a Member of Congress, Caroline O’Day not only faithfully represented the myriad interests of her constituents from Buffalo to Brooklyn, she put one of the first cracks in the glass ceiling as one of the first women in the U.S. House of Representatives.”Caroline O’Day was a resident of Rye and a member of the Westchester League of Women Voters. With her friend Eleanor Roosevelt, O’Day helped found the Women’s Division of the New York State Democratic Committee and was elected chairwoman of the New York delegation to the 1924 Democratic National Convention, becoming the first woman from either major party to hold the position.Caroline O’Day was elected in 1934 to one of New York’s two at-large Congressional seats and became the second woman in history to chair a committee. She fought to improve the quality of life of underrepresented minorities in cities and migrant agricultural workers. She also fought to alleviate poverty among children.“We women currently serving in this esteemed body stand on the shoulders of pioneering women like Caroline O’Day, whose grit and determination helped them not only overcome gender bias, but lead this nation through depression and war,” said Lowey.The legislation designating the “Caroline O’Day Post Office Building” is awaiting the signature of President Obama to be enacted into law.###
07.25.2009	Newburgh, NY -- U.S. Representatives Maurice Hinchey (D-NY) and Nita Lowey (D-NY) today led French Ambassador to the United States Pierre Vimont on a tour of the Hudson River Valley National Heritage Area. The tour included public events in Newburgh and Dobbs Ferry to celebrate the recently enacted Washington-Rochambeau Revolutionary Route National Historic Trail Designation Act, which Hinchey authored and Lowey cosponsored. "We are delighted that French Ambassador Vimont has come to the Hudson Valley to celebrate the designation of the Washington-Rochambeau Revolutionary Route National Historic Trail," Hinchey said. "The public will now literally be able to retrace the footsteps of General Washington and Comte de Rochambeau and gain a much greater appreciation for our region's rich history. The French military support was critical to our country's success in the Revolutionary War, and I'm very pleased that this trail appropriately recognizes those contributions." "Ambassador Vimont’s visit to Dobbs Ferry and Newburgh reminds us of the critical role French forces played in helping our nation gain its independence," said Lowey. "By making the Washington-Rochambeau Revolutionary Route National Historic Trail a reality, New Yorkers will be able to enjoy the rich history that exists within our own back yard. I welcome Ambassador Vimont to New York and look forward to enjoying the trail." Hinchey, Lowey, and Vimont highlighted the benefits associated with the passage and subsequent enactment of Hinchey's bill earlier this year that formally designated the Washington-Rochambeau Revolutionary Route ("W3R") National Historic Trail. The W3R Trail traces and commemorates the more than 600-mile route from Newport, Rhode Island to Yorktown, Virginia taken in 1781 by the armies of General George Washington and Lieutenant General Jean-Baptiste Donatien de Vimeur (Comte de Rochambeau) of France as well as the trail the forces took back north after their victory. With the support of the French fleet commanded by Admiral François-Joseph Paul (Comte de Grasse), the combined Franco-American forces forced the surrender of General Cornwallis at Yorktown, ending major hostilities in the American Revolutionary War. This crucial victory and the French military and financial support allowed the United States to realize its independence.The Washington-Rochambeau Revolutionary Route National Historic Trail, which goes through eight states (Rhode Island, Connecticut, New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Delaware, Maryland, and includes portions of the Hudson River Valley, recognizes the important military contributions by France to the American victory in the War of Independence and also helps to highlight the critical role played by the Hudson River Valley during the American Revolution.The bill designates the route as a National Historic Trail, maps the route with educational signs, and gives administrative authority to the National Park Service through the Secretary of the Interior. Additionally, the bill ensures that all private property rights are respected during the process of designating parts of the trail.###
07.24.2009	Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY), Chairwoman of the State and Foreign Operations Appropriations Subcommittee, Ranking Member Kay Granger (R-TX), and Congresswoman Susan Davis (D-CA) today released the following statement in support of the Global Day of Action for Human Rights in Iran on July 25th:“Respect for basic principles of human rights – freedom of assembly, expression and press, freedom from unjust detention, and accountability for human rights violations – is among the most basic responsibilities of a government. Over the past several weeks, the world has watched with hope and admiration as the Iranian people have demanded a free and fair election, an end to repression, and respect for their basic human rights.“On this Global Day of Action, we stand in solidarity with the courageous Iranian demonstrators, particularly women who have stood up to brutality and threats. We support the Global Day of Action’s core principles: international support for the human rights of the Iranian people, immediate release of all those detained unjustly, an end to state-sponsored violence, and respect for basic freedoms as guaranteed under Iran’s constitution.“As demonstrations and other events continue to unfold, we maintain faith that the Iranian people will be successful in gaining respect from their own government for the basic human rights that all individuals deserve.”###
07.14.2009	WASHINGTON – The Transportation, Housing and Urban Development Appropriations Subcommittee yesterday passed the its Fiscal Year 2010 appropriations bill, including nearly $2 million requested by Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) for important transportation infrastructure and economic development projects in Westchester County.“Federal assistance helps our communities finance important transportation infrastructure without raising local property taxes, and I am pleased that our region stands to benefit greatly from the 2010 appropriations process,” said Lowey. “The Transportation, Housing and Urban Development Appropriations Act will help many of our local governments create jobs while making our communities even greater places to live, work, and do business.” Lowey is a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee, where she chairs the State and Foreign Operations Subcommittee and sits on the Homeland Security and Labor/Health and Human Services/Education Subcommittees. The 2010 Transportation, Housing and Urban Development Appropriations Act contains nearly $2 million for projects in the lower Hudson Valley requested by Lowey, including:$900,000 to continue a project to improve safety and reduce congestion on Ashburton Avenue, a vital roadway in the City of Yonkers; $350,000 to support improvements to the streetscape in downtown Eastchester; $175,000 for the Larchmont Public Library to renovate the children’s room to improve opportunities for learning and enrichment; and $500,000 to improve safety on Yonkers Avenue in Tuckahoe Village – an area of frequent flooding – following retaining wall repairs by the Army Corps of Engineers. The Transportation, Housing and Urban Development Appropriations Act is pending before the full Appropriations Committee and is expected to pass in the House of Representatives in the coming weeks.###
07.10.2009	WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today announced Yonkers and New Rochelle will receive more than $8 million in federal funding from the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development to provide housing and emergency shelter for populations in need.“In times of economic hardship and rising unemployment, it is critical that communities have the ability to provide housing and emergency shelter for families and individuals who lose their homes,” said Lowey. “I am pleased Yonkers and New Rochelle will receive this critical funding.”The U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development announced grant allocations for states and cities for four grant programs critical to New York: Community Development Block Grants (CDBG), Emergency Shelter Grants (ESG), HOME Investment Partnerships, and Housing Opportunities for Persons with AIDS (HOPWA).CDBG funding is used to develop viable urban communities by providing decent housing and a suitable living environment, and by expanding economic opportunities, principally for low- and moderate-income persons.· New York State: $48,376,971· New Rochelle: $1,684,162· Yonkers: $3,740,882Emergency Shelter Grants provide funds to improve the quality and number of emergency homeless shelters.· New York State: $3,277,009· Yonkers: $164,344The HOME program helps to expand the supply of affordable housing to low-income families by funding housing programs that meet local needs and priorities.· New York State: $38,644,399· New Rochelle: $669,176· Yonkers: $2,151,515Housing Opportunities for Persons With AIDS provides housing assistance and supportive services for projects that benefit low-income persons medically diagnosed with HIV or AIDS and their families.· New York State: $1,938,459###
07.10.2009	WASHINGTON – The Appropriations Labor, Health, and Human Services, and Education Subcommittee today passed the Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education Appropriations Act, including $2.4 million requested by Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) for important projects to enhance health and education in Westchester and Rockland Counties.“Federal assistance helps our communities finance important public safety projects without raising local property taxes, and I am pleased that our region stands to benefit greatly from the 2010 appropriations process,” said Lowey. “The Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education Appropriations Act will help many of our schools, communities, and health care providers provide the service residents of our area deserve.”Lowey is a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee, where she chairs the State and Foreign Operations Subcommittee and sits on the Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education and Homeland Security Subcommittees.The 2010 Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education Appropriations bill contains $2.4 million for projects in the lower Hudson Valley requested by Lowey, including:$297,000 for Yonkers Public Schools for after school programs, academic enrichment, and family literacy activities, and for the continuation of a school reform program with the Institute for Student Achievement;$297,000 for North Rockland Central School District programs to improve the English skills of non-native English speaking students;$297,000 for Ossining Union Free School District for after-school programs, academic enrichment, and family literacy activities, and for the continuation of a school reform program with the Institute for Student Achievement;$297,000 for Port Chester-Rye Union Free School District for extended day, teacher professional development, teaching technology, parent education and other services to continue to implement full service community schools, and academic enrichment and high school transition programs;$297,000 for City School District of New Rochelle for after-school programs;$297,000 for Tarrytown Union Free School District for family literacy activities and professional development to support literacy education;$250,000 for White Plains Hospital Center for the expansion and modernization of its emergency department;$250,000 for St. John’s Riverside Hospital for medical equipment;$118,000 for Jawonio, Inc. in New City to administer a program to improve educational service for children with disabilities.The Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education Appropriations Act is pending before full Appropriations Committee.###
07.09.2009	Bill total: $48.843 billion2009 Enacted including Supplemental Funding: $50.0 billionPresident’s Request: $52.044 billionKEY INVESTMENTSState Department and USAID Operations, Staff and Security:• Diplomatic and Consular Programs: $8.2 billion, $731 million below the President’s request and $1.2 billion above 2009, for diplomatic operations and to hire over 1000 new Foreign Service staff positions.• Operating Expenses for USAID: $1.39 billion, $50 million below the President’s request and $330 million above 2009, to allow USAID to hire 300 additional Foreign Service Officers as part of the Development Leadership Initiative.Assistance to Frontline States of Afghanistan, Pakistan, and Iraq• $2.695 billion in assistance for Afghanistan, which is $81.9 million below the President’s request and $7 million above 2009 enacted level including supplemental appropriations.• $1.519 billion in assistance for Pakistan which is $63 million below the President’s request and $31.5 million below the 2009 enacted level including supplemental appropriations.• $484.3 million for Iraq, which is $15.7 million below the President’s request, and $114.7 million below the 2009 enacted level including supplemental appropriationsGlobal Health: $7.784 billion, $190 million above the President’s request and $670 million above 2009, to strengthen the global public health infrastructure and surveillance network in order to save lives overseas and to protect the health of Americans.• HIV/AIDS: $5.75 billion, $150 million above the President’s request and $250 million above 2009, for international HIV/AIDS prevention, treatment and care programs including $750 million for multilateral programs through the Global Fund to Fight HIV/AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria.• Global Health and Child Survival: $2.39 billion, which when combined with $50 million for global pandemic programs in the FY2009 supplemental is $99 million above the President’s request and $480 million above 2009, for other global health programs including increases above the 2009 level of nearly $33 million for maternal and child health programs, $202.5 million to fight malaria, $90 million to fight tuberculosis, and $100 million for international family planning.Development Assistance: $2.49 billion, $243 million below the President’s request and $690 million above 2009 for agricultural development, climate change, democracy, and education, in countries that face a complex range of long-term development challenges.Agriculture and Food Security Programs: $1 billion, $363 million below the President’s request and $550 million above 2009 to provide agricultural assistance and improve food security.Basic Education: $1 billion, $19 million above the President’s request and $300 million above 2009, to increase access to quality education and provide alternatives to madrassas.Improving Access to Safe Drinking Water: $335 million, $162 million above the President’s request and $35 million above 2009, for safe water programs, including help to increase access to safe drinking water (such as pumps and wells); build water systems; and expand safe hygiene programs.Energy and the Environment: $1.2 billion, $354 million below the President’s request and $643 million above 2009 for bilateral and multilateral assistance to promote clean energy, environment, biodiversity and climate change programs worldwide, including funding for the Global Environmental Facility, the Clean Technology Fund and the Strategic Climate Fund to work with developing nations to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, preserve parks, protect wildlife, and mitigate and adapt to the impacts of climate change.Humanitarian Assistance:• Refugee Assistance: $1.55 billion, same as the President’s request and $156 million below 2009 to help displaced people around the world with food, water, shelter and other basic needs.• Disaster Assistance: $830 million, $50 million below the President’s request and $10 million above FY2009, to avert famines and provide life-saving assistance during natural disasters and for internally displaced people in Afghanistan, Pakistan, Iraq and elsewhere around the world.Middle East Security Assistance: $2.22 billion for Israel which combined with the $555 million of forward funding in the FY2009 supplemental is the same as the $2.775 billion in the President’s request and consistent with the second year of the 10-year Memorandum of Understanding between the United States and Israel; $1.29 billion in economic and security assistance for Egypt, which when combined with the $260 million in forward funding in the 2009 supplemental is the same as the President’s request; $513 million in economic and security assistance for Jordan, which when combined with the $150 million in forward funding in the 2009 supplemental is the same as the President’s request.Counternarcotics Programs: $318.8 million for Mexico and Central American, which when combined with $254 million in forward funding for Mexico in the 2009 supplemental, is the same as the President’s request for the Merida program and $167.8 million above 2009 Merida and bi-lateral programs for counter-narcotics and law enforcement programs in Mexico and Central America. In addition, the bill includes $37 million for a new Caribbean Basin Security Initiative and $520 million for counternarcotics and alternative livelihoods assistance for Colombia, $7 million above the President’s request and $25 million below 2009.Peacekeeping Activities• UN Peacekeeping Missions: $2.1 billion, $135 million below the President’s request and $263.5 million below 2009, for Contributions for International Peacekeeping Activities. These funds support UN peacekeeping missions around the world including in Darfur, Congo, Liberia, Haiti, and Lebanon. The bill cuts funding for Somaliam, which is provided under the voluntary Peacekeeping Operations account.• Voluntary Peacekeeping Operations: $331 million, $35 million above the President’s request and $199 below 2009, for Peacekeeping Operations, to advance international support for voluntary multi-national peacekeeping and stabilization efforts, including support for international missions not supported by the UN but of particular interest to the United States.Educational and Cultural Exchanges: $600 million, $33 million below the President’s request and $62 million above 2009, to fund educational, cultural and professional exchange programs worldwide.Broadcasting: $746 million, $1 million above the President’s request and $31 million above 2009, for broadcasting programs critical to the nation’s overall public diplomacy efforts.Peace Corps: $450 million, $76.56 million above the President’s request and $110 million above 2009, for the program which currently has approximately 7,300 volunteers serving in 74 countries. The increase would accelerate the President’s pledge to expand the Peace Corps.Millennium Challenge Corporation: $1.4 billion, $25 million below the President’s request and $525 million above 2009 for bilateral assistance to countries that meet certain economic and governance criteria.OTHER POLICY ITEMSIran: The bill includes language on Iran that requires a report on the status and progress of diplomatic efforts to prevent Iran from acquiring nuclear weapons; continues a reporting requirement on bilateral and multilateral sanctions against Iran; and prevents the Export-Import Bank of the United States from providing credit, insurance, or guarantees to any project controlled by any energy producers or refiners that contribute significantly to Iran’s refined petroleum resources.Climate Change and Intellectual Property Rights*: The bill includes a new provision that directs the Secretary of State to report on actions taken to protect intellectual property rights during the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change negotiations prior to the obligation of funds for the Clean Technology Fund and the Special Climate Fund.International Monetary Fund: The bill includes a new provision that requires the United States Executive Director to use the voice and vote of the United States to oppose the provision of hard currency by the Fund to any country found to be a government that has repeatedly provided support for acts of international terrorism; sunsets the authorization for the New Arrangements to Borrow program after five years; sets a 20% limitation on United States participation in the New Arrangements to Borrow program; and includes a reporting requirement on the use of New Arrangements to Borrow funds.Limitation on Countries Receiving Detainees: The bill includes a limitation on funds to any country, including a state with a compact of free association with the United States, unless 5 days prior to the implementation of an agreement to accept transfer of individuals detained at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba the terms of the agreement are transmitted in writing to the Committees on Appropriations.
07.09.2009	I am pleased to present H.R. 3081, the fiscal year 2010 appropriations bill for the Department of State, foreign operations, and related programs. I am deeply appreciative to my Ranking Member, Kay Granger, for her key role in drafting this bill, which reflects our bipartisan priorities and is a better product as a result of our collaboration. After all the hard work that Ms. Granger put into this bill, I’m deeply saddened that she is unable to be on the House floor with us today to see the passage of our bipartisan product. I would like to extend my most heartfelt thanks to my friend, Ms. Granger, and I know all of us wish for her speedy recovery. Her presence is missed today on the floor, but I know her thoughts are with us and I look forward to continuing to work closely with her as we move forward with the bill.The bill has also benefited from the input of our very informed and engaged subcommittee members.The bill totals $48.843 billion, $3.2 billion below the request and $1.2 billion below the fiscal year 2009 enacted level, including supplemental appropriations. The bill provides an upfront and transparent accounting of the resources needed to fund our foreign policy and national security interests to end the reliance on supplemental appropriations to fund anticipated needs.Let there be no doubt: this bill – which funds the U.S.’s diplomatic and development priorities – is a cornerstone of U.S. national security.It includes $4.7 billion for assistance to Afghanistan, Pakistan and Iraq to help stabilize, strengthen and rebuild these critical countries.In conjunction with funding in the 2009 supplemental, the bill fully funds the U.S. commitments to our allies and partners in the Middle East, including a total of $2.775 billion in FMF pursuant to the MOU between the U.S. and Israel, and our commitments to Egypt and Jordan.The bill provides $987 million to continue support for counter narcotics and alternative development programs in Mexico, Central America, the Caribbean Basin, Colombia and Peru.This bill continues the Congressional commitment to increasing the capacity of our civilian agencies to carry out diplomatic and development missions and provides resources to hire, train, support, and security for 1,000 new Department of State personnel and 300 new USAID personnel.HR 3081 provides $7.6 billion for global health activities including $5.7 billion for global HIV/AIDS, which is $150 million above the President’s request. Not less than $750 million will support the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria, and the bill includes $648 million for voluntary family planning services in the developing world, of which $60 million is for the United Nations Population Fund.Addressing pandemics and other health concerns overseas before they reach our shores is one of the best investments the United States can make to protect American citizens while saving lives overseas. To this end, the bill provides $75 million to address pandemic preparedness and response in addition to $50 million in the Supplemental Appropriations Act, 2009.While I continue to be personally committed to permanently repealing the global gag rule, in the interest of bipartisan cooperation, the bill does not change any provisions of law that restrict funding for abortion or otherwise condition family planning assistance.The bill increases funding for key long-term development priorities, including $1.2 billion to improve access to quality basic and higher education and provide alternatives to madrassas where youth are often exposed to extremism; $1 billion for food security and agricultural development to respond to the global food crisis; over $1.2 billion in bilateral and multilateral assistance for clean energy, biodiversity, and climate change initiatives; and $310 million to expand access to safe water and sanitation.It includes $2.4 billion in refugee and disaster assistance to meet growing humanitarian needs, including in Pakistan and Afghanistan.The bill also provides $450 million for the Peace Corps to jumpstart the President’s pledge to increase the number of volunteers.Finally, oversight is a bipartisan priority and in order to improve accountability the bill provides a total of $146.5 million for the activities of the Inspectors General of the Department of State and USAID as well as for the Special Inspectors General for Iraq and Afghanistan Reconstruction.I want to take a moment to thank all of the staff that have worked so hard on this bill, especially Nisha Desai, our clerk, and her team —Craig Higgins, Steve Marchese, Michele Sumilas, Celia Alvarado and Courtney Dunn. I also want to thank Ann Vaughan, Jennie Munoz and Elizabeth Stanley on my staff for their work.I would like to also thank our hard-working minority staff, including Ann Marie Chotvacs, the minority clerk and Alice Hogans, Mike Ringler, Jason Small and Rachel Carter for all their hard work.Madam Speaker, the bipartisan foreign assistance package before you preserves our nation’s interests. I urge my colleague to give this bill our bipartisan support.
07.09.2009	WASHINGTON – The House Committee on Homeland Security today approved legislation introduced by Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY) that would grant Transportation Security Officers (TSOs) the same workplace protections that other federal employees enjoy.The Transportation Security Workforce Enhancement Act would allow more than 45,000 TSOs and more than 50,000 total TSA employees to bargain collectively, ensure appropriate compensation, and provide protections against whistleblower retaliation. Employees at Federal Emergency Management Agency, Customs and Border Patrol, and numerous other federal security agencies are already afforded these basic workplace rights.“Treating our security workforce like spare parts only hinders the development of an experienced and dedicated workforce focused on protecting the public,” said Lowey. “Extending basic workplace protections to TSOs is not only the right thing to do for 45,000 individuals performing grueling work to protect us, it will decrease costs and improve results our air security.”“I am pleased that the Committee on Homeland Security and all of its Democratic members stood behind the TSA workforce,” said Chairman Bennie Thompson (D-MS). “Our actions today brings us one step closer to affording the workforce with the protections, rights, pay and benefits that their colleagues across DHS and the federal government enjoy. I applaud Rep. Lowey for having the will to push forward with this very important piece of legislation and I look forward to swift passage in the House.”Transportation Security Officers (TSOs) working in airports across the country are a first line of defense against terrorism. However, these workers suffer from high injury rates, attrition, and the lowest morale of all federal agencies. They lack the workplace protections – collective bargaining rights and whistleblower protections – that other federal employees enjoy. The lack of protections for screening personnel, combined with poor workforce management, increases costs and decreases security.The House of Representatives approved expanding TSO workplace protections in the Implementing Recommendations of the 9/11 Commission Act of 2007, but the provision was dropped in conference in response to President Bush’s veto threat.###
06.25.2009	Washington, DC – U.S. Reps. Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) and John Hall (D-Dover) announced today that the U.S. House of Representatives has approved their request for $250,000 to help create a county-wide Interoperable Public Safety Communications System in Rockland County. Hall and Lowey successfully added the funding for the improvements in the Fiscal Year (FY) 2010 Commerce, Justice and Science (CJS) Appropriations Bill that passed in the House last week."This funding will enhance the ability of Rockland County’s emergency responders to react quickly during even the most difficult of circumstances" Hall said. "Rockland County’s aging emergency infrastructure is in need of these upgrades that will allow for 21st century solutions. Together with the Economic Recovery Package Congress passed, which prevented public safety layoffs across America, this funding will help make the people of Rockland County safer and more secure."“Ensuring that first responders can communicate with each other across jurisdictions is among the best ways to coordinate quick and effective emergency responses,” said Lowey, a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee. “I am pleased Rockland County is on track to receive this important public safety investment, and I will work with the New York delegation to ensure it is signed into law.”The $250,000 would help improve the existing public safety communications infrastructure, which dates back to the 1960's and 1970's. With enhancements, Rockland County can establish a county-wide Interoperable Public Safety Communications System to allow for the coordination of efforts and information between towns and villages, countywide, and can save lives during an emergency. Without federal funding, Rockland County taxpayers would have to shoulder the burden of these expensive and necessary upgrades to protect our communities.Lowey and Hall continue to work with New York's Senate delegation to ensure that this vital funding is included in the Senate version of the bill and is signed into law by President Obama.###
06.25.2009	WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today announced Fiscal Year 2010 Appropriations bills contains millions in federal funds for important projects in the lower Hudson Valley.“I am optimistic the 2010 federal appropriations process will again result in federal support for important projects in Westchester and Rockland Counties,” said Lowey. “Federal assistance helps our communities finance important projects without raising local property taxes, and I am pleased that our region stands to benefit greatly from federal support in the coming year.”Lowey is a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee, where she chairs the State and Foreign Operations Subcommittee and sits on the Homeland Security and Labor/Health and Human Services/Education Subcommittees.The 2010 Energy and Water Appropriations bill, passed today by the Energy and Water Appropriations Subcommittee, contains nearly $1.5 million requested by Lowey for projects in the lower Hudson Valley, including:· $169,000 for the installation of an energy-efficient solar hot water system at the Theo Young Community Center in Greenburgh;· $1 million for energy-efficient upgrades to the New Rochelle City Hall; and· $325,000 for the Army Corps of Engineers Ecosystem Restoration along the Bronx River Basin. This investment is expected to be sufficient to finish the project.The 2010 Financial Services Appropriations bill, passed today by the Financial Services Appropriations Subcommittee, contains $250,000 requested by Lowey for projects in the lower Hudson Valley, including:· $125,000 NYS Small Business Development Center at Rockland County Community College to train displaced workers to start or expand small businesses; and· $125,000 Pace University Lienhard School of Nursing workforce education and training initiative.The 2010 Homeland Security Appropriations bill, passed yesterday by the U.S. House of Representatives, contains nearly $4 million requested by Lowey for projects in the lower Hudson Valley, including:· $165,000 for the Village of Elmsford to purchase and install emergency operations center equipment, enabling first responders to monitor numerous areas from a central location;· $562,500 for the Village of Pelham to implement stormwater management improvements to protect the community from flooding;· $275,000 for the Town of Harrison to design and construct an Emergency Command Center to direct emergency activities and improve coordination; and· $3,000,000 for the New York State Office of Cyber Security and Critical Infrastructure Coordination to improve cyber security monitoring throughout the country.
06.17.2009	I am very pleased to present to the Subcommittee the fiscal year 2010 appropriations bill. As a departure from past practice, we will mark up the bill and report instead of using mark-up notes. At the end of mark-up, we will collect the bill and report before you and circulate it to you on Friday. We plan on marking up in Full Committee next Wednesday. This bill reflects the bipartisan priorities of this Committee and of Congress, though clearly there will be differences on some issues. I thank all my Subcommittee members for your insights and suggestions. I particularly thank our ranking member. Kay Granger from Texas has played a key role in drafting this bill, bringing her knowledge and perspective from the defense subcommittee into this process. The bill has also benefited from the input of our very informed and engaged subcommittee members. Today, I would appreciate us moving through this mark-up in an expeditious manner, and I ask that members reserve any amendments until we go to full committee – not that any of you should have any amendments since we have worked hard to accommodate your requests. With that, let me turn to highlights of the bill: The President’s request for activities under the jurisdiction of the Subcommittee on State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs is $52.044 billion. The subcommittee allocation is $48.843 billion, which is $1.2 billion below the fiscal year 2009 enacted level, including supplemental appropriations, and $3.2 billion below the fiscal year 2010 request. In fiscal year 2009, $3.7 billion was in supplemental appropriations bridge funding in Public Law 110-252, and $9.7 billion was provided in the Supplemental Appropriations Act, 2009 (HR 2346). The President’s FY2010 request and the Committee's recommendation seeks to avoid reliance on supplemental appropriations and provides an upfront, honest and transparent accounting of the resources needed to fund our foreign policy and national security interests. National Security and Counter-TerrorismThe Committee's fiscal year 2010 recommendation includes a total of $13.4 billion to protect our national security and combat terrorism. Within this amount, the Committee provides $4.7 billion for assistance to the frontline states of Afghanistan, Pakistan and Iraq to help stabilize, strengthen and rebuild these critical countries. This bill, in conjunction with funding in the 2009 supplemental, fully funds our commitments to our allies and partners in the Middle East including a total of $2.775 billion pursuant to the MOU between the United States and Israel, and our commitments to Egypt and Jordan. The bill provides $987 million to support counter narcotics and alternative development programs in Mexico, Central America, the Caribbean Basin, Colombia and Peru. Rebuilding Diplomatic and Development Capacity As I have noted in our hearings this year, the lack of sufficient capacity in our civilian agencies has resulted in an increased reliance on American troops to carry out diplomatic and development missions. This is neither in the interest of our military, which is overburdened and needs to focus on its core mission, nor our diplomatic and development professionals. We have heard from Secretary Clinton, Secretary Gates, and the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff their support for strengthening the capacity of the Department of State and the United States Agency for International Development (USAID). · Therefore, this bill provides sufficient resources in fiscal year 2010 to hire 1,000 new State Department personnel and 300 new USAID personnel as well as the requisite training, support and security costs associated with these positions. Global Health and HIV/AIDS:The Committee continues robust funding for global health programs and provides a total of $5.7 billion for global HIV/AIDS activities, which is $100 million above the President’s request, and $200 million above the FY 2009 enacted level. This amount includes $700 million for the Global Fund, $100 million above the request. Voluntary family planning services for families in the developing world is also a priority of this committee. Funding for family planning provides access to basic reproductive health services for millions of women, and I am proud that the mark includes $648 million, $100 million above the FY 2009 enacted level and $50 million above the request, which will give millions of women access to basic reproductive health services. Of this amount, $60 million is for the United Nations Population Fund. This bill does not change any of the provisions of law that restrict funding for abortion or otherwise condition family planning assistance. While I continue to be personally committed to the permanent repeal of the global gag rule, I have maintained current law at the request of our ranking member and out of consideration for a bipartisan bill. The Committee believes that funding to address pandemics and other health concerns overseas before they reach our shores is one of the best investments the United States can make to protect American citizens while saving lives overseas. To this end, the Committee provides $75 million to address pandemic preparedness and response and an additional $50 million in the Supplemental Appropriations Act, 2009. Development and other Assistance The Committee provides $1 billion to improve access to quality education and provide alternatives to madrassas where youth are often exposed to extremism, and $200 million for higher education. In light of increased food shortages in many developing countries, which are exacerbated by the global financial crisis, the Committee provides $1 billion for food security and agricultural development. To preserve and protect our environment and fight global climate change, this bill includes over $1.2 billion in bilateral and multilateral funds for clean energy, biodiversity, and climate change initiatives. The Committee provides $2.4 billion in refugee and disaster assistance to regularize funding in supplemental appropriations in past years and to meet growing humanitarian needs, including in Pakistan and Afghanistan. Finally, the committee is aware of the keen bipartisan interest in increasing the size and strength of the Peace Corps. I am pleased to have worked with colleagues on both sides of the aisle to provide $450 million for the Peace Corps to jump start the President’s promise to double the size of the Peace Corps. Oversight of Foreign Assistance Programs · I continue to focus on improving oversight of the funds provided in this bill and have worked with my Ranking Member to include a number of provisions aimed at improving accountability and oversight of assistance and operations funding. Furthermore, the bill provides a total of $146,500,000 for the oversight activities of the Inspectors General of the Department of State and USAID, as well as for the Special Inspectors General for Iraq and Afghanistan Reconstruction. Clearly there is much more than I can summarize here, and I urge you to read the bill and report when they are available. ###
06.17.2009	WASHINGTON – The House State and Foreign Operations Appropriations Subcommittee, chaired by Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY), today approved its Fiscal Year 2010 bill. The Chairwoman’s mark, totaling $48.843 billion, is $1.206 billion below FY09 enacted levels, including supplemental funds. “This bill helps protect our national security through effective diplomacy and development,” said Lowey. “It provides needed assistance to frontline states – Afghanistan, Pakistan and Iraq – and it promotes security, economic development, health, and education around the world. The bill also provides vital resources to rebuild the capacity of the State Department and USAID. It reverses a decade of reliance on supplemental appropriations and provides an honest accounting of the true cost of critical national security initiatives.” The bill reflects the four priorities of the Subcommittee: protecting national security and combating terrorism; reforming and rebuilding America’s diplomatic and development capacity; providing critical resources to meet global health and development challenges; and ensuring adequate oversight and accountability of our foreign assistance. To protect national security and combat terrorism, the Fiscal Year 2010 State and Foreign Operations Appropriations Act: Provides $2.22 billion to Israel, fully funding the second year of the MOU at $2.775 billion; Continues all current restrictions on assistance for West Bank and Gaza; Provides a total of $2.695 billion for Afghanistan and $1.519 billion for Pakistan;Provides a total of $542.9 million to Jordan and $1.295 billion for Egypt, key allies in the Middle East;Provides $318.8 million for Mexico and Central America and $520 million for Colombia to fight narcotics and criminal gangs and promote alternatives to drug production; andRequires a report from the Department of State on its implementation of the Iran Sanctions Act. “Helping our allies and partners around the world fight terrorism is among the most important investments we can make in our own security,” said Lowey. “A nuclear Iran poses unacceptable risks to the region and the world, and we must pursue aggressive diplomacy, including strong sanctions without loopholes.” To rebuild our diplomatic and development capacity, the bill provides funding for approximately 1,000 new positions at the Department of State and approximately 300 new employees at USAID as part of the Development Leadership Initiative. “To meet the challenges of the 21st century, we must have a 21st century workforce,” said Lowey. “That is why this bill provides robust funding for our diplomatic corps and the agencies with experience and a track record of development success.” The bill provides a total of $7.684 billion for global health programs, including:$5.7 billion total funding for global HIV/AIDS programs, including $700 million for the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria, which is $100 million above the President’s request. $2.3 billion for the Global Health and Child Survival account, which is $370 million above the FY09 enacted level. $585 million, $200 million above the FY 2009 enacted level to support the President’s Malaria Initiative. $648 million for family planning and reproductive health, $100 million above the FY09 enacted level, including $60 million for the United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA). “Diseases like HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis, and malaria continue to threaten the lives of millions of people as well as stability in the developing world, and this bill will advance our security interests and help fulfill our moral obligation to fight this scourge,” said Lowey. “It will also help reduce unintended pregnancies and infant mortality through increased family planning and reproductive health initiatives for developing nations.” This bill aims to improve aid effectiveness and strengthen development assistance through: $2.5 billion in the Development Assistance account, which is $700 million above the fiscal year 2009 enacted level;$1 billion to support basic education, $300 million above the FY09 enacted level, to provide access to education and counter the influence of madrassas;$1 billion for food security and agricultural development assistance to help countries struggling with food shortages exacerbated by the global financial crisis;$685 million for biodiversity, clean energy and climate change programs in developing countries to help preserve our environment and promote sustainable growth;$2.4 billion for refugee and disaster assistance including for the humanitarian crisis in Pakistan; and$147 million for oversight of foreign assistance programs to fund the State Department, USAID, Iraq and Afghanistan IGs. “Societies that are better educated and where economic opportunity and upward mobility is possible, will be less susceptible to the ideologies of extremism and terrorism,” said Lowey. In addition to these critical priorities, the bill provides investments in public diplomacy and support for African nations, including:$520 million, $125 million above fiscal year 2009, for support of expanded public diplomacy experts and programs;$600 million, $62 million above fiscal year 2009, for enhanced educational and cultural exchange programs; $450 million, $110 million above fiscal year 2009, as part of a multi-year effort to strengthen and expand the Peace Corps;$397 million for Sudan to support key health, development, governance and security sector programs;$225 million for Liberia to support efforts to rebuild and strengthen this young democracy; and $156 million for the Democratic Republic of the Congo to strengthen health and development initiatives as well as to continue support for security sector reform. ###
06.09.2009	WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today announced legislation moving through the 2010 appropriations process contains millions in federal funds for important projects in the lower Hudson Valley. “I am optimistic that the 2010 federal appropriations process will again result in federal support for important projects in Westchester and Rockland Counties,” said Lowey. “Federal assistance helps our communities finance important projects without raising local property taxes, and I am pleased that our region stands to benefit greatly from federal support in the coming fiscal year.” Lowey is a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee, where she chairs the State and Foreign Operations Subcommittee and sits on the Homeland Security and Labor/Health and Human Services/Education Subcommittees. The 2010 Homeland Security Appropriations bill, passed yesterday by the Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee, contains nearly $4 million requested by Lowey for projects in the lower Hudson Valley, including:· $165,000 for the Village of Elmsford to purchase and install emergency operations center equipment, enabling first responders to monitor numerous areas from a central location;· $562,500 for the Village of Pelham to implement stormwater management improvements to protect the community from flooding;· $275,000 for the Town of Harrison to design and construct an Emergency Command Center to direct emergency activities and improve coordination; and· $3,000,000 for the New York State Office of Cyber Security and Critical Infrastructure Coordination to improve cyber security monitoring throughout the country. The 2010 Commerce-Justice-Science Appropriations bill, passed today by the Appropriations Committee, contains more than $1 million for projects in the lower Hudson Valley requested by Lowey, including:· $200,000 for the Clarkstown Police Department to upgrade its antiquated communication system;· $30,000 for the Village of Pelham Manor Police Department to purchase a fingerprint scanner;· $340,000 for the New Rochelle Police Department for computer back-up data, in-car video systems for patrol cars, wireless access points at headquarters, and advanced tactical training for officers;· $50,000 for the Dobbs Ferry Police Department for police car equipment, including mobile video units;· $6,000 for the Town of Ossining Police Department to purchase communications equipment;· $250,000 for the Rockland County Office of Fire and Emergency Services to further advance its first responder interoperable emergency communications network;· $17,000 for the Hastings Police Department to purchase a license plate reader helpful in finding missing persons, retrieving stolen vehicles, identifying expired vehicle registrations, and apprehending fugitives;· $100,000 for the Village of Larchmont to purchase and install a new radio communications system;· $40,000 for the Briarcliff Manor Police Department to purchase a license plate reader; and· $50,000 for the Town of Greenburgh Adult Drug Court Treatment Program, which provides an alternative to incarceration and treatment care for all participants. ###
06.04.2009	WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Nita Lowey, Chairwoman of the State and Foreign Operations Appropriations Subcommittee, today released the following statement regarding President Obama’s speech in Cairo, Egypt and efforts to facilitate peace in the Middle East:“President Obama’s historic trip to Saudi Arabia and Egypt is a critical step in his aggressive efforts to forge a new relationship between America and the Muslim world based on mutual interest and respect.“In his speech from Cairo, the President renewed the focus on the common goals and beliefs that must unite us in confronting the challenges that have forestalled peace and progress for far too long. Recognition of historical realities and the dignity, rights, and opportunity all people deserve must be at the center of our pursuit of stability and security.“I was pleased the President articulated clearly the responsibilities of all the regional parties to create an environment conducive to viable negotiations toward a two-state solution for Israel and the Palestinians. While compromise will be required on both sides, the Palestinians and Arab states must unequivocally denounce terrorism, recognize Israel, cease anti-Israel incitement at home and within the United Nations, and support viable PA institutions.“As Chairwoman of the State and Foreign Operations Appropriations Subcommittee, I look forward to working with the Obama Administration toward global peace and stability.”###
05.26.2009	WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (NY-18), Congressman Eliot Engel (NY-17), and Congressman John Hall (NY-19) announced that the FAA Authorization Act of 2009, passed by the U.S. House of Representatives, includes an amendment requiring the Federal Aviation Administration to undertake a rulemaking process to determine whether Westchester County may reinstate its overnight flight curfew.“Those who live around Westchester County Airport understand that business and traffic have increased and the airport has become an important gateway to and from the New York metropolitan area,” said Lowey. “It is critical for those who are most affected by air noise and the airport’s environmental impact to have the opportunity to demonstrate why an overnight flight curfew is important.”“Westchester County Airport is an important part to the economic health of the region, however the people of Westchester deserve the peace and quiet which led them to move to the county in the first place. They have a right to a quality of life which is not adversely affected by the airport. I believe the mandatory overnight flight curfew is a logical way to maintain that standard of living. It is certainly not asking too much for airplanes to take off and land at reasonable times,” said Engel.“Residents living around Westchester County Airport have been plagued with increased overnight air noise and an impact on their environment,” said Hall. “These residents deserve the chance to make their case to the FAA why an overnight flight curfew is important to them.”The FAA Authorization Act of 2009 was passed last week by the U.S. House of Representatives and awaits action by the U.S. Senate. The Lowey/Engel/Hall Amendment, adopted unanimously, requires FAA to engage in a rulemaking process regarding Westchester County’s efforts to reinstate its overnight flight curfew. This affords Westchester County the opportunity to demonstrate the need for the curfew to reduce environmental impact, including air noise.Westchester County Airport has had voluntary restrictions between midnight and 6:30am since the early 1980s. However, business at the airport has expanded tremendously, with more flights disregarding the curfew, which disrupts communities throughout the overnight hours and makes the County’s environmental upkeep in the area more demanding.This amendment directs FAA to evaluate Westchester County’s request to reinstate its overnight curfew, potentially easing congestion in the heavily-trafficked New York airspace and providing the residents in both New York and Connecticut with needed relief from overnight operations.###
05.26.2009	WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today released the following statement on President Obama’s nomination of federal appeals judge Sonia Sotomayor to the U.S. Supreme Court:“Sonia Sotomayor is an excellent choice to serve as the next Supreme Court justice. She is a brilliant and accomplished jurist with an impressive legal record as a prosecutor, litigator, federal trial judge, and federal appellate judge on the Second Circuit Court of Appeals based in New York. “Sonia Sotomayor’s life story is a moving reminder of the opportunity for individuals who are willing to work hard and stand up for what they believe to achieve the American dream. Her personal experiences make clear that she understands how laws affect the daily lives of Americans from all walks of life. As the first Latina and the third woman to serve on the U.S. Supreme Court, she would be a role model for women and girls and for millions of Hispanic Americans, who are currently under-represented in government.“As a fellow native of the Bronx, I am delighted with President Obama’s selection of Sonia Sotomayor, and I look forward to her swift confirmation.”###
05.22.2009	WHITE PLAINS – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today praised passage by Congress of the Credit Cardholders’ Bill of Rights, legislation that President Obama will enact this afternoon to protect consumers from unfair practices of credit card companies.“For too long, credit card companies have been getting away with murder, charging exorbitant fees and arbitrarily raising rates on existing balances,” said Lowey. “I am thrilled the end of these deceitful practices is in sight. The Credit Cardholders’ Bill of Rights ensures that all consumers will be protected from unfair practices and better informed about the actions of their creditors.”The legislation prohibits unfair retroactive interest rates on existing balances, double-cycle billing, universal default, allowing cardholders to go over their credit limit for the sole purpose of charging a fee, and preying on college students. It also requires banks to notify cardholders of interest rate increases 45 days before the increase could take effect and requires payments on balances that include different interest rates to first apply to charges pegged to the highest rate.The legislation includes an amendment co-authored by Lowey to require monthly statements to disclose the number of months it would take to pay the balance by making only minimum payments, the total cost to pay the balance by making only minimum payments, the amount necessary to pay the balance in 36 months, and a toll-free telephone number for credit counseling services.“It’s a great day for New Yorkers and all Americans who have fought long and hard for credit card reform,” said Mindy A. Bockstein, Chairperson and Executive Director of the New York State Consumer Protection Board and author of New York’s long-standing Credit Card Campaign for Change. “We applaud Congresswoman Lowey for her creative amendment to make it easier for consumers to anticipate their payments due. As we look forward to the sweeping changes in this law, the Consumer Protection Board will continue its efforts, under the direction of Governor Paterson, to monitor the industry on behalf of consumers.”“I applaud our entire New York State delegation for assuring that the changes in our country’s credit card law is substantive and meaningful,” said New York Governor David A. Paterson. “Thanks to the efforts of Congresswoman Carolyn Maloney, Senator Charles Schumer and Congresswoman Nita Lowey, starting in February 2010 consumers will no longer suffer from the unscrupulous practices of credit card companies that for too long took advantage of loopholes in the law to overcharge their customers.”Lowey and Koshy Chacko, proprietor of Fair Deal Café in White Plains, praised the protections for consumers but stressed that the federal government should still do more to protect small businesses from unfair and usurious practices of credit card companies.“Credit cards are replacing traditional loans as the most widely used credit for small businesses. At a time when we are working to strengthen our economy and create jobs, especially in small businesses, they deserve the same protections as other consumers,” said Lowey. “I intend to continue fighting to protect small businesses which account for 60 to 80 percent of new jobs.”###
05.21.2009	WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today released the following statement about yesterday’s arrest of individuals planning to bomb synagogues and attack military aircrafts in New York:“Today’s news of an alleged plot to bomb synagogues and attack military aircraft in New York is an appalling reminder that serious threats to our nation, specifically in the New York metropolitan area, remain from criminals both foreign and domestic.“Targeting synagogues – places of peaceful worship – is particularly outrageous and indicates that religious hatred against Jews pervades, even in our most religiously, ethnically, and racially diverse communities.“I commend the law enforcement authorities, including FBI, NYPD, the Joint Terrorist Task Force, and New York State Police for their painstaking investigation and swift, aggressive action to arrest these alleged criminals. We owe these agents and officers a debt of gratitude.Since September 11th, Congresswoman Lowey has helped secure $80 million in security funds for non-profits, one of the largest beneficiaries of which are New York synagogues. Lowey has also led the fight for NYPD to be able to use federal security grants for intelligence analysts, who once again appear to have been instrumental in preventing an attack.###
05.20.2009	WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today announced nursing programs at The College of New Rochelle and Mercy College will receive $90,000 to provide advanced education to nurses in specialized fields. Lowey also announced a $177,000 grant for research of stroke rehabilitation at Burke Rehabilitation Hospital.“Ensuring that our health system delivers high-quality care requires investments in workforce training and research of advanced methods of care,” said Lowey. “I am pleased Mercy College and The College of New Rochelle will receive federal assistance to train more nurses at a time when providers are in desperate need of their services. I am also pleased Burke Rehabilitation Hospital will receive support for its innovative research.”Mercy College will receive $53,269 and The College of New Rochelle will receive $36,585 in Advanced Education Nursing Training grants through the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS). These grants support registered nurses training in fields requiring advanced education, such as nurse practitioners, clinical nurse specialists, nurse-midwives, nurse anesthetists, nurse administrators, nurse educators, and public health nurses.Lowey has introduced the Nurse Education, Expansion, and Development (NEED) Act, which would authorize grants for schools of nursing to increase the number of nursing faculty and students.The National Institutes of Health also announced a research grant of $177,000 to Dr. Dylan Edwards at the Burke Rehabilitation Hospital in White Plains. Dr. Edwards is studying non-invasive brain stimulation as a way to enhance rehabilitation for stroke survivors, who are often left with residual motor dysfunction. The Burke Medical Research Institute works in partnership with the Burke Rehabilitation Hospital and the Weill Cornell Medical College to develop new therapeutic approaches to impairments that cause disability including paralysis, sensory loss, language problems and dementia.###
05.20.2009	Today, we welcome Rodney Bent, the Acting Chief Executive Officer of the Millennium Challenge Corporation, to discuss the President’s Fiscal Year 2010 request for the Millennium Challenge Account. As you may know, Mr. Bent formerly served as a staff member of this Subcommittee, and it is a pleasure to have him back today. The President’s budget requests $1.425 billion for the Millennium Challenge Corporation, a 63% percent increase over the FY09 enacted level. The request includes funding for three new country compacts in Jordan, the Philippines, and Malawi as well as funding for two additional threshold programs. As the MCC enters its fifth year of operation, this is an appropriate time to take stock of achievements and challenges. I believe the MCC holds tremendous potential to bring transformative change to countries in the developing world and to support sustainable long-term development. Since its inception, the MCC has signed 18 compacts totaling $6.4 billion and 21 threshold programs totaling $470 million. The challenge for the MCC in the coming year is to demonstrate that its model is not only innovative but that it brings actual results in poverty reduction and sustainable economic growth for the poorest of the poor. I hope you will share quantifiable examples of progress today. The past year has brought fresh challenges to the MCC. Due to political instability, compact implementation has been disrupted in Armenia, Nicaragua, and Madagascar. At this time last year, we discussed the impact of fuel costs, which led to the scaling back of several country compacts. Today, we face a global financial crisis. Can you provide insight into how economic and political circumstances have impacted MCC programs? Has the global financial crisis led the MCC to alter its country programs? Are participating countries expressing increased or decreased interest? MCC projections show that disbursements will at least double in all 18 of the country compacts compared to the previous year. In Morocco, disbursements are projected to be eight times higher, rising from $21 million to $194 million. In Mozambique, disbursements are projected to be fourteen times higher, rising from $12 million to $173 million. How realistic is the projected disbursement data you have provided to Congress? What project outcomes are associated with the increase in disbursements? Last year, the MCC undertook a reorganization to focus on MCC implementation, which seems to have made a difference in your programs. What lessons learned can you share with us on how you are increasing the pace of implementation? Turning to the specifics of the fiscal year 2010 request, it includes funding for three new country compacts, including one in Jordan to improve its water and sanitation systems, a critical need in Jordan. Can you tell us where you are in the compact process? Mr. Bent, I appreciate your testimony today and look forward to discussing the fiscal year 2010 budget request for the Millennium Challenge Corporation. ###
05.20.2009	I would like to welcome Tom Walsh, Acting Deputy U.S. Global AIDS Coordinator and Chief of Staff, to discuss the President’s Fiscal Year 2010 request for global HIV/AIDS programs. This Committee has made global HIV/AIDS a key priority, providing $18.8 billion over the past five years, nearly $4 billion more than President Bush’s initial commitment of $15 billion over five years, to address the global AIDS pandemic. These resources have had impressive results, with 2.1 million people receiving antiretroviral treatment; 9.7 million people receiving care through PEPFAR, including 4 million orphans; and 58.3 million people benefitting from HIV/AIDS prevention and education programs. I applaud the tenacity with which your office and the U.S. government as a whole has pursued treating and preventing this horrible disease. Your efforts and the complementary efforts of allies such as the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria have added years of productive life to millions living with HIV/AIDS and have provided time and space for other critical development to take place. However, we have seen new challenges emerge as life-saving drugs have had the unintended consequence of increased risky behavior. As we enter the second phase of PEPFAR, we must evaluate our successes, examine new challenges, and adjust accordingly. While new infections among children have dropped and young people in some parts of the world are waiting longer to become sexually active, having fewer sexual partners, or using condoms, we must do more to ensure that our prevention efforts reach those most at risk. I look forward to hearing how PEPFAR will expand prevention programs in the coming year. The pandemic continues to have a disproportionate impact on women. As you know, among young people in sub-Saharan Africa the HIV, prevalence rate for young women is almost three times higher than the rate among young men. This is not a new statistic, and I am concerned that PEPFAR has not taken steps to address this challenge. The fiscal year 2010 budget includes a renewed focus on the needs of women and children, and I hope that PEPFAR will reach out to USAID, which has extensive experience providing accessible community-based services that meet the needs of women and their families. I would also like to see PEPFAR coordinate better with country programs and strategies developed by State and USAID. What efforts are you making to integrate PEPFAR programs into these country strategies? PEPFAR is entering its sixth year, and sustainability is becoming a higher priority. Through Partnership Framework Agreements, PEPFAR is building long-term reciprocal relationships with developing countries. In addition, recent discussions with the Global Fund and developing country partners have begun the dialogue related to integrating U.S. government programs into future Global Fund grants. Can you provide an update on implementation of the Partnership Framework program? Also, can you outline the steps PEPFAR is taking to empower developing countries to assume greater responsibility for fighting the pandemic? In order to create greater capacity in host countries the next phase of PEPFAR should expand programs that build capacity and health infrastructure so that nations can better meet their own health challenges. Although the fiscal year 2009 investment of $734 million for health systems was significant how will funding for these programs be expanded in the coming year? If these interventions are to be sustainable in the long term, developing countries must be able to shoulder more of the responsibility for the health of their populations. Please update us on your plans to invest in health infrastructure and the training of healthcare professionals. Mr. Walsh, I look forward to hearing your remarks and working with you on these and other issues. ###
05.20.2009	Today we welcome Alonzo Fulgham, Acting Administrator of the U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID). Thank you for joining us today. While we appreciate your efforts to move the agency forward during this transition, we are anxiously awaiting the appointment of a USAID Administrator who can work closely with the Secretary of State and articulate the importance of long-term development within the Administration. As I noted last week, the President’s FY2010 budget calls for a dramatic increase in USAID operating expenses and provides for a significant boost in humanitarian and development assistance. It totals $1.438 billion for operating expenses, a $384 million increase over the fiscal year 2009 level, including the funding requested in the FY09 supplemental. This request would support an additional 350 foreign service officers to keep us on track to double the USAID foreign service workforce by 2012. In addition, it includes $245 million for additional spaces in embassies and missions around the world to accommodate increased personnel. I hope that you can provide insight into how USAID is ensuring that the new hires have technical skills that reflect the program priorities, including climate change, agriculture, gender sensitivity and basic education. What training programs are being put in place to ensure that the new Foreign Service officers are oriented toward local engagement with non-governmental organizations and developing country governments, with a focus on building local capacity and providing smaller grants with more targeted goals and outcomes? Finally, how is USAID coordinating its projected growth with the State Department, and do you have a joint operations plan that takes into account security and space needs of the new employees requested in both the USAID and State budgets? Among significant increases in critical development areas, I was pleased that one billion dollars was requested for basic education. As you know, providing an education opens doors for young men and women and benefits the individual, their community and the world. I look forward to working with the Administration to ensure that U.S. government resources support quality education and that USAID- supported schools serve as an anchor of stability and support in communities. Just last month, I spoke with Queen Rania of Jordan about the need to establish a new multilateral Global Fund for Education. During development of the 2010 budget request, did the Administration consider the merits of such a Fund, and can you provide any insight into those discussions? The $1.2 billion request for climate change initiatives includes $579 million for adaptation and clean energy programs, a $309 million increase over the FY09 level. Clearly, the Administration has structured its request to address the climate change crisis the world is facing. But, USAID does not currently have extensive expertise in this area, and the current staffing plan calls for only 21 new officers in this field. How then does USAID intend to provide proper oversight and management of this new initiative? How will USAID programs be coordinated with efforts made through multilateral funds, and with the State Department, who is taking the lead on the post-Kyoto negotiations? As you know, I believe that successful programs have maximum impact when efforts are well coordinated. The budget includes $1.3 billion for food security and agriculture. How will USAID coordinate with other efforts funded by private foundations, such as the Alliance for a Green Revolution, and of multilateral organizations, such as the International Fund for Agriculture, and the World Food Program? And how will USAID programs build upon the agriculture investments made by the Millennium Challenge Corporation? I am also concerned that gender considerations must be factored into all aspects of development assistance, especially agriculture programs, where women often make up a majority of laborers, but receive little outside technical assistance. What steps are you taking to ensure that gender is taken into consideration during every phase of USAID’s assistance programs? I noted last week my concern that health funding is not keeping pace with need. While I understand the President has announced his intention to provide $63 billion over six years, I am disappointed in the nominal increase for core maternal and child health as well as family planning. Mr. Fulgham, I look forward to our discussion today and to working with you. ###
05.13.2009	WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today praised the U.S. Department of Transportation’s cancellation of plans announced last October to withdraw a number of slots from airlines operating at airports in the New York region to auction the slots to the highest bidder.“Aviation congestion at New York-area airports is a serious challenge that requires serious solutions,” said Lowey, “not an untested and unproven scheme to artificially drive up prices and restrict airport access. I am pleased Secretary LaHood has rescinded these plans to auction airport slots. I look forward to working with Secretary LaHood and the New York-area Congressional delegation to reduce airspace congestion without driving air travel costs out of reach for middle-class New Yorkers.”The Omnibus Appropriations Act, enacted in February 2009, included language authored by Congresswoman Lowey prohibiting federal funding from being used to implement a slot-auctioning scheme at New York-area airports.In November 2007, Lowey led 32 Members of Congress from New York and New Jersey in writing a letter to Transportation Secretary Mary Peters opposing efforts to restrict access to New York-area airports by artificially driving up prices.###
05.13.2009	Today’s hearing will examine the President’s fiscal year 2010 Budget request for International Affairs. I am pleased to welcome Deputy Secretary of State Jack Lew who is well known to us from his previous work as the Director of OMB during the Clinton Administration. In light of the foreign policy challenges facing our country, many of which require tremendous resources, Secretary Clinton made a very smart choice in tapping you as one of her Deputies. Looking at the FY2010 request for the 150 account, I can see that you are already having a significant impact.Because we recently had a hearing with Secretary Clinton on Iraq, Afghanistan, Pakistan and the Middle East, I would like to focus on the details of the 2010 budget request for this hearing and take advantage of the expertise that we have in today’s witness.Mr. Secretary, the President’s budget seeks an unprecedented $53.9 billion dollars for the 150 account, including $52 billion within this subcommittee’s jurisdiction. Before anyone complains about the size of the increase, let me note that most of it simply is to regularizes the supplemental funding for Iraq, Afghanistan, Pakistan, West Bank and Gaza, and humanitarian assistance. Total supplemental funding combined with the FY2009 appropriations reflect an increase in 2010 of about $4 billion, or 8 percent, consistent with increases sought by former President Bush.President Obama through honest and transparent budgeting has declared upfront the true cost and importance of our foreign policy. He is investing in diplomacy and development as our first line of defense by providing resources to create a 21st century State Department and USAID instead of relying on our overstretched military to run our foreign policy and implementing foreign aid programs.Our investments today in this approach will yield great dividends over time. Because as we all know, diplomacy and development generally are less expensive and more effective methods than military operations to achieve sustainable peace and stability.In fact, the major increases in the International Affairs Budget are not for program expenses; they are for what I would call “people expenses.” With adjustments for supplemental funding, the President’s request seeks a 30% increase for both the Diplomatic and Consular Programs Account and USAID operating expenses, which funds the operations of the State Department including personnel, security and training at our embassies and USAID development personnel and security costs.I applaud you, Secretary Clinton and the President for following through on your pledges to rebuild State and USAID. However, we need a comprehensive strategy for expending these resources to achieve specific goals. I hope you can provide insight on why the majority of the proposed new positions will be domestic deployments- instead of overseas- given our understanding that the greatest needs lie in our embassies and missions abroad. For example, how have you integrated the new hires for which you seek funding into your global staffing plans and how will you accommodate these new State Department and USAID employees in already crowded Embassies? How long will it take you to recruit, hire and train these new employees for deployment? Are appropriate human resources policies in place to ensure the best people for the job are hired?I am particularly concerned that you are seeking significant and much-needed increases for USAID which does not have a management team in place. I fear that if nominations for USAID Administrators and Assistant Administrator positions are not forthcoming, Congress’ willingness and ability to provide the resources you seek will be compromised.Additionally, the Administration needs to clarify the role of the Civilian Stabilization Initiative and how it will interface with the operations of the rest of the State Department and USAID programs and personnel. Do you envision any differences in the concept than what was developed by the previous Administration?Mr. Secretary, turning to the assistance programs, there are relatively few major programmatic increases in the President’s budget. The key increases on development assistance are to scale up basic education, expand agriculture and food security assistance, and grow climate change initiatives. I continue to believe access to a quality education is one of our most important tools for channeling young people in conflict prone regions toward a more productive path and I am very pleased that Secretary Clinton has continued her commitment to basic education. I look forward to our continued partnership on this issue.Additionally, in light of the economic crisis and the impact on food security, I understand your emphasis on agriculture. And while the grim news on global warming certainly warrants a more focused approach to stem carbon emissions and facilitate eco-friendly solutions to the world’s energy needs, I hope you can provide greater detail on the mechanisms and modalities for programming these increased resources. I am particularly concerned that there seems to be no budget detail on the $500 million requested for the Clean Technology Fund.I would note to my colleagues that the increases in the ESF account are largely to fund the programs in Afghanistan, Pakistan, Iraq and the West Bank and Gaza. There is also only a nominal increase in global health, with the exception of malaria programs, which are increased by $200 million. While global HIV/AIDS funds have steadily increased over the past decade when many other aspects of the international affairs budget were cut or flat-lined, as we have seen with the H1N1 outbreak, health needs cannot be deferred.Mr. Lew, you, the Secretary, and your colleagues at the State Department face a daunting set of challenges. But you have inherited a committed and skilled workforce. You have a Secretary and a President that have inspired millions around the world. And you have my personal commitment, and the commitment, I hope, of all of us in Congress to help you succeed.###
05.07.2009	Congresswoman Nita Lowey, Chairwoman of the State and Foreign Operations Appropriations Subcommittee, today delivered the following statement on the 2009 Supplemental Appropriations for Iraq, Afghanistan, Pakistan, and Pandemic Flu:“This legislation provides the resources our military, diplomatic, and development personnel need to make our nation more secure, particularly in Afghanistan, Pakistan, Iraq, and Mexico.“I think the Obama Administration’s policy of defeating the Taliban and Al Qaeda in Afghanistan and Pakistan is critical, to preventing the region from being a base for terrorist plots against the United States and our allies. This legislation provides $3.8 billion for military, diplomatic and development initiatives in the region. While I believe that the funding and authority for the Pakistan Counterinsurgency Capability Fund (PCCF) should be within the State, Foreign Operations section of the bill, I support the Obey amendment that provides authority for the PCCF through the Department of Defense in fiscal year 2009 but continues the program under the authority of the Secretary of State in fiscal year 2010, consistent with the Administration position and statements by Secretary Gates before the Senate Appropriations Committee last week. This Fund will help Pakistani forces defeat militants within their own border, and will ultimately be under the jurisdiction of the Secretary of State so it can be implemented in the context of our overall foreign policy.“I welcome the Obama Administration’s efforts to forge a lasting peace between Israel and the Palestinian Authority. This legislation provides economic, humanitarian, and security assistance for the West Bank and Gaza necessary to encourage stability, self-sufficiency, and political moderation. It ensures that Hamas and other terrorist organizations do not receive taxpayer funding and that a potential unity government and all its ministers publicly recognize Israel’s right to exist, renounce violence and adhere to past agreements."In order to counter the ambitions of Iran in the region, and to reinforce our commitment to the security of our allies in the Middle East, the bill accelerates part of the security assistance for Jordan, Egypt and for Israel that was requested in FY2010 pursuant to our MOUs and agreements with those countries.“This legislation also provides $470 million to help Mexico fight violent narco-traffickers with surveillance aircraft, helicopters, and law enforcement equipment and to support rule of law programs, bringing to $1.17 billion the total appropriated in 2008 and 2009 for these purposes."The bill meets the President’s request for assistance programs and for diplomatic operations in Iraq to ensure a smooth transition from the military mission to a civilian-led effort."In addition, the bill seeks to address significant humanitarian and development priorities by providing $50 million above the request, for a total of $343 million, for refugee programs to address the growing displacement of civilians in Pakistan and other countries; $837 million for peacekeeping; $300 million for countries impacted by the global financial crisis, including Haiti and Liberia; and $100 million for the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria.“I look forward to a swift enactment of this legislation so our military, diplomatic, and defense personnel have access to the resources they need.”###
05.04.2009	WASHINGTON – On “Melanoma Monday,” dedicated to awareness and prevention of skin cancer, Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) called on the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to finalize standards for sunscreen that will alert consumers of the protection a product offers not just against sunburn-causing UVB rays, but against skin cancer causing UVA rays.“Nearly two years after FDA issued draft regulations to protect consumers and their children from cancer, the regulations are still not finalized,” said Lowey. “Comprehensive and accurate information about skin protection is critical to decrease incidence of skin cancer. On “Melanoma Monday,” I call on FDA to finalize this life-saving measure before the end of May, which is Skin Cancer Detection and Prevention Month.”Lowey introduced legislation that would require FDA to develop standards for sunscreen ratings based on UVA protection, which was enacted through the Fiscal Year 2008 Agriculture Appropriations bill. In August 2007, in response to Lowey’s legislation, FDA issued draft regulations to require sunscreen manufacturers to disclose the protection their products offer not just against sunburn-causing UVB rays, but against skin cancer-causing UVA rays. Nearly two years later, the regulations are still not finalized.According to the American Cancer Society, skin cancer is the most common of all cancers. More than one million new cases will be diagnosed this year, and one in five Americans will develop skin cancer in their lifetime.In addition to her effort to finalize these FDA regulations, Lowey is also working to increase federal funding for skin cancer research and outreach and improve coordination across federal agencies.###
04.30.2009	WASHINGTON – The U.S. House of Representatives today passed legislation to rein in unfair practices by credit card companies, including an amendment sponsored by Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) to require disclosure of the true cost of minimum monthly payments.“It is time to rebuild our economy on a new foundation of responsibility and fairness for consumers, not confusing schemes and maxed-out credit cards,” said Lowey. “This legislation will prohibit the most egregious examples of unfair credit card practices and inform consumers of the real cost of minimum monthly payments.”The Credit Card Holders’ Bill of Rights will level the playing field between card issuers and card holders by banning deceptive retroactive interest rate hikes on existing balances, double-cycle billing, and due-date gimmicks. It will require 45-day advance notice of rate hikes.Lowey’s amendment will require credit card companies to warn consumers that making only minimum payments will increase interest paid and the time necessary to pay the balance. It will also require quarterly disclosure of the number of months necessary to pay the entire balance through minimum payments; the total cost of making the minimum payment; and a toll-free number for information about credit counseling and debt management. The amendment passed unanimously.According to the Government Accountability Office, credit card debt in the U.S. has reached a record high —nearly $1 trillion -- and almost half of American families currently carry a balance. The average balance for those families was $7,300 in 2007. One-fifth of those carrying credit card debt pay an interest rate above 20 percent.The legislation was passed today by the U.S. House of Representatives and is pending action by the U.S. Senate.###
04.29.2009	WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today announced the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act will provide more than $3 million in Community Services Block Grant (CSBG) funding for organizations serving Westchester and Rockland Counties and the City of Yonkers to reduce hunger and poverty and promote economic self-sufficiency.“The Community Services Block Grant (CSBG) program is critical to help communities reduce hunger and poverty and promote economic self-sufficiency,” said Lowey. “The flexibility of CSBG allows communities to undertake a wide range of activities that provide direct relief and help families and individuals meet their daily needs. The benefits of the CSBG program are clear, and I am pleased organizations serving Westchester and Rockland Counties and Yonkers will benefit from them.”The following organizations will receive CSBG funding from the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act:· Westchester Community Opportunity Program, Inc.: $2,112,416· Yonkers Community Action Program, Inc.: $714,457· The Community Action Program of Rockland County, Inc.: $361,765The Community Services Block Grant program provides a range of services to assist low-income people in attaining the skills, knowledge, and motivation for self-sufficiency. The program provides low-income people immediate life necessities like food, shelter, and health care. Services are also provided for the revitalization of low-income communities, the reduction of poverty and to improve provider agency results and partnerships.###
04.28.2009	WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today announced the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act will provide more than $2 million for the Army Corps of Engineers to fix retaining walls in Westchester County destroyed by the April 2007 Nor’easter.“The April 2007 Nor’easter caused massive damage to homes, businesses, and public infrastructure in Westchester County, including the collapse of retaining walls protecting roads from overflowing rivers,” said Lowey. “I am pleased the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act will enable the Army Corps of Engineers to repair this critical flooding mitigation infrastructure.”The Army Corps of Engineers will receive $750,000 to repair the retaining wall along Yonkers Avenue in Tuckahoe. The Army Corps of Engineers will also receive $1.3 million to repair other retaining walls along the Bronx River Parkway in Westchester County. These emergency streambank protection measures will prevent future heavy storms from overwhelming damaged retaining walls and flooding roads.This funding is in addition to more than $8 million Lowey has secured for the Army Corps of Engineers to evaluate regional flooding and develop a comprehensive plan to protect the region, as well as hundreds of thousands for municipalities to upgrade sewer and drainage systems.###
04.23.2009	Madam Secretary, I welcome you - my former Senator, my constituent, and my friend - to your first hearing before the House Appropriations Committee as Secretary of State. We look forward to hearing the policy objectives and assumptions supporting your request for $7.1 billion in supplemental funds for State Department operations and foreign assistance.Failed fiscal policies have left our economy in shambles and the world on the precipice of a global financial crisis. The security challenges we face abroad demand our urgent and focused attention.You and the President inherited a world in peril -- a dangerous and power-hungry Iran is aggressively pursuing nuclear and hegemonic ambitions. The insecurity and instability of Afghanistan and Pakistan have intensified, and the Taliban and Al Qaeda have gained ground.From North Korea to Nangahar, from Somalia, to Sri Lanka to the SWAT Valley, instability threatens the security of the United States and our allies.In Pakistan, policy decisions focused on short-term security interests which neglected the long-term needs to build civil society, empower and educate women and girls, and develop democratic institutions have advanced neither security nor stability. Today, the escalating terrorist violence in Pakistan and that government’s inability and unwillingness to confront the extremist threat undermine any progress we have made in Afghanistan and complicates future efforts there. I fear that we are losing the window of international consensus and commitment to help the region gain a strong foothold on its long climb out of conflict. After eight years and billions of dollars, we are no closer to improving security, solving the poppy problem, empowering credible partners to eliminate corruption and stabilize the government, or enabling a more tolerant society that respects the rights of women.Recent actions by North Korea, including its missile launch, reflect flagrant defiance and lack of interest in engaging responsibly with the rest of the world. Given these developments, I hope you will detail how your supplemental request for resources for continuation of six-party talks and for a yet-to-be-negotiated Phase 3 of an Action for Action plan are expected to improve the situation.And in the Middle East where I met last week with Israeli, Palestinian and Egyptian leaders, President Obama’s election and your leadership have generated new optimism and hope that our country can pursue a new direction to address the global challenges that threaten international security.But as you know optimism and hope must be accompanied by smart strategies and tough diplomacy.In meetings in the region and discussions yesterday with King Abdullah, concern over Iran dominated our conversations. While there continues to be a wide gulf between Israelis and Palestinians on further progress on the “Roadmap,” and questions remain on the state of the so-called “unity talks” hosted by Egypt, I am convinced that there is still a strong commitment among Israelis, Palestinians, Egyptians and the Jordanians to create the conditions required for peace and security to take root and a determination to deal with the destabilizing role of Iran and its proxies, Hamas and Hezbollah.Israelis and Palestinians stressed the importance of the economic and the security assistance that you have pledged to the Palestinians and were unanimous in their praise of General Dayton’s security initiative. In depth discussions with UNRWA provided some assurances of their commitment to transparency and accountability in the humanitarian assistance they manage, but the State Department must continue to ensure that UNRWA lives up to its commitments.It is clear that Hamas will not accept the conditions defined in the Palestinian Anti-Terrorism Act or in the FY 09 State and Foreign Operations bill. Yet, you have requested language that I understand would provide a limited amount of flexibility for the President to support a PA government that might include individuals associated with Hamas if all the Ministers in such a government accepted the conditions of PATA.While I have great confidence in you, Senator Mitchell, and President Obama, concerns remain about this language. I hope you can clarify what type of government the Administration would support and why.I also hope to get a better sense from you on the implications for the State Department of our plans to drawdown US military presence in Iraq by the end of 2010.Finally, let me express concern about new authorities for the Defense Department in the supplemental request. While I understand the need to train and equip the Pakistani military for counterinsurgency capability, such assistance should not be provided through defense appropriations. We will continue to ensure appropriate coordination mechanisms and implementation agreements so that DOD can implement these programs effectively and efficiently; however the overall policy responsibility rests with you and so should the funds for the Pakistani Counterinsurgency Capability Fund. Similarly, this subcommittee has appropriated $700 million for the Merida program to date, and I am baffled that an additional $350 million has been requested under the defense appropriations.Madam Secretary, the United States is facing major challenges and I look forward to your testimony. But first let me turn to the Ranking Member, Rep. Kay Granger, for any comments she may wish to make.# # #
04.17.2009	JERUSALEM – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY), Chairwoman of the House State and Foreign Operations Appropriations Subcommittee, issued the following statement upon her Congressional Delegation’s departure from Israel following three days of meetings with Israeli and Palestinian officials and site visits to several U.S. assistance projects.“Our delegation had informative and productive meetings in Israel and in the West Bank with representatives of the Israeli and Palestinian governments, including Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and Prime Minister Salam Fayyad. In addition, we received updates from Lieutenant General Keith Dayton, Ambassador James Cunningham, Consul General Jake Walles, and USAID Mission Director Howard Sumka about the efforts of our skilled and dedicated American defense, diplomatic, and development personnel to make the region and our nation more secure. These meetings and site visits in Israel and the West Bank provided the opportunity to conduct oversight of U.S. foreign assistance and develop critical insight that will help the House Foreign Operations Subcommittee to evaluate President Obama’s pending Supplemental Fiscal Year 2009 and Fiscal Year 2010 budget requests.”###
04.09.2009	WHITE PLAINS – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today announced the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) has selected the Pace University School of Nursing to partner with the VA New York Harbor Healthcare System as the site for the VA Nursing Academy’s Enhancing Academic Partnership Program.“I am delighted Pace University’s School of Nursing will engage in this innovative partnership,” said Lowey. “This will help provide high-quality healthcare to our nation’s veterans while ensuring that nursing schools have the resources they need to train and prepare for entering the workforce.”Said the dean of Pace University’s Lienhard School of Nursing, Harriet R. Feldman, PhD, RN, FAAN, “This is a significant step toward reducing the nursing shortages in the VA and the nation, and the bottleneck of finding qualified faculty members to teach more of them. Having made progress ourselves in those areas, we applaud the understanding and leadership of Representative Lowey, and are poised for quick implementation and the excellent patient care outcomes it will make possible.“We remain deeply committed to innovative approaches to nursing education and practice. This partnership will give VA NYHHS and the Lienhard School of Nursing an extraordinary opportunity to form a mutually beneficial relationship that will expand faculty and professional development, increase baccalaureate student enrollment, provide opportunities for innovations, and increase the recruitment and retention of VA nurses as a result of their enhanced roles in nursing education.”The VA Nursing Academy will strengthen partnerships between nursing schools and VA facilities by expanding faculty and professional development opportunities, increasing student enrollment, providing opportunities for educational and practice innovations, and increasing recruitment and retention of VA nurses.VA Secretary Eric Shinseki said, “Programs such as the VA Nursing Academy not only provide the education and training necessary for our health care providers to deliver the high quality care that our Veterans deserve, but also keep us focused on the future.”###
04.09.2009	WHITE PLAINS, NY – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY), Chairwoman of the State and Foreign Operations Appropriations Subcommittee, today released the following statement on President Obama’s Fiscal Year 2009 emergency supplemental appropriations request.“I look forward to reviewing the details of President Obama’s request for emergency supplemental appropriations from the State and Foreign Operations Appropriations Subcommittee. My subcommittee will continue to work to ensure any taxpayer funds spent abroad are enhancing American national security through effective diplomacy and development.“My subcommittee will closely evaluate how the Administration’s funding requests for Afghanistan, Pakistan and the Middle East would advance the security interests of the United States and our allies, including efforts toward stability and peace in those troubled regions.”###
04.09.2009	WHITE PLAINS – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today announced Westchester and Rockland Counties will receive a total of nearly $340,000 in federal recovery funds through the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) Emergency Food and Shelter Program (EFSP).“The economic downturn has been particularly painful for those who are most vulnerable economically,” said Lowey. “Providing emergency food and shelter for those who have been affected is our responsibility, and it will help them get back on their feet. I am pleased those who are homeless and hungry in Westchester and Rockland Counties will benefit from these recovery funds.”Westchester County will receive $258,461and Rockland County will receive $80,504 from the EFSP.The purpose of the Emergency Food and Shelter Program (EFSP) is to supplement and expand ongoing efforts to provide shelter, food and supportive services for the nation’s hungry, homeless, and people in economic crisis. Program funds may be used to provide food, lodging in a shelter or hotel, or one month's rent, mortgage, and/or utility bill payments. Program funds may also be used to provide transportation costs associated with food or shelter, repairs to mass feeding or sheltering facilities, and associated supplies and equipment.###
04.08.2009	WHITE PLAINS – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today expressed disappointment that the New York region will receive a smaller allocation from homeland security grants than it received in 2008 from critical infrastructure protection programs, including one program created by Lowey to provide improved communications equipment to first responders.“The New York region is our nation’s top target for terrorist attacks,” said Lowey. “Federal assistance to help first responders communicate during an emergency and decrease the vulnerability of our infrastructure is critical. I am particularly concerned about the impact these reductions will have on suburban first responders, who play a critical role in regional emergencies. I will work with Secretary Napolitano to ensure grant formulas better reflect our region’s risk and the consequences of an attack.”The Department of Homeland Security (DHS) today announced the following allocations, which were determined by law through formulas created in 2008 under the Bush Administration:New York will receive $6,999,813 from the Interoperable Emergency Communications Grant Program (IECGP), a program created by Lowey to provide first responders interoperable communications equipment following the September 11th Attacks. It was signed into law through the Implementing Recommendations of the 9/11 Commission Act of 2007 (H.R. 1). This is a reduction of $835,295 from New York’s 2008 allocation, a cut of 10.66 percent.In 2008, Westchester County received $430,000 from the Interoperable Emergency Communications Program. Westchester County’s pending 2009 allocation is $318,624.The Port Authority of New York/New Jersey will receive $45,032,145 from the Port Security Grant Program (PSGP), a reduction of $471,816 from New York’s 2008 allocation.The New York City area will receive $153,256,664 from the Transit Security Grant Program (TSGP), a reduction of $22,124,331 from New York’s 2008 allocation. However, in 2008 the New York region benefited from an unexpected increase in TSGP funding due to a failure by other eligible metropolitan areas to apply for funding. The Westchester County Department of Transportation will receive $500,000 in 2009 from the PSGP.Since September 11th, Lowey has helped secure more than $67 million for homeland security activities in the 18th Congressional District and more than $800 million for the New York metropolitan region from the urban area grant program.###
04.03.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Jerrold Nadler (NY-08), Congresswoman Nita Lowey (NY-18) and Congressman Steve Israel (NY-02) announced their introduction of the Tax Equity Act of 2009, an important piece of tax legislation designed to adjust federal tax rates to account for the actual cost of living in major metropolitan areas. As representatives of, respectively, New York City, Westchester County, and Long Island, these three lawmakers serve constituents who simultaneously pay higher taxes and spend a larger proportion of their incomes on basic necessities than most Americans. This bill would require the IRS to adjust tax brackets proportionally in regions where the average cost of living is higher than the national average.This overdue tax legislation is, pure and simple, about instilling fairness into our federal income tax system,” remarked Rep. Nadler. “As New Yorkers know too well, the basic costs of life in the New York region are much steeper than in most parts the country. The reality is that a dollar in New York isn’t worth nearly as much as a dollar in Spokane or Knoxville or Topeka. It’s time for our tax code to take reality into account when assessing someone’s tax liability.”“When it comes to the tax code, one size just doesn’t fit all,” said Rep. Lowey. “Residents of the New York metropolitan area pay more for housing, food, and utilities, not to mention some of the highest property taxes in the country. “Making ends meet is difficult in our region even for those with good jobs. It is only fair for the tax code to reflect that reality.”“A six figure income in Islip is not the same thing as a six figure income in Idaho,” said Rep. Israel. “New Yorkers pay some of the highest taxes in the country, but we also pay some of the highest housing, food and gas costs. Middle class and working families in New York are taxed as if they were rich, and that’s not fair. Our plan for a regional cost of living adjustment will bring fairness back to the tax system and lessen the burden on New York’s middle class and working families.”Residents of the nation’s most expensive areas – i.e. New York, San Francisco, Los Angeles, Honolulu, Washington – spend a greater share of their paychecks on everyday necessities and, hence, their incomes are stretched thinner than those living in other areas. Yet, New Yorkers and others are taxed the same as the rest of the country, which produces an unfair burden on New Yorkers and other metropolitan residents. The Tax Equity Act of 2009 would ensure that no such burden exists and would require people to pay only their fair share of taxes. This bill would not affect the taxes of people living in regions with a cost of living that is below the national average.###
04.02.2009	WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY), Homeland Security Committee Chairman Bennie G. Thompson (D-MS), and Homeland Security Transportation Security and Infrastructure Protection Subcommittee Chairwoman Sheila Jackson-Lee (D-TX) today introduced legislation that would grant Transportation Security Officers (TSOs) the same workplace protections that other federal employees enjoy.The Transportation Security Workforce Enhancement Act would allow more than 42,000 TSOs and more than 50,000 total TSA employees to bargain collectively, to be compensated appropriately, and to be safe from whistleblower retaliation. These are basic rights that employees at Federal Emergency Management Agency, Customs and Border Patrol, and numerous other federal security agencies enjoy.“Extending basic workplace protections to TSOs is not only the right thing to do for 42,000 individuals performing grueling work to protect us,” said Lowey, “it will also decrease the cost and improve the results of our efforts to increase air security. I look forward to working with Chairman Thompson and Chairwoman Jackson-Lee to pass this critical legislation quickly.”“Securing these rights and protections is critical to attracting, developing, and retaining the best and the brightest for our transportation workforce,” said Chairman Thompson. “This bill will not only improve employee morale but the security of our nation. I look forward to working with my colleagues and the Department on this important and vital piece of legislation.”Transportation Security Officers (TSOs) working in airports across the country are a first line of defense against terrorism. However, these workers suffer from high injury rates, attrition, and the lowest morale of all federal agencies. They lack the workplace protections – collective bargaining rights and whistleblower protections – that other federal employees enjoy. The lack of protections for screening personnel, combined with poor workforce management, increases costs and decreases security.The House of Representatives approved expanding TSO workplace protections in the Implementing Recommendations of the 9/11 Commission Act of 2007, but the provision was dropped in conference in response to President Bush’s veto threat.###
04.01.2009	WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today announced The Hon. Charles L. Brieant Jr. Federal Building and Courthouse in White Plains will receive more than $2.8 million in federal stimulus funding to improve energy efficiency.“Increasing energy efficiency of federal buildings and courthouses allows the federal government to lead by example in reducing energy consumption,” said Lowey. “I am pleased that this courthouse, into which Judge Brieant poured his heart and soul, will benefit from this federal investment.”Congresswoman Lowey successfully passed legislation through the U.S. Congress in 2008 designating the U.S. Courthouse in White Plains for Judge Charles L. Brieant, Jr., former Chief Judge of the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York. Judge Brieant, who died in July, 2008, was the driving force behind the courthouse’s original construction in the early 1990’s.Funding will come from the General Service Administration (GSA) Public Buildings Service, responsible for the design, construction, operation and maintenance of thousands of federally-owned facilities for more than 1 million civilian employees of the federal government. The Recovery Act directs $750 million to renovate and construct federal buildings and courthouses, $300 million to renovate and construct land ports of entry and $4.5 billion to convert federal buildings to high-performance green buildings.###
03.27.2009	LARCHMONT – Congresswoman Nita Lowey today joined first responders from across Westchester County who are recent recipients of federal funding to help fire departments and emergency medical units engage in training and procure equipment to help keep local communities safe.“First responders risk their own safety for the benefit of their community and neighbors,” said Lowey. “It is our responsibility to ensure they have the equipment and training to help them be successful and keep themselves save when responding to emergencies. I will continue working to make sure they have the resources they need to serve our communities.”“Federal support for first responders is critical,” said Sean McCarthy, Chief of the Mamaroneck Town Fire Department. “This funding helps fire and emergency personnel invest in the equipment and training that will not only keep our communities safe, but also keep first responders themselves safe when responding to emergencies.”Since June 2008, ten local fire departments and ambulance corps have received federal funds for equipment and training. Funding has been used for emergency medical equipment, breathing apparatus, vehicle exhaust systems, communications equipment, and more.Mamaroneck Town Fire Department $214,838Irvington Fire Department $149,625Pelham Manor Fire Department $34,200Dobbs Ferry Fire Department $30,495Port Chester/Rye/Rye Brook Volunteer Ambulance Corps $44,800Larchmont Fire Department $28,500Valhalla Volunteer Ambulance Corps $18,050Thornwood Fire Department $153,900Yonkers Fire Department $177,000Village of Pelham Fire Department $38,000###
03.27.2009	Congresswoman Nita Lowey, Chairwoman of the Appropriations State and Foreign Operations Subcommittee, today released the following statement on President Obama’s strategy for Afghanistan and Pakistan:"President Obama’s comprehensive strategy to dismantle Al Qaeda and its allies in Afghanistan and Pakistan will renew our focus on defeating the terrorists responsible for the September 11th attacks and others who threaten our national security."The President’s proposal to modestly boost American combat forces with a greater reliance on training Afghan security forces I hope will help improve the security of the region while the economic and agricultural aid will help provide alternatives to poppy cultivation for rural Afghan farmers."While a significant increase in non-military aid to Pakistan is also warranted, I will seek to ensure that assistance provided to the Pakistani government is implemented transparently, effectively, and with strong accountability standards. Any military aid should also be contingent upon the commitment and cooperation of the Pakistani government and military to defeat terrorists in the region."Today’s terrible suicide bombing at a mosque in northwest Pakistan, resulting in scores of deaths and hundreds of injuries, and news of an alliance between Pakistani and Afghan Taliban leaders are stark reminders of the dangers and security challenges in the region."I look forward to working with President Obama on this critical strategy to improve national security."###
03.27.2009	WHITE PLAINS – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today announced community health centers in Westchester County will receive more than $3.2 million in federal funding from the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act to expand services.“Community health centers provide critical services for millions around the country,” said Lowey. “Federal support for expanding these clinics’ hours, operations, and services will make care more accessible and affordable, particularly for the more than 46 million Americans who lack health insurance.”Westchester County community health centers receiving federal funding are:· Open Door Family Medical Center (Ossining): $624,032· Hudson River Health Care (Peekskill): $916,282· Mount Vernon Neighborhood Health Center (Mount Vernon): $1,685,294Although the community health centers in Peekskill and Mount Vernon are not in the 18th Congressional District, they serve residents of the district and maintain partnerships with other health care providers in the district.These federal funds may be used by grantees to add new providers, expand hours of operations, or expand health care services offered. The Increased Demand for Services (IDS) awards are the second set of health center grants provided through the Recovery Act. On March 2, President Obama announced grants worth $155 million to establish 126 new health centers. Those grants will provide access to health center care for 750,000 people in 39 states and two territories.###
03.26.2009	WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today announced that Westchester and Rockland Counties and local municipalities will receive more than $9.3 million in federal funding through the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act to undertake projects that reduce energy use and emissions and to improve energy efficiency.“The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act continues to provide critical federal funds to our local communities,” said Lowey. “Reducing energy use and emissions and improving energy efficiency will help eliminate our dependence on foreign oil, decrease government costs, and protect our environment.”The federal government has allocated the following amounts to Westchester and Rockland Counties and municipalities: Name Allocation Clarkstown $751,300 Greenburgh $186,000 New Rochelle $684,600 White Plains $650,800 Yonkers $1,823,200 Rockland County $749,300 Westchester County $4,508,600 The Energy Efficiency and Conservation Block Grant program, funded by the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, will provide formula grants for projects that reduce total energy use and fossil fuel emissions, and improve energy efficiency nationwide. ###
03.25.2009	WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today announced the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) will provide more than $4 million in federal funds to improve public housing options in Westchester County and the U.S. Department of Transportation (DoT) will award $100 million in federal competitive grant funding for energy-efficient transportation options.“The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act was intended to provide immediate relief to taxpayers and invest in the long-term priorities that will drive job creation and economic growth,” said Lowey. “Improved housing options in Westchester County and energy-efficient transportation will pay dividends in the future. I am pleased the Departments of Transportation and Housing and Urban Development have responded to these needs in our communities.”HUD announced 3,122 public housing authorities nationwide may begin spending nearly $3 billion of ARRA funds through the Capital Fund Program for public housing improvements, such as replacing roofs, plumbing, and electrical systems and increasing energy efficiency.The following Westchester County housing authorities will receive federal funding:Tuckahoe Housing Authority $248,709Tarrytown Municipal Housing Authority $272,210Port Chester Housing Authority $726,252North Tarrytown Housing Authority $148,172White Plains Housing Authority $1,705,634Greenburgh Housing Authority $211,591New Rochelle Housing Authority $1,034,874The Department of Transportation announced availability of more than $100 million in federal funds under ARRA for the Transit Investments for Greenhouse Gas and Energy Reduction (TIGGER) grant program. Projects will compete for a portion of the funds on the basis their proposed capital investment’s expected reduction of energy consumption or greenhouse gases, or both. Grants will be made for projects directly to public transportation agencies.###
03.22.2009	WHITE PLAINS – Senator Kirsten Gillibrand (D-NY) and Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today detailed federal efforts to spur entrepreneurialism and job growth by making credit more available for small business and waiving Small Business Administration loan fees. They also highlighted a local initiative that is using federal funding to train prospective small business owners.“Small businesses are the engine that will drive our economic recovery and growth,” said Lowey. “Small businesses create 70 percent of new jobs, and the federal government should make it easier for them to hire new employees and make capital investments. I am particularly pleased that we can point to initiatives in our own community that have successfully trained and prepared prospective small business owners to run successful enterprises.”“Small businesses are not only job generators, they're the heart of the American story and the future of our economy,” said Gillibrand. “In this difficult economy, banks are refusing to lend money to our small businesses. Without access to credit, businesses cannot grow and create jobs. Now more than ever we must take aggressive actions to invest in long term economic development. To do that, we must give our small businesses the tools they need to succeed.”The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act provided $780 million to assist more small businesses with lending and investment programs through the Small Business Administration. President Obama announced earlier this week a new federal guarantee of up to 90 percent on 7(a) loans, a core SBA lending program. This will help small businesses to expand and invest in the future of their business. President Obama also announced a suspension of up-front SBA fees as high as 3.75 percent that could otherwise prevent small businesses from seeking financing to invest and expand.Joining Lowey and Gillibrand was Anne Janiak of Women’s Enterprise Development Center, a local initiative that uses federal funding to give female prospective small business owners the training they need to achieve their dreams of small business ownership. Janiak discussed the importance of local and federal support for small business development.“During these times of economic uncertainty, WEDC’s comprehensive, high quality entrepreneurial training programs and counseling services are more crucial than ever to the start-up and growing businesses in our area,” said Janiak. “We greatly appreciate the local and federal support we receive that allows us to provide our clients with the skills and resources they need to grow their small businesses.”The site of today’s event, JCF Decorations, Upholstery, and Window Treatments, is owned by Flor Cabello, a graduate of the WEDC Business Training program.###
03.18.2009	WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today launched a “proxy ballot” for shareholders of AIG – the American public – to urge Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner and Attorney General Eric Holder to recover government funds misused to give $165 million in bonuses for failed executives.“American taxpayers own 80 percent of AIG yet they had no voice in the company’s decision to award $165 million in bonuses to the very executives who drove the company into the ground,” said Lowey. “Given the economic crisis that is in large part due to risky financial schemes like those implemented at AIG, AIG’s shareholders – American taxpayers – should have had a voice in the decision to award these outrageous bonuses.”AIG has received $170 billion in taxpayer funds to rescue the company from bankruptcy, which could have caused a financial collapse. That funding was not intended as a bailout for executives who made poor decisions that drove the company to failure, yet $165 million in bonuses was paid out last week to 418 AIG employees. 73 of these employees received bonuses of more than $1 million each, and 52 have already left the company.Lowey’s “proxy ballot” gives American taxpayers the opportunity to urge Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner and Attorney General Eric Holder to act as their proxy in rescinding these irresponsible bonuses. As majority shareholders, American taxpayers deserve a voice in the process for recouping the AIG bonuses.The “proxy ballot” is available through Congresswoman Lowey’s website at https://lowey.house.gov/?sectionid=86&sectiontree=86
03.17.2009	WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today released the following statement about $165 million in bonuses paid out to executives at insurance giant AIG, which has received $170 billion in taxpayer funds.“American taxpayers, who now own 80 percent of AIG, disapprove of the $165 million in bonuses for its executives, many of whom drove AIG into the ground.“I urge Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner to use any and every means to protect the American taxpayers’ interest by blocking these irresponsible bonuses. I am working with my colleagues to examine options available to Congress to recover these funds, including exercising the government’s right as a majority stakeholder to block the bonuses and increasing taxes on them.“AIG has demonstrated they will not be shamed into canceling these bonuses, a blatant looting of the U.S. treasury. It is now the duty of the federal government to protect American taxpayers’ investment in the stability of the financial system.”###
03.16.2009	Congresswoman Nita Lowey and Westchester County Executive Andy Spano today announced the first of a series of major initiatives to assist local governments to finance projects to prevent the kind of devastating floods that hit the county in the spring of 2007.Assembled at the intersection of the Mamaroneck and Sheldrake Rivers – where some of the worst flooding occurred that April – Spano and Lowey described $11.15 million in projects to ease flooding in Mamaroneck town and village, Scarsdale, Tarrytown and Rye City/Rye Brook.Said Lowey, “Mitigating flooding in the Mamaroneck-Sheldrake watershed is imperative for the security of homes and businesses in the area. That is why I secured more than $8 million for the Army Corps of Engineers to evaluate regional flooding and develop a comprehensive plan to protect the region, as well as hundreds of thousands for municipalities to upgrade sewer and drainage systems. I am pleased these projects are moving forward, and I will continue working with County Executive Spano and our municipalities to eliminate this danger to our community.”“Since the storms of April 2007, climate change and the increased frequency and intensity of storms have focused even greater attention on flooding and its widespread impacts on our residents and businesses,” said Spano, who in the aftermath of that flood committed $50 million in county funds to help with local flood remediation projects. “The projects moving forward today are just the start of our efforts to find solutions – efforts that require the kind of partnership we have with Congresswoman Lowey and with our local governments.”Since June 2007, Spano’s flood task force has been working with local governments to develop projects that might be eligible for county funds. To date, 12 local governments have submitted preliminary applications to the county for financial help. These funds are included in the county’s Capital Projects budget.“As a member of the County Executive's Flood Action Task Force, I have spent the past two years working with county and local officials to get to the point where the county can begin to put some money towards flood mitigation,” said County Legislator Judith Myers. “The steps to get to this point have been numerous and complicated, but the results should put the municipalities in a better place with regard to stormwater runoff, municipal ordinances that should help to cut down on impervious surface and soil erosion, and a wide-scale education on stormwater retention and living near flood plains and drainage basins.”The Mamaroneck village project will be undertaken by the U.S. Army Corp of Engineers, with the help of a portion of the federal funds obtained by Lowey. In addition, the county and the state Department of Environmental Conservation will each contribute $768,000 toward the $6.65 million project. A request for approval for this expenditure was submitted today by Spano to the Board of Legislators.A second piece of legislation will be submitted shortly thereafter requesting another $4.5 million to team up with municipalities (Mamaroneck Town, Scarsdale, Tarrytown and Rye City/Rye Brook) that submitted final applications for county funds for major flood mitigation projects. Municipal projects will be funded at 50 percent of the costs for project design and construction with the balance to be provided by municipal and other non-County funds. Additional final applications are under review by the county’s Flood Task Force.To qualify, projects must address county purposes, such as lessening the risk of damage to county infrastructure and properties.The county is also moving ahead to address area-wide flooding with projects on county-owned land. Funding for these projects is separate from the $50 million set aside to assist the municipalities and other government entities to reduce the impacts of flooding.Here are descriptions of those projects that are moving forward:Mamaroneck-Sheldrake Rivers Flood Damage Reduction StudyThe Mamaroneck and Sheldrake rivers have periodically flooded portions of Mamaroneck Village, with one of the most recent and severe flooding events occurring in April 2007. This flood impacted much of the county, with downtown Mamaroneck Village being one of the hardest hit. Under the legislation being submitted to the Board of Legislators, the county will work with the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation (DEC) to participate in a 30-month flood study to be conducted by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers.The study will re-evaluate alternative solutions to reduce the impact of flooding in Mamaroneck Village and the surrounding areas. The total cost of this study will be $6.65 million. The Army Corps will provide $5.1 million and the state and county will each contribute $768,000.Town of MamaroneckGardens Lake in the Town of Mamaroneck is formed by a dam across the Sheldrake River upstream from the Village of Mamaroneck. The proposed project would enable the lake to act as a flood water storage facility as well as improve its water quality improvement capabilities. The project would include the removal and re-distribution of approximately 6,000 cubic yards to 9,000 cubic yards of sediment from the lake, creation of lake-edge wetlands and meadows to improve water quality and fish and wildlife habitat, and reconstruction of the dam at the lake’s southern end, which would allow the town to easily draw down the lake level before a storm to detain flood waters and decrease the velocity of the Sheldrake River. The total cost of the project is estimated to be $1.51 million.Village of TarrytownA small tributary of the Hudson River in the vicinity of Loh Park, in the neighborhoods of Loh Avenue, Leroy Avenue and Benedict Avenue, would be addressed by this proposed project. The project would include the installation of stormwater pipes and catch basins, replacement of culverts, enclosure of a section of the tributary within a pipe, construction of a stormwater management pond, and other drainage improvements. The project also would include stabilization practices to curb erosion and sedimentation. The total cost of the project is estimated to be $1.67 million.Village of ScarsdaleFox Meadow Brook, a tributary of the Bronx River, has flooded adjoining neighborhoods during storm events. The proposed project would involve the installation of stormwater management practices at four locations: 1) George Field Park, White Plains Road (Route 22) at Oxford Road, 2) Cooper Green, White Plains Road (Route 22) at Mamaroneck Road, 3) Brewster Road between Olmstead Road and Hartcourt Road, 4) Butler Field, south side of Harcourt Road. These practices would be: 1) construction of a dry bio-detention/meadow with associated spillway controls, 2) construction of a bio-detention dry basin, 3) diversion and detention of runoff through the construction of new sidewalks, curbs and catch basins, 4) construction of a bio-detention dry basin. The total cost of the project is estimated to be $2.9 million.City of Rye/Village of Rye Brook (joint application)Blind Brook has had chronic flooding problems and this project would allow an existing dam across the brook at Bowman Avenue to be used as a flood mitigation structure. The proposed project would involve the replacement of an existing fixed, timber outlet control gate on the dam with an automated, adjustable, cast iron outlet control gate. The gate could be controlled based on water surface elevation measured at a gauge mounted on the dam, thereby enabling the pond behind the dam to detain flood waters during storms. The total cost of the project is estimated to be $2.2 million.Westchester County Government ProjectsThe county government is using other capital funds to investigate up to six county-owned sites where there is an opportunity to reduce the area- wide impact of flooding. This effort is being funded through a capital project for $2 million that is separate from the $50 million set aside for partnerships with our municipalities or other government entities. These funds are also being used to develop a flood impact analysis application that will help the county and its municipalities identify other locations for flood mitigation and to assess the impact of proposed development projects before they are approved.Working with the Flood Task Force and other local officials, the county will also be submitting legislation to the Board of Legislators to amend the County’s Stream Control Law to enable the County to better evaluate the potential impacts of flooding that may result from development projects being considered at the municipal level.###
03.12.2009	WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Lowey today announced the White House’s planned release of $7.8 billion in weatherization and energy efficiency grants will result in more than $500 million to help New York families save money on their energy bills.“One of the best ways to conserve energy and save money on energy bills is to ensure that homes are producing heat and electricity efficiently and are properly sealed and weatherized,” said Lowey. “In addition to providing relief on utility bills for families who need it, this federal investment in energy efficiency and weatherization will also create 87,000 jobs nationwide in an emerging green industry.”The Department of Energy will release $4.7 billion for the Weatherization Assistance program, including $394.7 million for New York. This will allow an average investment of up to $6,500 per home in energy efficiency upgrades and will be available for families making up to 200% of the federal poverty level – or about $44,000 a year for a family of four. It allows low-income families to reduce their energy bills by making their homes more energy efficient, reducing heating bills by an average of 32% and overall energy bills by hundreds of dollars per year.The Department of Energy will release $3.1 billion for the State Energy Program, including $123.1 million for New York. The State Energy Program funding will be available for rebates to consumers for home energy audits or other energy saving improvements; development of renewable energy projects for clean electricity generation and alternative fuels; promotion of Energy Star products; efficiency upgrades for state and local government buildings; and other innovative state efforts to help save families money on their energy bills.To jump-start job creation and weatherization work, the Department of Energy is releasing the first installment of the funding – about $780 million – in the next few days. The Department will release additional funding over time as states demonstrate that they are using the funding effectively and responsibly to create jobs and cut energy use.###
03.12.2009	Good morning. The Subcommittee on State, Foreign Operations and Related Programs will come to order.Today the subcommittee will examine programs and policies in Africa –specifically, in the Great Lakes, Horn of Africa and the Sudan. I welcome our distinguished panel: Mr. John Prendergast, Co-founder of the ENOUGH Project; Ambassador David Shinn, professor at George Washington University and former U.S. Ambassador to Ethiopia and Burkina Faso; and Mr. Suliman Baldo, Africa Director at the International Center for Transitional Justice. Their diverse experience will provide valuable insight for United States policy in these troubled regions of Africa.As our nation grapples with global security imperatives, including in the Middle East, Afghanistan and Pakistan, we must not neglect the myriad challenges and opportunities in Africa. Over the last 40 years, nearly 20 African countries – or about 40 percent of sub-Saharan Africa – have experienced at least one civil war. It is estimated that 20% of sub-Saharan Africans now live in countries which are formally at war. Despite this grim statistic, there are glimmers of hope as some countries are emerging from conflict and consolidating peace.Optimism is spreading from the center of the continent, as the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) and Rwanda join together to face down two rebel factions in eastern DRC. This joint action, which was followed by the retreat of Rwanda forces from the area, has weakened the rebel forces, and the people of the Kivus can look forward to a reduction in violence and a return to peace. I hope that the witnesses today can provide some direction on how the United States and the international community can help sustain this progress. What should the United States and other donors do to help consolidate the peace in the DRC? What efforts can help overcome the destruction of communities t as a result of the war and the gender-based violence used systemically as a weapon of war?Unfortunately, the news out of Sudan has not been as positive. The actions of the Khartoum government last week demonstrate that they continue to thwart every effort to resolve the conflict in Western Sudan and continue to oppress the people of Darfur. The expulsion of 13 international NGOs and the apparent disregard for the health and well-being of 1.5 million people living in Darfur is simply genocide by another means. Some Members of Congress, and many in the NGO community, have called for a Presidential Special Envoy to marshal international attention and put pressure on the Khartoum government. Perhaps our witnesses can provide examples of other steps that the Administration must take in the next 30 days to demonstrate that the United States remains committed to a long-term solution in Sudan and Darfur.I am also deeply concerned about Somalia’s decades-long descent into chaos. Since the 1990’s the country has been in a state of crisis. Recent actions by the people of Somalia to form a consensus government offer some hope. However, instability has led to increased piracy off Somalia’s coast. Joint international action seems to be addressing some of this concern. Could a similar joint effort to reestablish governance in Somalia, in collaboration with the new government, offer a chance for renewed peace in the country?Finally, let me note that my colleagues and I have long criticized the narrow focus that provides only health and humanitarian dollars to Africa. While these challenges are great, Africa needs trade, agriculture and economic development to prosper and grow. Additionally, more security assistance in the region would help counter the growth and influence of al Qaeda and other terrorist cells. Perhaps frustrated by the lack of State Department resources, we have seen the Department of Defense deploy greater resources and personnel through Africom. Yet we cannot delegate responsibility to the military nor allow them to be the dominant interface with the nations of Africa. I hope that the Obama administration will reverse the years of a one-dimensional Africa assistance policy and put forward a more comprehensive diplomatic and development strategy for the African continent.I look forward to working with Secretary Clinton and all of the officials in the Obama Administration who share my commitment to this goal and expect that we can build on the goodwill and success we have had in Africa over the past few years.Now before I turn to our impressive witnesses, let me turn to our distinguished Ranking Member for her statement.###
03.10.2009	Good morning. The Subcommittee on State, Foreign Operations and Related Programs will come to order.Today we have two distinguished panels to review implementation of the funding Congress has provided for the Merida program in Mexico and the countries of Central America. I want to welcome our first panel: Mr. Thomas Shannon, Assistant Secretary of State for Western Hemisphere Affairs; Mr. David Johnson, Assistant Secretary of State for International Narcotics Control and Law Enforcement Affairs; and Mr. Rodger Garner, USAID Mission Director for Mexico. We also look forward to hearing from our private witness panel, who I will introduce later.Over the past decade, drug trafficking and other criminal enterprises have grown in size and strength, aggressively intimidating and overwhelming government institutions in Mexico and Central America, and threatening public security and the rule of law. Recent news reports have highlighted the surge in violence in Mexico related to drug cartels and organized crime, while homicide rates and other violent drug related crimes have sharply increased in El Salvador, Honduras and Guatemala. This trend continues to raise questions about the most effective way to confront these powerful and well-organized criminal enterprises. An estimated 90% of the cocaine shipped from the Andes flows through Central America, up through Mexico and into the United States. In fact, in 2007, approximately 563 metric tons of cocaine transited into the United Sates via Mexico. And the drug cartels have expanded into other types of drug production, with Mexico now a leading supplier of methamphetamine, heroin, and marijuana to the United States.This subcommittee just returned from a trip to Mexico, Colombia and Peru where we examined these challenges. We met with government leaders, law enforcement, and military leaders and got a first-hand look at counter-narcotics and alternative development programs the United States is funding. We were impressed by the political commitment of Presidents Calderon, Uribe and Garcia all of whom understand the level of threat posed by the narco-industry and are marshalling the resources to fight it.However, this problem cannot be solved through police and military actions alone. More must be done to invest in society and to provide alternative livelihoods, education and opportunities for youth. While enforcement by police and military is important, security forces must institutionalize mechanisms to ensure transparency and accountability as well as respect for the rights of citizens. I will continue to insist that U.S. counter-narcotics funding emphasizes these principles. In addition, domestically, more attention on reducing demand in our own society –and also on curbing the traffic of guns from our country into Mexico—is required to win this war.Since I became Chairwoman, I have been pushing for a more comprehensive border security strategy that encompasses counterterrorism, anti-gang and drug interdiction in the Western Hemisphere. Because counternarcotics efforts have a higher chance of success when implemented in the context of strong security and judicial institutions we must also strengthen these programs. Finally, we must work with the governments in the region to address the underlying poverty and lack of opportunity upon which the drug cartels prey to gain power and influence.Including funding in the FY2009 omnibus appropriations, Congress has provided $700 million for assistance for Mexico and $170 million for Central America under the Merida program. I would like the panels to assess what effect the funding is having on the flow of illegal drugs to the United States; the type of coordination between the United States, Mexico and the countries of Central America and what additional steps are necessary to make this joint effort work; as well as the challenges not yet being addressed.Additionally, I hope the witnesses will address the following key issues: First, how do we break the power and impunity of criminal organizations and assist the Governments in Central America and Mexico and strengthen border, air, and maritime security from our southwest border to Panama?Also, how do we improve the capacity of justice systems in the region to protect the rights of its citizens by conducting fair and just investigations and prosecutions? How can we implement rule of law programs as well as protect civil and human rights while curtailing gang activity in Mexico and Central America?Again, I thank Secretaries Shannon and Johnson and Mission Director Garner for testifying today. Before I turn to our witnesses, let me turn to the Ranking Member for her statement.###
03.09.2009	EASTCHESTER – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today visited the Lake Isle Senior Nutrition Center to alert senior citizens and veterans they will receive a $250 benefit and to announce $95,000 in federal funds for health advocacy workshops.“At a time when costs are rising for food and other goods and services, this $250 benefit for seniors and veterans will provide much-needed relief to more than 55 individuals in need across the country,” said Lowey.A provision in the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, enacted last month, provides senior citizens and veterans a one-time, tax-free payment of $250 in an effort to relieve financial strain and stimulate economic activity. Seniors do not need to take any action to receive this benefit, and checks should arrive the first week of June.Lowey also announced she has secured $95,000 in federal funds for the Medicare Rights Center to conduct health advocacy workshops to help older Americans navigate the health care system and the Medicare program. This initiative will train volunteers to be advocates for older individuals and present workshops to increase awareness of access to Medicare and other health benefits.“Programs like this are absolutely critical to ensuring that older Americans have the resources and information they need to make informed choices about their health care,” said Lowey.###
03.06.2009	U.S. Senator Charles E. Schumer, Congresswoman Nita Lowey and Yonkers Mayor Phil Amicone today announced that the Omnibus appropriations bill includes $400,000 for the City of Yonkers for its 311 call center and will help improve emergency response time across the city. The 311 system will establish a new community relations management system that will help the City Government be more responsive to the needs of residents and visitors. Senator Schumer and Rep. Lowey worked to include this funding in the 2009 appropriations bill that passed the House last Tuesday and cleared the Senate last night. Schumer and Lowey said the new 311 system will improve emergency response time across Yonkers, by diverting non-emergency calls from the current 911 system."This is terrific news for residents and public safety officials throughout the City of Yonkers," said Schumer. "This communications center will set up a 311 number to handle non-emergency calls, meaning that the 911 system will only be used for emergencies. This will streamline emergency response services across the city, making them more efficient and effective, and will ensure our first responders can act quickly when we need their help the most.”“Directing non-emergency calls away from emergency operators will streamline services and improve emergency response,” said Lowey. “It will help police officers, firefighters, and emergency medical personnel reach those in need of assistance more quickly, making the City of Yonkers safer. I will continue working with Senator Schumer to ensure the federal government supports initiatives that help our first responders keep our community safe.”Since its use was adopted in 1967, the widespread use of 911 as an emergency number has vastly improved emergency response time and saved many lives. It’s estimated that more than 90% of the U.S. population lives in areas covered by 911. Unfortunately, the ease of use of 911 leads some people looking for information from their city government to overuse the hotline. Some municipalities, including New York City, have set up a 311 line for people who need general information or want to report non-emergency problems. This helps to save 911 for real emergencies and keeps operators from getting bogged down in non-emergency situations.The $400,000 in federal funds that Senator Schumer and Rep. Lowey helped secure for the City of Yonkers will be used to transform the current Mayor’s Helpline with a 311 Communications Center to handle non-emergency calls and ensure the 911 system is used only for emergency calls. The City of Yonkers will use funding to improve its emergency services, communications, and service delivery to the public by establishing a new community relations management system. The call center will facilitate and improve response time for emergencies and non emergencies. The 311 system is part of an ongoing effort by the City of Yonkers to make emergency response more efficient and help City Government to be more responsive to the needs of residents and visitors.Currently, the City of Yonkers receives approximately 100,000 emergency calls a year as well as an additional 500,000 non-emergency calls. Yonkers already has an Action Center that acts as a helpline for non-emergency service related calls. The Action Center, which is also referred to as the Mayor’s Helpline, receives approximately 150,000 calls a year –all non-emergency, city services related calls. A 311 system in Yonkers will consolidate the City’s current helpline call center into a central system thereby helping the City Government to better manage its resources.With the $400,000 in funding, the City of Yonkers will be able to integrate their existing system into the new and improved 311 call center and operate continuously on a 24 hour a day basis. The system will include such services as Computer Telephony integration, where Caller I.D. automatically populates fields with the caller’s address and phone number to eventually send to the proper city agency. This information could be sent directly to the Police Department’s Computer Aided Dispatch system to become the basis of a police report. The funding will also support installation of the needed software and scripts for the various agencies within the City.After recognizing the need for an integrated, fully functioning 311 system, the City of Yonkers submitted a request to Senator Schumer and Congresswoman Lowey last year for assistance in obtaining funds that would cover the cost of equipment and resources needed to set up the 311 system.Today, Senator Schumer and Rep. Lowey announced that they successfully secured $400,000 in the 2009 Omnibus spending bill for a 311 Communications Center to improve emergency response time across the city. They committed to continuing their efforts to provide financial support for the city’s needs. Both members of the delegation committed to further supporting the efforts to get this system fully operational.Schumer said, “This funding is a win-win for the City of Yonkers. It ensures emergencies can be dealt with swiftly and efficiently and also guarantees that residents who are dealing with non-emergency situations have access to information that can support their quality of life.###
03.06.2009	WHITE PLAINS – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today announced municipalities in Westchester and Rockland Counties will receive more than $1.4 million in federal justice grants to support crime reduction and criminal justice through the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act. “The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act will allow us to reinvest in our communities’ health and education, and I am thrilled it will also help us to reduce crime and punish criminals,” said Lowey. “This funding will lead to more, better equipped, and better trained law enforcement on the streets keeping our communities safe.” Funding will be distributed through the Edward Byrne Justice Assistance Grant (JAG) Program through the U.S. Department of Justice Office of Justice Programs. In New York’s 18th Congressional District, the following counties and municipalities will receive funding: WESTCHESTER COUNTY$37,169HASTINGS ON HUDSON VILLAGE$11,465NEW ROCHELLE CITY$133,327OSSINING VILLAGE$33,285PORT CHESTER VILLAGE$47,524WHITE PLAINS CITY$82,844YONKERS CITY$522,581GREENBURGH TOWN$26,259HARRISON TOWN$13,129HAVERSTRAW VILLAGE$35,874CLARKSTOWN TOWN$47,894HAVERSTRAW TOWN$37,169 The JAG Program, administered by OJP’s Bureau of Justice Assistance, allows states and local governments to support a broad range of activities to prevent and control crime and improve the criminal justice system. JAG funds can be used for state and local initiatives, technical assistance, training, personnel, equipment, supplies, contractual support, and information systems for criminal justice for any one or more of the following purpose areas: law enforcement programs; prosecution and court programs; prevention and education programs; corrections and community corrections programs; drug treatment programs; and planning, evaluation, and technology improvement programs. ###
03.05.2009	WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today announced the New Rochelle Municipal Housing Authority will receive $67,465 in federal funds to help residents access job training opportunities, placement organizations, and local employers.“Unemployment has affected communities throughout the nation, and those whose jobs are eliminated must have access to job placement organizations, employers, and opportunities to train for a new career,” said Lowey. “This grant will directly assist New Rochelle’s unemployed residents in a difficult job market during this time of economic instability. I am pleased the federal government is responding to this need in New Rochelle.”This federal grant is provided through the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) Family Self Sufficiency Program (FSS), which provides residents with job training and employment objectives to meet over a maximum 5-year window. The program also requires for participants who receive welfare assistance a goal of becoming self-sufficient and independent from welfare assistance at least one year prior to that 5-year window expiring.# # #
03.04.2009	WASHINGTON - Congresswoman Nita Lowey (NY-18) today announced that the Dobbs Ferry Fire Department and the Pelham Manor Fire Department will receive a total of more than $65,000 to help protect the safety of local firefighters.“First responders serve their communities by responding to emergencies and helping those in need of assistance,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “It is our responsibility to do everything we can to keep them safe and healthy on the job. I am pleased the Department of Homeland Security is addressing this need in Dobbs Ferry and Pelham Manor.”The Pelham Manor Fire Department received $34,200 and will use the grant to purchase vehicle exhaust systems to keep firefighters safe from dangerous diesel fumes. The Dobbs Ferry Fire Department will receive $30,495 to purchase a 3,000 feet of fire hose and three Rit Packs, which supply oxygen to a downed firefighter.The Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) program which is administered by the Department of Homeland Security Office of Grants and Training in coordination with the U.S. Fire Administration, awards grants directly to fire departments and EMS agencies. Funds may be used to increase the effectiveness of firefighting operations, firefighter health and safety programs, emergency medical service programs, fire prevention and safety programs, and to purchase new fire equipment.###
03.04.2009	Congresswoman Nita Lowey, Chairwoman of the Appropriations Subcommittee on State and Foreign Operations, today released the following statement on the International Criminal Court’s issuance of an indictment of Omar Hassan al-Bashir for war crimes:“Today’s announcement by the International Criminal Court is an important first step in holding President Bashir accountable for the ongoing atrocities in Darfur. The eyes of the world are on Sudan and I urge the government to provide security and operating space to the UN mission in Darfur, to the international humanitarian organizations who are working in the country, and to the millions of vulnerable Sudanese who fear reprisals due to this indictment.” ###
03.04.2009	WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today announced Westchester and Rockland Counties will receive nearly $100 million in federal Medicaid assistance over three years from the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, which will maintain critical medical care and help relieve local property taxes.“The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act’s increase of federal support for Medicaid funding will maintain critical medical care and help prevent further property tax increases,” said Lowey. “This is only the latest example of how the stimulus bill will help provide critical relief and invest in important priorities in our area.”The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act increased the Federal Medical Assistance Percentages (FMAP) used to determine the amount of federal matching funds for state Medicaid expenditures. New York state law requires counties to incur half the state share of Medicaid funding. The federal increase will decrease the amount New York and counties pay.Westchester County will receive $14.8 million in 2009 and more than $75 million over three years in FMAP fiscal relief. Rockland County will receive $4.4 million in 2009 and $22.5 million over three years in FMAP fiscal relief.###
03.03.2009	WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today announced Westchester and Rockland communities will receive more than $20 million in federal funds from the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) to increase housing options for working families and individuals.“No family or individual who works hard and plays by the rules should be unable to afford decent housing,” said Lowey. “At a time of rising foreclosures and economic instability, the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act will direct relief and reinvest in our communities, and we are already beginning to feel its effects. I am pleased communities in Westchester and Rockland Counties will benefit from this critical legislation.”The funding will be provided from three HUD programs:· $10,784,156 from the Capital Fund Formula program for modernization and development of public housing;· $5,454,372 from the Homelessness Prevention Grant program to prevent homelessness and help those experiencing homelessness quickly find housing; and· $3,804,904 from the Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) program, which expands housing and economic opportunities for low- and moderate-income individuals.Funding through the Capital Fund Formula program will be distributed to the following housing authorities:· $6,552,562 for the Municipal Housing Authority in Yonkers· $1,705,634 for the White Plains Housing Authority· $1,034,874 for the New Rochelle Housing Authority· $726,252 for the Port Chester Housing Authority· $272,210 for the Tarrytown Municipal Housing Authority· $211,591 for the Greenburgh Housing Authority· $148,172 for the North Tarrytown Housing Authority· $132,861 for the Mount Kisco Housing AuthorityFunding through the Homelessness Prevention Grant program will be provided for:· $2,373,791 for Westchester County· $1,533,003 for the City of Yonkers· $860,643 for Rockland County· $686,935 for the City of New RochelleFunding through the Community Development Block Grant program will be provided for:· $1,550,518 for Westchester County· $1,000,857 for the City of Yonkers· $562,845 for Rockland County· $448,971 for the City of New Rochelle· $241,713 for the City of White Plains# # #
02.27.2009	Washington, DC – Today House Energy and Commerce Committee Chair Henry Waxman (D-CA), Rules Committee Chair Louise Slaughter (D-NY), State and Foreign Operations Subcommittee Chair Nita Lowey (D-NY), and Energy and Commerce Committee Vice Chair Diana DeGette (D-CO) applauded news that President Obama would revisit the Bush Administration’s “right of conscience" rule that permitted health care workers to refuse to participate in any procedure they found morally objectionable, including family planning services.“I am very pleased to see that the Administration is taking another look at this rule,” said Rep. Waxman, Chairman of the Energy and Commerce Committee. “Many health organizations and professional societies expressed concern about the confusion and barriers the rule would create for patients, and President Obama listened.”“After eight long years of the Bush Administration trouncing on women’s reproductive rights and playing politics with science, it is clear that we are now in a new era,” said Rep. Slaughter, Co-Chair of the Congressional Pro-Choice Caucus and Chairwoman of the House Rules Committee. “The Bush Administration’s sweeping rule went beyond a woman’s right to choose, beyond a woman’s right to contraception and put everyone’s access to health care at risk. By revisiting this ill-considered rule, President Obama is standing up for improved health care access for all Americans.”“What a difference an Administration makes,” said Congresswoman Nita Lowey, Chairwoman of the State and Foreign Operations Subcommittee. “This rule would have denied critical family planning services, including birth control, to women. I am pleased President Obama plans to rescind the rule and understands that making birth control more – not less – accessible is the best way to prevent unintended pregnancies.”“The Obama Administration is moving in the right direction by rescinding this rule that attempts to restrict Americans access to health care,” said DeGette, co-chair of the Congressional Pro-Choice Caucus and Vice Chair of the Committee on Energy and Commerce. “The refusal rule was written so broadly that is would allow anyone working in health care to refuse to provide legal health care services or medications to any patient – without regard to the needs of the patient. While we need to respect the religious beliefs of individuals, we also must protect patient’s right to receive health care. The state has a compelling interest in both providing access to health care and protecting patients’ rights to that care.”BACKGROUND:At the end of his Administration, President Bush proposed the “Refusal Clause” rule, which permits employees of health care providers receiving any federal funding to refuse to provide medical services based on personal beliefs.The refusal clause applies not only to abortion, but to any health care service, including all women’s health care services. It enables health care workers to refuse to provide care, or even information or referrals, to patients.The rule went into effect on January 20, 2009. Today it was reported that the Obama Administration is set to announce that they will revisit the rule.###
02.26.2009	WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today released the following statement on President Obama’s Fiscal year 2010 budget request:“I commend President Obama for submitting a budget request that is honest and outlines a realistic approach to the critical challenges of our time. This budget rejects the accounting gimmicks used in the past to put off hard choices and commits to the investments to get our country back on track.“President Obama recognizes the toll the high cost of health care is taking on American families and has included a significant down payment on reform to protect our nation’s health and our businesses’ competitiveness. Other important health care investments include $6 billion for cancer research; $330 million to increase the number of doctors, dentists, and nurses; and more than $1 billion to increase food safety inspections and control foodborne illness.“This budget recognizes the role of education in our children’s future, and I am pleased it would raise the maximum Pell Grant award to $5,550 so that more students have the opportunity to get a college education. It also makes a substantial investment in clean and sustainable energy to eliminate our dependence on foreign oil and invests substantially in programs to strengthen our communities, including $4.5 billion for the Community Development Block Grant program.“I am pleased President Obama’s budget makes permanent tax relief for 95 percent of the workforce and displays a determination to protect taxpayers from the Alternative Minimum Tax. I will continue to stress the importance of considering the critical factor of cost-of-living in our tax decisions, given that a middle-class couple in New York with two incomes may qualify as wealthy in much of the country.I look forward to working with President Obama to make the investments in our communities we need to get our nation and economy back on track.###
02.26.2009	WASHINGTON, DC – Citing a report by the United States Department of Health and Human Services that predicts the United States will face a shortage of more than one million nurses by 2020, U.S. Sen. Dick Durbin (D-IL) today introduced legislation in the Senate - Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY) will introduce companion legislation in the House next week – to address one of the major causes of the nationwide nursing shortage – an insufficient number of nurse educators. Last year, nursing colleges across the nation denied admission to nearly 50,000 qualified applicants because there were not enough faculty members to teach the students. The Nurse Education, Expansion, and Development (NEED) Act would provide grants to colleges and universities to improve their ability to educate nursing students.“There is a tremendous amount of hope for the future of healthcare and the nearly three million nurses in our country are at the forefront. They are often the first to care for our children and grandchildren, our parents and other loved ones, but the number of nurses is not keeping pace with the growing healthcare needs of our nation,” said Durbin. “Every year, our colleges and universities turn away more and more aspiring healthcare professionals due to lack of faculty. Last year over 2,500 potential nursing students in Illinois were turned away. Our bill will strike at the heart of the nursing shortage by giving colleges the resources they need to train more nurses.”“At a time when job loss and unemployment have affected so many sectors of our economy, it is inexcusable that funding and resource constraints at nursing schools are preventing us from filling gaps in the nursing workforce,” said Lowey. “In 2008, baccalaureate and graduate nursing schools in New York turned away 2,134 qualified applicants, 550 more students than in 2007. That is why I have introduced and supported the NEED Act since 2004. This legislation will help schools of nursing accommodate and train more qualified applicants so health care providers can hire the workforce they need.”Durbin and Lowey noted that statistics paint a bleak a picture for the availability of nursing faculty now and into the future. Last year, the American Association of Colleges of Nursing surveyed more than 400 schools of nursing. They found that 63% of the schools reported vacancies on their faculty. An additional 17.8% said they were fully staffed but still needed more faculty to handle the number of students who want to be trained. It is expected that 200 to 300 doctorally prepared faculty will be eligible for retirement each year from 2005 through 2012, reducing nursing faculty while the need for qualified nurses continues to increase.“Our schools of nursing are struggling to increase student capacity in the face of a severe nurse faculty shortage. Complicating the problem further, state budget cuts, a lack of clinical sites, and insufficient classroom space further inhibit schools from accepting all qualified students. Based on the historical success capitation grants offered nursing schools in the 1970s to reverse capacity barriers, the NEED Act of 2009 capitalizes on the program's effectiveness and updates the provisions for the new millennium,” said AACN President Fay Raines. “AACN applauds Senator Durbin and Congresswoman Lowey for introducing this bill and we are committed to working with him and Congress to see this important piece of legislation passed.”The NEED Act would help ensure that nursing schools have the resources to teach and train a new generation of nurses and nurse educators by:Authorizing capitation grants (formula grants to schools based on the number of students enrolled) for schools of nursing to improve their ability to educate nursing students;Designating graduate, baccalaureate, and associate degree nursing programs eligible to receive grant funding to hire and retain new faculty, purchase educational equipment, enhance clinical laboratories, and repair and expand infrastructure -- the very problems preventing schools from enrolling more students;Requiring the Government Accountability Office to report to Congress on ways to increase the number of nurse faculty.The following are among the more than twenty organizations that have endorsed today’s legislation: the American Association of Colleges of Nursing, the American College of Nurse Practitioners, the American Nurses Association, the Association of Women's Health, Obstetric & Neonatal Nurses and the National League for Nursing-30-
02.26.2009	Congresswoman Nita Lowey and Senator Charles E. Schumer joined County Executive Scott Vanderhoef today to announce that the Omnibus appropriations bill includes $250,000 for the Rockland County Public Safety Communications System. The funding will be used for a countywide public safety communication system designed to help emergency responders communicate efficiently and effectively during a crisis. Senator Schumer and Rep. Lowey worked to include this funding in the 2009 appropriations bill that passed the House on Tuesday and is set to pass the Senate next week. Senator Schumer and Rep. Lowey said the new interoperability system will help Rockland County first responders keep county residents safe."It is essential that our first-responders be able to effectively communicate with each other in everyday work and during emergencies,’ said Schumer. “This interoperability system will allow Rockland County first responders to streamline the communication systems between agencies in the emergency networks, making them more efficient and effective. This system is crucial to keeping our communities safe and ensures that our first responders have the equipment and technology to act quickly when we need their help the most. I am so glad that I was able to help secure this funding for Rockland County’s finest.”“In every major recent emergency – including the attacks of September 11th – communications failures have hampered response. That is why I have continued to push the federal government to help local first responders purchase reliable and interoperable communications equipment. This $250,000 – added to the $1.15 million I have already helped Rockland County secure for the program – will help police, firefighters, and EMTs communicate with each other to respond effectively to emergencies. This will help keep our communities and first responders themselves safer and more secure.”"This funding is greatly appreciated and we thank Mr. Schumer and Mrs. Lowey for their assistance with this critical radio project. Every dollar will be used to keep our residents safe," Vanderhoef said. "We in Rockland are very lucky to have a very proactive and dedicated community of emergency first responders. This interoperable radio system will improve communication between our police, firemen and emergency service workers, helping to make Rockland an even safer place to live."The $250,000 included in the Omnibus spending bill will help fund a multi-jurisdiction, multi-service, countywide public safety communications system. Police, fire and emergency medical personnel are typically the first and most critical responders to arrive on the scene at times of public crisis and once they arrive, they must have the ability to communicate effectively amongst themselves and other public safety officials.n 1997, Rockland County established a Radio Communications Committee, consisting of representatives from all of Rockland’s first responder organizations, to create an interoperable public safety communications system that aims to use advanced technological equipment to increase efficiency and radio communication.As of March 1998, the committee had obtained FCC licenses for 13 channel pairs (26 frequencies) to build an efficient, state-of-the-art and totally integrated system. These channels represent millions of dollars of valuable radio spectrum that is rarely available, particularly in densely populated areas.The committee’s ultimate goal was to implement interoperability that would help protect areas at high risk for threats of terrorism, as well as ensure first responders have improved communications during day-to-day operations and natural disasters. As part of the New York City Metropolitan Area, Rockland County is considered an integral part of a defined Counter Terrorism Zone (CTZ), with many major areas of concern for vital and highly vulnerable infrastructure.Recognizing Rockland’s need to improve their inter-agency communications systems, in 2008, the committee submitted a request to Senator Schumer and Congresswoman Lowey for assistance in obtaining funds that would cover the cost of providing their emergency first responders with the equipment necessary to obtain the new radio system.Today, Lowey and Schumer announced that they secured $250,000 in the 2009 Omnibus spending bill for an Interoperable Communication System. The new system would support all police, fire and emergency medical services within the County by providing interoperability for emergency providers within the County of Rockland, the towns of Clarkstown, Haverstraw, Orangetown, Ramapo and Stony Point. They committed to continuing their efforts to provide financial support for the county’s interoperability system.Schumer, Lowey and Vanderhoef said today they are thrilled to help secure this funding for the first responders and residents in Rockland County. The legislators stressed that the new system will help local heroes work together to keep the community safe.###
02.25.2009	WASHINGTON - Congresswoman Nita Lowey (NY-18) and Congressman Eliot Engel (NY-17) today announced that the Irvington Fire Department will receive a federal grant of $149,625 to purchase new breathing apparatus.“First responders serve their communities by responding to emergencies and helping those in need of assistance,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “It is our responsibility to do everything we can to keep them safe and healthy on the job. I am pleased the Department of Homeland Security is addressing this need in Irvington.”Congressman Eliot Engel said, “This program is designed to give our first responders the equipment they need to perform their heroic tasks. Scott Air Packs are vital to any firefighter, allowing them to combat fires while avoiding the perils of smoke inhalation and heat damage to lungs. These packs will help to keep our firefighters safe while they are keeping Irvington residents safe.”"This is great news,” said Irvington Fire Chief Kenneth Mastropieto. “These new air packs will help protect a lot of fire fighters in the department and will allow them do their jobs more safely and effectively."The Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) program which is administered by the Department of Homeland Security Office of Grants and Training in coordination with the U.S. Fire Administration, awards grants directly to fire departments and EMS agencies. Funds may be used to increase the effectiveness of firefighting operations, firefighter health and safety programs, emergency medical service programs, fire prevention and safety programs, and to purchase new fire equipment.###
02.25.2009	WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), a senior member of the powerful House Appropriations Committee, today announced the Omnibus Appropriations Act contains millions in federal funding she requested for urgent priorities in Westchester and Rockland Counties.“I am thrilled to have successfully included funding in this legislation for important projects that will improve the economy, health, education, and safety of communities in Westchester and Rockland Counties,” said Lowey. “In these tough economic times, ensuring New York gets its fair share of federal investment will improve our communities and help mitigate local property tax increases.”The Omnibus Appropriations Act contains nine Fiscal Year 2009 appropriations bills not yet enacted into law, including the Labor, Health, and Human Services, and Education Subcommittee, on which Lowey is the second most senior Democrat, and the State and Foreign Operations Subcommittee, of which Lowey is the Chairwoman.Congress will consider the Omnibus Appropriations Act this week.The Omnibus Appropriations Act contains the following federal investments in towns and villages in Westchester and Rockland Counties:• $400,000 for a 3-1-1 communications system for the Yonkers Police Department• $206,000 each for Sound Shore Medical Center and Blythedale Children’s Hospital to implement electronic medical records systems• $138,000 for the Haverstraw-Stony Point Central School District to improve English language skills for ESL students• $400,000 for a records management and computer-aided dispatch system for the New Rochelle Police Department• $130,000 for a communications network and public alert system for the New Castle Police Department• $167,000 for to revitalize the shoreline in the Village of Tarrytown• $500,000 for sewer improvements to mitigate flooding in the Village of Mamaroneck• $350,000 for stormwater infrastructure to mitigate flooding in the Village of Pelham• $665,000 for ferry pier upgrades in the Village of Haverstraw• $118,750 to make lighting and pedestrian improvements at Hartsdale Hamlet Center in the Town of Greenburgh• $285,000 to make lighting and pedestrian improvements in the City of White Plains• $95,000 to improve pedestrian access in Carroll Park in Mount Pleasant• $380,000 to make pedestrian, lighting, and landscaping improvements in the Town of Eastchester• $285,000 to increase traffic safety and reduce congestion in the Town of Harrison• $1,670,000 for law enforcement throughout the 18th Congressional District to purchase equipment and conduct training, including:o $250,000 for equipment and training for Westchester Countyo $250,000 for interoperable communications equipment for Rockland Countyo $76,000 for equipment and training for the Greenburgh Police Departmento $40,000 for video systems for Ardsley Police Department police carso $45,000 for a fingerprint reader for Dobbs Ferry Police Departmento $35,000 for equipment and training for Sleepy Hollow Police Departmento $30,000 for equipment and training for Briarcliff Manor Police Departmento $50,000 for Elmsford Police Department to purchase closed circuit cameraso $56,500 for Hastings Police Department to purchase vehicle recorders and radar unitso $35,000 for Irvington Police Department to purchase a license plate readero $59,100 for police equipment for Tarrytown Villageo $52,000 for Mount Pleasant Police Department to purchase interoperable radioso $25,000 for Pleasantville Police Department for a digital imaging systemo $41,400 for North Castle Town Police Department to purchase mobile recoding equipmento $30,000 for Town of Ossining Police Department to purchase license plate readerso $45,000 for equipment and training for Village of Ossining Police Departmento $25,000 for equipment and training for Pelham Manor Police Departmento $30,000 for Mamaroneck Town Police Department to purchase a closed circuit television monitoring systemo $20,000 for Larchmont Police Department to purchase a license plate readero $30,000 for equipment and training for the City of Rye Police Departmento $20,000 for a fingerprint reader for Scarsdale Police Departmento $75,000 for Tuckahoe Village Police Department to purchase a firearms simulator for police trainingo $100,000 for equipment and training for White Plains Police Departmento $100,000 for the Rockland County Sheriff to purchase inmate tracking equipment for use within the county jailo $100,000 for Clarkstown Police Department to upgrade its communications systemo $50,000 for equipment and training for Haverstraw Police DepartmentCongresswoman Lowey secured the following funding for New York State, counties, and organizations:• $206,000 for the Westchester County Association to implement a health information technology system• $750,000 for public park capital projects in parks along the Hudson River• $63,867 for the Women’s Enterprise Development Center to train prospective small business owners• $809,000 for Westchester County to construct a laboratory to detect and track infectious diseases• $133,000 to prevent further degradation of the Long Island Sound Watershed• $382,000 to restore natural habitats in the Bronx River Basin• $712,500 for bus maintenance facility renovations in Westchester County• $3,000,000 for the Environmental Protection Agency to restore the Long Island Sound• $95,000 for the Medicare Rights Center to conduct interactive health care workshops for seniors• $143,000 for the Wildlife Conservation Society for the recruitment and training of science teachers• $714,000 for equipment upgrades at New York-Presbyterian Hospital• $332,500 to improve the Bronx Zoo Intermodal FacilityCongresswoman Lowey secured the following funding for local schools and New York colleges:• $133,000 for the Pace University Land Use Law Center to train local officials to make cost-effective and environmentally sound land-use decisions• $150,000 for the Cornell University Breast Cancer and Environmental Risk Factors Program• $138,000 for the Bronxville Public School to equip science laboratories• $138,000 for academic enrichment activities in the Yonkers Public Schools• $138,000 for the Tuckahoe Union Free School District to develop a pre-kindergarten program• $138,000 for academic enrichment activities and teacher development in the Port Chester-Rye Union Free School District###
02.24.2009	WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), a senior member of the Appropriations Subcommittee on Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education, today released the following statement on the confirmation of Hilda Solis as U.S. Secretary of Labor.“I commend the Senate for confirming Hilda Solis as U.S. Secretary of Labor.“Throughout her career in the U.S. House of Representatives, Hilda Solis has been a tireless advocate for employees’ fundamental rights to decent wages and benefits, safe working conditions, and job security. The daughter of immigrants, she understands the toll our struggling economy is taking on working Americans. Having worked with Hilda Solis in Congress for the past eight years, I know that she is an effective legislator, a principled advocate, and a strong leader.“As a senior member of the Appropriations Subcommittee that funds the Department of Labor, I look forward to working with Hilda Solis to protect workers’ rights to bargain collectively for decent wages and benefits and fair treatment, defend employees’ rights under the Family and Medical Leave Act (FMLA), enforce worker safety regulations, and expand workforce training for the 21st Century.”###
02.23.2009	Bill Total2008 Enacted: $32.8 billionPresident’s Request: $38.2 billionFinal Bill: $36.6 billionKEY INVESTMENTSState Department and USAID Operations, Staff and Security:· Diplomatic and Consular Programs: $4.2 billion, $464 million above 2008 for diplomatic operations and to hire an estimated 500 additional positions to fill existing vacancies in the Foreign and Civil Service.· World Wide Embassy Security Protection: $1.1 billion for ongoing security protection to ensure that U.S. embassy personnel are safe and secure.· Operating Expenses for USAID: $808.5 million, $178 million above 2008, to allow USAID to hire 300 additional foreign service officers as part of the Development Leadership Initiative.Global Health: $7.1 billion to strengthen the global public health infrastructure and surveillance network in order to save lives overseas and to protect the health of Americans.· HIV/AIDS: $5.5 billion for international HIV/AIDS prevention, treatment and care programs including $600 million for multilateral programs through the Global Fund to Fight HIV/AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria.· Global Health and Child Survival: $1.6 billion for other global health programs including increases of nearly $50 million for maternal and child health programs, $35 million to fight malaria, $11 million to fight tuberculosis, and $82 million for international family planning.Humanitarian Assistance:· Refugee Assistance: $971 million, $104 million above 2008 (not including $350 million in emergency appropriations), to help displaced people around the world with food, water, shelter and other basic needs-- including humanitarian assistance for Gaza.· Disaster Assistance: $350 million, $30 million above 2008, (not including $200 million in emergency appropriations) to avert famines and provide life-saving assistance during natural disasters and for internally displaced people in Iraq and elsewhere around the world.Basic Education: $700 million for grants to organizations that support basic education. This includes $240 million to help countries that have national education plans as part of the Fast Track Initiative – the international commitment to provide all children with access to a quality education.Improving Access to Safe Drinking Water: $300 million for safe water programs, including help to increase access to safe drinking water (such as pumps and wells); build water systems; and expand safe hygiene programs.Energy and the Environment: $424 million for clean energy and biodiversity programs worldwide, including funding for the Global Environmental Facility and international conservation programs to work with developing nations to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, preserve parks, and protect wildlife.Middle East Security Assistance: $2.4 billion for Israel (not including $170 million in emergency appropriations) fulfilling the 10-year Memorandum of Understanding between the United States and Israel, $1.5 billion in economic and security assistance for Egypt, and $498.5 million in economic and security assistance for Jordan.Sudan: $762 million for critical humanitarian, development and peacekeeping programs. Of this amount, $414 million supports the UN Mission in Darfur.Merida Initiative: $405 million for counter-narcotics and law enforcement programs in Mexico and Central America (not including $465 million in emergency appropriations).International Narcotics Control and Law Enforcement: $875 million, $318.6 million above 2008, to strengthen law enforcement, support counternarcotics efforts, combat transnational crime, terrorist networks and other illicit enterprises worldwide.Peacekeeping Activities· UN Peacekeeping Missions: $1.5 billion, for Contributions for International Peacekeeping Activities. These funds support UN peacekeeping missions around the world including in Sudan, Liberia, the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Kosovo and Lebanon.· Targeted Peacekeeping Operations: $250.2 million for Peacekeeping Operations, to advance international support for voluntary multi-national peacekeeping and stabilization efforts, including support for international missions not supported by the UN but of particular interest to the United States.Educational and Cultural Exchanges: $538 million, $37 million above 2008, to fund educational, cultural and professional exchange programs worldwide.Broadcasting: $709 million, $40 million above 2008, for radio programs critical to the nation’s overall public diplomacy efforts.Peace Corps: $340 million, $9 million above 2008, for the program which has over 7,800 volunteers in 70 posts serving 76 countries.Democracy Fund: $116 million to the Department of State, Bureau of Democracy, Human Rights and Labor, and to the USAID, Office of Democracy and Governance to promote democracy, including support for human rights, media, and the rule of law.SIGNIFICANT CUTSMillennium Challenge Corporation: $875 million, $669 million below 2008 and $1.35 billion below President Bush’s request. This program has been cut because of slow program implementation, making funds provided in this bill sufficient to move forward on new compacts.Andean Counterdrug Program: $315 million, $4.8 million below 2008 and $91.8 million below President Bush’s request. Additional funds were provided for Andean programs through other accounts to support core interdiction, eradication and economic development programs in the Andean region.
02.13.2009	WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today issued a Report to New York on the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, detailing the impact the legislation will have on New York and communities in Westchester and Rockland Counties.“The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act will have a tangible and positive impact in our region,” said Lowey. “It will create jobs and provide direct relief in the short-term while putting our economy on a positive and sustainable track for the long-term. I am pleased Congress is set to pass this critical legislation.”The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act provides direct relief for working Americans, assistance for states facing budget shortfalls, and targeted investments for education, transportation, energy, water, and technology infrastructure.Please view Congresswoman Lowey’s Report to New York on the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act.###
02.09.2009	Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY), Chairwoman of the State and Foreign Operations Appropriations Subcommittee, today released the following statement on the continued violence in Sri Lanka between the Government of Sri Lanka and the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam (LTTE).“Ongoing violence between the Government of Sri Lanka and the LTTE has resulted in a humanitarian disaster, including massive civilian casualties and the internal displacement of approximately 250,000 innocent civilians. Today’s suicide bombing at a refugee checkpoint is only the most recent in series of deadly and shocking attacks.“I call on the Government of Sri Lanka and the LTTE to negotiate a ceasefire immediately and to protect innocent civilians, especially those who have been displaced and trapped by the fighting. Both parties must take immediate action to address the worsening humanitarian situation and ensure food, water, and medical assistance reaches those in need. ”###
02.05.2009	WASHINGTON – During the first week of Black History Month, Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today announced her cosponsorship of a Congressional resolution commemorating the 40th Anniversary of the election of Congresswoman Shirley Chisholm (NY-12), the first African American woman elected to Congress.“Shirley Chisholm became an inspiration for millions around the country when she was the first African American woman elected to Congress,” said Lowey. “She served with honor and distinction, earning a reputation as a fierce advocate for her constituents and for social justice and equality.”House Resolution 36, introduced by U.S. Representative Barbara Lee (D-CA), would commemorate the 40th Anniversary of the election of Shirley Chisholm to Congress. Chisholm represented New York’s 12th Congressional District for 14 years, earning a reputation as one of the House of Representatives’ most eloquent orators and a fierce defender of human rights and social justice. Chisholm was one of the founding members of the Congressional Black Caucus and in 1972 became the first African American to pursue the presidential nomination of a major party.“40 years since the landmark election of Shirley Chisholm, the United States has reached another milestone in racial equality by electing its first African American president,” said Lowey. “Although the progress our nation has made is inspiring, we have a continued responsibility to address inequalities in access to health care, education, and employment opportunities. I am optimistic Congress and the Obama Administration will get our economy back on track to address these inequities and expand opportunity for all our citizens.”###
02.04.2009	WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today announced the Larchmont Fire Department and Port Chester/Rye/Rye Brook Volunteer Ambulance Corps will receive federal grants to purchase equipment that will improve the safety of first responders and members of the communities.“Firefighters and Emergency Medical Technicians in Larchmont and the Port Chester-Rye area serve their neighbors by responding quickly and effectively to emergencies” said Lowey. “It is our responsibility to provide the equipment they need to remain safe and healthy on the job. I am pleased the Department of Homeland Security is addressing these needs in Port Chester and Larchmont.”The Port Chester/Rye/Rye Brook Volunteer Ambulance Corps will use its $44,800 grant to purchase a Lucas chest compression system. The Larchmont Fire Department will use its $28,500 grant to purchase SCBA air packs for firefighters."The grant will be used to purchase a Lucas chest compression system that helps ensure the safety of staff and does great work to help ensure the survival of the patient," said Scott Moore, Administrator of the Port Chester/Rye/Rye Brook Volunteer Ambulance Corps. "We want to thank the Congresswoman Lowey for being so good to the Port Chester/Rye/Rye Brook Volunteer Ambulance Corps over the years. This grant will ensure the safety and survival rate of staff when responding to emergencies.""This grant will be used to update outdated SCBA air packs for the Larchmont firefighters. The new air packs have locator alarms in case a firefighter is in need of assistance during a fire," said Chief Richard Heine of the Larchmont Fire Department. "The Larchmont Fire Department will use this grant to make sure the new equipment is put to good use. The air packs will help ensure firefighter safety and survival."The Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) program which is administered by the Department of Homeland Security Office of Grants and Training in coordination with the U.S. Fire Administration, awards grants directly to fire departments and EMS agencies. Funds may be used to increase the effectiveness of firefighting operations, firefighter health and safety programs, emergency medical service programs, fire prevention and safety programs, and to purchase new fire equipment.###
01.28.2009	WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today released the following statement on the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act passed by the House of Representatives:“In every part of our country, people are hurting from the economic downturn. Our nation lost 2.6 million jobs last year, and just this week major employers announced the elimination of 70,000 more. The need for bold and aggressive federal action is clear.“The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act will quickly stimulate the economy, and create and save three to four million jobs in critical sectors of our economy like transportation and infrastructure, health information technology, and green energy. It will provide vital assistance to states like New York facing severe budget shortfalls and tax relief to 95 percent of Americans. In addition, critical support for education and health initiatives will bolster our economy in the short and long term. Unprecedented accountability measures will provide strong oversight and a historic degree of public transparency. I continue my work to support initiatives critical to New York like water treatment infrastructure and relief from the Alternative Minimum Tax.“I commend President Obama for his leadership through this process. Digging out of this economic hole will take time, and I am hopeful Congress will quickly approve a final economic recovery package for President Obama’s signature.”###
01.26.2009	WHITE PLAINS – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today joined caregivers at White Plains Hospital Center for a demonstration of pioneering health information technology initiatives in use at the hospital and to express support for federal funding for health IT in economic recovery legislation pending before Congress.“I am proud that White Plains Hospital Center is a model for health care providers around the country by exploring the potential that health information technology offers,” said Lowey. “This cutting-edge technology will improve patient safety and outcomes, lower administrative costs, increase efficiency, and prevent medical errors.”Economic recovery legislation expected to be considered this week by the U.S. House of Representatives includes $20 billion for health information technology activities. This will be divided into two categories: $2 billion in grants to states to distribute to health entities for upfront costs like equipment and training and $18 billion in Medicare and Medicaid incentives for entities that implement IT measures.New York State could receive at least $50 million from these federal funds to supplement ongoing and new health IT initiatives.“Strengthening our health care system to cut costs to government and patients is critical to financial security for our families and our overall economy. I will fight to ensure these funds are enacted as part of the final economic recovery package,” said Lowey.WPHC President and Chief Executive Officer Jon Schandler touted the promise of health IT and echoed Lowey’s call for federal support for this promising technology.“White Plains Hospital Center is a leader in using the Electronic Medical Record technology. However, we and other healthcare providers will need to invest even more in such technologies in order to advance to the next level,” said Schandler. “Including healthcare IT in the economic recovery package will provide lasting benefits to both hospitals and most importantly the patients and communities we serve.”###
01.23.2009	WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY), Chairwoman of the State and Foreign Operations Appropriations Subcommittee, today released the following statement on President Obama’s pledge to request funding for the United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA):“I welcome President Obama’s decision to request funding in his 2010 budget for UNFPA. This reverses a reprehensible legacy of the Bush Administration – arbitrarily restricting access to family planning, pre-natal care, and maternal health and child survival programs for women and children around the world.“UNFPA provides critical assistance to women in more than 140 countries and is a vital partner to the activities of the U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID) in the 60 countries where USAID operates.”“President Obama’s expression of support for UNFPA and his recent repeal of the Global Gag Rule are encouraging for all those who understand the value of American foreign aid to improving health and security in the developing world.”###
01.23.2009	WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY), Chairwoman of the Appropriations State and Foreign Operations Subcommittee, today commended President Barack Obama for overturning the Global Gag Rule, which previously restricted U.S. funds – including donated contraceptives that prevent unintended pregnancies – from assisting foreign NGOs that use funding from any other source to provide, counsel, or lobby on the full range of family planning services.“Finally, common sense and compassion will be restored to global women’s health policy,” said Chairwoman Lowey. “I am thrilled the Obama Administration has acted so swiftly to help reduce unintended pregnancies and improve access to maternal and reproductive health care in the developing world.”As Ranking Democratic Member and as Chairwoman of the Appropriations State and Foreign Operations Subcommittee, Lowey has fought to repeal the Global Gag Rule since it was reinstated by President Bush on his first day in office in 2001, but her efforts have been stymied by Republican majorities, then veto threats. The 2008 State and Foreign Operations Appropriations bill authored by Lowey would have allowed the federal government to donate contraceptives to international health organizations. This compromise passed Congress with the support of pro-choice and pro-life Members, but President Bush threatened to veto all funding for international aid to prevent it from becoming law.“Repealing the Global Gag Rule places American foreign policy on the side of free speech, of women’s health, and of doctors and care providers,” said Lowey. “Access to safe family planning services and information is a cornerstone for social stability, economic growth, and public health in the developing world.”###
01.21.2009	WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today released the following statement on the confirmation of Janet Napolitano as Secretary of the U.S. Department of Homeland Security.“I commend the Senate for confirming Janet Napolitano as Secretary of the U.S. Department of Homeland Security. “As a border state Governor, Janet Napolitano has intimate knowledge of the complexities and challenges of border security and federal immigration policy, a core responsibility of DHS. She understands the imperative for federal agencies to work cooperatively with state and local law enforcement to keep our communities safe and the moral obligation to provide efficient, effective emergency response following natural disasters.“As a senior member of the Appropriations Subcommittee on Homeland Security, I look forward to working with Governor Napolitano to ensure our communities have the tools they need to prevent and respond to emergencies, to secure our airports, and to grant Transportation Security Officers the same workplace rights and protections afforded to other federal employees.”###
01.21.2009	WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (NY-18), Chairwoman of the Appropriations State and Foreign Operations Subcommittee, today released the following statement on the confirmation of Hillary Clinton as U.S. Secretary of State.“I commend the Senate for confirming Hillary Clinton as Secretary of State. “Our national security and ability to achieve our objectives around the world depend on strong and effective diplomacy. As First Lady and as a Senator, Hillary Clinton has forged and sustained strong relationships with foreign leaders and earned the respect of people around the world. It has been my pleasure to work with her on critical international issues including women’s rights and health care, the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, and basic education. She will rebuild America’s reputation abroad and marshal the international support we need to address extremism; the impact of the global financial crisis; climate change; and poverty, disease, and oppression in the developing world. “As Hillary Clinton’s colleague, friend, and representative in the House, I know she has the experience and leadership to serve as America’s foremost diplomat. I look forward to working with her to address the extraordinary international challenges our nation faces.”###
01.21.2009	WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), a senior member of the Appropriations Subcommittee on Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education, today released the following statement on the Senate’s confirmation of Arne Duncan as U.S. Secretary of Education.“I commend the Senate for confirming Arne Duncan as U.S. Secretary of Education.“As President-elect Obama has said, the path to jobs and growth begins in America’s classrooms. Over the past seven years as Chief Executive Officer of the Chicago Public Schools, Arne Duncan has established a reputation as a principled reformer who has successfully transformed weak schools and improved teacher quality. His new challenge is a formidable one – ensure that our national education system is giving American children the tools they need to succeed in the advanced jobs of the 21st Century.“As a senior member of the Appropriations Subcommittee that funds the Department of Education, I particularly look forward to working with Arne Duncan to support early childhood education and after-school programs, to invest in quality school leadership, to give schools the resources they need to meet the requirements of No Child Left Behind, and to make college more affordable for working families.”###
01.15.2009	Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today called for immediate assistance for consumers as the nation prepares for the February 17, 2009, digital television transition, which requires households that use analog televisions and antennas to purchase converter boxes.“In addition to entertainment, many consumers rely on television for critical emergency alerts,” said Lowey. “Consumers Union has reported that 19 million American households rely exclusively on the over-the-air reception, including for news and weather information. We cannot allow screens to go dark because the Bush Administration failed to do its job.”Consumers Union Policy Analyst Joel Kelsey detailed some of the problems facing households and stated that Consumers Union has asked Congress to consider delaying the transition after the federal coupon program ran out of money. Although the federal government has raised $19 billion by selling available spectrum to pay for the transition, a limitation of only $1.34 billion in individual $40 coupons may be issued.“The federal government will receive over $19 billion as a result of the DTV spectrum auction. Over seven million unprepared households are now being asked to spend their own money to navigate this federally mandated transition. This economic climate is not the right time to ask consumers to dig deeper into their own pockets to pay for the miscalculation by the federal government,” commented Kelsey.Lowey also announced that she signed a letter to the Speaker of the House of Representatives, Nancy Pelosi, asking that the House immediately consider legislation to aid viewers.“It is imperative that everyone have an opportunity to receive a coupon and purchase and install a converter box before the transition date,” said Lowey. “I strongly encourage every household who needs coupons to apply for them today by calling 1-888-DTV-2009 or going to www.dtv2009.gov. My colleagues and I are fighting to clear the backlog, but it is important for everyone who relies on over-the-air television to apply now so that they will be eligible when and if more coupons become available.”###
01.14.2009	Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today issued the following statement on the House passage of the State Children’s Health Insurance Program (SCHIP) Reauthorization Act of 2009, which would provide health care coverage to 11 million children.“Today’s action by the House of Representatives is a signal that Congress and President-elect Obama are making access to affordable and quality healthcare a priority for every American family.”“This bill preserves coverage for the 7 million children already receiving health care through SCHIP, including more than 651,000 in New York and extends coverage to 4 million additional children nationwide who are eligible for SCHIP but not enrolled. At a time when the number of uninsured children has increased for two years in a row, we should be doing everything possible to expand successful health programs that prevent children and families from falling through the cracks.”“Passage of this bill is especially important for states with high cost of living areas like New York, which has sought to increase income eligibility so that more families can access health care. The previous Administration’s decision to roll back health insurance for children in New York based on arbitrary income guidelines was unconscionable and prevented thousands of children from receiving benefits.”“SCHIP is one of the most successful federal programs in existence. I am pleased that the House took quick action to pass critical legislation to provide health care coverage to 11 million American children and that President-elect Obama intends to sign it into law.” ###
01.12.2009	Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today joined state and local officials in calling for aggressive federal investment in infrastructure projects like water treatment plant upgrades that will improve our environmental quality and create jobs.“As our economy faces the most serious crisis in most of our lifetimes, it is critical to stimulate economic activity by investing in projects that serve a public good and create jobs,” said Lowey. “Local governments like Westchester County need and deserve federal assistance to undertake expensive but necessary projects like upgrading water treatment plants. As Congress puts together an economic recovery package, I am fighting to ensure it includes the funding necessary to invest in such critical projects.”In 2008, Westchester County committed to working with New York State to significantly cut pollution discharges from its aging and overburdened water treatment plants that empty into the Long Island Sound. The cost to county taxpayers for these projects to be finished by 2017 is $235 million.Congress reconvened on January 7 and Congressional leaders have stated the top priority is passing an economic recovery package that includes aggressive investments in transportation and infrastructure projects. Lowey, a senior member of the Appropriations Committee, contacted Chairman David Obey (D-WI) to request the package include $14 billion for the Clean Water State Revolving Fund (CWSRF), which helps states make low-interest loans for municipalities to undertake critical water infrastructure projects.Based on current formulas, New York would receive 10-11 percent of this total – $1.4 billion – to support infrastructure initiatives that can begin quickly and create jobs. Federal resources for this critical priority would help provide relief to the county and to taxpayers and consumers during tough economic times.State and local officials echoed Lowey’s call for federal assistance for Westchester County to undertake this necessary project.“Aging sewers are threatening public health and the environment, as deteriorating pipes release billions of gallons of raw sewage into rivers and streams each year,” said New York State Department of Environmental Commissioner Pete Grannis. “Governor Paterson has put this long-ignored issue on the radar. Water quality, public health and municipal finances are all at risk. Systems are failing and often municipalities do not have the resources to do repairs or upgrades without federal help.”“We appreciate Congresswoman Nita Lowey's assistance. She always comes through for Westchester County,” said Westchester County Executive Andy Spano. “Congresswoman Lowey understands that the federal government, and not local property taxpayers, should fund federal mandates such as the Clean Water Act. We all care about the Long Island Sound, and want a safe and healthy environment for our residents. We are hopeful that funding available through the federal stimulus package will not only help to pay for these needed upgrades, but will create jobs that are so desperately needed in these dire economic times.’’###
12.29.2008	Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY), Chairwoman of the State and Foreign Operations Appropriations Subcommittee, today released the following statement on recent Israeli airstrikes in the Gaza Strip.“Continued and intensified missile and mortar attacks from Gaza into Southern Israel threaten the security of innocent families in Israel and Gaza. Hamas, which continues to deny Israel’s right to exist, will stop at nothing to deny peace to the region, including exploiting and endangering Gaza civilians."Israel has the right and responsibility to defend itself and its citizens from these ruthless attacks by striking the terrorist infrastructure in Gaza. It is my hope that this week’s events will make clear to Hamas that its attacks on Israeli communities must end so that negotiations toward a peaceful coexistence in the region can continue."###
12.19.2008	Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today announced social service agencies in Westchester and Rockland Counties will receive more than $700,000 in federal grants from the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) to protect at-risk families from hunger and homelessness.“The economic crisis is taking a toll on families and individuals in Westchester and Rockland Counties, many of whom are having trouble making ends meet,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “Local social service agencies play a vital role in protecting our neighbors from hunger and homelessness. I am pleased FEMA is supporting their critical service.”FEMA announced today allocations for social service agencies in New York based on Congress’ allocation of $200 million for the program in Fiscal Year 2009. Westchester County agencies will receive $549,335 and Rockland County agencies will receive $174,033.A member of the Appropriations Subcommittee on Homeland Security, Lowey helped write the bill that increased funding for the program by nearly 25 percent to $200 million. Lowey’s efforts resulted in $130,091 more for Westchester County agencies and $43,923 more for Rockland County agencies.EFS grant funds are used to supplement food, shelter, rent, mortgage and utility assistance programs for people with non-disaster related emergencies. The EFS Program is administered by a national board of volunteer agencies and chaired by FEMA. The National Board qualifies local jurisdictions for annual EFS awards based on criteria involving current population, unemployment, and poverty levels. Awarded shares are disbursed by local affiliates of the National Board to nonprofit organizations and government agencies in the eligible jurisdictions.###
12.18.2008	Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today condemned a rule issued by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) that would allow health care providers to arbitrarily deny women access to a wide range of health services, including birth control and counseling.“It is outrageous that one of the Administration’s final actions on the way out the door will be harmful to women’s health,” said Lowey. “This rule would allow health care providers to refuse to provide birth control – or even information and counseling about birth control – to women who need it. This is a shameful and despicable action by the Administration.”On August 26, HHS proposed a rule prohibiting any health care entity that receives federal funds – including doctors, hospitals, HMOs, or pharmacies – from requiring its employees to provide health care services to which they are opposed. The rule does not include a medically accurate definition of abortion, allowing physicians and other providers to make their own judgments about whether they can deny birth control to patients under this rule, even if state laws protect that access.Federal law already protects individuals who prefer not to participate in abortion care, as do laws in many states. This rule, finalized and issued today, goes significantly further by failing to clarify that abortion does not include types of birth control like oral contraception and emergency contraception.“Making birth control more - not less - accessible is the best way to prevent unintended pregnancies and reduce abortion,” said Lowey. “When Congress reconvenes in January, I will work with my colleagues and with the Obama Administration to reverse this damaging rule.”###
12.10.2008	Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today announced that the Thornwood Fire Department will receive a federal grant of $153,900 to purchase an interoperable radio communication system.“Interoperable radio systems are vital to enable firefighters to better communicate, respond effectively, and stay safe during emergencies,” said Lowey. “The bipartisan 9/11 Commission identified the lack of interoperable communication systems across agencies and jurisdictions as a key shortfall in achieving a coordinated response. I am pleased the Department of Homeland Security is addressing this need in Thornwood.”"We are proud to be a recipient of this funding, which will be used for radios for better interoperability,” said Second Assistant Chief Richard Benkwitt on behalf of Chief Thomas Chenet. “The Congresswoman always shows the highest priority for the Departments and for making the County safer."The Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) program which is administered by the Department of Homeland Security Office of Grants and Training in coordination with the U.S. Fire Administration, awards grants directly to fire departments and EMS agencies. Funds may be used to increase the effectiveness of firefighting operations, firefighter health and safety programs, emergency medical service programs, fire prevention and safety programs, and to purchase new fire equipment.###
12.01.2008	White Plains, NY – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (NY-18) today released the following statement on President-elect Obama’s announcement of his national security team:“President-elect Obama has chosen individuals of great experience and talent to serve as Secretary of State, Secretary of Defense, Homeland Security Secretary, Attorney General, National Security Advisor, and Ambassador to the United Nations. “Hillary Clinton is the perfect choice for Secretary of State. As Chairwoman of the House Appropriations State and Foreign Operations Subcommittee, I look forward to working with Hillary Clinton to address the extraordinary international challenges our nation faces. “At a time when it is critical for the United States to repair our alliances around the world and work cooperatively with the international community, she has the experience and leadership to serve as America’s foremost diplomat. As First Lady and as a Senator, Hillary Clinton has maintained strong relationships with foreign leaders and earned the respect of people around the world. She has been a thoughtful voice on critical issues including women’s rights, the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, and international basic education. I am confident she will marshal the international support we need to address terrorism; the impact of the global financial crisis; climate change; and poverty, disease, and oppression in the developing world. “I look forward to working with Governor Napolitano to ensure our communities have the tools they need to prevent and respond to emergencies and with the entire national security team to make our nation safer and more respected around the world.###
10.22.2008	WHITE PLAINS, NY – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today called for federal action to determine the cause of an 18 percent increase in the number of young people suffering from food or digestive allergies since 1997.“This report confirms what we have suspected for years – food allergies are on the rise,” said Lowey. “The prevalence of food allergies and their potentially fatal consequences demand federal support for research to determine their cause.”The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) reported today that in 2007, approximately 3 million U.S. children and teenagers under age 18 – or nearly 4 percent of that age group – were reported to have a food or digestive allergy in the previous 12 months, compared to just over 2.3 million (3.3 percent) in 1997. Reactions to allergens can range from a tingling sensation around the mouth and lips, to hives and even death. Children with food allergies are two to four times more likely to have other related conditions such as asthma than children without food allergies.Despite the large and growing prevalence of food allergies and their potentially fatal effect on allergic children, CDC reports that the mechanisms by which a person develops an allergy to specific foods are largely unknown.CDC’s findings were presented in its new report, “Food Allergy Among U.S. Children: Trends in Prevalence and Hospitalizations,” and uses data obtained through the National Health Interview Survey (NHIS). In February 2008, Lowey contacted CDC Director Dr. Julie Gerberding to request that NHIS track this information.Lowey is the leader in Congress on issues affecting individuals with food allergies. In August 2004, President Bush signed into law the Food Allergen Labeling and Consumer Protection Act (FALCPA), introduced by Congresswoman Lowey. This law requires food packaging to clearly list any of the top eight ingredients that cause allergic reactions.This year, the House of Representatives passed the Food Allergy and Anaphylaxis Management Act (H.R. 2063), also introduced by Lowey. This bill would require the Departments of Health and Human Services and Education to develop guidelines for schools to voluntarily implement to prevent exposure to food allergens and assure prompt response when children suffer potentially fatal anaphylactic reactions.Lowey called for increased research to determine the cause of food allergies and enactment of her legislation to protect children from exposure to allergens and assure prompt response to reactions.“Determining the cause of food allergies is critical to protect the health of food allergic individuals,” said Lowey. “In the meantime, we must enforce clear labeling of food allergens and educate schools and parents about how to protect children from exposure to allergens and assure prompt response if a reaction occurs.”###
10.15.2008	WHITE PLAINS – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today announced that the Breast Cancer and Environmental Research Act, which she authored, was recently signed into law by President Bush.“I am thrilled that this important law, which I have been advocating for nine years, has finally been enacted,” said Lowey. “The Breast Cancer and Environmental Research Act will concentrate federal research on the links between breast cancer and the environment. Determining this link will help to decrease the prevalence and improve treatment of this deadly disease.”Breast cancer is the second most common cancer among women in the United States and the second leading cause of cancer death in women. The American Cancer Society estimates that in 2008 more than 180,000 women will be diagnosed with invasive breast cancer and more than 40,000 will die from the disease.The Breast Cancer and Environmental Research Act focuses the federal government on the links between breast cancer and the environment, a relationship that is not fully understood. It creates an Interagency Breast Cancer and Environmental Research Coordinating Committee within the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS), which will consist of advocates and members of the scientific and medical communities. The committee will make recommendations regarding public participation in decisions related to breast cancer research as well as recommendations for expanding research partnerships. The law authorizes up to $40 million per year for research-related activities."In Westchester County, on average, more than 750 women are diagnosed with breast cancer each year and more than 150 women die of the disease," said Karen Bernbach, American Cancer Society lead legislative ambassador. "The American Cancer Society is a science and evidence-based organization. Enactment of the Breast Cancer and Environmental Research Act of 2007 will increase our knowledge about the potential effect of our environment on cancer incidence and mortality, such as those contained H.R. 1157, the Breast Cancer and Environmental Research Act."In order to more fully understand the causes of breast cancer, Susan G. Komen believes that biomedical research to examine potential environmental factors related to breast cancer should be expanded,” said Mary Haviland, Director of Grants and Public Policy of the Greater New York Affiliate of Susan G. Komen for the Cure. “We are very grateful to Congresswoman Lowey for her tireless work in support of the passage of the Breast Cancer and Environmental Research Act. The Act is major legislative victory and will lend much needed coordination and resources to research possible links between the environment and breast cancer."Lowey advocated strongly for the Breast Cancer and Environmental Research Act since she first introduced it in 1999. In the current Congress, the bipartisan bill was cosponsored by 287 Members of Congress.###
10.03.2008	WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today issued the following statement on the financial rescue plan passed by Congress.It is increasingly evident that the economic crisis resulting from the Bush Administration’s failed policies requires unprecedented and immediate action to prevent a catastrophe that could endanger nearly every American family’s finances. The credit crunch is making it difficult for many small businesses to operate and expand while other companies face difficulty making payroll, which could result in further job loss. Families continue struggling to keep their homes, have experienced dramatic losses in their savings and retirement accounts, and could soon face the inability to get credit for everyday purchases, cars, and student loans.When the Administration asked for a $700 billion blank check from the American people to bail out Wall Street companies that took excessive risks, Democrats in Congress improved the proposal to focus on the families living and working on Main Street who have already been squeezed by our suffering economy.I voted for the first bipartisan, bicameral plan passed by the House of Representatives on September 29th, and I supported the bill we passed today though I disagreed with many of the provisions added in the Senate. This bill includes critical measures to stabilize the markets and safeguard Americans’ financial security while protecting taxpayers and reining in Wall Street:installments – not a one-time payment – that require Congressional approval;full repayment for taxpayers and guaranteed government equity so that taxpayers can benefit from this investment;accountability, transparency about the purchases of assets by the Treasury, and bipartisan oversight;limits on executive compensation so that those who created this crisis are not rewarded for it;higher limits for insured accounts to protect businesses’ and families’ savings; andthe ability for the Treasury Department to work directly with mortgage holders to save their homes.While this recovery plan is focused on preventing an economic collapse that could put Americans in serious financial jeopardy, it is only a first step. The same spirit of bipartisan urgency is required to ensure oversight of the financial markets to prevent another crisis, to reduce skyrocketing energy, health care, and tuition costs, and to restore meaningful economic opportunity for hard-working families. The test of our overall economic strategy will be its impact on the standard of living and quality of life of the great majority of Americans, and I will continue fighting to take our economy in a new direction.###
09.29.2008	WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today released the following statement the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act."The Treasury Secretary, Chairman of the Federal Reserve, and leading economists insisted that unprecedented action was necessary to prevent an economic collapse. The Administration asked for a blank $700 billion check to bail out Wall Street. Instead, the Democratic Caucus worked in a bipartisan way to improve this bill to protect taxpayers, provide oversight and transparency, and help struggling homeowners."I joined the majority of Democrats in putting partisanship aside and voting to pass this rescue and stabilize the markets. Unfortunately, the Republicans did not."It is my sincere hope that our economy does not collapse as many have predicted, which could have devastating consequences for the financial security of millions of American families and businesses depending on credit and loans. My colleagues and I stand ready to work with the Administration and Congressional Republicans to develop an economic recovery plan as quickly as possibly to stabilize the market and secure Americans’ jobs, savings, homes, pensions, and businesses while protecting taxpayers."###
09.25.2008	WASHINGTON – The U.S. House of Representatives today passed the Breast Cancer and Environmental Research Act, a bill authored by Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) that would guide federal research investigating the links between breast cancer and the environment.“I am thrilled that the House of Representatives has acted to concentrate federal research on the links between breast cancer and the environment,” said Lowey. “Determining this link will help to decrease the prevalence and improve the diagnosis and treatment of this deadly disease.”Breast cancer is the second most common cancer among women in the United States and the second leading cause of cancer death in women. The American Cancer Society estimates that in 2008 more than 180,000 women will be diagnosed with invasive breast cancer and more than 40,000 will die from the disease.The Breast Cancer and Environmental Research Act would focus the federal government on the links between breast cancer and the environment, a relationship that is not fully understood. It would create an Interagency Breast Cancer and Environmental Research Coordinating Committee within the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) made up of advocates and members of the scientific and medical communities. The committee would be charged with making recommendations regarding public participation in decisions related to breast cancer research as well as recommendations for expanding research partnerships. The bill authorizes up to $40 million per year for research-related activities.Lowey has advocated strongly for the Breast Cancer and Environmental Research Act since she first introduced it in 1999. In the current Congress, the bill enjoys the bipartisan cosponsorship of 287 Members of Congress.The Breast Cancer and Environmental Research Act is expected to be passed by the U.S. Senate this week and sent to President Bush for enactment into law.###
09.24.2008	WASHINGTON – The House of Representatives yesterday passed a spending bill that provides millions in federal funds for key initiatives in New York.“Since my election to Congress, I have worked diligently with local officials to secure federal funds to improve our communities,” said Lowey. “This bill will support worthy efforts to improve the health and security of Westchester and Rockland Counties.”The Consolidated Security, Disaster Assistance, and Continuing Appropriations Act provides $4.2 billion for important priorities like state and urban area counterterrorism grants and port and border security. Fire departments will receive $775 million, rejecting President Bush’s proposed cut from last year’s level. $50 million is provided to support interoperable communications for first responders, an initiative authored by Congresswoman Lowey, and $41 million for the Metropolitan Medical Response System, which provided over $321,000 for Yonkers last year. The bill also includes $1.1 billion for the Transportation Security Administration (TSA) to implement the requirements of the 9/11 Act and $1 billion for Immigrations and Customs Enforcement (ICE) to identify and begin deportation procedures on dangerous criminal aliens.The bill contains federal funds for key initiatives in New York:$400,000 for Blythedale Children’s Hospital to install a Pediatric Health Information System in the hospital’s new inpatient facility, which would simplify medical record keeping and reduce medical errors.$400,000 for Sound Shore Medical Center to install an integrated clinical and financial management software system, which would enable the exchange of electronic medical records and reduce medical errors.$2,000,000 for the American Museum of Natural History to research the global spread of emerging infectious diseases and to strengthen prediction, intervention, and early warning of epidemics to protect citizens, troops, and food supplies.$2,800,000 for the Women’s Cancer Genomics Center at Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory to research diagnostic tools and therapeutic strategies for breast and ovarian cancer.$1,000,000 for the New York State Emergency Management Office (NY-ALERT) to improve the system for sharing emergency information with the public. This will double the amount of telephone line and computer capacity to disperse information quickly.$500,000 for hazard mitigation activities in 18th Congressional District.“This legislation will support research to reduce medical errors, curb emerging infectious diseases, provide better care for breast cancer patients, and secure our communities. I will work to ensure that President Bush signs this important funding into law.”###
09.15.2008	VALHALLA – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today called for passage of federal legislation that would end egregious billing practices of credit card companies, like “universal default” and “double cycle billing,” which make it difficult for individuals and families to escape a cycle of debt.“Families and individuals are sinking into credit card debt, and the problem is especially severe for college students,” said Lowey. “Credit card companies should not be permitted to use deceptive and unfair billing practices that can put financial security out of reach, especially for college students who are being forced to start their financial independence severely in the red. Congress should take steps immediately to protect consumers by cracking down on these practices.”As prices for consumer goods rise, more Americans – particularly college students – are forced into credit card debt to make ends meet. The average outstanding balance on undergraduate students’ credit cards is $2,169, and the average interest rate for standard bank credit cards topped 19 percent last year.Mounting debt is compounded by abusive practices like “universal default,” or interest rate increases based on a cardholder’s other accounts, and “double-cycle billing,” or assessing interest on all charges made in a month when the entire balance is not paid in full. Companies also may offer introductory interest rates that rise dramatically without the cardholder’s knowledge.Lowey called for enactment of the Credit Cardholders’ Bill of Rights Act in Congress. This legislation would prohibit universal default and double-cycle billing. It would also prevent credit card companies from unfairly targeting minors, require 45-day notice of interest rate increases, and require payments to apply to the higher interest rate if there are two separate rates applied to bills. The legislation would also allow cardholders to set a ceiling on their credit limit, preventing students from getting in over their heads.“These practices are deceptive, unfair, and unfortunately totally legal,” said Lowey. “Consumers need to know that credit card companies are using these egregious practices, and Congress needs to put an end to it.”"Westchester County has been proactive in educating consumers – especially college students – about unfair credit card practices such as universal default and double cycle billing,” said Gary Brown, Director of the Westchester Department of Consumer Protection. “While these efforts have succeeded in bringing greater awareness to the problem, it's clear that federal legislation is needed to effectively address the issue. We join Congresswoman Lowey in urging passage of a Credit Cardholders’ Bill of Rights."“The CPB is deluged by credit card-related complaints due to shameful business practices used by credit card issuers,” said Mindy A. Bockstein, Chairperson and Executive Director of the New York State Consumer Protection Board. “Vulnerable consumers should not have to contend with business practices that constantly change the rules of the ‘credit card game’ leaving them with little or no recourse. By submitting testimony and pressing federal regulators for reform, our Agency has stood side by side with Congresswomen Maloney and Lowey in advocating for change on behalf of consumers. Our Agency lauds the efforts of both Representatives, and urges prompt passage of HR5244. Consumers deserve better.”The Credit Cardholders’ Bill of Rights Act (H.R. 5244) has been approved by the House Financial Services Committee and may be considered by the House of Representatives within the next two weeks.###
09.12.2008	WHITE PLAINS – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (NY-18) today announced federal grants for the Village of Rye Brook and the Village of Sleepy Hollow that will help local law enforcement agencies install security equipment and software to keep students, teachers, and staff safe and secure.“I am thrilled that schools in Rye Brook and Sleepy Hollow will be safer and more secure as a result of these federal grants to local police departments,” said Lowey. “Students and parents deserve to be certain that schools are a safe place to learn and grow. This federal funding will help local police departments keep students, teachers, and staff safe.”The Rye Brook Police Department will receive $4,105 and the Sleepy Hollow Police Department will receive $100,125 to install security cameras, software, and other equipment. The grants were awarded under the U.S. Department of Justice Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS) Secure Our Schools program, which is intended to support efforts to improve security at schools. Rye Brook and Sleepy Hollow were two of 143 local law enforcement agencies in 34 states receiving grants totaling $14.4 million.“I am very pleased that we are able to work with the two school districts in the Village of Rye Brook in order to help them provide secure and safe environments for the students, teachers, and staff,” said Rye Brook Police Chief Gregory J. Austin.“In these hard financial times we appreciate any assistance, especially that which helps to ensure the health and safety of the students,” said Dr. William Stark, Superintendent of the Blind Brook-Rye Union Free School District. “Securing our schools is a serious concern, and a prime concern for the Blind Brook-Rye UFSD.”Dr. Donald Carlisle, Superintendent of the Port Chester-Rye Union Free School District, said, “What a pleasure and surprise it was to learn that the police department will have resources to help the Port Chester School District. “We are pleased the local police will use these resources to keep our students safe.”“The Grant money will be utilized to enhance security measures already in place at the Sleepy Hollow Middle/High School and Windfield L. Morse Elementary School,” said Sleepy Hollow Police Chief Jimmy Warren. “Keeping our children safe is a priority for the Sleepy Hollow Police Department.”Dr. Howard Smith, Superintendent of the Tarrytowns Union Free School District, said, “In this era of increased emphasis on school security, the funds that Congresswoman Lowey was instrumental in procuring for the Village of Sleepy Hollow and the School District will enable us to install security cameras and other equipment that will assist us greatly in working together to improve the safety and security of our facilities.”The grants will provide up to 50 percent of the total cost for municipalities to install metal detectors, locks, lighting, and other equipment that can help deter crime. The grants can also be used to cover 50 percent of the cost of security assessments and training.###
09.11.2008	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today released the following statement on the 7th anniversary of the terrorist attacks of September 11th, 2001.“Today I join all Americans in remembering the men, women, and children who died seven years ago in the worst terrorist attack ever on American soil. Our pain is still fresh as we honor the memory of the nearly 3,000 who lost their lives, and their loved ones remain in our thoughts and prayers.“The attacks of September 11th were intended to strike the heart of our country, our values, and our way of life. In the face of an adversary who prizes hatred and destruction, Americans remain united in our resolve to defeat those who would do us harm and in support of the Armed Forces, intelligence, law enforcement, and first responders who protect us at home and abroad.”Pending the Congressional schedule in Washington, D.C., Congresswoman Lowey will participate in the following commemorations of the September 11th attacks in New York:· Mamaroneck “Tri-Municipal” 9-11 ServiceGirl Scout Rock, Myrtle Blvd. across from Memorial Park, Mamaroneck5:00 PM· New Castle 9-11 ServiceGedney Park, Route 133, Millwood6:00 PM· Elmsford 9-11 ServiceVillage Hall, 15 South Stone Ave., Elmsford7:00 PM###
09.03.2008	WHITE PLAINS – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY), Chairwoman of the State and Foreign Operations Appropriations Subcommittee, today released the following statement regarding the Bush Administration’s proposal for $1 billion in economic and humanitarian assistance to Georgia:“The Administration’s announcement of an aid package for Georgia is a signal of America’s strong and unwavering commitment to the people of Georgia, a commitment that is shared by Congress and across political lines. This assistance will provide much-needed humanitarian and economic aid to help the Georgian people rebuild their lives and the infrastructure of their country.“Russia’s military and economic actions against Georgia in recent weeks have been aimed at intimidating this fledgling democracy. As I indicated to the Speaker of the Georgian parliament last week, the United States will not abandon Georgia in its time of need. I look forward to working with the Administration to ensure that we provide the people and government of Georgia with the economic relief they desperately need as quickly as possible.“I call upon the Government of Russia to turn away from the failed tactics of fear and intimidation and to adopt an open, collaborative relationship with its neighbors and the international community. The current path can only lead to further isolation and economic hardship for the Russian people.”###
08.14.2008	YONKERS – Congressman Eliot Engel (NY-17) and Congresswoman Nita Lowey (NY-18) today announced that the City of Yonkers will receive $321,221 in federal homeland security funds for its 2008 allocation from the Metropolitan Medical Response System (MMRS) grant program. Yonkers’ allocation is an increase of more than $63,000 over last year’s level.“Yonkers is one of New York State’s Big Five Cities and borders New York City,” said Lowey. “It therefore must have the resources it needs to prevent and respond to emergencies. I am pleased that Congress’ strong action to increase funding for the MMRS grant program has resulted in a robust increase in Yonkers’ allocation.”Congressman Engel said, “The New York Metropolitan area, including all of its suburbs, is where this money is needed most. This program, created explicitly to address terrorist attacks, can save lives by supplying lifesaving equipment while giving the capability to more immediately respond to those attacks.”The MMRS grant program was created in 1996 following the Tokyo subway sarin gas attack and the Oklahoma City bombing. The mission of MMRS is to enhance local medical incident management’s ability to coordinate and respond to a mass casualty event during the crucial hours, until external resources arrive and become operational.Cities use MMRS funds to bolster their ability to prevent and respond to emergencies. They may use the funds to maintain and update emergency plans, deliver training, purchase equipment and pharmaceuticals, and conduct exercises. In each of the last two years, President Bush has proposed eliminating the MMRS grant program, but Lowey and Engel fought successfully to preserve the vital resources that it provides for cities like Yonkers.Lowey, a senior member of the Appropriations Homeland Security Subcommittee, this year led the fight to increase funding for MMRS to $50 million, a $9 million increase from the Fiscal Year 2008 level. If this becomes law, Yonkers would receive an increase of more than $72,000 next year.Yonkers Mayor Phil Amicone and Yonkers Fire Commissioner Anthony Pagano joined Engel and Lowey in expressing the importance of the federal funding for Yonkers.“The facilitation of emergency preparedness is a critical role fulfilled by our fire and police departments, and one that requires a lot of funding,” said Yonkers Mayor Phil Amicone. “This important grant delivered by Congresswoman Lowey, who has used her role effectively on the Homeland Security Committee to benefit Yonkers, will provide the money we need to properly equip our first responders and provide them with the training they need to ensure their performance in the event of an emergency.”“It is critical for Yonkers to have the proper funding and resources to deal with any situation we encounter,” said Commissioner Pagano. “We are grateful to Congresswoman Lowey for her continued hard work on behalf of emergency services in her district.”###
08.12.2008	Congers, NY – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today called on the Food and Drug Administration to require sunscreen manufacturers to disclose the amount of protection that their products offer against cancer-causing ultraviolet rays.“Consumers deserve to be confident that the sunscreens that they buy for themselves and their family offer protection against skin cancer, which can be deadly,” said Lowey. “It is critical for public health that the FDA finalize its rules requiring sunscreen manufacturers to disclose the sun protection that their products offer from cancer-causing ultraviolet rays.”Currently, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) requires sunscreen to provide protection against UVB radiation, the type of ultraviolet rays that cause sunburn. These SPF ratings do not indicate a product’s ability to protect against UVA radiation, which can cause skin cancer. FDA does not currently require any such disclosure of UVA protection.More than one million people in the United States are diagnosed with skin cancer each year, making it the most common form of cancer in the country.Robert J. Cohen MD, a Clinical Assistant Professor of Dermatology at Colombia University School of Medicine, stressed the importance of public education about the increased incidence and prevalence of skin cancer.“The need for sunscreens with universal standards of UVB and UVA protection is extremely important,” said Cohen. “The risk of skin cancer can be reduced with preventative care. The use of sunscreens with UVB/A is the first step in taking your health care into your own hands.”“Without standards revealing the level of protection against UVA rays, the American public is only receiving half of what they need for sun safety,” said Ellen Werner, Marketing Manager for Ciba North America, whose products provide advanced protection against UVA radiation. “Now it is important to finish the job by finalizing the proposed regulations.”One year ago, Lowey introduced the “Sunscreen Consumer Right to Know Act” to require the FDA to issue sunscreen standards that protect against both skin cancer and sunburn causing rays and to implement a public awareness campaign on the dangers of over-exposure to the sun and ways to protect oneself. FDA issued a draft rule in August 2007 to require sunscreen manufacturers to properly label products so consumers will know what level of protection is in the sunscreen they purchase, but it has not yet finalized the rule. Lowey recently urged FDA to finalize its rule immediately.“It is absolutely unacceptable that this agency has let another summer go by without properly informing Americans about the effectiveness of their sunscreen products,” said Lowey.###
08.12.2008	Congresswoman Lowey visits the Clarkstown Police Department Communication Center
08.11.2008	RYE - Congresswoman Nita Lowey today marked the Jay Heritage Center’s upcoming completion of an energy-efficient geothermal heating, ventilation, and air conditioning (HVAC) system in the Peter Augustus Jay House, partially funded by $100,000 in federal funds that she secured. The 170-year-old building will be the oldest National Historic Landmark in all of New York State implementing this 21st century technology.“I am delighted that the Jay Heritage Center is leading the way for National Historic Landmarks through its investments in energy efficiency,” said Lowey. “Even landmarks from the 19th century can take advantage of 21st century technology by using clean and renewable energy sources. I am pleased to have helped secure funding for this important and worthwhile project.”In 2002, Lowey secured $100,000 in a funding bill for the U.S. Department of the Interior for the Jay Heritage Center to make energy efficiency upgrades in the Peter Augustus Jay House. The Center matched this investment to pay for installation of a geothermal heating, ventilating and air conditioning (HVAC) system, which will be fully connected in October of this year. It is the first such system to be used in a National Historic Landmark in Westchester County, and the 170-year-old building will be the oldest National Historic Landmark in New York State implementing this 21st century technology.“We are ecstatic to be using alternative energy in our restoration of the Jay House,” said Suzanne Clary, President of the Jay Heritage Center. “Our partnership with Con Edison to develop programming for the diverse community of Westchester resonates on this site that has always been a place of inclusiveness and innovative American thinking."The Jay Heritage Center manages the 1745 Jay Estate, boyhood home of first Chief Supreme Court Justice, John Jay and the 1838 Peter Augustus Jay House built by his son. Jay was the only Founding Father native to New York and served two terms as its Governor. The House is currently closed to the public but will re-open for programs in November 2008.Promoting the use of alternative energy is part of a comprehensive strategy that Congresswoman Lowey supports to bring down the price of energy. Lowey supports driving down gasoline prices through increased supply, including releasing oil from the Strategic Petroleum Reserve and drilling domestically on the more than 68 million acres of leased land already available for development. Lowey supports increasing regulation of energy speculators and Federal Trade Commission investigations of possible price manipulation.###
07.30.2008	WASHINGTON – The U.S. House of Representatives today passed the Consumer Product Safety Improvement Act conference report including language based on legislation authored by Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) to protect children from choking hazards. The conference report is expected to be considered by the Senate later this week before being sent to President Bush to be signed into law.“The federal government has a responsibility to ensure that consumer products are safe,” said Lowey. “I am pleased Congress will send President Bush a strong bill to protect American consumers from unsafe products, and to help parents protect their children from choking hazards.”In the wake of last year’s numerous product recalls, the Consumer Product Safety Improvement Act gives the Consumer Product Safety Commission (CPSC) the personnel, authority, and funding it needs to provide meaningful and effective oversight. It includes a nationwide ban on products containing lead and provides desperately needed national standards for toy safety, eliminating the patchwork of state laws that currently leave children and parents vulnerable.The bill includes language based on legislation authored by Congresswoman Nita Lowey that would require choking hazard warning labels to be displayed not merely on product packages but also in catalogues and on retail Internet websites. This will help parents who shop online or through catalogues avoid products with small parts that could choke a young child.“Parents who shop on the Internet or through catalogues need the same information as those who shop in stores to avoid products that are choking hazards,” said Lowey. “I am pleased that Congress will send President Bush a strong and effective bill to protect American children.”###
07.29.2008	WASHINGTON – The U.S. House of Representatives today passed a bill introduced by Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) designating the “Charles L. Brieant, Jr. Federal Building and United States Courthouse.”“Judge Brieant’s legacy of patriotic service to our country and thoughtful jurisprudence must never be forgotten,” said Lowey. “His long and distinguished legal record merits this important distinction.”Federal Judge Charles Brieant, Jr., a graduate of Columbia University and Columbia Law School, served in the United States Army Air Force during World War II. Appointed to the federal judiciary by President Nixon in 1971, Judge Brieant served 37 years on the federal bench. He rose to chief judge of the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York, a court well-regarded for its legal prowess and well-reasoned decisions. His thoughtful interpretation of the law often earned great praise, and the U.S. Supreme Court concurred with Brieant’s rulings six times.A lifelong resident of Ossining, New York, Judge Brieant received many awards and honors including the Servant of Justice Award from the Guild of St. Ives in 1998 and the Edward Weinfeld Award for Distinguished Contributions to the Administration of Justice in 2006.The House of Representatives’ passage of Lowey’s bill clears the bill for consideration by the U.S. Senate.“I am hopeful and optimistic that the Senate will pass this bill and President Bush will sign it into law expeditiously so that we can properly honor this brilliant and distinguished jurist,” Lowey said.###
07.28.2008	VALHALLA – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today announced that the New York region will receive $144 million in federal homeland security grants for Fiscal Year 2008, but vowed to continue working to fix the Department of Homeland Security’s flawed allocation formula, which shortchanges high-density at-risk regions like New York year after year.“The New York region’s modest increase over last year’s allocation is the direct result of Congress appropriating more money for the overall grant program,” said Lowey. “Significant problems remain with DHS’ allocation procedures, most notably the continually expanding pool of regions eligible for funding under UASI, which should fund only the high-risk regions.”The Urban Area Security Initiative (UASI) is designed to fund designated high-threat, high-risk urban-area activities to prevent, protect against, and respond to terrorist attacks. Congress appropriated $820 million for the Department of Homeland Security to administer the program in Fiscal Year 2008. DHS made 60 regions eligible for funding this year, an increase over the 46 regions eligible last year. This increase in funded areas resulted in decreases for nearly all of last year’s recipients.Westchester County Executive Andrew Spano and Emergency Services Commissioner Tony Sutton vowed to put Westchester’s funding to good use and echoed Lowey’s calls for UASI funding to be directed to areas that need it most.“Homeland Security funding though UASI grants is critical to the support of the mission performed by our emergency services and public safety agencies and their personnel,” commented County Executive Andrew J. Spano. “A formula for the distribution of these funds to the New York urban area based upon the fact that it is at greatest risk, is essential.”Lowey also announced that she would introduce legislation overhauling the allocation process to direct resources to the areas that need them most.“My legislation would limit UASI to high-risk areas, make threat a more valuable variable in risk determinations, and prohibit artificial caps in grant guidance,” said Lowey.”###
07.24.2008	This week the Department of Homeland Security will announce awards for the Fiscal Year 2008 Urban Area Security Initiative. This program was created in 2003 to help secure high-threat, high-population density urban areas. Since that time, the Administration has repeatedly shortchanged first responders in high-risk areas.To read a comprehensive report on the Department of Homeland Security's UASI grant allocation, please click here.To read "Myths vs. Facts" on the Department of Homeland Security's UASI grant allocation, please click here.
07.23.2008	WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Nita Lowey today backed a comprehensive plan to help homeowners struggling from the ongoing mortgage crisis, help others to avoid foreclosures in the future, and boost the economic recovery of communities harmed by increased foreclosures.“Families across the nation have been devastated by foreclosures, and our entire economy has suffered from the ripple effect of the ongoing housing crisis,” said Lowey. “Today Congress has responded by approving a comprehensive plan to help homeowners, strengthen regulation, and shore up the housing market. I am pleased that President Bush today reversed course and committed to supporting this important bill.”The American Housing Rescue and Foreclosure Prevention Act will allow American families in danger of losing their home to refinance into lower-cost government-insured mortgages they can afford to repay at no cost to the American taxpayer. The legislation also:· Provides resources to allow hard-hit cities and states to purchase and rehabilitate foreclosed properties that are currently driving down home prices, reducing state and local revenues, and destabilizing neighborhoods;· Expands homeownership opportunities for veterans and helps returning soldiers avoid foreclosure;· Provides tax breaks to spur home buying; and· Creates a new fund to boost the nation’s stock of affordable rental housing in both rural and urban areas for low and very low-income individuals and families.The legislation passed today also includes provisions that will help restore confidence in financial markets and shore up Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. The bill provides the Department of the Treasury with emergency and temporary financing authority for Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, which hold or guarantee nearly half of all mortgages in the United States.The legislation passed the House of Representatives today by a vote of 272 to 152, and President Bush has indicated that he will sign the bill into law.“This bill is a critical bipartisan response to one of the fundamental challenges to our economy,” said Lowey. “I am pleased that Congress and President Bush have come together in a bipartisan way to help struggling homeowners and promote recovery within the housing market and in our overall economy.###
07.22.2008	NEW ROCHELLE – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today called on President Bush to sign legislation passed by Congress reauthorizing the Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant (JAG) program, which has provided $633,000 to Westchester County first responders since 2005.“Byrne grants serve a critical function, helping to provide local law enforcement agencies the resources to keep our community safe,” said Lowey. “President Bush’s continued insistence on cutting – or eliminating altogether – this program flies in the face of common sense. We should be providing more – not less – assistance to the first responders who are at the front lines of public safety. I urge President Bush to sign this important reauthorization.”The Byrne JAG program, named after a NYPD officer who was killed in the line of duty in Queens in 1988, has been a critical resource for local law enforcement agencies. The $633,000 it has provided for Westchester County first responders since 2005 includes more than $45,000 for New Rochelle which supported the purchase of computer hardware and software to manage data more efficiently. JAG funds have also supported Yonkers, White Plains, Ossining, and Mount Vernon police departments.President Bush’s refusal to compromise resulted in a significant cut for the Byrne JAG program in 2008, preventing New Rochelle from receiving any funding. In his 2009 budget request, President Bush proposed to eliminate this critical grant program. However, Congresswoman Lowey fought on the Appropriations Committee to provide $550 million in the committee-passed Department of Justice spending bill. Based on historical figures, this would provide $30,000 for the New Rochelle Police Department. Last week, Congress sent a bill to President Bush reauthorizing the Byrne JAG program until 2012.New Rochelle Mayor Noam Bramson echoed Congresswoman Lowey’s call for President Bush to sign the bill and to stop attempting to eliminate the program’s funding."Cities are on the front line in the fight against crime, and we need the federal government to act as our partner,” said Bramson. “I join Congresswoman Lowey's call to renew the Byrne Justice Assistance Program, which has helped enhance public safety without burdening property tax payers."###
07.17.2008	WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (NY-18), Congressman John Hall (NY-19), Congressman Maurice Hinchey (NY-22), and Congressman Eliot Engel (NY-17) today called on the Department of Homeland Security to force the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) and the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) to enforce laws regarding emergency preparedness at the Indian Point Energy Center. FEMA and NRC have continually failed to hold Entergy, the owner and manager of Indian Point, accountable for its failure to implement an emergency preparedness system adequate to protect the public.A copy of the Representatives’ letter to Richard L. Skinner, Inspector General of the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, follows:Dear Mr. Skinner:We write to you with great concern over the oversight exercised by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) with regard to the Indian Point Energy Center, located in Buchanan, New York. We are particularly concerned about the relationship between FEMA and the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) for emergency preparedness and oversight at nuclear facilities.Unfortunately, we have witnessed an environment in which nuclear licensees feel empowered to disregard the law and federal regulations issued by FEMA and the NRC.Located in one of the most densely populated areas of the country, just 30 miles north of New York City, Indian Point has experienced numerous security mishaps and consistent mismanagement which have put the safety of the entire region at risk. Since the start of 2007, this facility has had a split fuel pin detected; an unusual event due to a transformer fire; multiple unplanned shutdowns; a third missed deadline for the operational certification of a new emergency notification siren system; discovery of a guard sleeping while on duty at the facility; and a citation for not properly keeping track of uranium 235 stored within the spent fuel pool. These missteps and violations are in addition to an ongoing leak of tritium and strontium into the groundwater surrounding the site.Additionally, Indian Point is currently operating in violation of the federal Energy Policy Act of 2005, which required the plant to have backup power for an emergency siren system by January 2007. Unlike the current notification system, which relies on power from the plant in order to operate, the new requirements were meant to ensure the public is informed of any serious event at the plant even if power at the plant is affected.Despite the clarity of the law, NRC allowed Entergy, which owns and manages Indian Point, to delay implementation until April 2007. When that deadline was missed, the NRC levied a nominal fine against Entergy and allowed the company to dictate the next deadline for operational compliance. Not surprisingly, Entergy missed its self-imposed August 24th, 2007, deadline to comply with the law. As of now, the new siren system has still not been certified for operations by FEMA and the millions of people living near the plant are left to rely on an outdated and ineffective emergency siren system. Additionally, FEMA has been unable to get the NRC to be more firm with the owners and operators of Indian Point, Entergy Nuclear.Confidence in the oversight of preparedness and response plans at Indian Point was further diminished by an assessment performed by James Lee Witt Associates, headed by Former FEMA Administrator Witt, and commissioned by then-Governor Pataki, which showed the FEMA-certified response plans for the facility were not adequate to protect the public. The report showed the emergency preparedness plans weren’t built on a strategy or system to protect the public from radiation exposure, but simply compliance with FEMA regulations. As a result, all four counties tasked with having emergency response plans for the plant have refused to certify the plans, yet FEMA and the NRC overruled the counties and issued a certification anyway. Westchester County, where the plant lies, also announced it is refusing to participate in future drills at Indian Point because it feels Entergy does not take them seriously and FEMA does nothing to require a greater level of professionalism during the drills.We request your office investigate what has gone wrong in communications and enforcement between FEMA and the NRC related to compliance with the Energy Policy Act of 2005’s backup power mandate. Additionally, what additional steps could FEMA have taken to bring Entergy in line with these requirements? Lastly, what impact could FEMA have if given enforcement authority for the safety of nuclear power plants and the development of their preparedness plans?We look forward to working with you on how best to address these concerns as you move forward with this request. Thank you in advance for your attention to this matter.Sincerely,Nita M. LoweyJohn HallEliot EngelMaurice Hinchey###
07.16.2008	WASHINGTON – The House State and Foreign Operations Appropriations Subcommittee, chaired by Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY), today approved its Fiscal Year 2009 bill. The Chairwoman’s Mark, totaling $36.62 billion, is $3.82 billion over FY08 enacted levels.“This bill provides funding critical for protecting our national security, promoting global health and education, and fostering economic development around the world,” Lowey said. “Healthier, more educated populations with economic opportunity are less vulnerable to extremism. This bill provides the resources to fulfill our moral responsibilities and make the United States and the world safer.”The bill reflects the four priorities of the Subcommittee: oversight of foreign assistance programs; protecting national security and combating terrorism; reforming and rebuilding American’s foreign policy and foreign assistance infrastructure; and responding to the global HIV/AIDS pandemic and other health challenges. The bill has been restructured to include eight titles, and general provisions have been consolidated, resulting in a more streamlined bill.Protecting National Security and Combating TerrorismThe bill includes new language requiring a report from the Department of State on its implementation of the Iran Sanctions Act and requests that the Department of the Treasury report on the activities of foreign subsidiaries of U.S. companies trading with and investing in Iran.The bill provides $2.38 billion to Israel, fully funding the first year of the MOU at $2.55 billion when combined with funding included in the 2008 supplemental appropriations.All current restrictions on assistance for West Bank and Gaza are continued.The bill provides a total of $1.041 billion for Afghanistan, equal to the President’s request.The bill provides a total of $696.89 million to Jordan, a key ally in the Middle East, $161.45 million above the President’s request.The bill provides $1.5 billion for Egypt, a key ally, to support development and fight extremism.The bill provides $2.995 billion in Economic Support Funds (ESF), $562.6 million above the FY08 enacted level for critical allies.“This bill invests in improving lives and expanding opportunity in the developing world as well as fighting terrorism and enforcing international sanctions,” said Lowey. “We must pursue aggressive diplomacy, including strong sanctions without loopholes, to confront the threat that Iran poses to us and the world.”Foreign Assistance InfrastructureCombined with the FY08 emergency supplemental, the bill provides funding for approximately 1,061 new positions at the Department of State as part of the Diplomatic Workforce Initiative.The bill provides $809 million for USAID operating expenses, $41 million above the President’s request and $179 million above last year’s total. Combined with funding included in the 2008 emergency supplemental, this will fund 400 new employees at USAID.“Robust funding for our diplomatic corps and the agencies with experience and a track record of development successes is critical for rebuilding and revitalizing our foreign policy and assistance infrastructure,” said Lowey. “To meet the challenges of the 21st century, we must have a 21st century workforce.”Global HIV/AIDS and Other Global Health Priorities· $7.278 billion for global health programs, including:· $5.519 billion total funding for global HIV/AIDS programs, which is $400 million above the President’s request, including $600 million for the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria, which is $400 million above the President’s request.· $1.86 billion for the Global Health and Child Survival account, which is $283 million above the President’s request and $147 million above the FY08 enacted level.· $600 million for family planning and reproductive health, nearly doubling the President’s request, including $60 million for the United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA), which is limited to specific purposes such as safe motherhood initiatives, reproductive health services, and fistula care.“We have a moral obligation and a national interest in fighting diseases like HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis, and malaria, and supporting family planning and reproductive health in developing nations,” said Lowey.Improving Aid Effectiveness and Strengthening Development Assistance$1.728 billion in the Development Assistance account, which is $90 million above the President’s request. An additional $200 million was included in the 2008 supplemental appropriations.$750 million to support basic education, $50 million above the FY08 enacted level, continuing last year’s significant increase by the Subcommittee.$824 million for refugee assistance, which is $59.9 million above the President’s request. An additional $350 million was included in the 2008 supplemental appropriations.$310 million for Disaster Assistance in addition to $200 million in the 2008 supplemental appropriations.“Promoting educational and economic opportunity and fostering the institutions of democracy around the world will help ensure global security,” said Lowey.Additional ProvisionsIRAQ: The bill does not include any funding for Iraq but notes that a total of $2.565 billion was provided for State Department and USAID operations and security in Iraq, the Special Inspector General's oversight, reconstruction, and democracy building.in the 2008 supplemental appropriations.PUBLIC DIPLOMACY: The bill provides $394.8 million for public diplomacy at the State Department and $522 million for educational and cultural exchanges to strengthen America’s image abroad.LATIN AMERICA: The bill continues the realignment of Plan Colombia assistance to focus on institution-building and alternative development, and provides $470 million to continue funding the Merida Initiative in line with policies in the 2008 emergency supplemental.CLIMATE CHANGE: The bill includes $544 million for climate change, biodiversity, and clean energy programs and encourages the Export-Import Bank to increase exports in renewable energy and other environmentally beneficial products. $80 million is included for the Global Environmental Facility (GEF). The bill requests additional information on the Administration’s plan for expenditures on the Clean Technology Fund before assistance will be provided.FOOD and AGRICULTURE: The bill provides $375 million for agricultural programs to help increase food security and mitigate and prevent global food crises, in addition to the $200 million provided in the 2008 emergency supplemental.SUDAN: The bill includes a total of $778 million for humanitarian and peacekeeping needs in Sudan, including $414 million for the United Nations Peacekeeping Mission in Darfur (UNAMID), $16 million for peacekeeping operations, and $245 million in the Economic Support Fund.###
07.15.2008	WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today released the following statement regarding an upcoming federal rule, reported by The New York Times, that could allow health care institutions receiving federal funds and individuals employed by those entities to refuse to provide birth control to women who want it:“The Bush Administration seems intent on making draconian and restrictive reproductive policies part of its legacy. I am deeply disappointed that Health and Human Services Secretary Leavitt proposed an outrageous rule that could deny critical family planning services, including birth control, to millions of American women and urge him to immediately abandon this terribly misguided proposal.“Federal law currently protects individuals who prefer not to provide abortion services. This draft regulation would significantly expand the definition of abortion to include birth control for the purpose of conscience clause exemptions. By trumping state laws that guarantee women’s access to prescription contraceptives, this policy would encourage health care institutions seeking to limit access to birth control to employ only individuals who would opt out of providing family planning services, including contraceptives for victims of rape.“We should all agree that making birth control more - not less - accessible is the best way to prevent unintended pregnancies and reduce abortion. That is why we cannot allow this regulation, which would limit access to birth control, to be enacted.“I hope Secretary Leavitt will strongly reconsider the implications of this draft regulation.”###
07.14.2008	Harrison, NY – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today called on the Bush Administration and oil and gas companies to stop squeezing consumers and take immediate steps that will lower prices for Americans struggling under the weight of excessive energy costs.“The pain that American consumers are feeling is real,” said Lowey. “It is squeezing household budgets and making it difficult to afford basic necessities. So far, President Bush and the energy companies have been long on rhetoric but short on solutions. They should take immediate actions to lower prices. Oil companies should drill for oil on public lands that they already lease, and President Bush should draw down a portion of the Strategic Petroleum Reserve.”President Bush and Congressional Republicans have criticized Democrats for refusing to open the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge (ANWR) and more land offshore on the outer continental shelf for oil and gas exploration. This criticism neglects the fact that 68 million acres of federal land containing 81 percent of our nation’s oil reserves have been leased to energy companies for drilling, yet energy companies are not using them. Further, Congress set aside 20 million acres in the National Petroleum Reserve Alaska (NPRA) for drilling, yet the Bush Administration has failed to sell leases for it to be drilled. The House of Representatives considered legislation to compel oil and gas companies to drill on the 68 million acres they already lease or lose their permits, but Republicans blocked it from receiving the 2/3 majority required for passage.Lowey called on President Bush to draw down a portion of the Strategic Petroleum Reserve (SPR) – currently more than 97 percent full – to bring immediate relief to consumers who are struggling under the weight of high energy costs. This action has been taken temporarily in the past by Presidents George H.W. Bush, Clinton, and George W. Bush. In 2000, this action brought the price of oil down by nearly 20 percent in one week.“Drawing down a portion of the Strategic Petroleum Reserve would increase supply and could decrease prices immediately,” said Lowey.Lowey was joined at the press conference by Christopher Boylan, Deputy Executive Director of the Metropolitan Transportation Authority, which has seen a 5 percent increase in ridership from this time in 2007, accounting for 1.5 million new rides."Investing in transit takes cars off of our roads, protects the environment and provides a critical option for commuters in a time of record gas prices,” said MTA Deputy Executive Director Christopher P. Boylan. “As a result, MTA ridership continues to grow due in large part to the reliability and service improvements resulting from the transit investments we have made."Lowey was also joined by Harrison Mayor Joan Walsh and local business owners who detailed the effect of high energy prices on municipal services and commercial activity.“As you fill the tank of your own vehicle, imagine if you had 206 vehicles to keep operating,” said Mayor Joan Walsh of Harrison. “We are estimating, at today’s prices, our costs will increase by over $195,000 in 2008 just to keep our cars and trucks on the road. As an example, diesel fuel has gone up by almost 50% from last June. We are trying to “work smarter,” without cutting services, but it is difficult.”###
07.14.2008	WHITE PLAINS – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today announced that the Mount Pleasant Cottage School Union Free School District (MPCS UFSD) will receive a $215,712 grant from the U.S. Department of Education to promote literacy and reading and update school library facilities.“Reading is the building block for a well-rounded education and the possibility of a brighter future,” said Nita Lowey. “A library that is well-equipped and well-staffed will generate excitement about reading and promote learning. I am pleased that the U.S. Department of Education has recognized this need in Mount Pleasant.”The grant for the MPCS UFSD will benefit two schools: the Mount Pleasant Cottage School and the Edenwald School.“The Literacy and School Library Program grant will allow the MPCS UFSD to create a 21st Century Library Media Center,” said Superintendent Norman Freimark. “By dramatically upgrading its collection of print and non-print materials, integrating technology in the media center environment and providing certified staff, the grant will serve the diverse needs of our students. A combination of highly structured reading instruction and project base multimedia research will be utilized to increase the levels of literacy achievement among the student population.”The purpose of the federal Literacy and School Libraries grant program is to provide students with increased access to up-to-date school library materials, a well-equipped, technologically advanced school library media center, and well-trained, professionally certified school library media specialists to improve literacy skills and achievement of students.###
07.10.2008	WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), Chairwoman of the State and Foreign Operations Appropriations Subcommittee, today released the following statement regarding Iran’s missile tests.“I condemn in the strongest possible terms Iran’s continued missile tests and attempts to intimidate the international community’s efforts to prevent Iran’s development of nuclear weapons. These tests heighten hostility and distrust between Iran and the international community and undermine efforts to make the Middle East and the world safer.“The United States will never fail to defend itself, its interests, and its allies. I call on President Bush and Secretary Rice to use every diplomatic tool available to make clear Iran’s escalation in rhetoric and military activities is unacceptable.“We must work more aggressively with the international community to close loopholes in existing sanctions and further isolate this extremist regime. Iran must understand that its continued support for terrorism across the region, threatening words and actions, and pursuit of nuclear weapons have consequences.“I will continue to work through the State and Foreign Operations Appropriations Subcommittee to use every diplomatic tool available to hold Iran accountable for its actions and to protect American interests and allies from Iran’s dangerous and erratic behavior and pursuit of nuclear weapons.”###
07.01.2008	MAMARONECK, NY – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today was joined by Internal Revenue Service representative James Duffy at the Mamaroneck Senior Citizens Center to encourage eligible seniors to file tax forms so that they may receive an economic stimulus benefit.“Congress passed the Economic Stimulus Act to give our economy a shot in the arm and to help Americans make ends meet,” said Lowey. “We will only be successful with these two goals if the individuals who are eligible for assistance actually file their tax forms and receive their payments. I encourage all eligible Americans – particularly senior citizens and others who do not usually file tax forms – to take advantage of the payments that you deserve.”In January, Congress passed the Economic Stimulus Act to provide a one-time payment of up to $600 for individuals and up to $1,200 for couples filing jointly. In order to receive the payment, eligible individuals and couples must file a tax form, even if they do not normally file forms due to limited personal income. These forms must be filed by October 15th, 2008.Through June 13th, the IRS has processed over 76 million stimulus checks to individuals totaling $63.9 billion. However, in New York State, there are nearly 440,000 seniors and veterans who have yet to file. In New York’s 18th Congressional District, the IRS estimates that nearly 18,000 seniors and veterans are eligible but have not yet filed.At the Mamaroneck Senior Citizens Center, Lowey encouraged seniors to file a tax form so that they can receive their payment if they are eligible.“The economic stimulus payments will help many Americans afford the rising cost of food, health care, energy, and many other items,” said Lowey. “The payments will also promote economic activity and growth. I hope that everyone who is eligible files their forms and receives the payments that they deserve.”###
07.01.2008	Congresswoman Lowey visits with Valerie Champeau, a Clarkstown North City High School student who was one of the winners of the recent New York State History Day competition. Congresswoman Lowey is working to secure $1 million in federal funds to support this national education program.
07.01.2008	This week, Congresswoman Lowey visited the Haverstraw Police Department to inspect computer systems they installed in patrol cars purchased using $40,000 in federal funds that she secured in 2006. These computers help police officers to determine vehicle and a driver's history by quickly scanning the license plate during traffic stops.
06.26.2008	WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Nita Lowey, Chairwoman of the State and Foreign Operations Appropriations Subcommittee, today slammed the Bush Administration’s decision to hold the United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA) in violation of the “Kemp-Kasten” amendment, which bans U.S. assistance to organizations that support or participate in the management of coercive family planning programs for the sixth consecutive year.“The Administration’s decision to hold UNFPA in violation of the Kemp-Kasten Amendment not surprising but remains 100 percent wrong.“It is inexcusable for the Administration to use bogus information to justify withholding assistance like family planning services, pre-natal health, and maternal and child mortality reduction from women around the world. The Administration’s decision to de-fund UNFPA is arbitrary and flies in the face of the State Department’s own investigators who found no evidence that UNFPA supported coercive abortion or involuntary sterilization in China.“UNFPA provides critical assistance to women in more than 140 countries and is a vital partner to the activities of the U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID) in the 60 countries where USAID operates.“The Administration’s decision today to withdraw U.S. support for UNFPA is counter-productive to helping women in need and improving the health of mothers and infants around the world.”###
06.26.2008	WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today voted in support of three bills designed to help working families and bring down gas prices, which average more than $4 per gallon in the Lower Hudson Valley.“People in New York and across the nation are struggling under the weight of record gas prices,” said Lowey. “Congress is taking tangible steps to lower gas prices, promote energy independence, and decrease consumption.“Although two of these three important bills passed today, it is unconscionable that Republicans blocked consideration of legislation that would require oil companies to develop the acres of public land that they have already leased, even as they demand more and more land to drill. I will continue working to develop a long-term policy that moves us towards alternative sources of energy and away from dependence on fossil fuels.”Lowey voted in support of the following three bills approved today by the House of Representatives:· The Responsible Federal Oil and Gas Lease Act, or the “Use it or Lose it” Act, would force oil companies to produce oil and gas, or diligently develop, the 68 million acres of public land they already have leased, but are not using to produce energy. This legislation was blocked by House Republicans.· The Saving Energy Through Public Transportation Act would authorize grants to mass transit authorities to reduce public transit fares, giving consumers a cost-effective alternative to gasoline costing more than $4 per gallon. The bill’s $1.7 billion in mass transit grants for the next two years could also be used to expand transit services and for the escalating operating costs of public transportation and would be available to both rural and urban areas. The bill was approved by a vote of 230-196.· The Energy Markets Emergency Act would direct the Commodity Futures Trading Commission to use its full authority and most potent emergency tools to curtail excessive speculation and other practices distorting the energy market. Rampant speculation has been cited as one cause of the spike in gas prices. The bill was approved by a vote of 402-19.Congress has aggressively pursued solutions to decrease record prices at the pump. The House passed legislation that was signed into law that will suspend the filling of the Strategic Petroleum Reserve from June 30th through the end of the year, creating more supply with the goal of lowering prices. The House also approved the Gas Price Relief for Consumers Act of 2008. The legislation would give U.S. authorities the ability to prosecute anticompetitive conduct committed by international cartels, like OPEC, that restricts supply and drives up prices.###
06.20.2008	White Plains, NY – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today announced that Westchester County will receive more than $7.6 million in federal funds from the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) to increase access to low- and moderate-income housing in the region.“Skyrocketing housing costs are affecting families of every income level,” said Lowey. “We cannot allow the poorest among us to lose the roofs over their heads. Hard-working families who can’t make ends meet shouldn’t pay the price for our struggling economy.”“I’d like to thank Congresswoman Nita Lowey,’’ said Westchester County Executive Andy Spano. “This funding will help families from becoming homeless, provide money for down payments to help low-to-moderate income families buy their own homes, will make improvements to neighborhoods, and will help to create more affordable housing. As always, Nita has come through for her community and her constituents.”The funding will be provided from four HUD grant programs:$11,024 from the American Dream Downpayment Initiative (ADDI), which provides downpayment and closing cost assistance to low-income and minority households;$252,466 from the Emergency Shelter Grants program, which will improve the quality of emergency homeless shelters;$1,687,878 from the HOME Program, to expand the supply of affordable housing to low- and very low-income families; and$5,715,632 from the Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) program, which aids communities by expanding housing and economic opportunities for low- and moderate-income individuals.“Our communities depend on HUD grants to provide stability to low-income and disabled families, especially during times of economic uncertainty. I will continue fighting with my colleagues in Congress to ensure that the federal government provides our communities with the resources they need to spur economic growth,” said Lowey.# # #
06.20.2008	Washington, D.C. – Today the Department of Homeland Security is announcing awards for the first dedicated Interoperable Emergency Communications Grant Program, which will provide $7,835,108 to public safety agencies in New York and was created by a measure Congresswoman Lowey first proposed and fought successfully to enact.“Finally the federal government will award dedicated interoperability funds to New York, which I proposed in the aftermath of September 11th,” said Lowey. “This is a great victory for first responders to help ensure they are not left to the same communication tactics used by Paul Revere. Runners relaying messages should never be the method to direct personnel in an emergency due to equipment failures, especially in this time of advanced technology. And we can never again let failed communications devices put our first responders in danger as on September 11th.”Following the 2001 attacks, Lowey introduced legislation to create a first responder communications grant program. After Republicans repeatedly refused to accept the measure, the House overwhelmingly passed legislation containing the grant program Lowey championed in the first major bill adopted by the Democratic Congress in 2007 – H.R. 1, the Implementing Recommendations of the 9/11 Commission Act.In recent years, the State of New York and many local governments acted responsibly to improve emergency networks without a dedicated source of federal assistance. Friday’s long-overdue grant announcement will help them partially offset the significant cost and strengthen their communications capabilities.New York State is in the process of building a $2.2 billion voice network while Westchester and Rockland Counties have both invested tens of millions of dollars on their own networks. Even before Friday’s announcement, Lowey had helped secure more than $2.7 million for emergency communication initiatives in the 18th Congressional District.DHS is announcing $50 million in awards Friday. States will then determine how to award funds to local governments. The grant program is authorized to increase to $400 million in future years after the Department has released the National Emergency Communications Plan, scheduled for completion later this year.“I am confident this announcement is the first of many awards for New York. I will vigorously push to develop the National Emergency Communications Plan to grow the grant program and provide far more resources for first responders in New York,” said Lowey.###
06.20.2008	(Washington, DC) – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today praised House passage of an immediate 13-week extension for federal unemployment insurance to help an estimated 3.8 million Americans and to stimulate the national economy, a measure she called for earlier this week.“This 13-week extension in federal unemployment insurance will help 3.8 million Americans and stimulate our stagnating economy,” said Lowey. “I am pleased the White House and Republicans in Congress finally came to the table to help American workers and their families afford the rising costs of living as unemployment continues to rise and our economy continues to shed jobs.”On Thursday, June 12, the House of Representatives passed the Emergency Extended Unemployment Compensation Act by a vote of 274 to 137. The bill would have immediately provided up to 13 weeks of extended unemployment benefits, but President Bush threatened to veto the bill and the House minority leadership opposed the measure.Earlier this week, Lowey was joined by New York State Labor Commissioner M. Patricia Smith and two local residents who are out of work at the Westchester Workforce Investment Board to call for the immediate enactment of this measure. Last night the emergency supplemental appropriations bill passed by the House included a 13-week extension of the usual 26 weeks of unemployment insurance.“These benefits will help the unemployed none too soon,” said Lowey. “With the national economy having lost 49,000 jobs in May and the unemployment rate at a 22-year high of 5.5 percent, this unemployment insurance extension will have a vital role in boosting our economy.”The bill is expected to pass in the Senate in the coming days after which the President is expected to sign the bill to enact this vital provision.# # #
06.19.2008	WASHINGTON – The House of Representatives today passed a bill introduced by Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) that would prohibit advance notification of covert tests conducted on transportation systems.“Security tests are neither covert nor indicative of the strength of our security systems if security personnel know the timing and details of exercises in advance,” said Lowey. “Understanding the vulnerabilities in our transportation systems requires meaningful security tests. I am pleased that my colleagues agreed on the need to identify and correct – not simply cover up – weaknesses in our security efforts.”The Catching Operational Vulnerabilities by Ensuring Random Testing (COVERT) Act would bolster accountability and integrity for covert testing within transportation systems conducted by the Transportation Security Administration (TSA) and the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) by prohibiting the advance notification of covert tests without direct approval from the highest levels of homeland security leadership. The legislation was passed unanimously by the House Committee on Homeland Security last month.On at least three occasions, advance notice was given to transportation security officials of upcoming covert testing, including an incident where a TSA Assistant Administrator circulated information about the timing, location, and format of an upcoming “covert” test to security officials on- the-ground via TSA’s internal email system. The COVERT Act would require that decisions to notify local security personnel in advance of a test come directly from the TSA Administrator, the Inspector General of the Department, or the Comptroller General of the Government Accountability Office (GAO).The COVERT Act passed the House of Representatives by voice vote today. Lowey will now advocate for swift passage by the Senate.Lowey, a Congressional leader on the security of transportation systems, also fought successfully to enact a pilot program requiring all individuals with access to secure areas of an airport to pass through security screening. The pilot program began at seven airports last month.###Video of Lowey speaking on the House floor about the COVERT Act can be viewed here.
06.17.2008	(WHITE PLAINS) – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today called for an immediate 13-week extension in federal unemployment insurance to help an estimated 3.8 million Americans and stimulate the national economy.“At a time when our economy is shedding jobs, the unemployment rate is rising dangerously, and daily costs of living are skyrocketing, it is critical for American workers and families to have a safety net,” said Lowey. “A 13-week extension in federal unemployment insurance would help 3.8 million Americans and stimulate our stagnating economy. Congress has acted – President Bush must now join us to help those out of work and their families.”Last week, the federal government reported that the national economy shed 49,000 jobs in May, bringing the total to nearly 325,000 since the beginning of the year. The unemployment rate rose from 5.0 percent to 5.5 percent, the biggest monthly increase since 1986. Nearly one in five unemployed American workers have been searching for employment for more than 26 weeks while the costs of daily life are rising and the American economy is at the brink of recession.On Thursday, June 12, the House of Representatives passed the Emergency Extended Unemployment Compensation Act by a vote of 274 to 137. The bill would immediately provide up to 13 weeks of extended unemployment benefits in every state to workers who have exhausted the 26 weeks of regular unemployment benefits. President Bush has threatened to veto the bill.In addition to helping families in need, an extension of unemployment assistance would boost the economy. The funds would be spent quickly, generating $1.64 in economic demand for every dollar provided in benefits.Two unemployed local residents receiving assistance from Westchester County’s One-Stop Employment Centers discussed the difficulty of their job searches as prices rise and the economy falters. New York State Labor Commissioner M. Patricia Smith also joined Lowey at the Westchester County Workforce Investment Board in calling for an extension in federal unemployment insurance.“During these tough economic times, Governor Paterson believes that New York’s unemployed workers deserve these extended benefits to help them with their rent, heating bills and gas for their cars,” said Commissioner Smith. “We are supporting this bill because it helps New York’s workers and their families and pumps money immediately into local businesses, which in turn provides an economic boost for the state."###
06.03.2008	(Pleasantville, NY) – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today was joined by administrators from several area colleges and universities and a student veteran who served three tours in Iraq to call for an increase in GI education benefits for veterans.“We can never fully repay the debt of gratitude we owe those brave men and women who have served our nation,” said Lowey. “We can make every effort to ease their transition into civilian life by providing them the tools to gain a quality education that will prepare them for work outside the military. I am pleased that Congress has acted to increase the education benefits available to returning veterans, and I hope that President Bush will drop his objections to this fulfilling our promise to veterans.”Pace University President Stephen J. Friedman echoed Lowey’s calls for increased veterans’ education benefits and cited a new program Pace University has implemented to make tuition more affordable for veterans."Pace University is in support of making education more affordable for veterans as a way of recognizing their extraordinary sacrifice and commitment to our country," said Friedman. "Increased federal education benefits would help many veterans pursue educational goals that may otherwise be out of reach. Pace is proud to now offer scholarships to those who have served in Afghanistan and/or Iraq from 2001 to the present.”Lowey was joined at the press conference by Kenny Alba, a former Navy seaman E-3 who served three tours of duty in the Persian Gulf and who will enroll at Pace University in the Fall 2008 semester.“Veterans frequently need assistance as they make the transition to civilian life,” said Alba. “I am happy to have the opportunity to enroll at Pace and I hope that my fellow veterans will have the opportunity to pursue a college education when their service is over.”Since 1944, the United States has sought to ease the transition of veterans returning to civilian life by providing them with educational assistance. Yet this assistance has not kept pace with the rising costs of education. The U.S. House of Representatives and the U.S. Senate have passed legislation with the support of Congresswoman Lowey that would double to $20,000 the average annual education benefit available to veterans returning from service in Iraq and Afghanistan. President Bush has threatened to veto the legislation. If signed into law, the legislation would:Increase education benefits for those who have served at least 3 months on active duty since 9/11, including activated reservists and National Guard. Those who have served between three months and three years of active duty would qualify for a portion of that full benefit, rewarding all active service, whether by regular component troops or by National Guard and Reservists;Cover 100 percent of the cost of the most expensive in-state public school, including tuition, fees, and books, as well as a monthly stipend for veterans that served more than three years;Match, dollar-for-dollar, voluntary additional contributions for more expensive schools; andProvide veterans up to 15 years after they leave active duty – instead of the current 10 – to use the educational benefit.###
05.28.2008	(NEW ROCHELLE) – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today announced that the New Rochelle City School District will receive a $377,514 grant from the U.S. Department of Education to develop and implement alcohol abuse reduction programs geared towards high school students.“Underage drinking can have serious and sometimes tragic consequences,” said Lowey. “Working together at all levels of government, we can help local school districts and students by supporting innovative and effective programs to curb alcohol abuse. I am pleased that the federal government has responded to this need in New Rochelle.”“The need to change public perceptions regarding the impact of underage drinking is an ongoing challenge,” said New Rochelle City School District Superintendent Dr. Richard Organisciak. “We must constantly provide our children with accurate information on the devastating effects that alcohol abuse has on families. This grant will provide us with the ability to bring further attention and much needed resources to this significant issue.”Congresswoman Lowey has long taken an active role in federal efforts to curb alcohol abuse. She authored legislation, signed into law in 2000, requiring states to enact laws limiting maximum blood alcohol content (BAC) to .08 for individuals operating a motor vehicle. She was named Mothers Against Drug Driving (MADD) “Legislator of the Year” for this effort and for her leadership in authoring the nation's "Zero Tolerance" law, which made it illegal for minors to drive after consuming any alcohol.The U.S. Department of Education Grants to Reduce Alcohol Abuse program provides resources for local education agencies to develop and implement innovative and effective alcohol abuse prevention programs for secondary school students.The New Rochelle City School District will receive $377,514 between July 1, 2008, and June 30, 2009, and it is anticipated that the grant will continue for a total of three years.###
05.21.2008	WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today praised the House Energy & Commerce Health Subcommittee for holding a hearing featuring Sheryl Crow on the Breast Cancer and Environmental Research Act (H.R. 1157), which has the bipartisan support of 268 Members of Congress.“While government cannot cure cancer, it can put the resources in the hands of scientists who will,” said Lowey. “If we are to find a cure for this deadly disease, we need to determine what causes it. Researching the relationship between breast cancer and the environment is a vital component of that effort.”Breast cancer is the most commonly diagnosed cancer among women in the United States, other than skin cancer. It is the second leading cause of cancer death in women, after lung cancer. More than 182,000 women in the United States will be found to have invasive breast cancer in 2008, and more than 40,000 women will die from the disease this year.While there have been isolated studies of suspected environmental links to breast cancer, the cause of breast cancer and the association between the environment and breast cancer have not been thoroughly examined. The bipartisan Breast Cancer and Environmental Research Act would authorize the National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences (NIEHS) to award grants for the development of research initiatives to study environmental factors that may be related to the development of breast cancer. The bill authorizes $30 million per year for five years for this vital research.“I commend Chairman Pallone and the Health Subcommittee for today’s hearing, and I thank Sheryl Crow for her strong advocacy,” said Lowey. “I hope that Congress will act soon to pass this bill so that we can make research on breast cancer and the environment a real priority at NIH. By allocating funds to conduct focused research, train health care professionals, and provide information to the public, we can determine the link between breast cancer and the environment and save women’s lives.”###
05.20.2008	(WASHINGTON) – Congresswoman Nita Lowey, Chairwoman of the State and Foreign Operations Appropriations Subcommittee, today released the following statement regarding her trip to Israel as part of a Congressional Delegation led by Speaker Nancy Pelosi celebrating Israel’s 60th Anniversary:“Now is a time to celebrate: 60 years since the founding of Israel; 60 years that the Jewish people have had a place to call home; 60 years of agricultural, medical and technological innovation; 60 years of vibrant democracy and freedom in a neighborhood plagued by dictatorship and suppression.“But as we celebrate this 60th Anniversary, we also take note that it is 75 years since Hitler first came to power. When we stepped off the plane in Israel this past weekend, our first stop was to visit Yad Vashem, to pay tribute to all those who lost their lives at the hands of evil, to commit ourselves to ensuring that this horror never happens again.“That is why, while we joined our Israeli friends in celebration this past weekend, it was never far from our minds or our hearts that the existential threat to Israel and the Jewish people remains real, constant, and grave. Residents of Sderot and other border communities continue to be terrorized regularly by rocket fire from Hamas in Gaza, Hezbollah is thriving on the border in Lebanon, and Iran continues to call for Israel’s annihilation. And yet, the people of Israel remain strong, hopeful, optimistic, and steadfast in their right to live in peace.“In the face of these threats, the U.S.-Israel relationship has never been stronger or more necessary. Just as Harry Truman did 60 years ago, we must continue to stand strong with our ally Israel and ensure that it has all the tools necessary for a safe and prosperous future.”###
05.20.2008	WASHINGTON – The House Homeland Security Committee today passed a bill introduced by Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) that would prohibit advance notification of covert tests conducted on transportation systems.“Covert security tests are meaningless if everyone knows when they are coming and what they are likely to entail,” said Lowey. “If we are to understand the vulnerabilities of our transportation systems, our security tests must be meaningful. I am pleased that the Committee on Homeland Security agrees that we need to identify possible weaknesses and fix them – not simply cover them up.”The Catching Operational Vulnerabilities by Ensuring Random Testing (COVERT) Act would bolster accountability and integrity for covert testing within transportation systems conducted by the Transportation Security Administration (TSA) and the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) by prohibiting the advance notification of covert tests without direct approval from the highest levels of homeland security leadership. The legislation was passed unanimously by the House Committee on Homeland Security.On at least three occasions, advance notice was given to transportation security officials of upcoming covert testing, including an incident where a TSA Assistant Administrator circulated information about the timing, location, and format of an upcoming “covert” test to local security officials via TSA’s internal email system. The COVERT Act would require that decisions to notify local security personnel in advance of a test come directly from the TSA Administrator, the Inspector General of the Department, or the Comptroller General of the Government Accountability Office (GAO).Having successfully passed the COVERT Act through the House Committee on Homeland Security, Lowey will advocate for passage by the full House of Representatives.Lowey, a Congressional leader on the security of transportation systems, also fought to enact a pilot program requiring all individuals with access to secure areas of an airport to pass through security screening. The pilot program was begun at seven airports this month.###
05.16.2008	(WASHINGTON) – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today lauded the increase the New York City area will receive in homeland security grants as a result of greater investments in vital security funds under the Democratic Congress.“Our region will gain the resources that it needs to prevent and prepare for emergencies,” said Lowey. “Today we can see the tangible results of Congress prioritizing what matters most – the safety and security of our citizens.”The Department of Homeland Security (DHS) today announced that the New York region will receive a significant increase in grant funding over last year’s levels for transit and port security. The New York region will receive:$175.3 million in rail and transit grants, an increase from last year’s total of $98 million$45.5 million in port security grants, an increase from last year’s total of $27.3 millionIn February DHS announced the New York region would be eligible for $153.3 million from the rail and transit program and $43.3 million from the port program. Lowey urged Secretary Chertoff to increase the region’s allotment, arguing that it deserved a larger share of funds. Today’s announcement of an additional $25 million for New York proved Lowey’s lobbying efforts successful. As a member of the Appropriations Subcommittee on Homeland Security, Lowey has led the effort for additional funds for security needs. The increase in funds is the result of increased appropriations for the overall grant program provided by the Democratic Congress.“The increased security funds for New York reflect progress toward providing adequate resources to protect our city and state,” Lowey said. “I will continue fighting to ensure that funds intended for the highest-risk areas are used to protect areas that face the most threat, like New York.”###
05.12.2008	(YONKERS) – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today called for a moratorium on regulations proposed by President Bush that would cut federal funding for Medicaid, costing New York up to $7.4 billion and diminishing the quality of care that patients need, expect, and deserve.“Unless Congress acts soon, harmful regulations could severely diminish New York hospitals’ ability to deliver high-quality health care,” said Lowey. “We should be doing more to support high-quality, low-cost medical services – not less. Reducing federal funding for Medicaid particularly targets low-income individuals and children with disabilities. These drastic cuts are a prescription for disaster in New York’s heath system, and I will fight tooth and nail to preserve access to health care for the most vulnerable among us.”Over the last year, the Bush Administration has issued seven new Medicaid regulations that would greatly reduce the federal funding that states receive for rehabilitation services, school-based transportation services, and outreach, enrollment and case management services. The regulations would also significantly reduce funding for public hospitals and physician training. Under these regulations, states could lose nearly $50 billion in federal matching funds over the next five years, and New York State could lose approximately $7.4 billion over five years, starting May 25th.“Allowing these regulations to become law would be damaging for area hospitals,” said St. John’s Riverside Hospital President Jim Foy. “The federal government must do its share to help hospitals provide timely and high quality health care services for those who are in need. I urge Congress to act quickly to place a moratorium on these regulations.”Lowey supports including a moratorium on these regulations in an emergency supplemental spending bill that Congress expects to consider this week.“I can think of no greater emergency than the prospect of vulnerable citizens losing access to necessary health services,” said Lowey. “Congress must prevent these ill-considered regulations from becoming law.”###
05.05.2008	WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), Chairwoman of the State and Foreign Operations Appropriations Subcommittee, today issued the following statement on the Sudanese government’s bombing of a primary school and a marketplace that resulted in the deaths of several people, including children.“Reports that the Sudanese government has bombed a primary school and a busy marketplace in North Darfur are sickening and contemptible. It is inexcusable for any government to conduct attacks on its own citizens. The fact that the attacks appear to have targeted innocent civilians – including children – makes the news all the more appalling.“Today’s attacks took place mere weeks after troubling reports of diplomatic meetings and information exchanges suggested possible movement towards normalized relations between the United States and Sudan.“Today’s attacks on innocent children and civilians going about their daily lives should shelve the prospect of normalized relations. While diplomacy remains integral for our foreign policy goals, it is not in the interest of the United States or the victims of the Darfur genocide to normalize relations with the Government of Sudan, particularly at a time when it is targeting innocent civilians and children.###
05.05.2008	(WHITE PLAINS) – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today advocated expanding the Federal Housing Administration (FHA) loan insurance program, which would help borrowers at risk of losing their homes who currently cannot refinance because their homes are worth less than their current mortgage.“The housing crisis is hitting Westchester County hard as foreclosure judgments are up 80 percent from this time in 2007,” said Lowey. “The federal government has a responsibility to help people who are struggling to avoid losing their homes. A failure to act will surely continue the severe toll the housing crisis is having on our economy and communities. I am pleased that Congress is set to act this week to help homeowners refinance loans to lower, manageable payments. For many homeowners, relief cannot come soon enough.”Lowey was joined at the press conference by Robert Sanborn of Westhab, Inc., Naomi Bayer of Enterprise Community Partnership, Geoffrey Andersen of Westchester Residential Opportunities (WRO), and Tony Giardina, regional representative for New York Governor David A. Paterson."We have proposed legislation in New York that would assist homeowners most at risk of losing their homes as well as addressing the problems that got us into this crisis to begin with," said David A. Paterson, Governor of New York. "However, states can not do it alone and that is why we fully support the efforts of Representative Lowey to get the federal government to act in a comprehensive way. It was a lack of action that helped get us here, and more inaction is inexcusable. Forecasts show that the worst is yet to come, so we must move now to save the tens of thousands of New Yorkers impacted by the crisis.""The most recent statistics show that current industry efforts are not keeping pace with the rising rate of foreclosures," said Richard H. Neiman, Superintendent of Banks for New York. "States like New York are at the forefront of combating predatory lending practices and continue to press lenders and servicers to expand their loss mitigation efforts in order to avoid unnecessary foreclosures that are not in the interests of either the lender or the borrower. However, states can not do it alone and that is why we encourage greater efforts and cooperation from the federal government and support congressional proposals like HR 5830 to expand the FHA's authority to provide a refinancing option for at-risk homeowners as well as federal legislation to assure that this type of crisis never happens again."Legislation Congress expects to consider this week would permit FHA to provide up to $300 billion in new guarantees to help troubled homeowners refinance their mortgages. The holder of the mortgage would have to agree to a reduction of the loan’s outstanding principal and provide new terms that the borrower can repay. The federal government would assume the risk of default for the new mortgage. This provision would help borrowers struggling to make payments on their homes but are not able to refinance into a new loan because their home is worth less than their current mortgage.“The timely proposal to expand the Federal Housing Administration's loan insurance program provides needed capital so that homeowners can reduce their monthly payments to an affordable level,” said Robert Sanborn, Vice President of Westhab, Inc. “Congresswoman Lowey's leadership role in supporting legislation that will assist hundreds of Westchester families is crucial at this time. Moreover, I believe this important legislation along with other measures to be considered by Congress will greatly improve the housing market and allow many Westchester households to keep their homes.”"Enterprise supports the FHA Housing Stabilization and Homeownership Retention Act (H.R. 5830) and urges Congress to pass it this week so that troubled borrowers who risk losing their home can refinance into safe, affordable mortgages. We commend Representative Lowey for her leadership in addressing the foreclosure crisis. We would also strongly urge Congress to support the Neighborhood Stabilization Act of 2008 (H.R. 5818) and the Housing Tax Assistance Act of 2008 (H.R. 5720), which will also be considered by Congress this week. These bills provide desperately needed economic stimulus for troubled homeowners and communities, and will help restore economic stability across the country."###
04.28.2008	(WHITE PLAINS) – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today announced that the Bronxville Union Free School District will receive more than $5.4 million in two grants from the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) to repair damage incurred during the April 2007 Nor’easter.“When a natural disaster occurs, the federal government has a responsibility to help communities recover,” said Lowey. “I am pleased that the federal government has responded to the urgent need to help Bronxville schools recover from the April 2007 Nor’easter.”“One year ago, massive flooding damaged the entire first floor of our school,” said Bronxville Superintendent Dr. David Quattrone. “We lost over 100,000 square feet of space, not to mention hundreds of thousands of dollars worth of instructional supplies and equipment. Since then, so many people have helped us respond to this emergency. Our students, parents, and teachers have displayed resilience and flexibility. The community has been very supportive. Our elected representatives were quick to be on the scene and facilitate assistance.“We are profoundly grateful for this help, and are especially appreciative of the way state and federal agencies responded,” Quattrone continued. “FEMA's expertise and responsiveness have been crucial aspects of our restoration and recovery, and we look forward to continued collaboration in the months ahead.”“In the year since the flood waters devastated our School and the surrounding community, we have sought and received support and assistance from our elected officials and various governmental agencies,” said Assistant Superintendent Dr. John F. Kehoe. “The School has been able to reopen portions of the complex and we are in the process of restoring the other areas that were affected. None of this restoration would have been possible without the continuing support of our Congresswoman, Nita Lowey. The Congresswoman helped the School find the proper approaches to access the many resources of the Federal Government, such as FEMA. The Bronxville School still has a distance to cross to get to full operation again, but we would not be able to function without this assistance.”During the April 2007 Nor’easter, Bronxville received eight inches of rain in a 24-hour period, which resulted in the heavy flooding on the Bronxville Union Free School District’s campus. Floodwaters entered all four wings of the school on the ground floor eventually reaching a high water mark of 5 ½ feet. Damage was sustained to flooring, wall partitions, cabinetry and other millwork, doors, frames, trim work, wall lockers, wall mounted educational treatments, ceilings, mechanical and electrical equipment, teaching equipment, furnishings and more.Bronxville will receive two grants from FEMA worth a total of $5.415 million to repair the damage that its schools sustained.###
04.28.2008	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (NY-18), Congressman John Hall (NY-19), Congressman Eliot Engel (NY-17) and Congressman Maurice Hinchey (NY-22) today renewed their call for a safety assessment at Indian Point by a panel that is independent, credible, and authoritative, to replace the evaluation being conducted by a panel appointed by Indian Point owner and operator Entergy.The panel Co-Chair James Rhodes is the former head of the nuclear industry-funded Institute of Nuclear Power Operations, and was hand-selected by Entergy to lead this panel. Mr. Rhodes selected every other member of the panel, which begins meeting today in Cortland.“While Entergy’s willingness to undergo a safety review is a small step in the right direction, the panel conducting the review is anything but independent,” said Lowey. “Our region deserves an Independent Safety Assessment involving state and local officials, as well as the NRC, that will address not only Entergy management, but also the ability to protect the public in the event of an emergency."“Entergy’s decision to move forward with a so-called “independent safety evaluation” of Indian Point by its hand-picked panel pays lip-service to the legitimate concerns about the plant but falls well short of the oversight needed to guarantee that Indian Point will not be relicensed unless it’s safe,” said Hall. “Indian Point has been plagued by operational issues and is just miles away from one of the most densely populated areas in the country. The review of an Entergy-assembled panel cannot be allowed to stand as a substitute for a real Independent Safety Assessment, the stakes are too high.”Rep. Engel said, “This so-called ‘independent’ panel was appointed by Entergy, and it is being funded by Entergy. That is not a true Independent Safety Assessment. Entergy has proven many times that it has neither the ability nor the desire to protect the health and safety of the communities surrounding Indian Point. This panel is nothing more than Entergy’s attempt to avoid meaningful oversight by pretending to police itself.”"The people who live and work near Indian Point will not be fooled by this charade of an 'independent' safety assessment panel that is comprised of members hand-picked by Entergy," Hinchey said. "We don't have time for games. We cannot wait around for more radioactive leaks, sleeping guards, and fires with no alarms. The NRC must commission a real independent safety assessment today."While questioning the legitimacy of the Entergy-appointed panel, all four Members continue to insist on an Independent Safety Assessment (ISA) at Indian Point, as would be required under legislation they introduced in February, 2007. H.R 994 would establish a 25-member ISA team and a five-member Citizens Review Team to ensure public accountability in the process and bind Entergy to the requirements of the panel or be denied a new license at the facility.###
04.28.2008	(WEST HAVERSTRAW) – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today commended Rockland County legislators and Stop & Shop for their efforts to promote conservation through reuse and recycling of plastic shopping bags. Lowey announced that she will introduce a formal resolution in Congress praising this and similar local actions.“Local governments and good stewards in the retail industry like the West Haverstraw Stop & Shop can help prevent the damage that plastic bags cause to our environment,” said Lowey. “By promoting reuse and recycling, we can protect our land and water from contaminants and save countless animals and marine life from harm. I am thrilled that Rockland and Westchester Counties are leading the way, and I intend to introduce a Congressional resolution praising all local governments who have taken similar actions and encouraging more stores to act.”Each year, residents of the United States use approximately 100 billion plastic bags, but only a fraction of one percent of these bags will be recycled. The Environmental Protection Agency has found that the average bag takes up to 1,000 years to decompose, and small pieces often contaminate soil and waterways. The production of plastic bags and film plastic worldwide uses over 12 million barrels of oil per year, accounting for more than 4 percent of the world’s oil production.On April 16th, the Rockland County Legislature unanimously agreed to require stores with at least 10,000 square feet of selling space or a chain of five or more stores to have a plastic bag collection bin near the store entrance for recycling purposes. The law would require that stores 20,000 square feet or larger also sell reusable bags for customers who prefer not to use plastic bags. The legislation would take effect January 1, 2009. The Westchester County Legislature passed a similar law on April 7th.After enactment, the bill would take effect January 1, 2009. Lowey praised Stop & Shop for independently initiating a plastic bag recycling program. Stop & Shop stores collect and recycle plastic shopping bags. Once collected, the plastics are hauled to a central facility and are then shipped to a firm that specializes in recycling plastics.“As one of the largest grocers in the Northeast, Stop & Shop is happy to fulfill its responsibility to conserve and help preserve our planet for future generations,” said District Manager Vera Kovalski. “Last year, Stop & Shop and its sister chain recycled more than 1,500 tons of plastics.”###
04.22.2008	Washington, D.C., April 22, 2008—Representative Nita Lowey (D-NY) hosted Grammy award-winning artist Shakira and more than 50 students from across the United States to meet with Members of Congress in Washington, D.C. to raise awareness for the bipartisan Education for All Act of 2007 (EFA). The event took place on Capitol Hill in conjunction with the Global Campaign for Education’s (GCE) Action Week, observed April 21-27. The week is being marked with events around the world led by young people calling upon their leaders to support education for all children, including the very poorest.“All children deserve the chance to attend school, to learn, and to improve their futures,” said Lowey. “Without a basic education, children will not have the skills to contribute to their country, earn a good wage, and live a healthy and productive life. Promoting basic education worldwide also helps our own nation by decreasing poverty and extremism worldwide. I am thrilled to join Shakira, a dedicated and passionate advocate, in calling for all children to have access to basic education.”“We know that we should all be doing more about making sure every child in the world receives a basic quality education,” said Shakira. “I know this is a challenge, but it’s a historic opportunity for all of us. We know how to address this -- it is within our reach and we can truly be the architects of change and be the first generation in human history to bring education to all children so that no child is left behind.”More than 72 million elementary school-aged children around the world will not attend school today and another 226 million secondary school-aged children will not attend school either. A whole generation of young people will miss out on the life opportunities that a quality education can provide. And that is a tragedy that can be averted if we have the political will to meet the Education For All goals set forth by the global community at the World Education Forum held in Dakar in 2000.The EFA Act was introduced by Representatives Lowey and Spencer Bachus (R-AL) (H.R.2092) and Senators Hillary Clinton (D-NY) and Gordon Smith (R-OR) (S.1259) on May 1, 2007. The Act, which seeks to realize the promises of the education for all goals established in 2000 at the World Education Forum in Dakar, calls on the U.S. to provide the resources and international leadership to ensure all children have access to a quality basic education.If passed, the EFA Act would increase funding by $10 billion over the next five years. It would do so by increasing funding from the current level of $465 million annually to $3 billion annually by 2012. This is the amount that many experts believe would represent the United States’ fair share of the existing financing gap for insuring quality basic education for all. The global cap has been set at $ 9 billion a year until 2015. The EFA Act requires the President to develop a comprehensive integrated strategy for the United States government to follow in working to reach the 2015 goal of universal access to education for all children.Shakira was joined the day before by British Prime Minister Gordon Brown and World Bank President Robert Zoellick on a press call with international reporters to discuss the global outlook.The Global Campaign for Education is a coalition of organizations in more than 120 countries that raises awareness for universal basic education in the world’s poorest nations. This is the 6th consecutive year that the GCE has coordinated a global week of action for education, giving young people the opportunity to make the case for education for all children.“2008 must be a year of action on education and the millennium development goals,” noted British Prime Minister Gordon Brown. “At the start of 2000 the international community pledged to ensure that by 2015 every one of the world's children would be able to go to school. And Global Action Week on education is about reminding the whole world and world leaders of their promise that every child will get that chance by 2015.”Millions of children worldwide will also participate in the “World’s Biggest Lesson” on April 23. By taking part in this lesson, each child will be joining an estimated five million of their peers in learning about the importance of education and the barriers that young people face all over the world in accessing a quality education. They will attempt to break the world record for the largest simultaneous lesson through learning and teaching a curriculum about the denial of quality education to tens of millions of poor children.Shakira is an active advocate for universal education and a major philanthropist in Colombia, where her Barefoot Foundation supports universal education programs. In her role as a UNICEF Goodwill Ambassador, Shakira recently visited Bangladesh where she saw programs aimed at rebuilding schools following the cyclone that devastated the country.###
04.22.2008	Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today delivered the following remarks on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives in support of a resolution honoring Israel on the 60th anniversary of its founding:Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of H. Con. Res. 322, which recognizes the 60th Anniversary of the founding of the modern State of Israel.For all of us who gathered around the Passover table this weekend to pledge ourselves, “next year in Jerusalem,” the Jewish state of Israel is a commitment of both mind and heart.It is a homeland for the Jewish people persecuted, slaughtered and driven from their land for centuries. And it continues to be a safe haven for refugees from around the world.One of the most compelling experiences of my life was greeting the Ethiopian Jews as they arrived in Ben Gurion after their dramatic rescue as a part of Operation Solomon in the 1980s.I also will never forget visiting with the children of Yemin Orde in Northern Israel. This youth village is home to orphaned, disadvantaged, and at-risk children from over 20 countries, and it exemplifies Israel’s humanitarian commitment. Israel has offered its technical expertise in search and rescue, medicine, and humanitarian aid in the aftermath of nearly every modern disaster—from Katrina to the Tsunami.Israel is also an intellectual and cultural hub: eight Israeli citizens have received the Nobel prize, and Israeli technology has helped countless farmers in dry-weather areas and provided low-cost, life-saving drugs to millions.Moreover, Israel is a source of stability and a voice of reason in a neighborhood plagued by extremism and violent uprising. Its commitment to democracy and freedom of expression is unshakable, and it is our most reliable partner in our efforts to combat terrorism, enhance human rights and basic freedoms, and encourage free institutions.It is simply incredible that all of this has occurred while Israel is under constant threat. That is why I rise today to commend the State of Israel and the Israeli people on their commitment to democracy, peace and advancement. May the next 60 years bring continued prosperity and the realization of permanent peace for this great nation. I urge my colleagues to support this resolution.
04.11.2008	(WASHINGTON) – Approaching one year since the April 2007 Nor’easter that resulted in severe flooding across the Long Island Sound Shore and the Lower Hudson Valley, Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today committed to continue working with local communities and the federal government to create a county-wide flood mitigation plan and support projects that will reduce flooding risk.“The storm and floods of last April were devastating for many homes, businesses, and infrastructure in Westchester County,” said Lowey. “Since that time, my most important priority has been to bring together stakeholders and maximize federal support for our community’s recovery and flood mitigation efforts.”Following the April 2007 Nor’easter and floods, Lowey led the New York delegation’s efforts to encourage President Bush to issue a disaster declaration and make federal funds available for recovery. Since that time, more than $64 million has been disbursed in the form of Small Business Administration (SBA) loans and Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) assistance. In New York, this federal assistance has resulted in:· 5,000 households receiving over $10 million through the FEMA Housing Program;· 1,000 households receiving more than $1.1 million for household needs like clothing and mattresses; and· 735 homeowners, renters, and business owners receiving low-interest disaster loans from SBA.In the past year, Lowey also secured millions in federal funds to help the Army Corps of Engineers, Westchester County, and local communities plan and implement projects that will mitigate the risk of future flooding in the region, including:· More than $8 million in federal funds for the Army Corps of Engineers to develop a county-wide flood mitigation strategy;· $1.28 million in federal funds for individual communities along the Sound Shore and Hudson River for mitigation plans and storm water and public land improvements to reduce the likelihood of future flooding damage; and· Nearly $700,000 in federal funds for individual communities to upgrade sewer systems and pump stations to reduce the likelihood of flooding.The Army Corps of Engineers is expected to release soon the results of its initial study which should serve as a valuable resource for local communities and the County in planning and implementing various flood control measures. By providing a comprehensive assessment of areas that repeatedly suffer from flooding, the Army Corps’ guidance will help to ensure that one flood project does not exacerbate problems in other parts of the County.Lowey pledged to continue to focus on assisting residents and business owners affected by the flood, and to work with the federal government, Westchester County, and towns and villages to mitigate risk in the future.“In one year, we have accomplished a great deal to assist those affected by the floods, but there is still much to do,” said Lowey. “I pledge to continue my efforts to secure federal assistance and to work with all stakeholders to develop strategies that will decrease our risk in the future.”###
04.10.2008	Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY), Chairwoman of the State and Foreign Operations Appropriations Subcommittee, today delivered the following opening statement at the subcommittee’s hearing on U.S. Treasury International Assistance Programs and U.S. Contributions to International Financial Institutions with Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson:Today we welcome Secretary Henry Paulson to discuss the Department of the Treasury’s $2.241 billion fiscal year 2009 budget request for contributions to international programs, an increase of $941 million above the fiscal year 2008 appropriation.Mr. Secretary, you have come to our Subcommittee at a time when many Members have serious concerns about the state of our domestic economy. Each of us has constituents who are reeling from record gas prices, falling home values, and shrinking job opportunities. Many of us also question aspects of the regulatory plan unveiled last week. While this hearing is about Treasury’s role on the international stage, these domestic issues have a significant impact globally.I am interested to hear your views on the effect of the current financial crisis on the global economy and the multilateral development banks, their risk exposure, and the potential liability for U.S. taxpayers. I hope your opening statement will shed some light on how the liquidity crisis is affecting developing nations’ already limited access to credit, and the role of international institutions in mitigating this risk.Over the past several months, this Subcommittee has examined the effectiveness and coordination of U.S. bilateral foreign assistance. With that in mind, Mr. Secretary, I am interested in hearing why Treasury should have its own capacity to provide international technical assistance and why these programs should remain outside of the existing foreign aid infrastructure.Indeed, experience has shown that our assistance is most effective when it is well-coordinated both within the U.S. government and with other donors. As one of the lead negotiators with the G-8 and as the U.S. representative to the multilateral banks, I am interested in hearing the steps you are taking to represent U.S. development priorities during discussions with other world leaders.The United States has been supporting a reform agenda and I believe that the World Bank is making progress in this area under its new leadership.I was pleased that the World Bank leadership endorsed the Volcker Panel Report, which laid out concrete steps to address whistleblower protection, corruption investigation allegations and the role of the internal investigations unit at the Bank. However, I remain concerned about continuing corruption allegations, including recent evidence of collusion in the India health sector programs. Although both the World Bank and India are taking action on this issue now, it took three years for the Bank to admit these charges. I would like to hear what Treasury is doing to encourage immediate implementation of the Volcker recommendations, including the establishment of a strong whistleblower protection policy. The fiscal year 2009 budget request includes a 15 percent increase in our contribution to the World Bank, and therefore Treasury oversight will be more important than ever.Additionally, I am deeply bothered that the World Bank group continues to disburse funding to Iran. In fact, while no new loans have been provided since 2005, disbursement of existing loans to Iran has increased in each of the last four years. It is perplexing that despite UN sanctions against Iran, the World Bank has approved over $1.3 billion in loans for Iran. While some of these loans are humanitarian in nature, many are for broad infrastructure projects. In addition, the Bank also provided loan guarantees to companies doing work in Iran in 2005. I would like your thoughts on these policies and whether there are additional steps the U.S. should be taking to stop the flow of these disbursements, halt future investment guarantees, and dissuade European and Asian banks from investing in Iran.The Treasury Department plays a critical role in stemming terrorist financing, but cannot be successful when our allies leave commitments unfulfilled. What is the Treasury Department doing to catalyze action in other countries, particularly Saudi Arabia, to prevent funds from reaching the hands of terrorists?With respect to debt relief, I commend the Administration for its commitment. However, I am concerned that we are not doing enough to ensure that these funds are reaching their intended recipients or being spent as envisioned. Many of us were outraged when we first learned of so-called “vulture funds” which prey upon poor countries, swooping in and buying their debt when it is about to be written off, only to sue for the original value of the debt plus interest once it has been forgiven. These unforgivable actions have defrauded needy countries while lining the pockets of wealthy businessmen. Mr. Secretary, what steps will Treasury take in the coming year to address vulture funds and to ensure that debt relief for heavily-indebted poor countries (HIPC) is sustainable?The fiscal year 2009 budget requests significant funds for global climate change – an issue that we all know this Administration has had difficulty embracing. I commend you for your personal leadership and commitment to corporate environmental responsibility—going back to your time at Goldman-Sachs. I imagine that your commitment played a role in the funding requested for the Clean Technology Fund and I hope you will share more details on this initiative.However, I must note that I do not believe that eight years of back-sliding on international climate change commitments can be rectified simply by throwing money at the problem. The U.S. must exercise leadership on curbing greenhouse gases and investing in alternative energy and clean technology at home.Secretary Paulson, I close by noting that you have just returned from China, where you were the most senior U.S. government official to visit since the Chinese government’s violent crackdown in Tibet. Many of us have spoken out forcefully against China’s oppression of peaceful democratic activists in Tibet and elsewhere, their at best inaction and at worst, complicity in the genocide in Darfur, and their continued intransigence on United Nations resolutions that impose sanctions on Iran. In the past, you have not raised concerns about these issues in your conversations with the Chinese, illustrating what appeared to be a bifurcated policy within the Administration towards China: the State Department presses China on human rights concerns while Treasury, which wields far greater leverage, would not engage on these issues. While I appreciate the distinct roles played by each agency, I fear that Treasury’s past silence has sent a message of inconsistency or worse – indifference – on critical concerns. I was therefore pleased to hear that on your recent trip, you engaged the Chinese government on the issue of Tibet. I hope this will not be an isolated incident and that you will continue to press on issues of concern.Secretary Paulson, I appreciate your testimony and look forward to working with you to ensure that our investments in the multilateral development banks address the development priorities of the 21st century.###
04.10.2008	(WASHINGTON) – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY), Chairwoman of the State and Foreign Operations Appropriations Subcommittee, today delivered the following opening statement at the subcommittee’s hearing on U.S. policy and programs in Iraq with Ambassador Ryan Crocker:I want to welcome Ambassador Crocker. I appreciate your making time for the Appropriations Committee during your very busy week in Washington.Before we begin today’s hearing to review U.S. policies and programs in Iraq, let me commend you for your service to our nation. Your retirement at the end of the year will cap an impressive career—in addition to serving as Ambassador to Iraq and Pakistan, you have held other especially difficult assignments in places such as Syria and Afghanistan. Your service and sacrifice are deeply appreciated and embody the best qualities of our foreign service just as General Petraeus represents the courage, commitment and can-do attitude of our military.However, even the most capable of our diplomats and the most skilled of our generals cannot put Iraq back together if the Iraqis don’t help themselves.Since 2003, Congress has appropriated over $45 billion for relief and reconstruction assistance in Iraq. In the coming weeks, this Committee and the Congress will consider the Administration’s request for an additional $3.4 billion for the Department of State and USAID's efforts in Iraq. The war has already cost the American taxpayer $500 billion, nearly ten times more than the Administration initially estimated; some distinguished economists have made the case that the true cost impact of the war is $3 trillion. However, we cannot even begin to quantify the cost in American and Iraqi lives and the damage to America’s reputation globally. Indeed, I fear that our national security, the stability of the region, and the security of our world are more at risk now than before the Iraq war began.Ambassador Crocker, you and General Petraeus have made the case to various committees this week that the surge has succeeded. With all due respect, Mr. Ambassador, the surge has not delivered what was promised. We must look beyond any short-term security gains to assess whether Iraqis are making sustainable progress on the broader political, economic and security reconciliation objectives. After all, with the best military in the world, one would expect that more U.S. troops would yield an immediate improvement on the security side.What happens when U.S. troops are reduced? Can the Iraqi forces sustain these gains? If so, why aren’t we transferring responsibility to the Iraqis more expeditiously?It is also worth asking how much of the success of the surge is due to factors outside of our control including the cease-fire of Muktada Al Sadr which was largely negotiated in Iran and the reduction in violence due to the sad fact that ethnic cleansing and segregation has removed minority populations from most of the mixed ethnic neighborhoods around Baghdad.With a military that is stretched to the breaking point, more and more soldiers and their families suffering from PTSD, and a domestic economy heading into recession, — we have to consider tough questions.Are Iraqi leaders showing sufficient political will and commitment to political reconciliation? Ambassador Crocker, I hope that you will talk with us about what is happening on the political scene in Iraq. Do the positive steps in recent months represent sufficient progress in the areas that really matter? Are we making sufficient progress to warrant continued commitment of U.S. blood and treasure? And Mr. Ambassador, is there an exit strategy?While we have seen some legislative successes on some of the benchmarks -- such as De-Baathification and oil revenue sharing, questions remain about how and if these new laws will be enforced and implemented. Other benchmarks --such as disarming and disbanding militias – remain unmet.The larger question that remains unanswered for many Americans is whether the conditions and the political will exist among Iraq’s leaders and its neighbors, for a unified, stable and democratic Iraq that provides a fair and equitable stake for all Iraqis in the political, economic and social framework of the country. And if not, why are we still risking American blood and treasure? Shouldn’t we instead focus on a more realistic strategy for long-term regional security?To that end, I would like you to address two transitions that I hope are already underway.First, a transition from a military-led reconstruction and stabilization effort to a civilian-led effort. I understand that in the initial post-combat operation days, it may have been necessary for DOD to play a larger role in reconstruction. But I don’t think it is appropriate, cost-effective, sustainable, or in our best interest for U.S. soldiers to still be collecting trash or changing light bulbs on Iraqi streets, or for that matter, providing small business microgrants. It is the role of USAID to train and help Iraqis assume responsibility for rebuilding and maintaining the political, economic and social infrastructure and institutions of the country. Have these activities been fully transitioned over to USAID?In that light, why is there an increased funding request in the supplemental for the Commander’s Emergency Response Program? After five years in Iraq, the agency with the appropriate knowledge and authority should be managing these programs. When I asked Deputy Secretary Negroponte if there were such transition plans to transfer this responsibility to the State Department and USAID, he suggested that I ask you. So I hope you will be able to elaborate on these plans, particularly the staff and resource implications for State and USAID if there is a drawdown on troop levels.Second, a transition from a U.S.-led to an Iraqi-led and Iraqi-financed reconstruction and stabilization effort. With oil at $105 a barrel, I don’t understand why we are still spending so much money to maintain and secure Iraqi infrastructure. Why aren’t more of these oil resources going to benefit the Iraqi population? Can you speak to reports that significant amounts of Iraq’s oil are being diverted to the black market, some fueling the insurgency?Ambassador Crocker, we have much more to discuss including many questions from my colleagues. So let me conclude by commending the courage and commitment of you, your staff and all our brave young men and women –those who wear the uniform as well as those civilians who put themselves in harm’s way -- to pursue diplomacy, development and humanitarian assistance on behalf of the American people. We may not always agree on U.S. policy, but we are united in our gratitude for the service and sacrifice of our fellow citizens.###
04.10.2008	(WASHINGTON) - Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY), Chairwoman of the State and Foreign Operations Appropriations Subcommittee, today released the following statement on President Bush’s commitment to keep 140,000 American troops in Iraq:“Today’s speech was business as usual from President Bush. 140,000 American troops will remain in Iraq for the foreseeable future with no end in sight. The war in Iraq has lasted over five years, resulted in the loss of more than 4,000 soldiers and 30,000 injured, cost us hundreds of billions of dollars that could have been spent on pressing domestic needs, stretched our military readiness to the breaking point, and diminished the United States’ reputation and ability to achieve other international priorities. Meanwhile, Americans at home are struggling with record gasoline and oil prices, looming foreclosures, and an economy teetering on the brink of recession.“The year-long ‘surge’ has left our troops in the same position that they were previously – policing sectarian strife and consistent violence while Iraqi political leaders refuse to make the accommodations necessary for long-term peace and stability. American troops are the best in the world, and they and their families have sacrificed too much. It is time for Iraqis to step up and take charge of their own country.”###
04.08.2008	(HARRISON, NY) – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today joined Westchester County firefighters to praise passage by the House of Representatives of a bill re-authorizing the U.S. Fire Administration, a federal agency that provides critical training, resources, and guidelines for local fire departments. Lowey and the firefighters urged speedy Senate approval and enactment of this important bill.“Firefighters risk their own well being every day to keep us safe,” said Lowey. “They are often the first to arrive on the scene and the last to leave. We owe it to them to provide the training, resources, and support that will help keep them – and our communities – safe.”More than 3,000 Americans die in fires each year and the National Fire Protection Association reports that only 13% of departments are trained and equipped to handle certain hazmat incidents and only 11% could handle the collapse of a building with 50 or more occupants.The U.S. Fire Administration Reauthorization Act, passed last week by the U.S. House of Representatives, would enhance various training programs, including response coordination to multiple large-scale events, hazardous material incidents, and advanced emergency medical service issues. The bill passed unanimously by a vote of 412-0.Congresswoman Lowey expressed her hope that the Senate will consider this bill quickly. “During conference negotiations between the House and Senate, I intend to fight for even greater training opportunities for local departments, and I am pleased that the authors of the House bill have agreed to support my proposal to increase funding for direct on-site training for fire departments,” Lowey said.“The U.S Fire Administration funding is crucial to better train the firefighters of our nation,” said Harrison Fire Marshal Steve Surace. “This funding will help continue the USFA's missions and the Assistance to Firefighter Grants program. We need to do more to save lives from fire and support our firefighters.”Since September 11, 2001, Congresswoman Lowey has helped to secure over $4 million in Assistance to Firefighters Grants (AFG) for departments in New York’s 18th Congressional District, and has used her seat on the Appropriations Committee to increase funding for the grant program.###
04.08.2008	(WASHINGTON) – The U.S. House of Representatives today passed a bill introduced by Congresswoman Nita Lowey (NY-18) that would make guidelines on how to prevent and respond to potentially fatal allergic reactions available to schools.“The number of children with food allergies is too great and the risks of exposure are too high for the federal government not to act,” said Lowey. “Schools need guidelines for preventing food allergen exposure and responding promptly to dangerous reactions. This is a critical step in ensuring a safe school environment for families and children.”More than 11 million Americans suffer from food allergies. Each year several hundred of these individuals die and an estimated 30,000 receive life-saving treatments in emergency rooms due to food-induced anaphylaxis. The only way to prevent dangerous reactions is to avoid foods that contain allergy-producing ingredients. This can be particularly difficult for children whose time is often spent at school or in the care of individuals other than a parent.The Food Allergy and Anaphylaxis Management Act (H.R. 2063) would direct the Secretary of Health and Human Services to develop guidelines for schools to voluntarily implement measures to prevent exposure to food allergens and assure a prompt response when a child suffers a potentially fatal anaphylactic reaction. It would make these guidelines accessible for schools nationwide to implement. It would bolster the patchwork of state and local regulations that too often fail to give schools and faculty the tools to prevent and respond to medical emergencies.Congresswoman Lowey expressed her hope that the Senate moves quickly to pass similar legislation, introduced by Senator Christopher Dodd (D-CT). “It is critical that we enact this legislation to give parents confidence that their children will be safe and healthy during the school day,” Lowey said.In August 2004, President Bush signed into law the Food Allergen Labeling and Consumer Protection Act (FALCPA), introduced by Congresswoman Lowey. This law requires food packaging to clearly list any of the top eight ingredients that cause allergic reactions.###
04.07.2008	(WASHINGTON) – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (NY-18) and Congressman Eliot Engel (NY-17) today applauded a $150,000 Preserve America grant awarded by the U.S. Department of the Interior to Rockland County to develop an educational program chronicling the history of the Tappan Zee Bridge.“The Tappan Zee Bridge has played a critical role in the economic development of the Lower Hudson Valley,” said Lowey. “I am pleased that Rockland County will receive federal support for its work to mark the bridge’s importance for our region’s past, present, and future.”Congressman Eliot Engel said, "The Tappan Zee Bridge created Rockland as it exists today. This grant will help to perpetuate a significant part of Rockland's history for Rocklanders through the story of this bridge."“We are thrilled to receive this important source of funding for our exhibit, and to be in partnership with the County and the Tourism office” said Erin Martin, Executive Director of the Historical Society of Rockland County.The grant will enable Rockland County to develop an educational and interpretive program chronicling the rich and dramatic history of the Tappan Zee Bridge. Elements of this project will include an exhibit to be displayed at the Historical Society of Rockland County as well as the development of a curriculum for Rockland County schools.Preserve America grants support planning, development, and implementation of innovative activities and programs in heritage tourism such as surveying and documenting historic resources, interpreting historic sites, planning, marketing, and training. Successful applicants emphasized creative projects that promote and preserve the community's historic and cultural resources. Successful projects involve public-private partnerships and serve as models to communities nationwide for heritage tourism, education, and economic development.###
04.03.2008	(WASHINGTON) – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today announced that Women’s Enterprise Development Center (WEDC) Inc. has been awarded a three-year grant from the U.S. Small Business Administration (SBA) to support its mission of training low and moderate income women and men in the Lower Hudson Valley to achieve economic sufficiency through self-employment.“Supporting entrepreneurship is a vital way that the federal government can help to increase opportunities and grow local economies,” said Lowey. “I am pleased that the federal government has recognized the important work of WEDC, and that their services will be available to more individuals as a result of this funding.”WEDC, which is based in White Plains, provides entrepreneurial recruitment, training and assessment, mentoring opportunities, life skills seminars, post-training programs, networking and funding opportunities, as well as ongoing technical assistance to socially and economically disadvantaged women in Westchester County.The function of the SBA Women’s Business Center Renewable Grant Program is to provide funding to enable Women’s Business Centers to provide technical assistance to women entrepreneurs.WEDC was awarded $100,000 for the first year of this three-year renewable funding program.“We are pleased to have been approved for a three-year renewable grant from the SBA,” said WEDC Executive Director Anne Janiak. “This funding will enable WEDC to continue to provide valuable programs and services to women entrepreneurs in our community to help them achieve economic success through small business ownership.”###
04.02.2008	(WASHINGTON) – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), Chairwoman of the State and Foreign Operations Appropriations Subcommittee, today applauded passage of the Tom Lantos and Henry J. Hyde U.S. Global Leadership against HIV/AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria Reauthorization Act.“This bill renews the federal commitment to fighting the scourge of the HIV/AIDS, Tuberculosis (TB), and Malaria epidemics,” said Lowey. “As Chairwoman of the Subcommittee that funds foreign aid, I pledge to continue providing the resources that are helping to prevent, diagnose, and treat children and adults who face these diseases.”The funding target of $50 billion over the next five years would help to prevent 12 million new HIV infections, provide treatment for three million people living with HIV/AIDS, treat 450,000 children, and provide care for 12 million individuals, including five million orphans and vulnerable children. This funding would reduce tuberculosis, the primary cause of death for those living with HIV/AIDS, by half.While Lowey applauded passage of the bill, she expressed disappointment that it took a step backwards in increasing access for poor women to critical family planning services and urged this provision to be dropped in conference.“In order to fight the battle against HIV/AIDS effectively, we must ensure that poor women have access to comprehensive health services, including family planning,” said Lowey.###
04.01.2008	(WASHINGTON) – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), Chairwoman of the State and Foreign Operations Appropriations Subcommittee, today called on the Administration to hold China accountable for its violent oppression in Tibet and its continued unwillingness to support United Nations action to stop the genocide in Darfur.“The Chinese government’s violent oppression of peaceful democratic activists in Tibet is the mark of an authoritarian regime, not a modern progressive society. China also remains engaged in censorship of news media and willful obstruction of action to stop genocide in Darfur. The Olympic flame’s arrival in Beijing has shone a light on the authoritarian and undemocratic practices of the Chinese government.“The focus of the Olympic Games should be the athletic competition and the spirit of global community. We must make clear that our support of American athletes’ participation is in no way a signal that the United States approves of the Chinese government’s actions. I urge the Administration to consider a boycott of ceremonial events by U.S. Government officials to send the message that China’s crackdown on democratic activists, violations of human rights, and disregard of genocide are unacceptable.”###
03.19.2008	“While Entergy’s willingness to undergo a safety review is a small step in the right direction, its evaluation will be anything but independent. The panel chairman is the nuclear industry's former lead cheerleader, and he has hand-picked the other panel members. Also, the mission of Entergy's panel is too narrowly focused on Entergy management, neglecting the surrounding area where 15 million people live within a 50-mile radius."Residents of Indian Point's surrounding area deserve to have an Independent Safety Assessment (ISA) as the Lower Hudson Valley Congressional delegation has proposed since 2006. It should be conducted by a credible and objective panel of experts not only to evaluate Entergy's capabilities, but also to address previously documented concerns about the ability to protect the public in the event of an emergency."
03.19.2008	(HARRISON, NY) – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today joined mental health service providers and patients to call on President Bush to sign the Paul Wellstone Mental Health and Addiction Equity Act, which would end discrimination by insurance companies against patients seeking treatment for mental illness.“It is past time to end the discrimination that patients face in receiving treatment for mental illness,” said Lowey. “Nearly one in three American adults suffers from a diagnosable mental or addictive disorder every year, yet insurance companies are permitted to discriminate against patients seeking treatment. President Bush should stand up for the rights of patients – not the profits of HMOs – and support this bill.”On March 5, the House of Representatives passed the Paul Wellstone Mental Health and Addiction Equity Act by a vote of 268-148. The bill would ensure that group health plans do not charge higher co-payments or deductibles or impose limits on mental health services if they don’t impose those same limits on medical or surgical benefits. The bill would also require companies offering mental health provisions to cover illnesses in the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, rather than letting plans pick and choose which mental illnesses to cover.President Bush has indicated that he opposes the legislation passed by the House and instead prefers significantly weaker legislation passed by the Senate, which would allow insurance companies to cherry-pick mental illnesses to cover, and would supersede strong state laws, such as Timothy’s Law in New York.New York’s mental health mandate requires group health insurance policies to provide a minimum of 30 inpatient days and 20 outpatient visits for the treatment of mental, nervous or emotional disorders or ailments. The House-passed bill would replace these requirements with full parity.Joining Congresswoman Lowey at the press conference to call for strong mental health parity law were mental health service providers and patients.“Access to diagnosis of and treatment for mental illnesses is a vital component of overall health,” said Dr. Grant Mitchell, Commissioner of the Westchester County Department of Community Mental Health. “In 2006, Westchester County provided mental health services to approximately 65,000 adults and 14,500 children. I am happy to support efforts that will expand access to these services.”###
03.12.2008	(WASHINGTON) – Congresswoman Nita Lowey, Chairwoman of the Appropriations State and Foreign Operations Subcommittee, today delivered the following opening statement at a hearing to evaluate the Administration’s Fiscal Year 2009 International Affairs budget request:I want to welcome Secretary Rice to the Subcommittee on State, Foreign Operations and Related Programs hearing on the President’s fiscal year 2009 International Affairs budget request. I believe this might be your last hearing before this subcommittee as Secretary of State and I thank you for your service.Madam Secretary, I commend you for a budget request that seeks to strengthen our diplomatic and development corps, the heart and soul of our foreign policy, and expand assistance that advances American interests and projects American values around the world.You are seeking a total of $38.3 billion in funding for state department operations and foreign assistance funds within the jurisdiction of this subcommittee, an increase of $2.8 billion or 8% over what Congress appropriated in FY2008. I strongly support the increased international affairs request as well as increased funding for the development assistance account which funds programs like basic education. However, I am disappointed by proposed cuts for essential programs such as family planning and child and maternal health. The significant shortfall of humanitarian assistance in the President’s request and the serious cut to UN peacekeeping are also concerning.It seems the Administration finally recognizes the need to strengthen USAID, the agency with primary responsibility for our foreign assistance programs. However, the proliferation of programs and authorities related to foreign assistance outside of USAID has created a disjointed and uncoordinated approach to foreign aid. The civilian stabilization initiative is the latest in a long line of initiatives which the Administration has chosen to house in the State Department rather than USAID. Yet USAID has the primary responsibility for providing humanitarian and post-conflict reconstruction assistance. With the State Department increasingly engaged in running aid programs, is anyone left to do the work of diplomacy?I would also like your thoughts on the expanding role of the military in providing aid, often without adequate direction and coordination with USAID.Additionally, I remain concerned that too much of our assistance, especially in Africa, is governed by Presidential initiatives that are not part of the country planning process originating in the field. This initiative-based approach has prevented a more integrated and comprehensive assistance strategy to advance broad development and political governance objectives. The recent violence in Kenya and the political impasse there points to one of the shortcomings in our assistance. I know this is a region that you care deeply about and I commend you for personally engaging to help resolve the Kenya crisis, but I would also like to hear from you on how we can prevent such crises.Let me now touch upon a few regional programmatic and policy concerns.While we are seeing some political progress in the DRC and northern Uganda, I am far less hopeful about the prospects for Darfur, particularly without a more robust deployment of UNAMID and a revitalized Darfur peace process. The Khartoum government’s continued obstruction of this force and failure to fully implement the Comprehensive Peace Agreement threatens to throw Sudan back into civil war. While the President has declared this genocide and spoken out against it, I urge you to engage in more forceful diplomacy with nations such China, South Africa and Indonesia that have often opposed strong UN Security Council resolutions, and to engage with troop-contributing nations to do their part. It is unconscionable that this genocide continues after four years and I urge you and the President and all of the cabinet secretaries to speak of it daily and address it in all meetings with foreign governments.In Latin America, while I note the robust funding you are seeking for the Merida Initiative, I am concerned that it does too little for Central America. Once again it seeks to combat the drug problem without addressing the underlying economic and societal issues that are exacerbating a surge in narcotics and other illegal trafficking.In South Asia, we are reaping the grim rewards of decades of a short-sighted policy. For too many years, with too many administrations, U.S. policy towards Pakistan was focused on short-term security interests neglecting the long-term needs of building civil society, empowering and educating women and girls, and developing democratic institutions. In the process, we have advanced neither security nor stability, as evidenced by the escalating terrorist violence in Pakistan today.While I certainly recognize and have supported the important security relationship between the United States and Pakistan, for too long our economic assistance has primarily been in the form of budget support. I am convinced that in order to achieve a more stable Pakistan, the United States must engage more broadly with the Pakistani people. I am pleased that the FY2009 request for Pakistan moves away from budget support, and I hope it will lead to a more balanced relationship with Pakistan.In Afghanistan, as I mentioned last week with Deputy Secretary Negroponte, I fear that we are losing the window of international consensus and commitment to help the country gain a strong foothold on its long climb out of conflict. Donor fatigue is resulting in fewer donors fulfilling their pledges. Yet we cannot afford to fail again in Afghanistan. I understand that there are some encouraging preliminary indications that a more robust alternative development strategy combined with aggressive counter-narcotics enforcement and interdiction is starting to bear fruit. While we have yet to see evidence of that in the annual UN drug report, I hope that we can build upon and expand successful programs.Finally, I know you are just returning from a trip to the Middle East and I look forward to hearing your assessment of the current situation in Gaza and your discussions with President Abbas and Prime Minister Fayyad.As you know, I placed a hold on the $150 million in cash transfer assistance for the PA because of specific process requirements that had not been fulfilled by the State Department and USAID—specifically receiving a copy of the Memorandum of Agreement that would govern the disbursement of these funds and a certification that the conditions included in the ESF section of the Fiscal Year 2008 bill had been met. I also expressed concern about President Abbas’ commitment to peace in light of his recent comments.I have since received a copy of the draft Memorandum of Agreement and your assurance that the Palestinian leadership is committed to peace with Israel. While I remain skeptical about the political will of a Palestinian leadership that all too often lapses into inflammatory rhetoric that belies their stated commitment to peace, I want no one to doubt the commitment of the United States to pursue peace when Prime Minister Olmert and President Abbas have once again publicly affirmed their commitment to the peace process. Based on these events, I lifted the hold on $100 million in cash transfer assistance. Madam Secretary, I have maintained my hold on the additional $50 million pending the certification that I understand is forthcoming.Madam Secretary, I was disturbed to hear Deputy Secretary Negroponte defer repeatedly to General Petraeus and Ambassador Crocker in response to questions from this committee on the status of training of Iraqi security forces, the transition from a military-led to a civilian-led reconstruction and stabilization effort, and State Department planning for a U.S. diplomatic and development presence in a post-military environment. While I appreciate that Crocker and Petraeus are our diplomatic and military field commanders, is the State Department not responsible for orchestrating our foreign policy?Madam Secretary, as always, you have a very full plate. I know that recent events in Serbia and Armenia have added to your challenges and I look forward to your testimony.###
03.11.2008	(WASHINGTON) – Members of the New York Congressional delegation today contacted the Chief Administrative Judge of the Atomic Safety and Licensing Board Panel and the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) to request an additional hearing on license renewal of Indian Point’s nuclear reactors in response to limitations on public participation due to the lack of proper audio equipment at yesterday’s hearing.A copy of the letter follows:The Honorable E. Roy HawkensChief Administrative JudgeAtomic Safety and Licensing Board PanelNuclear Regulatory CommissionWashington, D.C. 20555Dear Judge Hawkens:We write with great dismay and concern over the actions of the Atomic Safety and Licensing Board Panel during oral arguments over the license renewal of Indian Point’s nuclear reactors. Over the course of this hearing, numerous decisions and missteps were taken that undermine the very reasoning for holding public hearings – to ensure the concerns of interested parties and individuals are heard and considered.After initially delaying the start of the meeting by more than one hour, the lack of microphones for representatives of the State, County and Indian Point facility made hearing and responding to arguments virtually impossible for the participating public and for the media, which is responsible for making the public aware of the proceedings. Furthermore, requests for microphones were denied by the presiding judge, and only after multiple hours of inaudible testimony was one single microphone provided for the multiple tables of witnesses.These decisions cast serious doubts about the commitment of the Atomic Safety and Licensing Board Panel and the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) to an open and honest process for considering Entergy’s license renewal application for Indian Point.Therefore, we call on you and NRC Chairman Klein to immediately announce plans for an additional hearing to be held in Westchester County. This hearing must be announced with proper public and official notice and include sufficient microphones and audio equipment to accommodate public participation.Anything less than immediate corrective actions to ensure that the public’s voice will be heard in this process is unacceptable.Sincerely,Nita M. LoweyJohn HallMaurice HincheyEliot EngelCharles E. SchumerHillary Rodham Clinton###
03.05.2008	(WASHINGTON) – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today announced that Yonkers Public Schools will receive a $191,090 grant from the U.S. Department of Education to support a mentoring program for children.“We know that mentoring programs can be highly effective in improving the academic achievement and the personnel development of children,” said Lowey. “I am delighted that the children of Yonkers will benefit directly from such programs.”Mentoring Program Grants are awarded by the U.S. Department of Education to local educational agencies and community-based organizations to promote mentoring programs for children with the greatest need by assisting them in receiving support and guidance from a mentor. The grants support programs that seek to improve children’s academic achievement; to improve interpersonal relationships with family, peers, and adults; to reduce their rate of dropping out of school; and to reduce juvenile delinquency and gang involvement.“This grant aligns with district goals to increase student achievement by personalizing instruction and interactions between students and adults,” said Superintendant Bernard P. Pierorazio. “This includes developing positive role models for students. Big Brothers/Big Sisters, nationally recognized for this work, brings together members of the community and business to work one-on-one with children to support their academic and social achievement.”“Yonkers Public Schools is very pleased to have been awarded the mentoring grant,” said Vincent McPartlan, Executive Director of Pupil Personnel and Special Education Services. “The more students who have contact with dedicated and committed adults, the brighter and more fulfilling their futures will be.”###
03.03.2008	(WASHINGTON) – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (Westchester/Rockland) today called on the Social Security Administration (SSA) to take swift action to correct its unacceptable backlog of disability claims.“It is absolutely unconscionable that in the richest country in the world, the most vulnerable Americans would be forced to lose their livelihoods, their homes, and in some cases, their lives waiting for the benefits they desperately need. The Social Security Administration must recognize this crisis and act swiftly to correct the backlog.”Individuals who cannot work due to severe physical or mental impairments are eligible for Social Security Disability (SSD) benefits. The SSA currently has a backlog of 755,000 pending disability claims, with an estimated 50,000 of those claims coming from individuals living in New York. The average length of time for a claim to be resolved is 500 days. This lag time can create enormous economic and emotional hardship.A member of the Appropriations subcommittee that controls funding for the Social Security Administration, Lowey fought successfully to increase its 2008 funding level $451 million above its 2007 level and $150 million above the Administration’s request. SSA has committed to hiring 175 Administrative Law Judges this year, begin using automated equipment, and implementing more efficient administrative practices.Lowey expressed her concern about the backlog in a letter to SSA Commissioner Michael Asture and urged SSA to use a substantial portion of the funding increase to take administrative actions under his power to eliminate the backlog. In addition to working in Congress to increase resources for SSA, in the past year she has assisted 40 constituents encountering problems with SSD claims.Lowey was joined at the press conference by representatives from Westchester Disabled on the Move and Westchester Arc, two organizations that advocate for individuals encountering problems with their disability claims. Two such individuals also called on SSA to eliminate the backlog. Yonkers resident Robert Polidore detailed how his disabled son was awarded the disability benefits he deserved only after he had already died.“For the sake of all those who depend on SSD benefits, this backlog must be corrected,” said Mr. Polidore. “I urge the Social Security Administration to act quickly to speed the processing of claims.”###
02.28.2008	(WASHINGTON) – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today declared a memorandum granting transportation security officers (TSOs) the right to appeal whistleblower retaliation complaints a decent first step that falls far short of granting TSOs the equal rights enjoyed by other homeland security employees.“The Transportation Security Administration (TSA) decision to grant TSOs the right to appeal judgment of whistleblower retaliation complaints was belated and begrudging, but a step in the right direction nonetheless,” said Lowey. “However, it is inexcusable that TSOs still will not have the same rights as other federal workers, and that TSA reserves the right to back out entirely on this commitment. Transportation security officers fight on the front lines of air safety and deserve the same rights as other employees of the Department of Homeland Security, including workplace protections and the right to bargain collectively.”The Memorandum of Understanding issued by the Transportation Security Administration would allow TSOs to appeal whistleblower retaliation complaints to the Merit Systems Protection Board (MSPB). However, they do not have the right to appeal to federal courts, as do other federal employees covered by whistleblower protection rules. TSA also reserves the right to withdraw altogether from today’s MOU. TSOs continue to be denied the same workplace protection rights as other DHS employees, including those at the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), Customs and Border Protection (CBP), and civilian Coast Guard employees.Lowey, a longtime champion for workplace protections for transportation security officers, expressed her concerns about the MOU directly to TSA Administrator Kip Hawley.“Transportation security officers work to protect Americans from air security threats every day,” said Lowey. “They deserve the same rights and workplace protections as other federal employees.”###
02.26.2008	(WASHINGTON) – Chairwoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) and the Appropriations State and Foreign Operations Subcommittee today analyzed President Bush’s Fiscal Year 2009 budget request for the Millennium Challenge Corporation and examined the agency’s record since its inception four years ago.“Providing aid to those who are suffering around the world is our moral responsibility and generates goodwill that improves our national security,” said Lowey. “The Millennium Challenge Corporation could be an important component in this critical effort. However, we must be certain that this new method of distributing aid is successful in implementation, and that it is not diverting resources from traditional aid programs that are proven to be successful.”Ambassador John Danilovich, Chief Executive officer of the Millennium Challenge Corporation, testified before the Subcommittee.Lowey’s full opening statement follows:Today, we welcome Ambassador John Danilovich, the Chief Executive Officer of the Millennium Challenge Corporation. We look forward to discussing the President’s Fiscal Year 2009 request for the Millennium Challenge Account. I want to congratulate you on signing the compact with Tanzania and on the attention the President’s trip brought to this program.The President’s budget requests $2.225 billon for the Millennium Challenge Corporation, an increase of 30 percent over the FY08 enacted level. While this is less than the amount that has been requested in the past two years, it is a substantial increase for a program that has been slow to implement and show impact on the ground. Furthermore, it is this Committee’s responsibility to look at the 150 account holistically, and the President’s budget represents tradeoffs and choices that advantage the Administration’s new initiatives over core humanitarian and development programs. And, it is left to Congress to make sure that support for these essential programs is not undermined.As the MCC enters its fourth year of operation, it is an appropriate time to take stock of its achievements and challenges. I have always believed that the MCA holds tremendous promise and potential to bring about transformative change in the developing world. Indeed, since its inception, the MCC has signed 16 country compacts totaling $5.5 billion and 15 threshold agreements totaling $324.7 million. Through the course of today’s hearing, I hope to learn more about your efforts to translate its enormous potential into measurable results on the ground.Last year, I questioned the slow pace of disbursements and the lack of progress on compact implementation. This summer, I saw firsthand in Ghana and Morocco the challenges facing compact implementation, including establishing mechanisms in recipient countries to manage and disburse funds and coordinating the efforts of the host government with U.S. government entities and civil society. I am disappointed that many of my questions and concerns from a year ago remain unresolved today.In FY 2005 and 2006, only $61 million of the $3 billion worth of signed compacts had been disbursed – or 26% of expected disbursements. In FY2007, the MCC disbursed $137 million, more than twice as much as the previous year. But, when this figure is compared to MCC’s own disbursement projections, you have only reached one fourth of your target. This simple statistic suggests that progress on compacts is slowing down rather than speeding up. I hope you will explain why the MCC has not achieved these implementation targets. I would also like to hear your assessment of what you will achieve in 2008. As we sign more multi-year compacts, I remain concerned that the emphasis is still not on implementing the compacts that have already been signed. What is the status of these compacts? Are any moving forward at the expected pace and on target to complete their planned programs within the five-year limitation?In the past year, you reorganized the MCC to increase its focus on compact implementation and accountability. I understand that the new compact implementation unit’s review of signed compacts found that external factors such as increased construction costs, increased gas prices, the dollar depreciation, and inaccurate estimates will significantly impact the ability to fully implement compacts. For example, although one compact outlines plans to support three projects building an irrigation system, expanding significant infrastructure, and supporting an industrial park, the current analysis demonstrates that only two of the projects can be completed within the five year compact timeline. Other compacts that include the building of roads will also be scaled back. In some cases, only half of the planned roads will be completed with the current compact resources. I hope to explore in the question and answer period why these issues were not anticipated when negotiating the compacts and how you are addressing these issues in new compacts.Many argue that the MCC is a new and different mechanism that provides predictable and targeted resources for countries that demonstrate good governance and meet other indicators. Indeed, the MCC is another means of scaling up resources for a certain subset of countries. However, obligating billions of dollars for multi-year compacts that take years to start further opens the MCC to criticism that you are tying up precious resources that could be used to meet more urgent needs and support development programs that have more immediate impact on the ground. This is particularly the case in countries with both USAID bilateral development programs and MCC compacts. If MCC compacts were truly additional, one would expect that USAID programs would continue to fund programs to address health, education, agriculture and other sectors while the MCC would address more systemic concerns through its multi-year compacts. However, the reality is that USAID, strapped for resources, is often winding down its programs in countries when MCC compacts are signed despite the fact that their impact may not be felt for years. Unfortunately, this is the case in six MCC countries in the FY09 budget request, including Benin, Ghana, and Armenia. Current program implementation data shows that these programs are not yet demonstrating significant impact. Yet, these countries are losing health and development resources quickly, including a $17 million reduction in Benin, a $23 million reduction in Ghana, and a $35 million reduction in Armenia. I would like to discuss this unintended consequence of putting MCC dollars into a country during the Q and A.Ambassador Danilovich, I appreciate your testimony today and look forward to discussing the new initiatives you are undertaking to make the MCC a more effective and results-oriented development agency. Before we move to your testimony let me turn to Mr. Wolf, the Ranking Member, for his opening statement.###
02.21.2008	(CONGERS, NY) – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today called on the Veterans Administration to provide access to VA health care for 1.6 million veterans who were suspended from enrolling for health benefits in 2003.“It is inexcusable that so many who have served our country are prohibited from accessing the health care they deserve,” said Lowey. “Fulfilling our commitment to veterans means providing them with access to high-quality health care, not penalizing those who exceed a modest income threshold and have avoided service-related injuries.”In 2003, the Bush Administration suspended enrollment in the VA health system for Priority Group 8 veterans – former service members who do not have service-related disabilities or injuries with annual incomes exceeding a pre-determined level of approximately $39,700 in Rockland and Westchester Counties. VA examiners also face difficulties in assessing today the impact of combat from more than 60 years ago.By the end of September 2008, the Veterans Administration estimates that almost 1.6 million veterans could be denied health benefits due to this enrollment suspension.Lowey urged passage of the “Honor Our Commitment to Veterans Act,” of which she is a cosponsor. The bill, introduced by Rep. Steve Rothman (NJ-09), would terminate the administrative freeze on Priority Group 8 veterans’ enrollment into the VA health care system.“This is common-sense legislation that would overturn the Bush Administration’s curious decision to deny veterans the health care they deserve,” said Lowey. “The brave men and women returning from Iraq and Afghanistan deserve to know that they will receive health care benefits after their service is over.”Lowey was joined in calling for veterans’ access to health care by Jerry Donnellan, Director of the Rockland County Veterans Services Agency.“Repealing this enrollment suspension for Priority Group 8 veterans would not only be fair to those who have served our country, but it would also help to relieve the strain on our larger health care system,” said Donnellan.###
02.19.2008	(WASHINGTON) – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today called on a Michigan fire supply company to honor the contract that a company it recently bought had made with the Village of Irvington for a new pumper truck. Lowey also called on the U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) to ensure that the Village is able to protect public safety by replacing its aging equipment.“We need to know that in the event of an emergency, the Irvington Fire Department would be equipped and prepared to respond quickly and effectively,” said Lowey.In 2007, the Irvington Fire Department (IFD) paid Elite Fire Apparatus a 75 percent deposit totaling $322,201 for a new pumper truck. Elite subsequently ceased business operations, leaving Irvington at risk of losing its deposit, and was bought by Wolverine Fire Apparatus Company. Lowey called on Wolverine to honor Elite’s contract with IFD to ensure that local firefighters have the equipment they need to respond to emergencies and protect our communities.Lowey also expressed her support to DHS for a grant application submitted by IFD for the Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) program.“Because of the possibility that Irvington will lose its substantial deposit to replace its aging pumper, these federal funds are even more critical to help IFD replace its aging equipment,” said Lowey.###
02.19.2008	(WASHINGTON) – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today released the following statement regarding Monday’s Pakistani parliamentary elections."Despite threats of violence and intimidation, the people of Pakistan turned out to vote and make their voices heard.“While we are still waiting to hear the final results and analysis of election observers, one thing is clear -- Pakistani people have demanded a change in direction and a return to democracy.“I commend President Musharraf for respecting the mandate of the people and accepting the results of the election. I hope that in the coming weeks, the political parties can come together to create a ruling coalition that puts the country on a path away from terror and towards a stable prosperous democracy that respects the rule of law."###
02.15.2008	(WASHINGTON) – One year after The Washington Post expose of patient neglect and substandard conditions at Walter Reed Army Medical Center (WRAMC), Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today led her colleagues in requesting that the Secretary of Veterans Affairs report within ninety days on steps taken to improve the quality of care at veterans’ health facilities.“It has been a full year since The Washington Post exposed the neglect and deplorable conditions to which injured veterans were subjected at Walter Reed,” said Lowey. “After having sacrificed their health and safety for us, veterans deserve to know what steps have been taken in the past year to ensure they receive the care they deserve.”Report language accompanying the Fiscal Year 2008 Consolidated Appropriations Act – and based on a bill introduced by Congresswoman Lowey – urged the Department of Veterans Affairs to report to Congress on the quality of our nation’s veterans’ health care facilities. Lowey and 39 colleagues today urged the VA to submit this report within ninety days so that Congress and our nation’s veterans can evaluate progress.The full text of the letter to Secretary James Benjamin Peake follows:Dear Mr. Secretary:We are writing regarding report language accompanying the Fiscal Year 2008 Consolidated Appropriations Act that urges the Department of Veterans Affairs to report to Congress on the quality of our nation’s veterans health facilities. Almost one year ago, reports on the Walter Reed Army Medical Center highlighted weaknesses in the ability of health care facilities to provide the care veterans and active military personnel need. Recent reports continue to raise concerns about the quality of care, including substandard care at an Illinois Veterans hospital. To improve the quality of health care for our veterans, we urge you to submit to Congress within ninety days a report outlining the quality of veterans health facilities according to the report language below:“The Committee urges the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to report to Congress on the quality of Veterans Health Facilities under his jurisdiction. This report shall include quality measurements that allow for an assessment of effectiveness, safety, timeliness, efficiency, patient-centeredness and equity. The report shall provide the data used to make these determinations, including, but not limited to, the staffing levels of nurses and other health professionals; rates of nosocomial infection; the volume of various procedures performed; hospital sanctions and other violations; the quality of care for various patient populations including female, geriatric, disabled, rural, homeless, mentally ill, racial and ethnic minority populations; the availability of emergency rooms, intensive care units, maternity care and specialty services; the quality of care in various hospital settings including inpatient, outpatient, emergency, maternity and intensive care units; outgoing patient safety initiatives; and other measures deemed appropriate by the Secretary.”The data included in this report will help improve our veterans health facilities by identifying weaknesses and strategies to remedy them and provide veterans with the information necessary to make informed health care decisions. Provision of this information in a timely manner will help ensure that we provide our veterans with the high quality care they deserve. We look forward to hearing from you.Sincerely,Nita M. Lowey (NY-18)Rep. Michael A. Arcuri (NY-24)Rep. Tom Allen (ME-1)Rep. Joe Baca (CA-43)Rep. Howard L. Berman (CA-28)Rep. Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-2)Rep. Leonard Boswell (IA-3)Rep. Robert Brady (PA-1)Rep. Christopher Carney (PA-10)Rep. Joseph Crowley (NY-7)Rep. Peter DeFazio (OR-4)Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-1)Rep. Bill Delahunt (MA-10)Rep. Eliot Engel (NY-17)Rep. Keith Ellison (MN-5)Rep. Phil English (PA-3)Rep. Bob Etheridge (NC-2)Rep. Chaka Fattah (PA-2)Rep. Vito J. Fossella (NY-13)Rep. Barney Frank (MA-4)Rep. Al Green (TX-10)Rep. John Hall (NY-19)Rep. Phil Hare (IL-17)Rep. Maurice Hinchey (NY-22)Rep. Mazie K. Hirono (HI-2)Rep. Sander Levin (MI-12)Rep. Carolyn Maloney (NY-14)Rep. Jim Matheson (UT-2)Rep. Jim McDermott (WA-7)Rep. Bobby Rush (IL-1)Rep. Adam B. Schiff (CA-29)Rep. Allyson Schwartz (PA-13)Rep. Carol Shea-Porter (NH-1)Rep. Adam Smith (WA-9)Rep. Hilda L. Solis (CA-32)Rep. Betty Sutton (OH-13)Rep. Ed Towns (NY-10)Rep. Mark Udall (CO-2)Rep. C.W. Bill Young (FL-10)Rep. Lynn Woolsey (CA-6)###
02.12.2008	(WASHINGTON) – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), Chairwoman of the Appropriations State and Foreign Operations Subcommittee, today urged Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice to act to ensure adequate monitoring of Pakistan’s February 18th parliamentary elections and to provide a full and frank report of whether the elections meet standards of freedom and fairness.“While Pakistan is a critical partner in fighting terrorism, it would not be in our national interest to stand silent should its upcoming parliamentary elections fail to conform to international standards of freedom and fairness,” said Lowey. “The decision today of the International Republican Institute to withdraw its monitors from Pakistan due to security concerns; the continuing impediments to free access for election observers, including the ability to conduct exit polls; and the prospect of elections complaints being adjudicated by judges loyal to the current government do not bode well for the international community to be able to certify these elections as being free and fair. The reputation of the United States around the world requires that we stand unflinchingly on the side of democracy. In the case of Pakistan, I am increasingly uncertain that we are able to do this with the current government.”Chairwoman Lowey has previously expressed concerns about anti-democratic actions in Pakistan directly to President Musharraf and recently withheld $50 million of military assistance until the Secretary of State certifies Pakistan’s cooperation on fighting terrorism and implementing democratic reforms including holding democratic elections.The full text of Chairwoman Lowey’s letter to Secretary Rice follows:Dear Madam Secretary:As you know, I have been increasingly concerned about the stability of the current government in Pakistan. While I agree that Pakistan is a critical partner in the war on terror, missteps by the current government over the past year have severely eroded public confidence and support for the government among the Pakistani people.I have raised these concerns directly with President Musharraf during my travels to Pakistan and reiterated them through restrictions in the FY2008 appropriations bill. Specifically, section 699F of Division J of P.L. 110-161 withholds $50 million of the military assistance to Pakistan until you report to the Committee on Appropriations on the Government of Pakistan’s cooperation on preventing Al Qaeda and the Taliban from using Pakistani territory as a base for terrorism as well as on democratic reforms including, among other things, holding inclusive democratic elections.Next week, on February 18th, Pakistan will hold the parliamentary elections that had been postponed after the assassination of Pakistan Peoples Party Chairman Benazir Bhutto. It is critical for the future stability of Pakistan and the legitimacy of its government that these elections be conducted in a transparent manner and be deemed free and fair by international standards. In light of the decision of the International Republican Institute to withdraw its monitors from Pakistan due to the security situation, and continuing resistance by the government of Pakistan on allowing free access to monitors, including unannounced visits to polling stations and exit-polling at polling stations, I am concerned that international observers will not be able to adequately monitor and assess the elections.I also am concerned about the impact on the elections of the lack of an independent judiciary. The refusal of President Musharraf to reinstate the provincial high court judges and Supreme Court justices he removed threatens the legitimacy of the elections. As you know, the Electoral Commission of Pakistan is comprised of high court judges, all of whom have been hand selected by, and are loyal to, the current government. Any tribunals named to hear elections complaints will be comprised of these high court justices and all of the district judges supervising balloting around the country report to the high court judges. I expect that State Department staff in Washington, D.C., as well as our Embassy in Islamabad are working to resolve these concerns in an expeditious manner.The reputation and standing of the United States with the people of Pakistan requires that we be firmly on the side of democracy in Pakistan. It is imperative that upon the conclusion of these elections, there is a frank and full assessment from the State Department of whether the elections indeed meet international standards. While it is my fervent hope that the elections will indeed be free and fair, I urge you to ensure that any U.S. reaction to the elections next week will include full disclosure of any serious irregularities.Sincerely,Nita M. LoweyChairwomanSubcommittee on State, Foreign Operations and Related Programs###
02.08.2008	(WASHINGTON) – The House of Representatives yesterday passed legislation including a provision written by Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) to allow organizations advocating for off-campus housing safety, such as PEACE OUTside CAMPUS – The Lindsey M. Bonistall Foundation, to apply for and receive federal funding to support their activities.“When parents send their children off to college, they expect them to learn and grow in a safe environment,” said Lowey. “Whether they live in dorms or in off-campus housing, we must ensure that schools and communities have the resources to keep students safe.”The College Opportunity and Affordability Act, passed yesterday by the House of Representatives, would create a federal Center for College Campus Safety. Lowey’s provision would make organizations working to increase off-campus housing safety eligible to receive federal funds to support their efforts. This would benefit organizations like PEACE OUTside CAMPUS – The Lindsey M. Bonistall Foundation managed by the family of Lindsey Bonistall, a University of Delaware student from Westchester County who was murdered in her off-campus apartment on May 1, 2005.“Federal funding will certainly provide the Foundation with resources needed to further implement our programs on a national level,” said Mark and Kathleen Bonistall. “We believe a federal center for college campus safety will provide a national forum for resolving the safety issues confronting our college communities. We applaud Ms. Lowey's efforts in protecting college students and their families by addressing safety concerns in off campus housing nationwide.”Congresswoman Lowey was also successful in including a provision in the higher education bill to alleviate the severe shortage of nurses in our health care system. Based on legislation Lowey introduced in 2004, the measure would provide more federal support for institutions that offer degrees in nursing, allowing them to increase capacity and eventually fill vacant jobs in our health care system. It would also create a pilot project to award scholarships to nurses who will become faculty members in accredited nursing programs, also in order to increase student capacity.“Nurses are the heart and soul of our health care system, and they are critical to the quality of care that patients deserve,” said Lowey. “By increasing faculty and student capacity at schools of nursing, we are investing in high-quality health care.”The College Opportunity and Affordability Act builds on the largest increase in student aid since the 1944 GI Bill, signed into law in September, by taking additional steps to make college more affordable and accessible. If passed by the Senate and signed into law, the bill would:• Encourage colleges to rein in tuition increases;• Restore integrity and accountability to student loan programs;• Simplify the federal student aid application process;• Make textbook costs more manageable;• Expand college access and support for low-income and minority students;• Increase college aid and support for veterans and military families;• Ensure equal college opportunities for students with disabilities;• Boost campus safety and disaster readiness plans;• Encourage colleges to adopt sustainable and energy-efficient practices; and• Strengthen our workforce and competitiveness.###
02.08.2008	(WASHINGTON) – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) and House Homeland Security Committee Chairman Bennie Thompson (D-Mississippi) today announced that seven airports have been selected by the Transportation Security Administration to participate in various security programs to enhance employee screening.“I am pleased that TSA has moved quickly to put in place a 100% screening pilot program at our airports,” said Lowey. “For more than five years, I have been arguing that meticulously screening passengers but giving workers open access to secure areas of airports is like installing an expensive home security system but leaving your back door wide open. Today’s announcement will further protect our airports and our skies.”“I commend the Transportation Security Administration's prompt call to action to comply with Congressional demand of a 100% employee screening pilot program at airports,” said Homeland Security Committee Chairman Bennie Thompson (D-MS). “I am looking forward to monitoring the development of these pilot programs and whether the airports selected to participate in the pilots are representative of America's airports. I am especially interested in the results of these programs and how this information will be incorporated across airport security policies at the Department.”The Omnibus Appropriations Act passed by Congress in December 2007 called for 100% employee screening to be conducted at three airports and alternative employee screening methods to be conducted at four additional airports for no more than 90 days at each location.These measures were based on legislation introduced by Lowey (H.R. 1413) to mandate that the Transportation Security Administration implement a pilot program at seven commercial service airports to screen all workers with access to secure and sterile area and to assess vulnerability of each airport. Employees would be screened under the same standards as those that apply to passengers at airport screening checkpoints. H.R. 1413 was passed by the House on December 11, 2007.The airports selected to conduct 100% physical screening are Boston’s Logan International Airport, Jacksonville International Airport and Craven County Regional Airport in North Carolina. Denver International Airport, Kansas City International Airport, Eugene Airport in Oregon and Southwest Oregon Regional Airport will pilot enhanced employee screening to include random screening, behavior detection programs, employee security awareness training, deployment of portable screening equipment and use of biometric access control systems.###
02.04.2008	(WASHINGTON) – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today criticized President Bush’s Fiscal Year 2009 budget request, which proposes drastic cuts in health care spending for the most vulnerable citizens, a federal deficit of more than $400 billion, and Iraq war spending pushing the total past $1 trillion.“President Bush’s budget proposes more of the same – more cuts in critical services, more Iraq spending, and more red ink for the federal budget,” said Lowey.Lowey expressed disappointment about President Bush’s budget request for policy priorities that she has championed in Congress, particularly the 21st Century Community Learning Centers, a highly successful after-school program that President Bush’s budget would cut by $281 million and transform to a voucher-based initiative.“After-school programs keep children safe, reduce crime and drug use, and improve academic performance. President Bush’s proposed cuts would result in more than 281,000 children being forced out of after-school programs. Slashing funding and changing a format that is proven to work is irresponsible and short-sighted,” Lowey said.The misplaced priorities of the Administration are evident in the effective and popular programs that President Bush’s budget proposes to eliminate:Preventive Health Services Block Grants, which gives grantees like Westchester County the ability to fill gaps in health care and respond to emerging crises;HOPE VI, which helps communities develop affordable and livable housing units;Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS), which has funded over 11,000 police officers and sheriffs deputies in New York;Metropolitan Medical Response System (MMRS), which recently awarded Yonkers more than $300,000 for homeland security preparedness; andChildren’s Hospital Graduate Medical Education, which funds training programs for physicians at Blythedale Children’s Hospital and similar facilities across the country.President Bush’s budget would also cut the Low-Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP) by $570 million at a time when heating costs are soaring. It would result in $5.2 billion in new fees on veterans over the next ten years. Lowey also expressed disappointment that President Bush chose not to include funding for flood mitigation projects in Westchester County in his budget, as Lowey recently requested.“Working and middle-class Americans are struggling to make ends meet, and the government’s spending priorities should reflect that reality,” said Lowey. “Congress will not be hamstrung by the misplaced priorities in President Bush’s budget request. We will make critical investments to strengthen our economy, protect our communities, help Americans struggling to make ends meet in an economic downturn, and restore fiscal responsibility.”###
02.01.2008	(WASHINGTON) – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (Westchester/Rockland) today lauded the increase the New York City area will receive in homeland security grants as a result of greater investments in vital security funds under the Democratic Congress.“Our region will gain the resources that it needs to prevent and prepare for emergencies,” said Lowey. “Today we can see the tangible results of Congress prioritizing what matters most – the safety and security of our citizens.”The Department of Homeland Security (DHS) today announced that the New York region will receive a significant increase in grant funding over last year’s levels for transit and port security. The New York region will receive:$153.3 million in rail and transit grants, an increase from last year’s total of $98 million$43.4 million in port security grants, an increase from last year’s total of $27.3 millionWhile the New York region’s allocation for homeland security has increased in real dollars, its relative share has actually decreased in port security grants. The New York region will receive an increase of more than $16 million over last year’s level, although its relative share of funding actually decreased from 13.4% in Fiscal Year (FY) 2007 to 11.1% in FY 2008. The increase in real dollars is the result of increased appropriations for the overall grant program by the Democratic Congress.DHS also announced today its guidelines for eligibility for FY08 grants including the Urban Area Security Initiative (UASI), which was increased by $35 million to $782 million in FY08. Lowey expressed disappointment that DHS again failed to maximize funding for the most likely terrorist targets.She repeated her call for DHS to eliminate the arbitrary 55 percent cap on the amount of UASI grant money that may be awarded to the seven most at-risk regions, a policy that restricts needed funds from high-threat areas like New York while safeguarding almost half of these funds for areas facing less risk.“The increased security funds for New York reflect progress toward providing adequate resources to protect our city and state,” Lowey said. “However the Federal government can and must do more to secure the number one terrorist target in the country. I will continue fighting to ensure that funds intended for the highest-risk areas are used to protect areas that face the most threat, like New York.”###
01.28.2008	(WASHINGTON) – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today called on President Bush to continue working with Congress to enact an economic stimulus package, and she and her guest New Rochelle Fire Commissioner Ray Kiernan urged President Bush to give first responders the resources they need.Lowey stated that Congress must pass and President Bush must sign into law an economic stimulus package that is timely, targeted, and temporary.“The American people face skyrocketing costs for necessary commodities like energy, health care, and higher education, and a mortgage crisis that threatens default and foreclosure for millions of families,” said Lowey. “Boosting the economy means getting money in the hands of those who are most in need, who are most likely to spend it.”Joining Congresswoman Lowey at the State of the Union address was New Rochelle Fire Commissioner Ray Kiernan. Lowey invited Kiernan as her guest to represent the first responder community of Westchester and Rockland Counties. Next week, President Bush will present a budget request that will likely propose slashing funds for state homeland security preparedness programs and first responders.“The men and women who serve in fire, police, and emergency medical services deserve the equipment and resources they need to protect their community,” said Kiernan. “Slashing funds for first responders would be short-sighted. It would hinder our ability to prepare for emergencies and to respond effectively if one should occur.”“Short-changing our first responders would be inexcusable at a time when we are spending $12 billion per month in Iraq with no end in sight,” said Lowey.Lowey expressed optimism about the prospects of Congress to address the issues that are important to all Americans.“I look forward to continuing our work in 2008 to make health care and higher education more affordable and accessible, stem the tide of mortgage defaults and foreclosures, and make our nation and communities more secure.”###
01.24.2008	(WHITE PLAINS) – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today applauded the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) for fining Entergy $650,000 for its continued failure to implement a siren emergency warning system with back-up power at Indian Point.“NRC’s action today makes it clear that safety is not optional at Indian Point,” said Lowey. “Entergy has the legal responsibility and moral obligation to implement an emergency warning system that is effective and reliable. The public deserves to be sure that they will be alerted if an emergency occurs at Indian Point, and this siren system with backup power is fundamental. I urge NRC to continue to monitor Entergy’s progress and to take further punitive actions if today’s fine does not generate urgency to get this siren operational.”Entergy’s original deadline for implementing the siren system with backup power was January 2007, in response to a provision in the Energy Policy Act of 2005. After failing to meet this deadline, Entergy missed subsequent deadlines in April 2007 and August 2007. Entergy has previously been fined $130,000 for its continued failure to meet deadlines for implementing a siren system with backup power.###
01.23.2008	(WASHINGTON) – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today convened a hearing in the State and Foreign Operations Appropriations Subcommittee to examine the successes and limitations of the United States foreign aid structure and proposals for reform.“Foreign assistance is a vital part of advancing American interests abroad,” said Lowey. “It is in our national security interest and it is our moral obligation to provide basic education, curb the spread of deadly infectious diseases, support emerging democracies, and more. It is critical that the laws, regulations, agencies, and programs of our foreign aid structure enable us to meet the challenges of the 21st century.”Congresswoman Lowey welcomed a distinguished panel of experts on foreign aid to testify before the subcommittee, each of whom made recommendations for changes to the current foreign aid structure that may help us meet emerging challenges more effectively. The witnesses were:• Mary Bush, former Chairman, Helping to Enhance the Livelihood of People Around the Globe (HELP) Commission• Leo Hindrey, former Vice Chairman, HELP Commission• Lael Brainard, Vice President and Director, Global Economy and Development, Brookings Institution• George Rupp, CEO and President, International Rescue Committee“Through an effective foreign aid program, the United States has the capacity to advance our security and foreign policy interests, alleviate suffering, and reduce poverty around the world,” said Lowey. “The skilled and dedicated men and women in our aid agencies are performing admirably, but Congress and the Administration must do their jobs to ensure that we are giving them all the tools they need to keep pace with emerging challenges.”###
01.22.2008	(White Plains, NY) – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) contacted President George W. Bush to urge him to request funding in his upcoming budget for the Army Corps of Engineers to undertake flood mitigation projects in Westchester County.“The options are clear,” said Lowey. “We can either fund the projects that we know will protect the region from severe flooding, or we can wait until disaster strikes the homes, businesses, and infrastructure of Westchester County and pay for assistance for the victims then. The financially and morally responsible choice is to invest now in the projects that will keep us safe.”President Bush will present his Fiscal Year 2009 budget request to Congress in February. Federal funding to support a comprehensive county-wide flood mitigation strategy would help the region avoid the damages to homes, businesses, and infrastructure that severe storms may cause.Full text of the letter to President Bush is below.Dear President Bush:As you prepare your budget proposal for Fiscal Year 2009 I urge you to include funding for the Army Corps of Engineers to provide long-term flood mitigation construction throughout Westchester County, New York, and the entire Hudson Valley region of the state.By declaring a federal disaster for the region on April 24, 2007, you recognized the devastating impact of a Nor’easter on these communities and allowed for the appropriate short-term federal assistance to be provided. Unfortunately, without proper funding for long-term flood relief, future flooding in these areas is not a matter of if, but when.Public Law 110-28 provided $8.165 million for the Corps of Engineers to investigate the flooding and propose mitigation strategies. However, these studies will be of little comfort to the people of New York if their homes and businesses are flooded again due to a lack of commitment from the federal government to provide appropriate funding for the construction of mitigation projects.Additionally, Public Law 110-114 authorized $30 million for flood damage reduction measures along the Sheldrake and Mamaroneck Rivers Watershed. I urge you to include this funding for the Army Corps in your budget.Because flood prevention work on one major waterway in Westchester could result in flooding of other waterways, this problem must be tackled from a county-wide perspective. The large-scale, comprehensive plan necessary to stem the constant flooding throughout Westchester requires a substantial federal commitment and is not without precedent. The federal government has already invested $85 million towards a similar $413 million project, providing flood relief for a far less populated area of New Jersey.As I see it, there are only two options: fund flood mitigation projects now or pay millions of dollars worth of assistance with each inevitable flood disaster. I hope you agree with me that the former option is a better use of taxpayer funds to solve the flooding problems in Westchester County now.Sincerely,Nita M. Lowey
01.10.2008	(SLEEPY HOLLOW, NY) – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today joined Sleepy Hollow Fire Chief John Korzelius and other firefighters to demonstrate the importance of a $79,325 federal grant that will enable the Fire Department to protect the health and safety of firefighters by purchasing a vehicle exhaust system and implementing a comprehensive wellness program.“Every day, firefighters are risking their safety and well-being to protect that of their neighbors,” said Lowey. “We have an obligation to repay their service by providing them with the resources and equipment they need to keep themselves safe and healthy.”The $79,325 grant, awarded by the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) Assistance to Firefighters Grants (AFG) program, will be used by the Sleepy Hollow Fire Department to purchase a vehicle exhaust system that will protect firefighters from dangerous and cancer-causing fumes generated when a fire truck is started. Because the most common cause of death among on-duty firefighters is heart attack, the grant will also be used to implement a comprehensive wellness and exercise program.The Assistance to Firefighters Grants program awards funds directly to fire departments and nonaffiliated emergency medical service (EMS) organizations to enhance first responders’ ability to protect the health and safety of the public, as well as that of first-responder personnel, with respect to fire-related hazards. Using a competitive process overseen by fire service experts, AFG grants are awarded to applicants whose requests best enhance ability to protect the public and first responder personnel.Lowey, a member of the Homeland Security and Appropriations Committees, has worked to bolster programs that give first responders the training, equipment, and additional staff they need to respond to every potential emergency.“This grant will enable Sleepy Hollow to protect firefighters from dangerous fumes and help keep our firefighters in good physical condition, including examinations to find out health concerns before there is a problem” said Chief John Korzelius. “The health and safety of firefighters and those we serve is our top priority.”
12.27.2007	(WHITE PLAINS, NY) - Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), Chair of the House Appropriations State and Foreign Operations Subcommittee, today released the following statement on the assassination of former Pakistani Prime Minister Benezir Bhutto:"I am deeply saddened by the assassination of Benezir Bhutto. This is a tragic loss not only for the Pakistani people but for the world. The perpetrators of this heinous act of terrorism must be brought to justice, and it is my hope that calm may prevail in the days and weeks ahead so that Pakistan may continue on the path toward democracy."My thoughts and prayers are with the nation and people of Pakistan, the family and supporters of Benezir Bhutto, and the families of others killed during her assassination attack today." ###
12.19.2007	WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today issued the following statement in response to the U.S. Department of Transportation’s authorizing the appointment of a New York aviation “czar” to coordinate regional airspace issues and all projects and initiatives addressing problems of congestion and delays in New York.“Airspace congestion in the New York Metro Area creates great frustration for travelers and jeopardizes public safety in the air and on the runways. I am pleased that the Administration is addressing this issue.“In October I led my colleagues in calling on the Administration to appoint a regional aviation “czar” to evaluate congestion at all stages of flight and make aviation safer and more reliable.“The temporary, voluntary flight reduction plan and announcement of an airspace czar are positive initial steps in what must be a comprehensive strategy to mitigate New York’s airspace challenges. Limiting access to flights is not a long-term solution and the czar must make it a priority to increase resources and technology for the Port Authority to meet travel demand while minimizing delays and cancellations in the long term.”###
12.17.2007	WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), the Chairwoman of the House State and Foreign Operations Appropriations Subcommittee, said today that this section of the Omnibus Appropriations bill will strengthen and protect our nation by helping others around the world. The bipartisan and bicameral process that produced the bill limited the damage that President Bush’s misplaced priorities could have caused.“President Bush’s refusal to meet domestic priorities like health, education, and veterans benefits has resulted in difficult cuts to programs that make our nation safer and stronger,” said Lowey. “Despite this unwillingness to compromise with Congress, the State and Foreign Operations portion of the bill makes key investments in economic security, development, and relief that will make our nation more secure and increase stability around the world.”Lowey expressed disappointment that a key provision allowing international health organizations to receive donated contraceptives to prevent disease and unintended pregnancies and reduce abortions was dropped from the bill.“The poorest men and women around the world need an American President who does not place ideology ahead of proven results,” said Lowey. “I am disappointed that President Bush was willing to veto all domestic and international appropriations in order to prevent international health organizations from receiving donated contraceptives. This dogmatic adherence to an illogical position diminishes our influence around the world and prevents us from working effectively to stop the spread of HIV/AIDS and unintended pregnancies and reduce abortions.”The State and Foreign Operations portion of the bill includes the following key investments:Global Health: $6.5 billion, $1.4 billion above 2007 and $796 million above the President’s request, for critical global health programs to strengthen the global public health infrastructure and surveillance network in order to save lives overseas and to protect the health of the United States.• HIV/AIDS: $5 billion, $1.2 billion above 2007 and $544 million above the President’s request, for HIV/AIDS prevention, treatment and care programs around the world.o Global Fund: $546 million, $546 million above the President’s request, for the Global Fund to fight HIV/AIDS, TB and Malaria. With $295 million included in the Labor, Health and Education Appropriations bill, the overall contribution to the Global Fund is $841 million - $115 million above 2007.• Global Health and Child Survival: $1.8 billion, $360 million above 2007 and $284 million above the President’s request (includes $347 million of HIV/AIDS funding). This funding includes an increase of nearly $100 million increase for maternal and child health programs, $101 million for malaria, and $72 million for tuberculosis.Sudan: $1 billion, $209 million of which is for critical humanitarian and peacekeeping programs in Darfur ($99 million above the President’s request) and approximately $550 million of which supports the new UN Mission in Darfur.Basic Education: $694 million for basic education programs, including $189 million to help countries that have national education plans reach the goal of education for all.Improving Access to Safe Drinking Water: $298 million for safe water programs, to help high priority countries address water issues, including: providing sources for safe drinking water such as pumps and wells; building water systems; and increasing safe hygiene programs.Environment: $510 million for clean energy and biodiversity programs worldwide, including funding for the Global Environmental Facility and international conservation programs to work with developing nations to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, preserve parks and protect wildlife.World Wide Embassy Security Protection: $968.5 million, $190 million above 2007, for ongoing security protection to ensure that diplomatic and embassy personnel are safe and secure.Refugee Assistance: $1 billion, $60 million above 2007 and $55 million above the President’s request (including FY 2008 emergency supplemental requests), to help refugees with food, water, shelter and other basic needs. This includes significant resources to assist the growing number of Iraqi refugees.Disaster Assistance: $430 million, $10.5 million above 2007 and $23 million above the President’s request, to avert famines and provide life-saving assistance during natural disasters and for internally displaced people in Iraq and elsewhere around the world.Eastern Europe and Former Soviet Countries: $690 million, $36 million below 2007 and $49 million above the President’s request, to slow the President’s cuts to assistance for young democracies, specifically Kosovo and Macedonia, and to continue civil society assistance in Russia and Central Asia.Broadcasting: $682 million, $25 million above 2007 and $14 million above the President’s request, for broadcasting critical to the nation’s overall public diplomacy efforts.Peacekeeping Activities• Dues for U.N. Peacekeeping Missions: $1.7 billion, for Contributions for International Peacekeeping Activities (CIPA). These funds include at least $550 million to support the UN peacekeeping mission in Darfur as well as peacekeeping operations throughout the world, including operations in Liberia, The Democratic Republic of Congo, South Sudan, Ethiopia, Eritrea, Haiti, Timor-Leste, the Middle East, and Kosovo.• Targeted Peacekeeping Operations: $261 million, $40 million above the President’s request for Peacekeeping Operations (PKO), targeted missions that are of particular interest to the United States. Within the amount provided approximately $50 million is included to meet our commitment to critical security sector needs in Liberia.Educational and Cultural Exchanges: $501 million, $36 million above 2007 and $15 million above the President’s request, to fund the participation of over 42,000 individuals in educational, cultural and professional exchange programs worldwide.Peace Corps: $331 million, $11 million above 2007 for a program which has over 7,000 volunteers in 67 posts serving 73 countries.###
12.11.2007	WASHINGTON – The House of Representatives today passed legislation introduced by Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) that would create a pilot program requiring all individuals with access to secure areas at airports to pass through security screening.“I am pleased that the House has acted to address a fundamental flaw in the security of air transportation,” said Lowey. “Passengers and baggage undergo security screening, but that is not enough. Air travelers deserve to know that everyone with access to planes, including employees, has been screened.”Workers with access to secure and sterile parts of an airport are currently required to undergo background checks, but are not always required to pass through security screening before accessing these areas. Legislation sponsored by Lowey and Rep. Ginny Brown-Waite (R-FL) would mandate that the Transportation Security Administration (TSA) implement a pilot program at seven commercial service airports to screen all individuals with access to secure and sterile areas, and to assess vulnerability of each airport. Employees would be screened each time they enter secure and sterile areas of an airport, just as passengers are.“Meticulously screening passengers and baggage while turning a blind eye to employees is like installing an expensive home security system but leaving your back door wide open,” said Lowey. “I encourage the Senate to act on this legislation quickly to make air travel more secure.”###
12.10.2007	WASHINGTON, DC – Members of the New York Congressional delegation today joined Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) in writing to President George W. Bush to oppose his proposal to slash by more than half the amount of funding for first responder grant programs in the Fiscal Year 2009 budget.“Reports that the Bush Administration intends to slash counter-terrorism grants to local first responders are deeply disturbing,” said Lowey. “This episode reveals once again the President’s misplaced priorities. As President Bush continues to demand more money for Iraq to be spent at a rate of $12 billion per month, he would cut by more than half a highly effective and necessary $3.2 billion program for state and local governments to protect Americans in emergencies. This proposal is indefensible.”Last week, an Office of Management and Budget (OMB) “passback” document indicated that President Bush’s Fiscal Year 2009 budget would request $1.4 billion – less than half the 2007 funding level for grant programs distributed on the basis of risk. These programs are critical for preparedness in the New York Metro Area. Such a reduction in funding would reduce the amount of aid and diminish the ability of first responders to act in the event of an emergency.“As recently as October, the President issued his National Strategy for Homeland Security, which detailed many of the threats against our nation. In light of this, it is unimaginable to hear that the Administration would cut funding for our nation’s law enforcement, firefighters, and other first responders by more than half,” said Senator Clinton. “Decreasing this necessary funding would have a drastic affect on the homeland security efforts of large urban centers like New York, whose first responders are the backbone of our homeland security efforts. For the sake of our country's homeland defense I strongly urge the President to reconsider any proposed cuts to federal funding for homeland security programs.”A copy of the letter and list of co-signers is below.Dear Mr. President:We are highly alarmed with the Office of Management and Budget’s (OMB) “passback” document that indicates that your Fiscal Year 2009 budget request will significantly reduce first responder grant programs. Such cuts would make it more difficult for New York and other high-risk regions to implement security programs, and we urge you in the strongest possible terms to reconsider this proposal.It is outrageous that OMB would ignore many of the Department of Homeland Security’s (DHS) recommendations. The document includes many problematic and inaccurate statements, particularly the assertion that high risk jurisdictions have reached a saturation point for capital security projects. Because of the Department’s repeated failure to allocate grants on the basis of risk, many critical projects in New York have received insufficient funds. Additional federal funds are needed, particularly in the region that remains the most at-risk target of a terrorist attack.Furthermore, the document indicates that the budget request would not allow law enforcement agencies to use Urban Area Security Initiative (UASI) grants for counter-terrorism or intelligence personnel. In the areas of the country most at risk of an attack, these officers carry out a critical security function. In New York City alone, law enforcement agents have uncovered nearly twenty different terrorist plots. It is vital that at least a portion of UASI funds be eligible for counter-terrorism personnel expenses.As you know, the Implementing Recommendations of the 9/11 Commission Act of 2007, Public Law 110-53, authorizes funding levels for many first responder grant programs. The programs authorized by this law have strong bipartisan support as evidenced by its overwhelming passage in both the House and Senate. The passback document indicates that in most cases the Department did not even request full funding, yet OMB chose to eliminate vital grant programs, including the State Homeland Security Grant Program, Law Enforcement Terrorism Prevention Program, Emergency Management Performance Grant, Port Security Grant Program, Transit Security Grant Program, and the Buffer Zone Protection Grant Program. This proposal is unacceptable as it would significantly impair the ability of public safety agencies and their partners to deter and mitigate the potential damage from a terrorist attack.We strongly urge you to reconsider funding levels for first responder grant programs in the upcoming Fiscal Year 2009 budget request.Sincerely,Nita LoweyGary AckermanMichael ArcuriTim BishopYvette ClarkeHillary ClintonJoseph CrowleyEliot EngelVito FossellaKristen GillibrandJohn HallBrian HigginsMaurice HincheySteve IsraelPeter KingCarolyn MaloneyCarolyn McCarthyJohn McHughMichael McNultyJerrold NadlerCharles RangelCharles SchumerJose SerranoEdolphus TownsNydia VelazquezJames Walsh###
12.03.2007	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today released the following statement in response to news reports that the Bush Administration intends to slash counter-terrorism funding for police, firefighters, and rescue departments across the country by more than half next year:“Reports that the Bush Administration intends to slash counter-terrorism grants to local first responders and eliminate programs for port security and transit security are deeply disturbing.“This episode reveals once again the President’s misplaced priorities. Just days after excoriating Congress for not providing a $200 billion blank check for Iraq to be spent at a rate of $12 billion per month, we learn that President Bush would cut by more than half a highly effective and necessary $3.2 billion program for state and local governments to protect Americans in emergencies. This proposal is indefensible.“As a New Yorker and a member of both the Homeland Security Committee and the Appropriations Subcommittee on Homeland Security, I know that the Administration’s defense that many high-risk areas have “reached a saturation point for capital security projects” is simply not the case in New York where many critical security priorities remain unfunded. I will work with my colleagues to defeat any proposals for these ill-advised and short-sighted cuts.”###
11.30.2007	NEW YORK – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today announced that the City of New Rochelle has been awarded a grant of over $1.5 million to rebuild the Skidelsky Memorial Field, located in City Park, which sustained damages by the April Nor’easter storm.“The April storm and flood resulted in severe damage to our community,” said Lowey. “I am pleased that the federal government has responded to this need in New Rochelle, and I will continue working to help New York recover and develop long-term strategies that will reduce risk in the future.”During the storm event of April 14-18, 2007, the City of New Rochelle experienced severe rain and inland flooding. The Skidelsky Memorial Field was severely damaged by an inundation of 6-8 inches of water, bringing with it sediment, vegetative debris and construction material, all of which remained after the water drained. The federal funds will be used to replace the damaged synthetic playing surface.The $1,568,442.75 in federal funds will be matched by $500,000 by the City of New Rochelle and State of New York.New Rochelle Mayor Noam Bramson said that the federal funds will be well spent by the city.“This critical assistance will help New Rochelle rebuild a field used by thousands of residents and will serve as a cornerstone for broader improvements at City Park, our most active athletic facility,” said Bramson. “We applaud FEMA for its response and Congresswoman Lowey for her invaluable advocacy in helping our community recover from the devastating floods of last April."###
11.26.2007	WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (Westchester/Rockland) announced today that the Sleepy Hollow Fire Department will receive a $79,325 federal grant to be used to purchase a vehicle exhaust system that will protect firefighters from dangerous and cancer-causing fumes.“Firefighters routinely risk their own health and safety for the protection of the communities they serve,” said Lowey. “Just as firefighters look after our well-being, we must ensure that they have the resources and equipment to keep themselves safe and healthy. I am pleased that the Department of Homeland Security has recognized this need in New York.”The Assistance to Firefighters Grants program awards funds directly to fire departments and nonaffiliated emergency medical service (EMS) organizations to enhance first responders’ ability to protect the health and safety of the public, as well as that of first-responder personnel, with respect to fire-related hazards. Using a competitive process overseen by fire service experts, AFG grants are awarded to applicants whose requests best enhance ability to protect the public and first responder personnel.Lowey, a member of the Homeland Security and Appropriations Committees, has worked to bolster programs that give first responders the training, equipment, and additional staff they need to respond to every potential emergency.“With this funding, the Sleepy Hollow FD will be able to create a wellness program to ensure the Sleepy Hollow firefighters are in good health and physical condition,” said Chief John Korzelius. “This includes physical exams to find out health concerns before there is a problem. The first thing we worry about is health.”“The assistance from the federal government is greatly appreciated because this funding won’t just be used in six months like other sources of funding, but it will be used to ensure the health of the Sleepy Hollow firefighters for years to come,” added Assistant Chief Todd Spota.# # #
11.20.2007	NEW YORK – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today joined the New York Public Interest Research Group (NYPIRG) for the release of NYPIRG’s 22nd annual “Trouble in Toyland” report and to call attention to Congressional efforts to protect children from unsafe toys and those that may pose choking hazards.“As the holiday shopping season begins, it is critical that parents have the resources they need to protect their children from dangerous toys,” said Lowey. “I commend NYPIRG for their 22nd report on this important topic, and I will continue to work in Congress to ensure that the federal government is doing its job to inform parents of potential choking hazards and keeping unsafe products off the shelves.”The Child Safety Protection Act of 1994 requires choke hazard labels on balloons, marbles, and toys intended for children under the age of six if they contain small parts. However, it includes no such requirement for toys bought over the internet or from a catalogue. To close this loophole, Congresswoman Lowey has introduced legislation that was included in the Consumer Product Safety Commission Reform Act. This broad bill passed the Senate Commerce Committee on October 30th.“More shopping is being conducted online each year, and parents need to know which toys pose unacceptable risks to small children,” said Lowey. “Further, the federal government needs to have more tools at its disposal to keep dangerous products off the shelves.”Congresswoman Lowey is a cosponsor of the Safety Assurance for Every (SAFE) Consumer Product Act, as well as the Consumer Product Safety Commission Reform Act, which is expected to be considered by the House Energy and Commerce Committee in the coming weeks. In addition to closing the internet and catalogue loophole, this legislation would:· Ban lead from children’s products and paint;· Require mandatory testing of children’s products by independent third-party labs;· Enhance the recall authority of the Consumer Product Safety Commission, to ensure that consumers learn about recalls effectively and more quickly;· Provide the Consumer Product Safety Commission with greater resources to protect America’s consumers, including improved testing and research facilities;· Ban unsafe and untested imported children’s products.At the press conference, NYPIRG announced the release of its 22nd annual “Trouble in Toyland” report, which identifies unsafe products on the shelves of America’s stores during the holiday season.“While we have seen progress after more than two decades of advocacy on behalf of America’s littlest consumers, researchers still found trouble in toyland on store shelves throughout New York this month,” said Tracy Shelton, Consumer Attorney with NYPIRG. “But recent high profile product recalls have given us a chance to urge Congress to pass strong product safety reforms, and give kids the best holiday gift of all.”###
11.09.2007	WASHINGTON –Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), Chair of the State and Foreign Operations Appropriations Subcommittee, today released the following statement condemning President Pervez Musharraf’s effective house arrest of former Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto, mass arrests, and continued violent crackdown, and warned him that his actions threaten to make a restructuring of aid to Pakistan inevitable.“Continued mass arrests constitute a dangerous escalation of President Musharraf’s deliberate and calculated clampdown on Pakistani civil society. President Musharraf’s desperate tactics to preserve his own power come at the expense of the Pakistani people and inhibit his ability to be an effective partner in the war on terror. His continued arrests, imprisonments, and suppression of civil society are threatening to bring the situation quickly to a point of no return.“Unless there is an immediate halt to President Musharraf’s crackdown and a dramatic reversal in course, the restructuring of foreign assistance to Pakistan by the U.S. Congress will become inevitable. I call on the Administration to suspend immediately cash transfers to Pakistan until President Musharraf ceases his violent crackdown. Once again, I call on Musharraf to free the political prisoners that he has arrested, to restore the Constitution and independent judiciary, and to release his stranglehold on Pakistani civil society. Failure to take these steps immediately is sure to come at a steep cost.”###
11.06.2007	WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (NY-18), Congressman Albio Sires (NJ-13), Congressman Steve Israel (NY-2), and Congressman Bill Pascrell (NJ-8) today sent a letter to Secretary of Transportation Mary Peters to voice opposition to “congestion pricing” and other untested plans to alleviate flight delays in the New York Metropolitan area by increasing ticket prices or restricting access to flights. A copy of the letter follows:Dear Secretary Peters:We write to you with great concern about efforts by the Department of Transportation and the Federal Aviation Administration that would restrict access to the airports in the New York/New Jersey airspace or increase prices on flights to these airports.As we are all aware, commercial air travel in and around the New York Metro Area was disrupted by devastating delays over the summer. We all agree that the status quo is unacceptable; however your recent proposal puts the economic prosperity of the region, the airports, and more than 38,000 residents of our districts employed by the airlines at these airports at risk.Your proposal shows a lack of appreciation for the desire of both business and leisure travelers to fly into all three of the Port Authority controlled commercial airports, Kennedy, LaGuardia, and Newark Liberty. Passengers in both categories will always demand flights into the area. Therefore, it serves no purpose to restrict access or artificially drive up prices. Additionally, because commercial aviation is not the sole cause of the congested airspace in the region, we are dismayed that you have made no similar attempts to regulate or engage the general and business aviation community. We do not believe the most crowded air space in the country is the appropriate venue to experiment with previously untested methods for regulating air travel, such as congestion pricing. There is no evidence that a reduction in flights will result from this model. Ultimately, we fear the result of congestion pricing will not be a reduction in flights, but a reduction in the number of families able to afford flights. As New York City remains the financial capital of the world, business travelers will always be willing to pay top-dollar for flights during peak travel hours, and the families living in our communities could suffer most from increased ticket prices.Additionally, recognizing the significant international air travel originating and terminating at Newark Liberty Airport and Kennedy Airport, it makes little sense to apply your proposed pricing model to only domestic carriers. At Kennedy Airport alone, 60 foreign-flag carriers accounted for 54 percent of all international departures in July. International carriers will certainly take advantage of a void in the market caused by domestic carriers being priced out of operating international flights. Furthermore, your plan fails to account for the international traveler not originating in the New York/New Jersey Metro area who requires a connecting flight through Kennedy Airport. Therefore, any proposals to reduce flights occurring at these airports, as ill-conceived as they may be, must apply across the board and fall in line with the International Air Transport Association Association’s (IATA’s) World Scheduling Guidelines (WSG).We strongly urge you to return to the drawing board, recognizing the vital role commercial aviation has on the economic prosperity of the region.Instead of looking at untested proposals, an immediate step to fix airspace congestion would be the appointment of an “airspace czar” to evaluate congestion at every step of the flight process – from tower control, to the TRACON, to the routing center. This model was used successfully to solve South Florida’s airspace challenges in 2005, yet no similar steps have been taken to address the situation for New York and New Jersey in the short or long term. In addition to the appointment of an individual to oversee the airspace, there are also technology upgrades that could improve the management of aircraft in flight. Developing and implementing Area Navigation (RNAV) technologies would allow for precise management of the distances between aircraft and could for the first time allow Kennedy to operate all four of its runways simultaneously. Before dramatically reducing flights or driving up prices for local families, we urge you to exhaust all technological and staffing alternatives. We look forward to continuing to work with you to solve the air congestion problem in the region, while ensuring that New York and New Jersey remain affordable and viable air destinations. Sincerely,Nita M. LoweyAlbio SiresSteve IsraelBill Pascrell Jr.Gregory MeeksDonald M. PayneJohn “Randy” KuhlSteven R. RothmanCharles E. SchumerHillary Rodham ClintonMichael McNultyFrank Pallone Jr.Vito FossellaRush HoltJerrold NadlerMike FergusonEliot EngelFrank LoBiondo Yvette D. ClarkeRodney FrelinghuysenPeter KingJim SaxtonEdolphus TownsChristopher SmithTim BishopRobert E. AndrewsBrian HigginsGary AckermanMaurice HincheyCarolyn MaloneyJose E. Serrano###
11.05.2007	WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), Chair of the State and Foreign Operations Appropriations Subcommittee, today released the following statement regarding Pakistan President Pervez Musharraf’s imposition of martial law.“President Musharraf’s decision to impose martial law in Pakistan is deeply troubling. Especially disconcerting are the violent suppression of lawyers, opposition leaders, and journalists, and the possible postponement of scheduled Parliamentary elections. These actions are inconsistent with both his stated commitment to move Pakistan toward civilian rule, as well as the rights and freedoms that the United States expects its allies to uphold for their citizens.“In light of President Musharraf’s disturbing actions, Congress and the Department of State should review all relevant economic and military aid from which Pakistan currently benefits in order to ensure that taxpayers’ money is advancing American interests in the region. I urge President Musharraf to cease this crackdown, release the political prisoners, repeal the state of emergency, and proceed with parliamentary elections without delay.”###
10.30.2007	WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Nita Lowey, Chair of the Appropriations Subcommittee on State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs, today delivered the following introductory remarks at a hearing entitled “Assessing an Effective Diplomatic and Development Program in Iraq: An Examination of the Diplomatic Surge.”Lowey opening statementGood afternoon. The Subcommittee on State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs will come to order for today's hearing on our diplomatic and development programs in Iraq. I welcome our distinguished witnesses, Mr. Joseph Christoff, the Director of the International and Trade Division of the Government Accountability Office (GAO), and for a second time this year, Mr. Stuart Bowen, Jr. the Special Inspector General for Iraq Reconstruction (SIGIR).We look forward to a frank discussion on the findings in the SIGIR report released today as well as other recent SIGIR and GAO reports on oversight, accountability and effectiveness of our relief and reconstruction programs in Iraq.Since 2003, over $45 billion has been appropriated for relief and reconstruction assistance in Iraq, of which 74% has been obligated and 60% expended. Just last week, the President requested an additional $3.4 billion for the Department of State and USAID's efforts. The war has already cost the American taxpayer $450 billion, nine times more than the Administration initially calculated. And the costs in loss of life and respect in the world are far greater. Yet, I fear that our national security is more at risk now than before the Iraq war began.It is our responsibility to thoroughly assess whether our current diplomatic and development efforts have a positive, sustainable impact – in other words, the measured results the Secretary's own transformational diplomacy strategy requires – and if not, take the necessary steps to change course, before any additional funds are appropriated.I hope you can provide this subcommittee with your assessment of the investment of $45 billion we have appropriated thus far. For example:• How many infrastructure projects have been completed, and are they being maintained by the Iraqi government?• What kind of capacity development is occurring in the Iraqi government ministries, and which ministries are functioning?• How many Iraqi police have we trained, and how many continue to show up for work?• What is the status of the justice sector? How many lawyers and judges are there and how many courts are functioning at an acceptable standard?• How many hospitals and schools have been built? Do they have trained doctors, nurses, and teachers? Are these institutions being maintained by the provincial or central governments and are they equitably serving all sects?Increasing our footprint and scaling up our assistance programs will contribute to political progress, reconciliation and ultimately self-governance in Iraq only if these programs are well-managed and efficient and with a strong, viable partner in the Iraqi government.Sadly, these key ingredients seem to be missing. Several early reports found widespread waste, fraud and abuse of U.S. resources invested in major infrastructure programs. Unfortunately, it seems that U.S. government agencies charged with overseeing these contracts have not made the necessary reforms to ensure that taxpayer dollars are used properly, efficiently and effectively. For example, the SIGIR's June 2007 audit of KBR's life-support contract with the U.S. Embassy in Iraq found significant shortfalls, and the September 4th report by the Department’s own inspectors identified serious deficiencies in the new Embassy’s fire suppression system. The July 2007 Quarterly Report found that Bechtel's $1.2 billion infrastructure project managed by USAID, had significant problems. Now today's report identifies serious shortcomings in the financial controls and program management of DynCorp’s $1.2 billion police-training contract, managed by the Department of State. In fact, it is my understanding that the audit couldn’t even be completed because of poor recordkeeping?While your various reports have noted that steps have been taken to address each of these instances, they are symptoms of a systemic problem that can only be remedied with procedures and policies to ensure accountability in all our contracts and programs. I am eager to hear whether you believe the Department of State and USAID have made the necessary reforms to ensure that further abuse and mismanagement do not occur. All evidence points to the contrary.It should be noted that waste, fraud, and abuse are not limited to USG contracting. Previous reports, as well as the October 2007 report of the Government Accountability Office, highlight rampant corruption in Iraqi Ministries. Difficult challenges facing the Iraq's Joint Anti-Corruption Council and the Commission for Public Integrity, whose Chair said earlier this year, "violence, intimidation, and personal attacks were a main obstacle to the Commission's work," also have been reported by both the SIGIR and GAO. Is there any evidence that the State Department is taking the necessary steps to address corruption at every level of government and to hold the Government of Iraq accountable for their actions? I am concerned that our reconstruction efforts cannot be sustainable if we do not have a viable partner in Iraqi government officials or institutions.Mr. Bowen, as you have noted, the Provincial Reconstruction Teams (PRTS) are an essential element of the Administration's diplomatic surge strategy. The goals of this program, as outlined by the President, are to strengthen Iraqi capacity and self-sufficiency, support the USG's counterinsurgency strategy, foster economic development, and build provincial capacity. I look forward to hearing whether you believe we are meeting these objectives particularly because based on recent developments, I am concerned they are no longer sustainable – that the costs outweigh the benefits.The President has requested an additional $907.1 million for these 25 PRTs, to "capitalize on the enhanced security environment in Iraq." Yet, over half of the requested funding is for security. We face incredible management and oversight deficiencies for private security contractors, such as Blackwater, as identified in the Secretary of State's Panel on Personal Protective Services in Iraq report. And now, Secretary Rice has ordered all diplomatic positions in Iraq be filled before any other openings in Washington or overseas so that diplomats can transition into PRT roles currently filled by military personnel, the first forced diplomatic deployment since the Vietnam war.It seems clear to many of us that spending half of our PRT funding on security is in no way “capitaliz(ing) on enhanced security,” and as embedded military personnel and military protection forces are drawn down, PRTS will lose a significant layer of security. How can PRTs be effective in such a security environment, and is there evidence that planning is underway to address this problem or any analyses of the cost implications of the loss of this security presence? What effect will the issues arising from the management, or lack of management, of private security contractors in Iraq have on the State Department's capabilities to provide security to PRT personnel as Coalition forces withdraw?Another objective of the PRT program is to support the USG's counterinsurgency program. Yet, your recent audit states that coordinating reconstruction programs with counterinsurgency operations was one of the most significant continuing challenges to the PRT program. Can you please tell us why the USG is unable to coordinate effectively in this way?Your report also noted that PRT officials have mixed opinions of the effectiveness of the program, of the strength and commitment of provincial governments, and of the sustainability of their efforts. We hope you can provide insight into whether government corruption has impacted the PRTS work and whether the Iraqi government and local provincial councils are committed partners in this program.Additionally, the SIGIR’s quarterly report, as well as reports from the Army Corp of Engineers, states that the Mosul Dam is “likely to fail” and could release a tsunami like wave flooding two of Iraq’s largest cities. The U.S. government has executed 21 contracts, valued at $27 million, with the overall goal of helping to repair and restore Mosul Dam. However, you have found that these contracts failed to further the original project objectives of providing Mosul Dam and the Ministry of Water Resources with additional personnel, critical spare and replacement parts, and enhanced grouting abilities. Failure of this dam would be catastrophic for Baghdad, Mosul and indeed our own reconstruction efforts. I hope you can further enlighten the committee on the problems associated with this dam. Is this simply another example of poor contract oversight? Or is this yet another instance where we have failed to recognize the shortcomings of the Iraqi government and their lack of commitment and ability to operate and sustain large infrastructure projects?Any additional funding for diplomatic and development programs in Iraq must be carefully considered and have clear, attainable objectives. Our assessment of the current diplomatic and development strategy in Iraq is critical to our Committee’s review of the supplemental request and to the appropriate oversight of funds of this magnitude.The Administration should not expect Congress to appropriate additional funds for Iraq until we can be assured that taxpayer funds will change the course of action in Iraq, advance American interests, and be accounted for fully and accurately.As we only have a limited amount of time this afternoon, I hope you can summarize your testimony for us, and we will, of course, put your full statement in the record. I would also like to remind the members of the committee that I will be recognizing members as they arrived, switching between majority and minority when possible, and adhering to the 5-minute rule for questions.Now, let me turn to Mr. Wolf for any opening statement that he may wish to make.###
10.23.2007	WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Nita Lowey, Chairwoman of the State and Foreign Operations Appropriations Subcommittee, today released the following statement in response to reports critical of the State Department’s communication, coordination, oversight, and accountability procedures with regard to private contractors hired to provide security for diplomatic personnel in Iraq and to equip and train Iraqi security forces:“It is an insult to all American taxpayers that the State Department is not keeping tabs on the billions of dollars that the federal government has provided to private contractors in Iraq and Afghanistan. This report confirms what many of us have long suspected – that the Administration is simply not keeping a close enough watch on the billions it continues to spend on a flawed strategy in Iraq.“It is especially remarkable that this internal report and today’s SIGIR audit, which states that the State Department is incapable of documenting services rendered for $1.2 billion in contracts to DynCorp, come directly on the heels of President Bush’s $46 billion request for Iraq war funding, including $3.6 billion for the Department of State.“The Administration should not expect Congress to provide one additional dime of yesterday’s request until we can be assured that the taxpayer funds will change the course of action in Iraq and be spent in a way that advances American interests through policies and procedures that fully and accurately account for the purposes and totals of funds expended.“To address these and other issues, the State and Foreign Operations Appropriations Subcommittee will hold hearings examining the changes necessary to ensure an effective diplomatic and development program in Iraq. On Tuesday, October 30th, the Subcommittee will hold a hearing in which the SIGIR, Stuart Bowen, will release his quarterly report, and the Government Accountability Office will present its findings on effective strategies and remaining challenges for the ‘diplomatic surge’ in Iraq.”###
10.22.2007	WHITE PLAINS – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today joined local elected officials and senior citizens to call for Social Security benefits to reflect more accurately the prices paid by senior citizens, especially on health care.“Slow but steady increases in Social Security benefits unfortunately won't win the race for seniors trying to make ends meet,” said Lowey. “Older Americans living on fixed incomes face large increases in their costs of living from year to year, and the federal government must do more to ensure that seniors are not left behind.”According to a recent report by The Senior Citizens League, since 2000, the Social Security cost of living adjustment (COLA) has increased average benefits by just 22 percent while typical senior expenses have risen by 71 percent.Last week, the Social Security Administration (SSA) announced that seniors will receive an additional 2.3 percent in their monthly checks beginning in January, the smallest increase in four years. The average senior’s benefit will increase from $1,055 per month to $1,079 per month—a total of only $24. This will not help millions of seniors faced with increased health, energy, transportation and food costs.In Congress, Lowey is advocating for passage of the Consumer Price Index for Elderly Consumers Act, which would base COLAs on a more realistic assessment of how much elderly Americans need to get by each month, taking into account the rising cost of health care and its unique impact on seniors. Currently, the COLA calculation is based on the spending habits of younger workers, rather than those of elderly consumers.“This bill will help to reduce the financial pinch many seniors are currently experiencing,” said Lowey. “Basing benefit increases on realistic spending assumptions is common sense and the least that we can do for our seniors.”###
10.18.2007	WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today announced that Westhab, Inc. will receive a grant of $400,000 from the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs to assist homeless veterans in the Yonkers area.“We must never turn our backs on those who have served this country,” said Lowey. “Our veterans deserve the full support of the federal government and of their community, so that they can transition to a productive and secure civilian life. I am pleased that the federal government responded to the needs of homeless veterans in Westchester County.”Westhab, Inc. will receive $400,000 from the Department of Veterans Affairs for the construction of a new building at 157 Bruce Avenue in Yonkers. This building will provide 14 beds as transitional housing for homeless veterans.This latest round of 46 grants worth $16 million creates 950 beds for homeless veterans across the country. VA has the largest integrated network of homeless assistance programs in the country. It is the only federal agency providing substantial one-on-one contact with the homeless.###
10.18.2007	WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today issued the following statement in response to the failure of the House of Representatives to override President Bush’s veto of legislation reauthorizing the State Children’s Health Insurance Program (SCHIP), which would provide health care for ten million children nationwide.“October 18 is a sad day for the 10 million children who will go without health coverage because President Bush and some in his party put ideology ahead of the best interests of our children.“SCHIP works. It serves children in hard-working families that are not poor enough to qualify for Medicaid but who cannot afford private coverage. It is one of the most successful federal programs in existence today.“The bill that President Bush vetoed has the support of a broad, bipartisan majority of Congress, 43 Governors, more than 270 independent organizations, and the American public. We are spending $12 billion every month in Iraq, or $144 billion per year yet this President doesn’t believe we can afford an additional $35 billion over the next five years to provide low-income hard working families with health care for their children. This veto and the decision of a minority of the House to sustain it are indefensible. ###
10.17.2007	WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Nita Lowey, Chairwoman of the State and Foreign Operations Appropriations Subcommittee, yesterday met with Israeli Defense Minister Ehud Barak to discuss shared security interests and prospects for achieving a meaningful peace in the Middle East.“Israel is a vital ally in the Middle East, and the United States must continue to do all it can to promote peace and security in the region,” said Lowey. “If the coming months are to result in meaningful advances in the peace process, there is much to be done to lay the groundwork for success.“Since Hamas took over Gaza, I have been calling on the Administration to develop a comprehensive strategy for supporting Abu Mazen, helping to bring economic recovery and security to the West Bank, and bringing all the partners in the region to the table in order to show a visible difference between Fatah and Hamas and to move the peace process forward. As Secretary Rice concludes her 7th visit to the region this year, I encourage her to continue to press to bring all partners to the table and to gain commitments from our Arab partners to support and participate in this peace process.”Lowey expressed deep concern about the lack of progress in creating jobs, housing, economic opportunity and security in the West Bank. These actions are essential to show the Palestinian people that there is a clear distinction between Hamas and Fatah. Left unchecked, insecurity and lack of opportunity and basic services will make lasting peace much more difficult.Lowey also expressed concern about weapons and cash smuggling operations into Gaza and solicited Minister Barak's opinions on efforts to detect tunnels and prevent smuggled materials from fueling Hamas in GazaLowey affirmed that there is strong bipartisan support in Congress for maintaining Israel's qualitative military edge in the region and ensuring that Israel has the tools needed to protect herself.“It is both a moral responsibility and in the security interests of the United States for Israel and her citizens to be safe from threats that she continues to face from within and outside her borders,” said Lowey.###
10.16.2007	WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today renewed her call for screening of all airport workers with access to secure and sterile areas, as 18 employees at New York’s John F. Kennedy international airport were charged with drug smuggling.“This is an excellent example of why we should better screen airport employees,” said Lowey. We screen passengers and baggage using air travel, yet airport workers have routine access to secure areas without any screening whatsoever. It just doesn’t make sense.”Lowey’s legislation (H.R. 1413) would mandate that the Transportation Security Administration implement a pilot program at seven commercial service airports to screen all workers with access to secure and sterile area, and to assess vulnerability of each airport. Employees would be screened under the same standards as those that apply to passengers at airport screening checkpoints. H.R. 1413 passed the House Homeland Security Committee on August 1.Opponents of screening airport employees claim that required background checks of employees make daily screening unnecessary, a claim contradicted by today’s arrests of 18 employees for helping drug traffickers smuggle heroin and cocaine.“Today’s arrests at JFK underscore that meticulously screening passengers and baggage while turning a blind eye to employees is like installing an expensive home security system but leaving your back door wide open.”###
10.11.2007	WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today released the following statement in response to Ann Coulter’s comments on CNBC's “The Big Idea” that the nation would be better off if all Americans were Christian.“Ann Coulter has demonstrated time and again that she has no shame in her willingness to offend, inflame, and incite with hateful rhetoric, all in the name of profit and publicity. Even so, it is shocking that she would make such brazen and anti-Semitic comments. Her statements encourage anti-Semitism and religious intolerance. I call on Ms. Coulter to apologize to Americans of all faiths.”###
10.09.2007	HAWTHORNE, NY – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today pledged to work in Congress to make the internet a safer place for children and to make it easier to identify and punish those who would abuse or exploit children.“The internet has resulted in access to new services, more and better information, and the ability to correspond with individuals around the world,” said Lowey. “But social networking sites and chat-rooms are also tools that online predators can use to target children easily and anonymously. We owe it to children and to parents to do everything in our power to make the internet safe and to identify and punish predators.”Eighty-seven percent of teens use the internet on a regular basis and according to the Justice Department, one in five children between the ages of ten and seventeen has received a sexual solicitation or has been approached online in the last year. Just last week, a teenage girl in Florida was found one day after she snuck out of her house to meet a 24 year-old man she met on MySpace, who turned out to be a 46 year-old high-risk sex offender.A mother and grandmother, Congresswoman Lowey is working to enact a number of policies that can help to reduce the risk that our children face from child predators, including:· Increasing the number of FBI agents assigned to investigating child exploitation, paying particular attention to internet crimes;· Making it a criminal offense for electronic communication service providers to fail to report child pornography; and· Requiring sex offenders to include their email addresses when registering with state or local authorities so that they can be checked easily against public registries.Joining Congresswoman Lowey in calling for policies that will make the internet safer for children and make it easier to identify and punish predators was Westchester County Public Safety Commissioner Thomas Belfiore and Parry Aftab, founder of WiredSafety.org, the largest online program devoted to internet safety and security, and leader of TeenAngels, a group of 13-18 year-old volunteers that have been specially trained by the local law enforcement, and many other leading safety experts in all aspects of online safety, privacy, and security.“I applaud Congresswoman Lowey for bringing forth this legislation,” said Belfiore. “Whether it is patrolling our roads or the information highway, we must always be at the leading edge of protecting our citizens, especially our children.”“Protecting children from online predators is an important job and requires coordination at all levels of law enforcement and within the community,” said Aftab. “We must be sure to devote resources to identifying and prosecuting those who would abuse or exploit children online, but we must also give parents and children the tools to protect themselves. I am pleased to be a part of that effort.”###
10.02.2007	WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY), Chairwoman of the Appropriations Subcommitee on State and Foreign Operations, today voiced concern about the practices of private security contractors abroad and about the apparent lack of oversight enforced by the Department of State. Lowey released the following statement:“Private security contractors and the Department of State have serious questions to answer about the propriety of their activities abroad and about whether proper oversight is conducted and accountability enforced. I am particularly concerned by the prevalence of “escalation of force” incidents, the lack of reporting of incidents resulting in casualties, and the absence of accountability for misconduct.“The State Department paid Blackwater more than $832 million from 2004 through 2006. Private contractors and the State Department must operate in a way that is morally defensible and that advances American interests abroad.“The President is expected to request hundreds of millions of dollars in supplemental funding for diplomatic security. In anticipation of this request, State Department personnel and private contractors must be comprehensive and forthcoming in their responses to both Congressional and Executive Branch investigations and hearings.”###
10.01.2007	HAVERSTRAW – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today announced initiatives that she is advocating in Congress in response to the crisis in homeownership involving predatory lending and subprime mortgages.“Congress took the first step toward helping borrowers two weeks ago by passing legislation that will give the Federal Housing Administration the ability to insure larger loans, but there is more that we can and should do to help borrowers,” said Lowey. “The current crisis is resulting in mortgage defaults and foreclosures, and it is threatening American confidence in the economy.”Two weeks ago, the House passed legislation permitting the Federal Housing Administration to insure larger mortgages than previously allowed. This week, the House will consider a bill permitting homeowners who have had debt forgiven from foreclosure or renegotiation to exclude this from taxable income. Comprehensive legislation cracking down on predatory lending and taking other steps to help borrowers will be introduced in the coming weeks, and Lowey announced support for three specific measures that she hopes to include in the bill:1. Reform bankruptcy code to allow courts the authority to provide relief on mortgage debt, the one major debt the courts are currently prohibited from relieving;2. Eliminate “pre-payment penalties,” which punish borrowers who pay off their loans early; and3. Crack down on racial discrimination in lending, wherein individuals may be steered toward loans with unfavorable terms based on race or ethnicity.On September 6th, Congresswoman Lowey also contacted Chairman Bernanke to encourage him to exercise the Federal Reserve Board’s authority of the mortgage industry by strengthening relevant rules and ensuring that the finances of the American people are protected. On September 20, Chairman Bernanke committed to supporting better disclosure, new rules, and more uniform enforcement in the fragmented market structure of brokers and lenders.According to The Journal News, the nationwide subprime mortgage crisis is affecting New Yorkers at home. In Rockland County, through July, the number of foreclosure filings brought by creditors rose 12.7 percent to 692 and judgments of foreclosure, in which the court authorizes lenders to take back the property that served as collateral for the mortgage, were up 94.4 percent to 175. In Westchester County, through August, filings rose 39.4 percent from 2006, to 1,414 and judgments were up 61.8 percent to 424.###
09.25.2007	WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), Chairwoman of the State and Foreign Operations Appropriations Subcommittee, today released the following statement regarding House passage of the Iran Counter-Proliferation Act and remarks of Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad to the United Nations General Assembly:“I am pleased that the House today acted to hold the Iranian regime accountable for its actions through tougher sanctions. By restricting international assistance and imposing stiff penalties on those who would help this rogue nation acquire weapons, Congress takes an important step toward addressing the threat to international peace that Iran poses.“President Ahmadinejad’s outrageous rhetoric and continued support for terrorist organizations incite and encourage those who seek to destroy Israel and undermine international stability.“Instead of condemning terrorist organizations, such as Hezbollah and the Shiite militias who target American troops in Iraq, President Ahmadinejad defended their actions and blamed others for their violence. Instead of embracing the most basic human rights and rights for women, he falsely denied abuses in his country. Instead of cooperating with efforts to bring transparency to Iran’s nuclear program, he rebuked the United Nations Security Council. Instead of recognizing the right of Israel to exist and of her citizens to live in peace with their neighbors, he reproached them, and he continued his refusal to acknowledge the Holocaust.“I urge the United Nations to use all tools at its disposal to make it clear that the world community will not tolerate Iran’s dangerous misbehavior.”###
09.24.2007	WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today announced that Mercy College will receive funding under the U.S. Department of Education Hispanic Serving Institutions (HSI) Program, which is geared to providing high-quality higher education to students who would otherwise not have the opportunity.“This funding will help Mercy College enhance students’ opportunities and continue its tradition of high quality education,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “I am pleased that the U.S. Department of Education has recognized this need in Westchester County and will provide improved facilities, curricula, and faculty development at Mercy.”“We at Mercy College, are delighted to receive this highly competitive Title V grant,” said College President Dr. Louise H. Feroe. “Mercy’s students and faculty will benefit directly from the infusion of technology into the curriculum, pedagogy, and facilities at the College that this funding will make possible. Mercy College is so fortunate to have Congresswoman Nita Lowey as a loyal friend and dedicated supporter of our mission to provide a transformational, high quality education to students who might otherwise not have the opportunity.”The Hispanic Serving Institutions (HSI) Program provides grants to assist HSIs to expand educational opportunities for, and improve the academic attainment of, Hispanic students. The HIS Program grants also enable HSIs to expand and enhance their academic offerings, program quality, and institutional stability.The Title V funding will support three activities:* Development of a technology-rich common area where students will have access to all resources needed in support of learning;* Faculty development program that will focus on instruction and pedagogical models for diverse learners and at-risk students as well as the infusion of technology throughout the curriculum; and* Improving educational opportunities for students majoring in the life sciences, computer sciences, and mathematics to increase the number of students who major in and achieve a degree in these areas.###
09.20.2007	WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today commended Chairman of the Federal Reserve Board Ben Bernanke for calling for tougher restrictions on lenders and enforcement of existing laws to protect borrowers from predatory practices in the mortgage industry. Lowey contacted Bernanke two weeks ago to encourage the Fed to take such steps.“I am pleased that Chairman Bernanke has heard my voice and those of borrowers around the country who are struggling under the weight of unreasonable mortgages and predatory lending tactics,” said Lowey. “The current crisis is resulting in mortgage defaults and foreclosures, and it is threatening American confidence in the economy. The Fed must act swiftly to propose new rules to protect consumers.”On September 6th, Congresswoman Lowey contacted Chairman Bernanke to encourage him to exercise the Federal Reserve Board’s authority of the mortgage industry by strengthening relevant rules and ensuring that the finances of the American people are protected. Lowey encouraged the Fed to: (1) mandate clear and explicit fiduciary responsibility with mortgage lenders; (2) crack down on misleading mortgage advertising and foreclosure rescue scams; (3) prevent lenders from discriminating on the basis of race for the terms and conditions of mortgages; and (4) recommend civil penalties to deter those who engage in abusive practices.Today, in testimony before the House Financial Services Committee, Chairman Bernanke said that a full review of consumer protection regulations was underway. He committed to supporting better disclosure, new rules, and more uniform enforcement in the fragmented market structure of brokers and lenders.According to The Journal News, the nationwide subprime mortgage crisis is affecting New Yorkers at home. Through August, the number of foreclosure filings brought by creditors rose 39.4 percent from 2006, to 1,414. Actual judgments of foreclosure, in which the court authorizes lenders to take back the property that served as collateral for the mortgage, were up 61.8 percent to 424. In Rockland County, through July, filings were up 12.7 percent to 692 and judgments were up 94.4 percent to 175.###
09.18.2007	WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) and Congressman Eliot Engel (D-Bronx/Westchester/Rockland) today announced that Yonkers Public Schools has received a $3 million grant from the U.S. Department of Education to enhance the learning environment and encourage success for all students.“Federal support for local school districts is essential if we are to ensure that all students have a chance to be successful,” said Lowey. “I am pleased that the Department of Education has responded to this need in Westchester County.”Engel said, “Every dollar we put into education is one that pays us back in multiple ways. This is not only an investment in the future of the children of Yonkers, but in the future of our country.”The Smaller Learning Communities Grant Program is designed to encourage large high schools to undertake research-based strategies in developing and implementing smaller learning environments. Local educational agencies are eligible to apply on behalf of an individual large high school or a group of large high schools. Through the program, Yonkers Schools hopes to eliminate the achievement gap between minority and non-minority students; increase reading and math performance; and increase participation in higher education.With enthusiasm and appreciation for the efforts of Congresswoman Lowey and Congressman Engel, City of Yonkers Superintendent of Schools Bernard P. Pierorazio acknowledged that the Smaller Learning Communities Grant couldn’t have come at better time. “One of the district’s non-negotiable goals for our high schools is a 5% annual increase in graduation rates through 2014. The extended, focused learning time for students after school, on Saturdays and during the summer, melded with freshman academies and advanced technology infused instruction will support our efforts,” said Mr. Pierorazio.Yonkers Public Schools has doubled the number of students participating in college-bound Advanced Placement (AP) and International Baccalaureate (IB) courses over the past four years. More then 1,100 AP and IB exams were administered to students in May 2007. The Class of 2007 earned $14 million in college scholarships. “Yonkers students, with the right support, achieve at high levels,” concluded Pierorazio.###
09.18.2007	WASHINGTON – In response to a request from Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY), Congressman Maurice Hinchey (D-NY), Congressmen John Hall (D-NY), and Congressman Eliot Engel (D-NY), the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) has agreed to grant a 60-day extension for intervener petitions to be filed in connection to the Indian Point nuclear reactor license renewal process. Led by Lowey, the four House members wrote the NRC earlier this month, requesting that more time be given for outside parties to file formal intervener petitions regarding the license renewal of the nuclear power plant.Lowey said, "The impact that the relicensing of Indian Point could have on safety and on the environment in the surrounding area is significant, and I am pleased that the public voice will be heard on this matter.""This additional time will allow for concerned parties to formally intervene in the relicensing process," Hinchey said. "I appreciate the Nuclear Regulatory Commission's willingness to do the right thing in this case by granting an extension for public intervention. With very serious and repeated failures at Indian Point, including security lapses, radioactive leaks, and unplanned shutdowns, there remain very serious concerns about Indian Point that need to be fully analyzed and addressed through the relicensing process."Intervener petitions provide an opportunity for concerned citizens and groups to officially register their opinions about pending NRC decisions. As a result of the NRC's new ruling, the petition deadline has been extended from October 1 to November 30, 2007. The deadline for general public comments on the relicensing of Indian Point is October 12, 2007.###
09.17.2007	NEW ROCHELLE, NY – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today joined New Rochelle Mayor Noam Bramson, Iona College Brother James Ligouri, and other local leaders in celebrating the completion of Phase I of the North Avenue Streetscape Improvement Project.“Redevelopment of North Avenue is an excellent example of how federal and local officials can work with private partners like Iona College to improve the quality of life for our residents,” said Lowey. “I am pleased that our shared investments in this project have resulted in safer and more convenient roads for residents and visitors in New Rochelle.”"The dramatic positive changes in North Avenue's College District will make a significant difference for the thousands of residents, students, and business owners who live, work, travel, and commute along New Rochelle's principal north-south artery,” noted Mayor Noam Bramson.Phase I of the North Avenue Streetscape Improvement Project has included widening the road, a crimson-colored, textured crosswalk in front of Iona Collage, and replacing overhead utility lines with an underground utility infrastructure. These changes allow better access and safer, easier travel for motorists and pedestrians on this vitally important roadway. Congresswoman Lowey secured $1 million in federal funds for this phase of the project in the Fiscal Year 2002 Transportation Appropriations Bill. ###
09.11.2007	WHTIE PLAINS, NY - Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today released the following statement on the 6th anniversary of the terrorist attacks of September 11th, 2001.“Six years after the worst tragedy in our nation’s history, the pain that we all feel is still fresh. We remember the victims of this senseless attack – the parents, siblings, spouses, children, friends, neighbors, and co-workers who lost their lives on September 11th for no reason other than an ideology of hatred directed at our country, at our values, and at our way of life.“We hold a special place in our heart for the men, women, and children that died that day. The victims’ friends and families are in our thoughts and prayers that they may find comfort by focusing on the blessings of the lives of the victims rather than on the tragedy of their deaths.“In Congress and in the Administration, it is our solemn duty to honor those who died on September 11th by implementing the policies – both at home and abroad – that will protect our citizens and our country and help others to avoid the devastation that results from losing a loved one.”Congresswoman Lowey will be participating in the following commemorations of the victims of the September 11th attacks in New York:• Tri-Municipal 9/11 Memorial CeremonyGirl Scout Rock, Memorial Park, Mamaroneck• 9/11 Ceremony & Memorial GroundbreakingGedney Park, Millwood.• September 11th MemorialWampus Brook Park, Armonk• Ceremony of Remembrance.Thornwood American Legion Post No. 1574 & the Town of Mt. Pleasant.###
09.10.2007	WASHINGTON – The U.S. House of Representatives today passed unanimously a bill introduced by Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) to designate the Wykagyl Post Office located at 3 Quaker Ridge Road in New Rochelle, New York, as the "Robert Merrill Postal Station.”“Robert Merrill was one of New York’s great treasures,” said Lowey. “His singing set the standard for theatrical and musical excellence. He left an indelible mark on the community of New Rochelle, and his cultural legacy is unforgettable for all those who experienced his legendary performances at the Metropolitan Opera, on Broadway, on television, or even at Yankees games. With its action today, the House of Representatives ensures that future generations will remember the contributions of this remarkable man.”“Bob would have been thrilled beyond belief to have this post office named in his honor,” said Marion Merrill, widow of Robert Merrill. “I am grateful to Congresswoman Lowey for her work in getting this bill passed by the House of Representatives.”Robert Merrill was a baritone for the Metropolitan Opera and performed for every President from Franklin Delano Roosevelt to Reagan. He was also the only singer to perform before President Truman, Congress, the Cabinet, Supreme Court and Mrs. Roosevelt at the Roosevelt memorial held in the United States Capitol on July 1, 1946. Robert Merrill also received several national honors: he was appointed to the National Council of the Arts by President Johnson in 1968 and bestowed the National Medal of the Arts by President Clinton in 1993. His rendition of the “Star Spangled Banner,” which he sang on Opening Day and on special occasions for more than twenty-five years, became a New York Yankees tradition beginning in 1969.Passage by the U.S. House of Representatives clears the legislation to be considered by the U.S. Senate. ###
09.07.2007	WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today released the following statement on the Bush Administration’s decision to deny New York the ability to offer health insurance to thousands of children in low- and middle-income families through the State Children’s Health Insurance Program (SCHIP):“Hundreds of thousands of children lack access to health care in New York, and the Administration is denying our state the ability to address this crisis. With this decision, the Bush Administration is demonstrating a stunning disregard for children who do not have access to necessary care. SCHIP is a proven success, and we should be working to keep more -- not fewer -- kids healthy through this program."In a letter dated September 7th, the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) denied New York’s request to cover children in families at 400 percent of the federal poverty level ($82,600 per year for a family of four). Under law, a CMS waiver is required for states to offer SCHIP coverage to children in families above 250 percent of the federal poverty level. Rules issued by the Administration on August 17th – more than four months after New York’s request – made it all but impossible for states to obtain this waiver. Previously, the Administration threatened to veto legislation passed by Congress to provide coverage for five million children who are eligible for, but not currently enrolled in, SCHIP.In New York, over 440,000 children did not have health insurance in 2005. That includes over 15,000 from Westchester County and over 8,300 from Rockland County.“I will work with members of the New York Congressional delegation and Governor Spitzer to evaluate our options in overturning these unfair rules and this damaging decision. We cannot allow it to stand, and I will do everything in my power to correct it,” said Lowey.Lowey and members of the New York Congressional delegation sent a letter today to CMS to request that the Administration’s rule restricting states from making insurance available to children be rescinded. ###
09.07.2007	WASHINGTON –Congresswoman Nita Lowey (NY-18) and Congressmen John Hall (NY-19), Maurice Hinchey (NY-22), and Eliot Engel (NY-17) today called on the Nuclear Regulatory Commission to grant a 60-day extension for intervener petitions to be filed in connection to the Indian Point nuclear reactor license renewal process.“Between missed deadlines, a sleeping guard, and misplaced uranium, August was not a good month for Entergy,” said Lowey. “New Yorkers are rightfully concerned that Indian Point is not being managed safely, a serious risk for the 15 million people living within a 50-mile radius of the facility. The public deserves more time to analyze and register concerns about Indian Point’s relicensing.”Intervener petitions provide an opportunity for concerned citizens and groups to register officially their opinions about pending NRC decisions. In order to be considered in connection with NRC’s potential relicensing of Indian Point, the petitions are currently required to be filed by October 1st."Entergy's recent and repeated failure to get its siren system up and running is just the latest reminder that there is an extraordinary number of public safety issues associated with this relicensing application, and the public deserves every opportunity to be heard,” said Hall. “In light of the fact that operations at Indian Point could impact the Hudson Valley for decades to come, it's not fair for the NRC to close the door on concerned citizens at the end of the month. More time is needed and the NRC should extend its deadline.""Residents of the communities surrounding Indian Point deserve more time to express their concerns over the wide array of problems with the nuclear facility," Hinchey said. "When it comes to public safety, it's imperative that the Nuclear Regulatory Commission allow more time for public input on the concerns and questions surrounding safety at Indian Point. From leaks of nuclear material to guards falling asleep on the job, there are a whole host of very serious problems at Indian Point that need to be addressed before the NRC should even move forward with the license renewal process."Congressman Eliot Engel said, “The Nuclear Regulatory Commission should grant this extension. As the record shows, Indian Point has a shoddy record of missing deadlines, shoddy record keeping, and unsafe practices. After years of the NRC and FEMA turning a blind eye to the threats that Indian Point poses to the surrounding communities, the least that the NRC can do is give the concerned people of the area adequate time to speak out about the numerous problems that Indian Point has created.” ###
09.07.2007	WASHINGTON – Chairwoman of the State and Foreign Operations Appropriations Subcommittee Nita Lowey (D-NY) today assailed the Bush Administration’s decision to withhold funds from the United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA) for the sixth year in a row. A September 6, 2007, letter from Deputy Secretary of State John Negroponte states that the denial is based on accusations that UNFPA supports China’s coercive abortion policies despite the fact that an Administration-appointed commission found no such evidence years ago. In fact, UNFPA provides life-saving basic and reproductive health services to the world’s neediest women and children. Lowey’s statement follows:“The Administration’s decision today to deny the poorest women and children around the world UNFPA’s essential services is unconscionable. Once again, common sense policy has been replaced with nonsense. The Administration is punishing UNFPA for working in China to change the coercive policies that we all agree are wrong and to reduce unintended pregnancies and improve reproductive health.“This decision punishes the poorest women and children in all the countries UNFPA serves. It is unfair and immoral to penalize many of the world’s most vulnerable people based on false claims about this program in one country.” ###
09.06.2007	WHITE PLAINS, NY –Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today announced that the Village of Pelham Fire Department will receive $261,250 from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security to purchase new vehicles through the Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) program.“It is vital for local fire departments to have vehicles and equipment to respond quickly and effectively to emergencies,” said Lowey. “This grant will benefit all residents of Pelham, who can have confidence that their first responders are now better-equipped to meet the challenges they face. I am pleased that the Department of Homeland Security has recognized and is addressing this need.”The Village of Pelham will use the grant of $261,250 from the FEMA/DHS Assistance to Firefighters Program to replace a 1978 fire engine pump apparatus, with about 30,000 miles of use, which is currently out of service for a major overhaul.Mayor Ed Hotchkiss said, “The Village of Pelham is pleased and excited to work with the Assistance to Firefighter’s Program, and thanks the Department of Homeland Security, Congresswoman Nita Lowey, and Senators Hillary Clinton and Chuck Schumer for this grant award for a much-needed fire truck to serve the Pelham community. We will explore all options to buy the most appropriate fire pump apparatus to serve the Village of Pelham community.”The Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program (AFGP), which is administered by the Department of Homeland Security Office of Grants and Training in coordination with the U.S. Fire Administration, awards grants directly to fire departments and EMS agencies. Funds may be used to increase the effectiveness of firefighting operations, firefighter health and safety programs, emergency medical service programs, fire prevention and safety programs, and to purchase new fire equipment. ###
08.29.2007	PORT CHESTER, NY -Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today announced that she will lead the effort to stop the Bush Administration from undermining the efforts of New York to provide children with healthcare.“SCHIP is one of the most successful federal programs in existence,” said Lowey. “Given that 47 million Americans lack health insurance, including 9 million children, it simply makes no sense that the Administration would go out of its way to prevent more children from having access to health care.”Last week, the Administration issued new burdensome requirements that states must meet in order to provide health insurance to children in families earning more than 250 percent of the federal poverty rate. New York is currently seeking a waiver to make children in families earning up to 400 percent of the federal poverty rate ($82,600 per year for a family of four) eligible for coverage, due to the high cost of living in the state. Previously, the Administration promised to veto legislation passed by the House of Representatives and by the Senate to provide coverage for five million children who are eligible for, but not currently enrolled in, SCHIP.In New York, over 440,000 children did not have health insurance in 2005. That includes over 15,000 from Westchester County and over 8,300 from Rockland County.“The Administration’s decision to roll back health insurance for children is in direct opposition to Congressional efforts to expand access to health care,” said Westchester Health Commissioner Dr. Joshua Lipsman. “The health of Westchester’s children will be impacted by the decision to restrict access to affordable care.”“Many working families in our area rely on SCHIP coverage because their employers do not provide private coverage or offer it at a very high cost,” said Open Door Family Medical Center Director Lindsay Farrell. “It would be a shame to increase the number of uninsured children when this program has worked so effectively.”Lowey and members of the New York Congressional delegation will send a letter to CMS Acting Administrator Herb Kuhn to request that the Administration’s rule restricting states from making insurance available to children be rescinded. ###
08.27.2007	WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today called on Congress to enact legislation to protect consumers from abusive practices of credit card companies, which are contributing to payment delinquency, insurmountable debt, and bankruptcy. “Too many Americans are being saddled with debt that would be avoidable with fair treatment and clear information,” said Lowey. “With the cost of living ever increasing from college tuition to gas, utilities, and healthcare, the last thing consumers need is debt from hidden fees and abusive credit practices. Congress should require credit card companies to notify consumers clearly about their balance, minimum payments, and the cost of their debt.” The Federal Reserve estimates that, adjusted for inflation, in 1968 consumers’ total credit debt was $8 billion, a number that has risen to $880 billion today. In addition, the average interest rate for standard bank credit cards has topped 19 percent this year, compared to 16.5 percent in 2003. The New York State Consumer Protection Board has received over 2,100 credit card related complaints and inquires from New Yorkers since 2006. These disputes range from billing and erroneous charges, exorbitant fees, changes in interest rates, and late payment fees. Rep. Lowey’s legislation would (1) prohibit creditors from increasing interest rates based on the status of other accounts, a practice known as “universal default;” and (2) require creditors to provide consumers with a clear monthly statement of the minimum payment, the percentage of the balance that the minimum payment represents, and the number of months it would take and the amount it would cost to pay the balance if only the minimum payment is made each month. Joining Rep. Lowey to call for consumer protection from creditors was Westchester County Department of Consumer Protection Director Gary Brown. “We applaud Congresswoman Lowey’s efforts to abolish the unfair practice of universal default and we urge Congress to adopt this important consumer protection,” said Brown. “When Congress reconvenes in September, we expect to address credit issues,” said Lowey. I will work to include these provisions to rein in abusive practices and to give American consumers the information that they need to protect their financial security.”
08.24.2007	Rep. Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today called on the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) to review expeditiously the Indian Point nuclear facility’s new siren system and on the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) to fine Entergy heavily for its third failure to meet the deadline for a certified, operational siren system with back-up power. “NRC must take a three-strikes-and-you're-out approach and heavily fine Entergy for its repeated failure to meet the deadlines for this fundamental part of the emergency response system,” said Lowey. “Entergy must be held responsible for dragging its feet on providing FEMA with the information it needs to assess whether the siren system is finally compliant with the law.” The siren system is essential for alerting Indian Point employees and the surrounding area should an emergency occur at the facility. Despite requirements for FEMA to review data and certify the siren system by today, August 24th, Entergy sent these documents only recently, delaying the ability of FEMA to declare the system operational. Lowey wrote the attached letters to NRC and FEMA today calling for action in response to Entergy’s missed deadline. August 24, 2007 Dale E. KleinChairmanNuclear Regulatory Commission11555 Rockville PikeRockville, MD 20555 Dear Chairman Klein: I am writing you regarding yet another deadline Entergy Nuclear Northeast has missed today to establish a certified emergency siren system with back-up power at the Indian Point Energy Center. As you know, the Federal Emergency Management Agency has the ultimate responsibility for declaring the system operational. This requires Entergy to adhere to FEMA guidelines and to provide the agency with information in a timely manner to determine whether the system is operational. In recent weeks, Entergy has initiated an aggressive public relations campaign claiming it would meet today’s deadline for an operational siren system with the proper back-up power. Yet, the company submitted just this week the appropriate noise data to FEMA for a review process that takes approximately 45 days in order to actually certify that the system is compliant. Entergy has had two years in which to comply with the law, yet this is the third time this year it has missed the deadline for making operational one of the most fundamental components of the emergency preparedness plans for the Indian Point nuclear facility. Such negligence puts our communities at risk should there be an emergency and is simply unacceptable. While I am pleased that the NRC levied a fine earlier this year of $130,000for Entergy’s failure to meet previous deadlines for the siren system, I urge you to now levy a much more substantial fine for its repeated failure to operate a certified siren system. I hope you agree with me that our primary concern for any nuclear facility should be that it can safely operate within its community. In order to protect the region surrounding Indian Point, I encourage you to work with FEMA to expedite its review of operations of the siren system and to use every tool at your disposal – especially heavy fines – to enforce the vital safety and security regulations that Entergy continues to fail to uphold. Sincerely, Nita M. Lowey Member of Congress August 24, 2007 R. David PaulisonAdministratorFederal Emergency Management Agency500 C Street, S.W.Washington, D.C. 20472 Dear Administrator Paulison: I am writing you regarding operational certification for the newly installed emergency siren system for the Indian Point Energy Center. As you are aware, the Energy Policy Act of 2005 required the facility to install backup power to support the plant’s emergency notification system, which includes the siren system. While the Nuclear Regulatory Commission levied a fine against Entergy Nuclear Northeast, which owns and operates the Indian Point facility, in April 2007 for failure to install and operate the siren system on the required timeline, both parties agreed to a new August 24, 2007, deadline. It is my understanding that despite requirements for the Federal Emergency Management Agency to review the relevant data and certify the siren system, Entergy sent these documents to your agency only in recent days, further delaying the ability of FEMA to declare the system operational by today’s deadline. I encourage you to confirm receipt of this data and to expedite a thorough analysis and determination on the operational status of the system. We are now more than eight months beyond the deadline established in law for the system to be operational. Entergy has delayed for months this system which is integral to the regional preparedness initiatives of the surrounding communities. I hope you agree with me that our primary concerns for any nuclear facility should be that it can safely operate within its community and that all emergency notification and response systems work properly and effectively. I hope you will continue to monitor closely this facility and take immediate corrective action should any faults be found in the emergency response systems. Sincerely, Nita M. Lowey Member of Congress ###
08.23.2007	Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today commended the Food and Drug Administration for proposing new standards for sunscreens that will alert consumers of the protection that a product offers not just against sunburn-causing UVB rays, but also against cancer-causing UVA rays. “I praise FDA for taking this step to protect the health of Americans,” said Lowey. “For too long, consumers have not had access to information critical for protecting their skin and that of their children from cancer. I hope the FDA’s new regulations will finally provide a comprehensive, user-friendly rating system that includes not only sun protection factor (SPF) from UVB rays, but a protection rating from UVA rays, to help consumers make wise choices for sun safety.” Rep. Lowey introduced legislation that would require FDA to develop standards for sunscreen ratings based on UVA protection. Lowey’s measure was included in the Fiscal Year 2008 Agriculture Appropriations bill, which passed the House of Representatives in July. Her bill would also require the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services to conduct a public awareness campaign about the dangers of overexposure to the sun, ways to protect oneself, and proper use of sunscreen to maximize its effectiveness. “Skin cancer is too deadly a disease for the federal government not to give citizens information that can help prevent it,” said Lowey. “I look forward to working with FDA to ensure that this rating system is accurate, effective, and user-friendly, and that consumers are made aware of information that will now be available.” ###
08.01.2007	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY), the Chairwoman of the State and Foreign Operations Appropriations Subcommittee, today issued the following statement regarding the UN Security Council Resolution to deploy 26,000 peacekeepers to Darfur.“I am pleased by the passage of a UN Security Council Resolution to deploy 26,000 peacekeepers to Darfur, but I am disappointed that the resolution has been watered down.“Now is the time for action and diligence. President Bashir continuously reneges on his promises and commitments, and we must follow through expeditiously on implementing this resolution.“Almost a year ago, for the first time in UN history, no troops were deployed following passage of a UN Security Council Resolution authorizing deployment of troops to Darfur. We cannot allow that to happen again.“It has been over three years since the U.S. Congress declared there to be genocide in Darfur; over 400,000 people have died, and over 2.5 million are displaced. Humanitarian access is deteriorating, and large swaths of the population are out of reach.“We absolutely must take advantage of this window of opportunity and mobilize these 26,000 troops immediately. Time is not on our side.” ###
08.01.2007	State Children’s Health Insurance Program will Provide Affordable Insurance to Five Million More Children NationallyWashington, DC – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today hailed House passage of the Children’s Health and Medicare Improvement (CHAMP) Act as a momentous step forward in the fight to provide affordable insurance to children.“Today the House of Representatives took a major step forward, expanding the scope of the SCHIP program to reach millions more children nationwide,” Lowey said. “The program will help children and families in need get the insurance and healthcare that are so critical during developmental years.”SCHIP currently provides affordable health coverage to six million children. Unfortunately, the current program is significantly under funded. States do not have enough funding to provide health coverage to children who are currently enrolled in the program, let alone the estimated six million who are eligible but not enrolled. Without Congressional action, by 2012, 35 States will face funding shortfalls. This legislation will ensure that SCHIP provides the resources states need to protect existing coverage and cover five million more children nationally.The CHAMP Act also takes a number of important steps to protect seniors’ access to health care, including: ensuring access to the doctors of beneficiaries’ choice by stopping a 10% Medicare payment cut to doctors; increasing access to preventive health benefits by eliminating co-payments and deductibles for certain procedures covered by Medicare; and improving Medicare’s finances by extending the solvency of the Medicare Trust Fund by two years.The bill also includes two provisions based on legislation written by Congresswoman Lowey:* It would allow states to offer family planning services to Medicaid recipients without having to obtain a federal waiver to do so; and* It would add important consumer protections to Medicare Part D. The bill would provide states with the authority to regulate private plans’ marketing abuses and increase penalties for violations, enable all beneficiaries to switch Part D plans if their plans alter their formularies, and allow low-income beneficiaries to change plans at any time.Lindsay Farrell, President and CEO of Open Door Family Medical Centers added, “This program is so important to thousands of families across Westchester. Thousands of kids who would not otherwise have access to health care benefit from SCHIP.” ###
07.27.2007	Bill Improves Aviation and Port Security, Solves Major Interoperability Problems that have Plagued First Responders, and Provides More Risk-Based Funds to High-Threat Areas like New YorkWashington, DC – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), a member of the House Homeland Security Committee, today voted for the Improving America’s Security Act, which implements many of the 9/11 Commission’s recommendations and provides critical Homeland Security funding to New York.“This bill is long overdue,” Lowey said. “The Democratic leadership in the Congress is moving America in the right direction with this bill by implementing many of the 9/11 Commission’s recommendations that should have been in place for years.”Among its provisions, the bill mandates 100% scanning of all maritime cargo before it enters the U.S., improves aviation security, and overhauls intelligence collection and information sharing to improve communication between the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) and first responders.The bill also includes provisions Lowey has championed, including a grant program for communications interoperability for first responders. The program will significantly enhance the ability of public safety agencies to plan, build, and maintain communications networks by providing funds to help shoulder the tremendous financial burden of a national interoperable networkThe legislation also increases the percentage of DHS grants that are allocated on the basis of risk, which will benefit high-risk areas like New York. Currently, the Department awards 40 percent of formula grants to state governments without any consideration of risk. The conference report lowers this amount to 18.5 percent.“In its July 2004 report, the 9/11 Commission concluded that we are safer than we were prior to September 11, 2001, but we are not safe. The same is true today. While we will never be able to eliminate all threats or vulnerabilities, the implementation of these provisions is a huge step in the right direction,” Lowey concluded.Following House passage, the bill will be sent to President Bush for his signature.###
07.26.2007	Today, the 17th anniversary of the Americans with Disabilities Act, Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) introduced legislation to make health care more accessible for people with disabilities. “On the anniversary of the Americans with Disabilities Act, it is important to ensure that people with disabilities have the same access to health care as every other American,” Lowey said. “Since the Americans with Disabilities Act was passed, we have made great strides to provide disabled Americans with access to services, public places, and employment opportunities they were unfairly denied. Now, it’s time to go one important step further and ensure access to adequate medical care for those with disabilities.” In 2006, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) found that more than 37 percent of individuals with disabilities, both physical and intellectual, have fair or poor health compared to 8.2 percent of individuals without disabilities. This is due, in part, to the significant barriers that individuals with disabilities face when trying to access medical services. Physician’s offices rarely have equipment such as examining tables, weight scales, and mammography machines that are accessible to people with disabilities, and doctors sometimes lack the training necessary to address the unique needs of individuals with physical and intellectual disabilities. Lowey’s bill, The Promoting Wellness for Individuals with Disabilities Act, would require the U.S. Access Board to establish accessibility standards for medical equipment including examination tables and chairs, weight scales, mammography equipment, and x-ray machines; establish a national wellness grant program that focuses on the unique challenges faced by individuals with disabilities; and improve education and training of physicians and dentists by requiring that medical schools, dental schools, and their residency programs provide training to improve competency and clinical skills in providing care to patients with disabilities. "Despite the passage of the ADA 17 years ago, there remain barriers for people with disabilities to accessing the health care services available to the temporarily able bodied population,” said Melvin Tanzman, Executive Director of Westchester Disabled on the Move. “We are pleased that Congresswoman Lowey is proposing the Promoting Wellness for Individuals with Disabilities Act. to address critical issues for health care consumers with disabilities that will allow them to receive the same or equivalent services from their physicians. In addition this legislation will assure the availability of health promotion and prevention programs that truly address the unique needs and concerns of people with disabilities.” ###
07.20.2007	White Plains, NY – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), Congressman John Hall (D-Hudson Valley), Westchester County Executive Andrew Spano, and Westchester County Department of Emergency Services Commissioner Tony Sutton today held a press conference to highlight continued safety and structural failings at the Indian Point Nuclear Facility. Congresswoman Lowey and Congressman Hall announced legislation that would require the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) to distribute funds collected as fines for safety violations to counties surrounding nuclear facilities, which are charged with maintaining radiological emergency plans. Currently, all fines paid to the NRC, as with any federal agency, are deposited directly into the U.S. Treasury. Senator Clinton is introducing companion legislation in the Senate. “I believe that Indian Point represents an unacceptable threat to our region and should be shut down,” Lowey said. “However, as it remains operational, the surrounding counties should not be forced to bear such great financial burdens in preparing for an emergency situation involving the plants, especially given Entergy’s repeated safety and security failures. If Entergy cannot get a simple siren system to work, it raises obvious questions about the overall safety at the facility. As their inaction on installing the siren system continues to put our community at risk, it makes sense that the fines for these penalties be used to help protect our communities.” “The counties surrounding Indian Point have been saddled with the almost impossible burden of maintaining a workable emergency response plan for the plant,” Hall said. “The plant’s location in the New York metro area and compromised safety record have placed extra pressure on these counties to make sure that local residents are notified in the event of a serious safety incident. These plans are supported at local taxpayer expense, and the fact that Indian Point’s siren and warning systems still cannot be considered reliable puts even more strain on local budgets. The legislation we are proposing today would restore some fundamental fairness to this system by making sure that if Entergy is fined for a safety violation, the proceeds of that fine will be used to lighten the load on local taxpayers and help make sure that county governments can be prepared.” “We wholeheartedly appreciate and support Rep. Lowey and our entire federal delegation for introducing this legislation,” said County Executive Spano. “It is only fair that any future fines levied against Entergy be directed to the counties who expend far more in emergency planning than they receive. Westchester, for example, has received $412,500 each year for the past ten years, while spending roughly ten times that amount since September 11th. To put this in perspective, the $130,000 fine previously levied, and given to the government is miniscule in terms of importance to the federal treasury, while to Westchester, it would have been used to relieve some of the burden Indian Point places on our taxpayers.” Congressman Eliot Engel said, “Using the money from fines on Entergy is a just solution to the company’s endangering its neighbors. Indian Point should be shut down, but until we can make that happen, let us use this money to help the surrounding communities. “ In May of this year, Congresswoman Lowey and Senator Clinton sent a letter to the NRC backing a call by Westchester County to have the NRC dedicate the siren fine levied against Entergy Nuclear Northeast for emergency planning in the areas surrounding Indian Point. ###
07.19.2007	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today announced that the FY08 Agriculture Appropriations bill includes a provision she wrote requiring that, within three months of the bill’s enactment, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) issue comprehensive new standards for sunscreen for measuring and providing Ultraviolet-A (UVA) protection. No such standards currently exist, yet many products make claims about protection levels against these harmful rays. “Today’s action should light a fire under the FDA to recognize the critical danger facing Americans today,” Lowey said. “The FDA has done a good job ensuring that consumers are protected from UV rays that cause sunburn, but consumers may wrongly believe that their sunscreen is sufficiently blocking all the rays that cause skin cancer. In fact, the only thing really being blocked is the truth.” According to a report by the Environmental Working Group, at least 51% of the products on the market contain false or misleading claims, such as “provides all-day protection,” and “blocks all harmful rays.” An estimated 12% of sunscreens with an SPF of at least 30 do not contain any ingredients at all to protect against rays that cause premature aging and skin cancer despite some manufacturers’ claims that they do. The provision included in the FY08 Agriculture Appropriations bill is similar to a bill introduced by Congresswoman Lowey, which would also require the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services to conduct a public awareness campaign about the dangers of overexposure to the sun, ways to protect oneself, and proper use of sunscreen to maximize its effectiveness. Currently, the FDA requires U.S. sunscreens to provide a certain level of protection against UVB radiation—the rays that cause both sunburn and skin cancer. The standard to measure effectiveness in the product set by the FDA is reflected in the SPF rating that appears on every single sunscreen label. However, no standards exist for protection against UVA radiation – the rays that cause skin cancer but not sunburn – leaving a critical gap in public health protection. More than one million people in the U.S. alone are diagnosed with skin cancer each year, making it the most common form of cancer in the country. Despite its prevalence, skin cancer is largely preventable by avoiding the sun during peak hours in summer months and incorporating effective sunscreen use into one’s daily routine. ###
07.18.2007	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today released a report blasting the Department of Homeland Security’s (DHS) allocation of FY07 Homeland Security Grants. According to numbers released today by DHS, in FY07, New York City will receive $134.09 million from the Urban Area Security Initiative (UASI), down from more than $205 million in FY05, and up only $9.6 million from FY06. “This allocation process is indefensible,” Lowey said. “Vulnerabilities exist everywhere, but real threats do not. As a New Yorker and a member of the Homeland Security Committee, I can’t begin to understand the reasoning behind capping funds for high-risk areas and directing grants that should be based on risk to regions that are not high-threat.” According to the report, the central problem with the grant allocation is that UASI funds were capped for areas facing the greatest risk (Tier I) at 55% of total funds. Before completing a risk analysis or reviewing a single proposal, DHS capped funds for New York, Washington, D.C., and other high risk targets. This safeguarded nearly half of UASI funds for areas that are not at significant risk of an attack. Additionally, DHS does not adequately consider local investment in the process of allocating funds. New York and other high-risk areas have invested hundreds of millions of dollars to prevent, prepare for, and respond to acts of terrorism and other emergencies. Because DHS does not give special consideration to these expenditures which can actually reduce vulnerability, and, consequently DHS’s “risk effectiveness scores,” New York and other high risk areas are actually at a disadvantage to areas who fail to make significant investment in security measures. Areas that act responsibly should be rewarded for using local funds to secure their cities. Finally, the report finds that in determining the relative amount of risk each area faces, DHS made a misguided decision to minimize the importance of the threat of a terrorist attack by having threat represent only one-fifth of the total risk calculation. Lowey believes that actual threats should be more strongly considered in the process, ensuring that the areas at risk for an attack have the resources they need for prevention and response. “Congress required that funds go to high-threat, high density areas,” Lowey continued. “Today’s announcement flies in the face of this requirement and again defies common sense. These funds are meant to protect this country and protect our people. How can that possibly be done without giving enough consideration to the probability of an attack?” Congresswoman Lowey serves on the Homeland Security Committee, Appropriations Committee Subcommittee on Homeland Security, and the Select Intelligence Oversight Panel. Her report is available on her website at www.house.gov/lowey/pdf/FY07Report-Public.pdf. ###
07.16.2007	Rye, NY – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today announced legislation requiring the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to establish standards for sunscreen products sold in the U.S. The standards would address how much protection sunscreens must provide from ultraviolet-A (UVA) rays that cause skin cancer. No such standards currently exist, yet many products make claims about protection levels against these harmful rays. “We need a uniform standard for sunscreen so consumers get the protection they need, deserve and expect,” Lowey said. “The FDA has done a good job ensuring that consumers are protected from UV rays that cause sunburn, but consumers may wrongly believe that their sunscreen is sufficiently blocking all the rays that cause skin cancer. In fact, the only thing really being blocked is the truth.” Dr. Andrew Bronin, a Rye Brook Dermatologist, joined Congresswoman Lowey at the Rye Town Beach to announce the new legislation and discuss the importance of new FDA standards. According to a report by the Environmental Working Group, at least 51% of the products on the market contain false or misleading claims, such as “provides all-day protection,” and “blocks all harmful rays.” An estimated 12% of sunscreens with an SPF of at least 30 do not contain any ingredients at all to protect against rays that cause premature aging and skin cancer despite some manufacturers’ claims that they do. Lowey’s bill would also require the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services to conduct a public awareness campaign about the dangers of overexposure to the sun, ways to protect oneself, and proper use of sunscreen to maximize its effectiveness. Currently, the FDA requires U.S. sunscreens to provide a certain level of protection against UVB radiation—the rays that cause both sunburn and skin cancer. The standard to measure effectiveness in the product set by the FDA is reflected in the SPF rating that appears on every single sunscreen label. However, no standards exist for protection against UVA radiation – the rays that cause skin cancer but not sunburn – leaving a critical gap exists in public health protection. More than one million people in the U.S. alone are diagnosed with skin cancer each year, making it the most common form of cancer in the country. Despite its prevalence, skin cancer is largely preventable by avoiding the sun during peak hours in summer months and incorporating effective sunscreen use into one’s daily routine. ###
07.13.2007	WASHINGTON, DC - Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) issued the following statement today on the Fannie Lou Hamer, Rosa Parks, and Coretta Scott King Voting Rights Act Reauthorization."I rise in strong support of the Fannie Lou Hamer, Rosa Parks, and Coretta Scott King Voting Rights Act Reauthorization. Our democracy depends on protecting the right of every American citizen to vote, which must never be compromised. "The Voting Rights Act is the most effective civil rights law ever enacted. It was put into place in direct response to significant and pervasive discrimination taking place across the country, including the use of literacy tests, poll taxes, intimidation, threats, and violence. By outlawing the barriers that prevented minorities from voting, the VRA put teeth in the 15th Amendment’s guarantee that no citizen can be denied the right to vote on the basis of race."This legislation has been renewed four times by bipartisan majorities in the House and Senate and signed into law by both Republican and Democratic Presidents. In the 41 years since its initial passage, the VRA has enfranchised millions of racial, ethnic and language minority citizens by eliminating discriminatory practices and removing other barriers to their political participation. The VRA has empowered minority voters and has helped to desegregate legislative bodies at all levels of government."Efforts to remove many of the key provisions of the original legislation are extremely unfortunate. States with histories of discrimination should not be allowed to repeat past injustices. Amendments to weaken the Act undermine the heroic efforts of countless Americans who fought for decades for the right to vote. We must stand together to defeat any measure that would weaken the provisions of the VRA."It is imperative that we adopt the bipartisan bill without amendments that violate the spirit of the original VRA to once again ensure the right of all Americans to vote."###
07.11.2007	Bill Would Boost Scholarships and Reduce Loan Costs at No New Expense to Taxpayers Washington, DC – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today voted for legislation that would make the single largest investment in college financial aid since the 1944 Montgomery GI Bill. The legislation would help millions of students and families pay for college, at no new cost to U.S. taxpayers. “As the cost of a college education skyrockets, families need all the help they can get to keep a college degree within reach,” Lowey said. “This bill will protect and expand financial assistance for families, opening the door to education and opportunity for millions of young men and women.” The College Cost Reduction Act of 2007, which the House passed today, would boost college financial aid by about $18 billion over the next five years. Under the legislation, the maximum value of the Pell Grant would increase by $500 over the next five years. When combined with other Pell scholarship increases passed or proposed by Congress this year, the maximum Pell Grant would reach $4,900 in 2008 and $5,200 in 2011, up from $4,050 in 2006. About six million students would benefit from this increase. The legislation would cut interest rates in half on need-based student loans, reducing the cost of those loans for millions of student borrowers. Like legislation passed by the House earlier this year, the College Cost Reduction Act would cut interest rates from 6.8 percent to 3.4 percent. The legislation would also prevent student borrowers from facing unmanageable levels of federal student debt by guaranteeing that borrowers will never have to spend more than 15 percent of their yearly discretionary income on loan repayments and by allowing borrowers in economic hardship to have their loans forgiven after 20 years. The College Cost Reduction Act includes a number of other provisions that would ease the financial burden imposed on students and families by the cost of college, including: Tuition assistance for excellent undergraduate students who agree to teach in the nation’s public schools;Loan forgiveness for college graduates who go into public service professions;Increased federal loan limits so that students won’t have to rely as heavily on costlier private loans;New tuition cost containment strategies; andLandmark investments in Historically Black Colleges and Universities, Hispanic Serving Institutions and minority serving institutions. The legislation pays for itself by reducing federal subsidies paid to lenders in the college loan industry by $19 billion. The Senate is expected to vote on similar legislation this month. ###
06.28.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee, announced today that she secured $700,000 for critical sewer upgrades in the House version of the Fiscal Year 2008 Interior Appropriations bill. The funding comes a month after the House and Senate passed the Emergency Supplemental Appropriations bill, in which Congresswoman Lowey secured more than $20 million for flood mitigation projects in response to the April Nor’easter that flooded our area.“Since my election to Congress, I have worked diligently with local officials to secure federal funds to improve our communities,” said Lowey. “These funds will help to improve critical infrastructure in Rye, Mamaroneck, and Briarcliff Manor, and to prevent future flood damage. In light of the recent Nor’easter and the devastating flooding it caused, ensuring that our sewer systems are better prepared for heavy rain is vitally important.”Lowey secured funding for the sewer upgrades in the form of State and Tribal Assistance Grants (STAG). The grants include $200,000 for sewer pump station repairs in the City of Rye, $200,000 for sewer system upgrades in the Village of Mamaroneck, and $300,000 for sewer upgrades in the Village of Briarcliff Manor.The bill also includes $100,000 for the restoration of the Sleepy Hollow lighthouse from the Save America’s Treasures Program.“The Sleepy Hollow lighthouse is a real treasure, and this funding will help preserve it for generations to come. These federal dollars will help relieve the financial burdens on our local governments so they can focus on providing essential services. I will continue working with our schools, communities, and organizations to make our area an even better place to live and work,” Lowey closed.The Senate is expected to consider its version of the FY08 Interior Appropriations bill early next month. Lowey said she will fight to preserve these funds in the final bill that will be sent to the President. ###
06.21.2007	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), the Chairwoman of the State and Foreign Operations Appropriations Subcommittee, tonight praised House passage of legislation she introduced to reduce abortion and unintended pregnancies and combat the HIV/AIDS epidemic worldwide.“The House voted twice today in favor of common-sense family planning to prevent abortions, curb unintended pregnancies, save the lives of mothers, and fight the HIV/AIDS epidemic,” said Lowey. “I look forward to working with the Senate to send this life-saving provision in the state/foreign operations appropriations bill to the President.”The House tonight approved an amendment introduced by Congresswoman Lowey that allows international non-governmental organizations (NGOs) who do not comply with the Mexico City Policy to receive donated contraceptives for millions of men and women who desperately need them. Filling the unmet need for contraceptives could prevent 52 million unwanted pregnancies; an estimated 29 million abortions; 142,000 pregnancy-related deaths; and 505,000 children from losing their mothers in just one year.The House also soundly defeated an amendment introduced by Congressmen Chris Smith and Bart Stupak to strip the Lowey provision from the bill.Lowey addressed the Administration’s opposition to her amendment, stating, “I urge President Bush to work with Congress in a bipartisan manner to preserve this provision to give the poorest of the poor around the world access to life-saving contraceptives. Anything less is an extreme, anti-family planning position that’s out of line with mainstream Americans’ support for preventing unintended pregnancies and abortions.”“By working together, we have an opportunity to make a difference in the lives of millions of families around the world for generations to come,” Lowey closed. ###
06.15.2007	WASHINGTON, DC – The House of Representatives today passed the Homeland Security Appropriations bill for Fiscal Year 2008, which includes funding critical to New York State and first responders throughout the country. Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), a senior member of the Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee, praised the bill.“As a New Yorker, I believe we have no higher priority than protecting our country,” Lowey said. “This bill provides critical funding for port security, transit security and first responders. It gives the men and women who respond to emergencies the tools they need to keep us safe. It improves security across the board, especially at our airports, by closing a gaping hole in airport security.”The bill provides $5 million for Congresswoman Lowey’s airport worker screening pilot program. Currently, airport workers are generally given unfettered access to secure and sterile areas of airports. The appropriations bill would mandate that the selected airports screen all workers with access to secure and sterile areas under the same standards that apply to passengers. The appropriations language is similar to Lowey’s legislation that the House Homeland Security Committee will consider later this month or next month.“Meticulously screening passengers while inconsistently screening workers is like installing an expensive home security system but leaving your back door wide open. This measure will decrease remaining vulnerability in our air security.”Also of importance to New York, the bill includes $50 million in interoperability grants. This would mark the first time the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) has had a grant program dedicated to interoperability. Lowey has championed the grant program since September 11. In January, the House passed her legislation authorizing appropriations for the program.In addition, the bill requires DHS to work on a conformity assessment program with the National Institute of Standards and Technology to test communications equipment and verify that manufacturers’ claims are accurate.The bill also increases funding for every major homeland security grant. Total funding for grants and training would increase to $4.2 billion, more than $800 million above FY07 levels and $2 billion above the President’s request. Highlights include $850 million for the Urban Area Security Initiative; $300 million for the Emergency Management Performance Grant, which is $100 million more than in FY07; $570 million for Assistance to Firefighter Grants, nearly double the President’s request; $230 million to staff local fire departments, a program the Administration proposed to eliminate; and a doubling of the amount of funds for port and transit security.Additionally, the bill would prohibit the federal government from preempting strong state chemical security laws. New York State is one of a few states that has acted responsibly to enact tough chemical security laws.Having passed the House, the bill next goes to Conference Committee where differences between the House and Senate versions of the bill will be worked out. The Senate Appropriations Committee marked up the Senate version of the bill yesterday. ###
06.12.2007	Summary: 2008 State and Foreign Operations Appropriations SummaryFull Committee MarkupJune 12, 2007The State and Foreign Operations Appropriations bill is key to our nation’s efforts to combat terrorism, foster diplomacy, and improve the quality of life of some of the world’s most vulnerable peoples.The bill makes significant investments in global health efforts for AIDS, TB and Malaria prevention, treatment, and care, putting us on track to exceed the President’s recent pledge to provide $30 billion for these efforts over the next 5 years.Development efforts play a crucial role in increasing global stability. To that end, the bill works to improve access to education for children around the world and to provide communities with access to clean drinking water.The bill provides for those most in need with funding for peacekeeping, refugee assistance, international disaster assistance, and international organizations whose mission is to support vulnerable populations. Roughly $950 million is included for the Sudan with nearly double the President’s request to address the crisis in Darfur.The bill provides nearly $1 billion for reconstruction and counter-narcotics efforts in Afghanistan, it continues our efforts to fight drugs in Colombia, and it provides military and economic support to our allies.Bill Total2007 Enacted: $31.287 billionPresident’s request: $34.943 billionCommittee Mark: $34.243 billionKEY INVESTMENTSGlobal Health: $6.517 billion, $994 million above 2007 and $513 million above the President’s request, for critical global health programs to strengthen the global public health infrastructure and surveillance network in order to save lives overseas and to protect the health of the United States.· HIV/AIDS: $5.082 billion, $1.249 billion above 2007 and $585.7 million above the President’s request, for HIV/AIDS prevention, treatment and care programs around the world.o Global Fund: $550 million, $76 million below 2007 and $550 million above the President’s request, for the Global Fund to provide grants to countries for AIDS, TB and Malaria prevention, treatment and care programs. With the $300 million included in the Labor, Health and Education Appropriations bill, the overall contribution to the Global Fund would be $850 million - $126 million above 2007. (When you add funds provided in the Labor, Health and Education bill and this bill, the Appropriations Committee will provide $6.342 billion for international HIV/AIDS, TB and Malaria assistance in bilateral programs and through the Global Fund, exceeding the President’s recent commitment to provide $6 billion for these programs every year for the next five years.)· Child Survival and Health Programs Fund: $1.955 billion, $237 million above 2007 and $391 million above the President’s request (includes $600 million of the HIV/AIDS funding)Sudan: $949.3 million, $104 above the President’s request. Of this amount, $210.5 million is for critical humanitarian and peacekeeping programs in Darfur, which is $100 million above the President’s request. The remaining funds are for development assistance to build the economic base and strengthen democratic institutions in Southern Sudan.Basic Education: The bill provides $750 million for grants to organizations that support basic education programs. This includes $265 million to help countries that have national education plans, as outlined in Education for All Initiative, the international commitment to provide all children with access to a quality education.Improving Access to Safe Drinking Water: $300 million for safe water programs, including $100 million for a new initiative requiring the Administration to develop a strategy to help high priority countries address their water issues, including: help providing sources for safe drinking water (such as pumps and wells); building water systems; and support for safe hygiene programs.Environment: $501 million for clean energy and biodiversity programs worldwide, including funding for the Global Environmental Facility and international conservation programs to work with developing nations to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, preserve parks and protect wildlife.World Wide Embassy Security Upgrades: $1.772 billion, $191 million above 2007 and the same as the President’s request, for ongoing security upgrades to ensure that our embassies remain safe and secure for the tens of thousands of military and civilian staff serving in roughly 260 posts worldwide.International Organizations: $333.4 million, $7.2 million above 2007 and $44 million above the President’s request, to reinvest in multi-lateral programs to confront global challenges. Specifically, the bill includes, $128 million for the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF), and a total of $40 million for the United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA).Refugee Assistance: $830 million, $3 million below 2007 and $56 million above the President’s request, to help displaced people around the world with food, water, shelter and other basic needs.Disaster Assistance: $322 million, after accounting for a transfer of $51.5 million to the Development Assistance account, this amount is $12.5 million above 2007 and $25 million above the President’s request to avert famines and provide life-saving assistance during natural disasters.Eastern Europe and Former Soviet Countries: $695 million, $31 million below 2007 and $54 million above the President’s request, to slow the President’s cuts to assistance for young democracies, specifically Kosovo and Macedonia, and to continue civil society assistance in Russia and Central Asia.Broadcasting: $682.3 million, $35.6 million above 2007 and $14 million above the President’s request, for radio programs critical to the nation’s overall public diplomacy efforts.Peacekeeping Activities· Dues for U.N. Peacekeeping Missions: $1.3 billion, $167 million above 2007 and $195 million above the President’s request, for Contributions for International Peacekeeping Activities (CIPA). These funds help support peacekeeping operations throughout the world, including Liberia, The Democratic Republic of Congo, Sudan, Ethiopia, Eritrea, Haiti, Timor-Leste, the Middle East, and Kosovo.· Targeted Peacekeeping Operations: $293.2 million, $69.9 million above 2007 and $72 million above the President’s request for Peacekeeping Operations (PKO), targeted missions that are of particular interest to the United States. An additional $100 million is included to provide critical support to the African Union Peacekeepers in Darfur.Educational and Cultural Exchanges: $501.4 million, $55.7 million above 2007 and $15 million above the President’s request, to fund the participation of over 42,000 individuals in educational, cultural and professional exchange programs worldwide. Includes Fulbright student and scholar exchanges and the International Visitors Program. These exchanges are critical to improving our nation’s security by rebuilding our status oversees through diplomacy.Peace Corps: $333.5 million, $13.9 million above 2007 and matching the President’s request, for the program which has 7,749 volunteers in 67 posts serving 73 countries.SIGNIFICANT CUTSMillennium Challenge Corporation (MCC): $1.8 billion, nearly $50 million above 2007 and $1.2 billion below the President’s request to develop country-driven compacts that will have the greatest overall impact on poverty reduction and economic growth. This program is cut below the President’s request because there is roughly $2 billion in unobligated balances, making funds provided in this bill sufficient to move forward on new compacts.Funding for Iraq: The bill does not fund $456 million requested by the President for Iraq as the Administration has not provided sufficient justification on how it will spend the $2.862 billion recently provided in the 2007 emergency supplemental appropriations bill.Diplomatic and Consular Programs: $4.78 billion, $446.3 million above 2007 and $157.9 million below the President’s request for non-security operations.Promoting Development and Fighting Drugs in Colombia: $530.6 million, $59 million below the President’s request, and $86.5 million below 2007 for drug interdiction and eradication efforts coupled with economic development assistance for drug affected communities, realizing the drug war cannot be won without addressing the economic pressures that feed into it. Cuts were made to restore funding levels for other Latin American countries.OTHER IMPORTANT POLICY ITEMSShift from Economic Support Funds to Development Assistance: Shifts $365 million in requested Economic Support Fund and International Disaster and Famine Assistance accounts to the Development Assistance account to reassert the role of USAID as the primary development agency of the U.S. Government.Increasing Green Exports: The bill includes a provision to encourage the Export-Import Bank to seek out investments in renewable energy and other environmentally beneficial products. This initiative could result in an estimated $1 billion in additional green exports in 2008 and will encourage the use of renewable energy worldwide while helping to support U.S. producers of renewable energy and green products.HIV/AIDS Prevention Programs: Gives the President the flexibility to determine the levels and types of prevention programs funded under the HIV/AIDS funds in this bill.Egypt: $200 million of the foreign military financing for Egypt provided in the bill is withheld until the Secretary of State certifies that Egypt is taking steps to address human rights concerns by reforming its judiciary and training its police as well as addressing concerns about the smuggling of weapons from Egypt to Gaza.Modifying Existing Policy Related to Contraceptives: Modifies existing policy to allow the provision of contraceptives to international NGOs otherwise denied U.S. Government funding in order to reduce the number of unwanted pregnancies, abortions, and the transmission of sexually transmitted diseases. ###
06.07.2007	WASHINGTON, DC – The House Appropriations Committee, on which Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) serves, today passed the Fiscal Year 2008 Interior Appropriations bill, which includes $10 million for the implementation of the Long Island Sound Restoration Act and the Long Island Sound Stewardship Act. This is $8.6 million more than was appropriated last year, the second largest increase for any Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) geographic program in the bill.“This is tremendous news for the Long Island Sound,” Lowey said. “The $10 million included in this bill will go a long way toward cleaning up and protecting the Sound for generations to come. But there is still much more to be done. I will continue to push for more funding, more resources and more assistance for the Sound in the future. Its long-term health is critically important.”The funding goes toward studying and restoring the health of the Sound and toward grants for local projects to protect or develop land into “stewardship sites.” The goal of the Stewardship Act, which was passed last year, is to preserve areas along the Sound that have significant recreational or ecological value. ###
06.07.2007	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) last night was honored by the Society for International Development at the Society’s 50th Anniversary Gala Dinner. The Society recognized Lowey as a “passionate advocate for strengthening international developmental assistance who understands our global connectedness and the reality that instability abroad undermines security at home.”“Today we face enormous challenges on which meaningful progress will be measured on a generational scale,” Lowey said. “But let it be our duty as human beings to do our part. And though it may not be our privilege to see the good end of these labors, let it be our mission to make a good beginning.”In videotaped, live, and written statements, a number of dignitaries paid tribute to Congresswoman Lowey. Below is a sampling of the tributes.President Clinton said, “When I was President, I was grateful to have [Congresswoman Lowey] as a partner in Congress as we championed education, gun safety, and women’s rights here at home and sought to improve global health, democracy, and human rights, especially for women and girls, around the world. Today, Hillary is glad to have a remarkable ally in the House as you continue to fight for people in every corner of the globe. We have felt privileged to have your friendship over the years, and we know that our state, country, and world are blessed to have your leadership.”Speaker Pelosi said, “As a member of the House Appropriations Committee, I saw first hand [Congresswoman Lowey’s] tireless advocacy on behalf of the poorest people in the world…In [her] new role as Chair of the State-Foreign Operations Appropriations Subcommittee, [she] brings tremendous expertise to the challenge of making our foreign assistance initiatives more effective.”U2 lead singer and activist Bono said of Congresswoman Lowey, “What amazing things you’ve achieved. A million Africans on AIDS drugs, when people told us it couldn’t happen. Billions of dollars of bad debt canceled and put back into helping kids in school and providing immunizations…I don’t know what they put in the water up there in your New York district, but it must be some crazy mix of Leadership, Compassion, Humor, and Smarts…Nita, I’m honored to stand with you on some of the defining work of our generation, and to call you my friend.” ###
06.06.2007	Washington, D.C. – The House Appropriations Committee today passed the 2008 Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations bill, which includes a provision that mirrors legislation introduced by Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) to disclose the quality of care across the VA health care system.“Our military veterans deserve nothing less than the absolute very best we can provide for them,” Lowey said. “Deficiencies in the physical conditions in many veterans’ facilities and the appalling conditions uncovered at Walter Reed Medical Center demand transparency and accountability in the VA health system. These report cards will ultimately help to ensure that we provide the highest quality of care possible to our brave men and women who have served.”The provision is based on legislation written by Lowey, the VA Hospital Quality Report Card Act of 2007. It mandates that the Department of Veterans Affairs establish a formal Hospital Report Card Initiative and publish reports on individual hospital care. The report cards would emphasize quality measures aligned with those used in the National Healthcare Quality Report, including measures of effectiveness, safety, timeliness, efficiency, patient-centeredness, and equity. In addition, the report cards would provide information on other quality priorities for patients, such as staffing levels of nurses, rates of infections acquired in hospitals, volume of procedures performed, and availability of specialized care. The VA Department would also report measures of relevance to a number of priority populations, including women, rural, disabled, and minority veterans.This provision would not only force the VA to establish a regular self-assessment of its hospital system, it would also provide our nation’s veterans with the information they need to make important health care decisions. ###
06.05.2007	Washington, D.C. – The House State and Foreign Operations Appropriations Subcommittee, chaired by Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), today marked up the subcommittee’s fiscal year 2008 bill. The Chairwoman’s Mark, which is $34.243 billion, is $2.95 billion over FY2007 enacted levels.“This bill provides funding critical to the War on Terror and our long-term security at home,” Lowey said. “A healthier, more secure, better educated world is a safer world.”The bill reflects the four priorities of the Subcommittee: oversight of foreign assistance programs; supporting our allies in the Global War on Terror; improving aid effectiveness by strengthening Development Assistance; and responding to the global HIV/AIDS pandemic and other health challenges. Below are details about how the bill addresses these issues.State Department Operations* Over $4.7 billion to support State Department operations in the United States and at our diplomatic missions abroad, fully funding the President’s requests for worldwide security upgrades.* $365 million for public diplomacy efforts at the State Department and $501 million for educational and cultural exchanges.Global HIV/AIDS and Other Global Health Priorities*$6.519 billion for global health programs, including HIV/AIDS.*$4.150 billion for Global HIV/AIDS Initiative (GHAI) bilateral programs, which is $1.280 billion above the FY07 level.*$550 million for the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria. President Bush requested no funding for the Global Fund in the State and Foreign Operations Appropriations bill.*A major increase for the Child Survival and Health Programs account, which is $393 million above the President’s request.*Increased resources for health programs including family planning, combating XDR-TB, malaria, and maternal and child health.*The provision of contraceptives from USAID to family planning organizations that have been denied USAID funding. These contraceptives will reduce abortions, reduce the spread of HIV, and save the lives of mothers and infants by reducing the number of high-risk and unintended pregnancies. The bill provides contraceptives only – not financial assistance – to clinics and NGOs.Improving Aid Effectiveness and Strengthening Development Assistance* A major increase for the Development Assistance account to a total of $1.734 billion, which is $692 million above the President’s request. This will fund an initiative on basic education for developing countries as well as an expansion of safe water and environmental programs.* $750 million for basic education, an increase of $200 million from the FY07 House-passed bill.* $814 million for refugee assistance, $40 million more than the President requested. An additional $130.5 million was included in the FY07 Supplemental at $59 million above the Administration’s request.* $322 million for Disaster Assistance.Support to our Allies in the War on Terror* $2.656 billion for Economic Support Fund (ESF) programs and $4.459 billion for Foreign Military Financing (FMF) programs. These funds support ongoing and new assistance for our allies in the Global War on Terror.* Fully funds the President’s request for Afghanistan, providing over $1 billion to continue our reconstruction and counter-narcotics efforts.Additional Provisions* $530.6 million for Colombia, which balances and realigns funding to incorporate development, eradication and interdiction, adding funding to interdiction.* $501 million for environment and clean energy programs, including $106 million for the Global Environmental facility and $175 million for biodiversity programs at USAID. Bill also includes provision to encourage the Export-Import Bank to increase exports in renewable energy and other environmentally beneficial products. Initiative could result in an estimated $1 billion in additional green exports in 2008. ###
05.24.2007	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) issued the following statement regarding the emergency supplemental appropriations for the Iraq war, which passed the House of Representatives tonight.“U.S. troops in Iraq are now in the middle of a bloody civil war for which there is no military solution. Congress must demand the political and diplomatic action necessary to bring our troops home and a clear directive to Iraqi leaders that they must take responsibility for their country’s security and government.“The Iraq war spending bill passed by Congress today takes steps toward that end. It requires the President to report to Congress on progress made on a number of benchmarks including an Iraqi constitution; de-Baathification laws; equitable distribution of oil revenues; increased Iraqi security forces; and reduced sectarian violence.“However, unlike the previous version of this bill vetoed by the President, no funds are conditioned on meeting these benchmarks. I believe these goalposts alone are not enough to ensure that the Administration, which has lost touch with reality, will do what is necessary to end this war.“Providing additional funds for the war in Iraq without a dramatic change in course and stringent enforcement of benchmarks for the Iraqi government would be a disservice to our courageous men and women in uniform. They deserve a solid strategy for ending our military involvement in Iraq. That is why I voted against the Iraq war supplemental today. I simply could not support these funds without a plan to bring our troops home and to determine future funding for Iraq based on progress toward key political and security benchmarks.“While the President has refused to work with Congress to enact the will of the American people, I will continue to work with my colleagues in the coming months to end the war in Iraq.” ###
05.21.2007	FundingHouse-Passed Bill Would Provide 120 New Cops for New York’s 18th DistrictNew Rochelle, NY – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today joined New Rochelle Mayor Noam Bramson and Police Commissioner Patrick Carroll in highlighting the critical need for COPS funding for local police. The House last week passed the COPS Reauthorization Act, which is designed to help local law enforcement agencies hire an additional 50,000 police officers nationally over the next six years. The 18th District alone stands to gain 120 new police officers.“The COPS program has been shown to dramatically reduce crime,” Lowey said. “President Bush has slashed this critical funding, and it’s time we change course and return to what works. Restoring funding is a critical step toward putting more police on our streets.”“The New Rochelle Police Department looks forward to any support from the COPS office,” said Commissioner Carroll. “Hiring and technology assistance under this federal program will greatly enhance our ability to address anti-terrorism initiatives both on Long Island Sound and in our city.”In recent years, President Bush and the Republican-controlled Congress dramatically reduced the funding for COPS hiring grants, from more than $1 billion a year in the late 1990s to $198 million in 2003, and then, in 2006, eliminated the program all together.Under the COPS hiring grants program, the U.S. experienced a significant drop in crime rates and independent studies confirm that these grants played a key role. For example, a nonpartisan GAO study concluded that between 1998 and 2000, the hiring grants were responsible for reducing crimes by about 200,000 to 225,000 crimes, including a substantial number of violent crimes.From 1995 to 2005, this program helped local law enforcement agencies hire 117,000 additional police officers – which helped to significantly reduce crime across the country. Over those 10 years, New York received $915,484,070 in COPS hiring grants funds, which enabled New York to hire an additional 11,246 police officers, including 280 in the 18th District.The COPS Improvement Act of 2007, which the House of Representatives passed last week, would bring the following to the 18th District:· 120 more police officers on the beat;· $6,474,688 in additional police funding;· 10 more school resource officers; and· An additional $1,506,761 in technology grants to help law enforcement in the 18th District purchase technology that enables agencies to put more officers on the beat.This legislation has been endorsed by the International Association of Chiefs of Police, the National Sheriffs Association, the Police Executive Research Program, the Fraternal Order of Police, the National Association of Police Organizations, the U.S. Conference of Mayors, and the National League of Cities.The Senate is considering companion legislation, S. 368, which passed the Senate Judiciary Committee in March. ###
05.17.2007	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today blasted the Bush Administration’s threat to veto the Defense Authorization bill. In outlining their rationale for threatening to veto the bill, the Administration cites opposition to giving troops a larger pay raise and increasing benefits for surviving spouses of men and women in uniform. The legislation passed with overwhelming support in the House of Representatives today by a vote of 397-27.“Our men and women in uniform sacrifice for our country every day and deserve more,” Lowey said. “It is unfathomable that more than four years after the start of the war in Iraq, after we’ve asked so much of our troops, that the President would issue a veto threat over increasing military pay. Better pay for our military and better benefits for their widows and widowers should be priorities we can all rally behind, not stumbling blocks holding up critical legislation.”The Administration’s veto threat calls the proposal to provide troops with a pay raise “unnecessary” and underscores the Administration’s opposition to Democratic plans to provide surviving spouses with an additional $40 per month. Excerpts from the Administration’s veto threat – their Statement of Administration Policy (SAP) – are included below:“Special Survivor Indemnity Allowance: The Administration opposes section 644, which would pay a monthly special survivor indemnity allowance of $40 . . . the current benefit programs for survivors…provide sufficient benefits.“Military Pay: The Administration strongly opposes sections 601 and 606. The additional 0.5% increase above the President’s proposed 3.0 percent across-the-board pay increase is unnecessary.” ###
05.16.2007	Washington, DC - Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton and Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey today backed a call by Westchester County to have the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) redirect the siren fine levied against Entergy Nuclear Northeast for emergency planning in the areas surrounding Indian Point. In a letter to Regional Administrator Samuel J. Collins, Clinton and Lowey expressed support for the county's request that the fine be directed towards the four counties responsible for maintaining radiological emergency preparedness plans for the Indian Point Energy Center.“Using the Entergy fine to improve emergency preparedness at the county level makes sense, and I urge the NRC to approve Westchester County's request,” Senator Clinton said. “The funds from this fine would greatly assist the areas surrounding Indian Point to improve their emergency preparedness plans and help ensure the safety of local residents. I fully support Westchester County's request to redirect the entire NRC fine on Entergy for the four counties affected by the delayed Indian Point siren project.”“The cost of preparing for an emergency at Indian Point is a huge burden to the surrounding counties,” Representative Lowey said. “As long as Entergy continues to incur fines for problems with sirens at Indian Point, it makes sense to redirect those funds to the counties so they can be used to prepare for and protect local residents in case of an emergency.”In July of 2005 Senator Clinton authored legislation included in the Energy Policy Act of 2005 requiring backup power for Indian Point's emergency notification system and complete installation of new emergency notification sirens in the areas around Indian Point. In February 2006 the NRC issued an order to implement the Senator's legislation. In January, Entergy was granted an extension until April 15, 2007. That deadline was not met and the NRC assessed a $130,000 fine on Entergy.Congresswoman Lowey has repeatedly called for an Independent Safety Assessment of the Indian Point facility given its history of operational and safety mishaps. She has also introduced legislation requiring that any nuclear facility seeking a license renewal meet the same operational and safety standards a new facility would be forced to meet today. Under Lowey's bill, Indian Point would not be able to complete re-licensing until the new siren system is fully operational.Earlier this week, the Commissioner of the Department of Emergencies Services for Westchester Country wrote to the NRC requesting that the sum from the fine be used for emergency preparedness spending in the areas impacted by Indian Point's failed siren system.A copy of the Clinton-Lowey letter is below.May 16, 2007Mr. Samuel J. CollinsRegional AdministratorUnited States Nuclear Regulatory CommissionRegion 1475 Allendale RoadKing Of Prussia, Pennsylvania 19406Dear Mr. Collins:We write to you today to express our support for Westchester County’s request that the entire Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) siren fine assessed to Entergy be directed toward emergency planning in the four counties tasked with maintaining radiological emergency preparedness plans for the Indian Point Energy Center.As you know, Indian Point has experienced multiple safety and security deficiencies, including repeated failures of emergency sirens and leaks of contaminated water from spent fuel pools. Entergy’s failure to meet its April deadline to have an operational siren system in place is unacceptable, and we appreciate the enforcement action taken by the NRC. The NRC now has an opportunity to further enhance safety around the plants.We urge the NRC to direct to the four counties in which the siren system is located the funds from this fine to improve emergency preparedness.Thank you for your attention to this matter. We look forward to your prompt action and response.Sincerely,Hillary Rodham Clinton Nita M. Lowey###
05.15.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Representatives Nita Lowey (D-NY18), Christopher Shays (R-CT4), Eliot Engel (D-NY17) and John Hall (D-NY19) today introduced legislation that would allow Westchester County to impose mandatory restrictions limiting the hours of operation at Westchester County Airport. The restrictions would protect the surrounding communities from the effects of aircraft noise exposure during overnight hours.Westchester County Airport is surrounded by the residential suburban communities of Harrison, Rye, North Castle, Rye Brook, Port Chester and Mount Pleasant, New York, as well as Greenwich, Connecticut. Restrictions on flight operations have been in place since 1981, but have been voluntary since 1983. The bill would allow the airport to once again impose mandatory restrictions without seeking prior approval from the Department of Transportation.“Westchester Airport is vitally important to our region, but its growth should not be at the expense of the tranquility of Westchester County,” Lowey said. “This bill would allow the county to impose restrictions that work for its residents, balancing their interests with those of a bustling airport.”“I appreciate the importance of Westchester Airport to its many users, but I am tremendously concerned that Westchester is on its way to becoming the region's fourth major airport, and that would mean constant flights, night and day, over most of Connecticut’s Fourth District,” Shays said. “We must not let Westchester Airport become the next LaGuardia, Kennedy or Newark. Because several commercial carriers have chosen to be poor corporate citizens and entirely disregard the existing voluntary curfew, it is entirely reasonable for the local community to decide it does not want planes taking off at five in the morning.”Congressman Engel said, “The people of Westchester deserve the peace and quiet that drew them here. It is not asking too much for airplanes to take off and land at reasonable times, in harmony with the peoples’ lifestyles.”“Westchester County Airport’s neighbors have a right to enjoy evenings at home without being plagued by excessive noise from air traffic,” said Hall. “This legislation would help restore the balance between community standards and airport operations by giving local authorities more control over the quality of life in their neighborhoods.”“We continually try to balance the needs of the airport users with the quality of life in the surrounding communities,” said Westchester County Executive Andy Spano. “We have done everything we can to make sure the airport has a positive effect on the environment. The one thing we cannot control is the planes – both private and commercial – that arrive late at night or that take off before dawn, in violation of our voluntary curfew. We need to have a mandatory curfew, and I thank our Members of Congress for submitting this legislation.” ###
05.04.2007	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Representatives Nita Lowey (D-NY18), John Hall (D-NY19) and Maurice Hinchey (D-NY22) yesterday introduced legislation that would require the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) to make sure nuclear power plant re-licensing takes into account the current environment in which the plant operates. The Nuclear Power Licensing Reform Act of 2007 would ensure that older power plants applying for license renewals, such as Indian Point, must meet the same stringent standards as new plants applying for the first time.“If Indian Point were proposed today, the community would be up in arms that a nuclear plant would be built in such a heavily populated area,” said Lowey. “Yet these plants are allowed to continue to operate without any consideration of how an area has changed over the past several decades. We need to reform the re-licensing process to take these changes into account.”"Indian Point's location in one of the nation's most densely populated areas creates a significant threat to public safety, and it's impossible to believe that a nuclear plant could be built in its location today,” said Congressman Hall. “If Indian Point hopes to be allowed to operate for another 20 years, it is absolutely necessary that it can meet and exceed the same stringent safety standards required of new plants. For a plant with an operational record as poor as Indian Point's, it would be unacceptable for the NRC to hold it to any less rigorous standard. This legislation will help to make sure that no corners are cut in the re-licensing process, and I am proud to be a cosponsor.""A lot of things have changed at Indian Point since the last time a license was issued for the plant and all of that must came into play as part of the license renewal process," Hinchey said. "Given that Indian Point is plagued with unplanned shutdowns, has experienced a recent fire, does not have properly installed emergency sirens, and is leaking radioactive material into the Hudson River, there is clearly a lot that needs to be addressed. It is 2007, not 1987 and Entergy must be held to much more rigorous standards in the re-licensing process. If FERC were to grant a license renewal now, Entergy would have little or no incentive to take the very important steps needed to improve safety at Indian Point."The Nuclear Power Licensing Reform Act would:* Make clear that any licensing, including initial licensing, must include a determination that the facility does not pose an unreasonable threat to persons or the environment because of safety or security vulnerabilities, including vulnerability to terrorist attacks;* Require that there exist adequate evacuation plans for emergency events and that those plans have been approved by the relevant Federal agencies and States within 50 miles of the facility;* Require that any renewed license must meet the same criteria and requirements that would be applicable for an original application for initial construction; and* Require the NRC to determine that any changes in the size or distribution of the surrounding population have not resulted in the facility being located at a site at which a new facility would not be allowed to be built. ###
05.03.2007	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today praised the Federal Emergency Management Agency’s (FEMA) decision to provide Public Assistance to 12 additional counties sustaining damage after the April Nor’easter, including Westchester and Rockland. The Public Assistance Program will assist state and local governments and certain private nonprofit organizations with emergency work and the repair or replacement of disaster-damaged facilities."I commend FEMA and Director Paulison for recognizing the continued needs facing residents of Westchester and Rockland Counties in the wake of the Nor’easter," Lowey said. "Countless lives and the infrastructure of many towns have been thrown into disarray. Continued assistance from FEMA is critical to getting people back on their feet. Cleaning up from this storm will cost at least tens of millions of dollars, and Public Assistance is a key component of funding the recovery."In Westchester and Rockland Counties, Public Assistance from FEMA can be used for a number of different causes and to defray certain expenses. Lowey hopes funds will be provided for repairs to the bridge over the Blind Brook in Rye, necessary repairs and refurbishment within the Bronxville School District, debris removal from public infrastructure (bridges, parks, etc), and overtime for first responders, among other priorities.Prior to Hurricane Katrina, Public Assistance was more limited with regard to private non-profits. Congresswoman Lowey was an original cosponsor of a law that strengthened FEMA, making Public Assistance more widely available by giving the President discretion to define more facilities that offer essential government services as eligible for funding. The law also made eligible for assistance facilities that provide health, safety, and education services.Also yesterday, the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee approved an authorization for the Army Corps of Engineers to begin building a long-term strategy to address and curb future flooding in Westchester and Rockland Counties."The flooding that has ravaged our communities in recent months has had devastating effects on families and businesses," Lowey said. "A long-term, forward-looking strategy is a long-overdue, but very welcome sign that progress is being made to address this critical situation."###
05.01.2007	WASHINGTON, DC – U2 lead singer and co-founder of DATA (Debt, Aids, Trade, Africa), Bono, today joined Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY), Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton (D-NY), Senator Gordon Smith (R-OR), and Congressman Spencer Bachus (R-AL) to launch the Education for All Act of 2007, which would provide $10 billion over the next five years to help developing countries meet the goal of universal basic education by 2015.Funding from the bill would support activities to train teachers, build schools, develop effective curricula, increase access to school lunch and school health programs, and increase parent and community involvement in schools.The 9/11 Commission recognized the importance of education and cited ensuring educational opportunity as essential to U.S. efforts to defeat global terrorism. According to the Commissioners, increasing educational access directly impacts U.S. national security because it contributes to global stability and prosperity.At the World Economic Forum in 2000, the U.S. joined the international community in setting the goal of achieving universal education by 2015. This goal, in addition to eliminating gender disparity at all levels of education, is also part of the U.N. Millennium Development Goals. At this point, however, at least 86 countries are unlikely to reach this target.Today, at least 77 million children of primary school age, a majority of which are girls, are not in school. Worldwide, half of school-age children who start primary school drop out. Hundreds of millions more are denied a secondary school education.“This legislation is the launching pad of what could be the next American moon-shot: universal primary education for the 77 million children around the world who aren’t in school because they are too poor. This is a huge, brazen and incredibly smart idea at a time when many are questioning our values in the West, or whether we have any values at all,” said Bono, co-founder of DATA. “Representatives Lowey and Bachus and Senators Clinton and Smith deserve thanks for the vision and leadership they have shown with this legislation. We'll do whatever we can to support their efforts to ensure this bill becomes law and will continue to push governments around the world on this issue."“Education is not just a building block, but the cornerstone of free societies,” Congresswoman Lowey said. “Unstable societies are a breeding ground for terrorists. In countries plagued by violence and strife, diseases like HIV/AIDS and Malaria, and poverty, education is an equalizing force. Today more than ever, education is a national security issue. It is the key to turning back the spiraling tide against fanaticism.”“Every child can learn. Every child can grow up to contribute to his or her family, community, and country. But today, not every child has that chance,” said Senator Clinton. “We are introducing the Education for All Act because we have the capacity, responsibility, and opportunity to help. All it takes now is the will, and I believe with bipartisan support we can turn this bill into law and we can lead the world in meeting the goal of universal basic education.”“Access to an education for impoverished youngsters helps them gain success and stability,” Senator Smith said. “Closing the school house door leaves them on the path to poverty and depravity. Americans want to help those in need, whether they are here at home or abroad. Better coordinating our efforts will improve our effectiveness.”“America is no longer isolated from countries halfway around the globe,” said Congressman Bachus. “A painful lesson we all learned in the aftermath of 9-11 is how their instability and poverty can have profound negative economic and social implications for us. Today we are engaged in what is essentially a battle of ideas with our enemies. If we are to win this ideological confrontation, education is both our best defense and our best offense.”The Education for All Act is endorsed By: The ONE Campaign, The Basic Education Coalition, The Academy for Educational Development, Save the Children, DATA, The International Rescue Committee, World Learning, The Global AIDS Alliance, The U.S. Global Campaign for Education, RESULTS, Education Development Center, Inc. (EDC), The Center for Universal Education at the Council on Foreign Relations, DevTech Systems, Inc. ###
04.24.2007	MAMARONECK, NY – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today toured storm damage with Senator Chuck Schumer, Colonel Aniello L. Tortora of the Army Corps of Engineers, and other local officials to highlight the need for a federal disaster declaration and a long-term comprehensive strategy to curb devastating flooding that has repeatedly hit Westchester County over the past two years.Lowey, Schumer, Senator Clinton and other members of the Congressional delegation have called on President Bush to make a major disaster declaration as requested by Governor Spitzer two days ago."First and foremost, it is critical that the President issue a disaster declaration as quickly as possible in order to begin the flow of federal flood assistance in the area," Lowey said. "In addition, the disastrous flooding in our region underscores how critical long-term planning is. Our communities have been hit hard and repeatedly this year by flooding. I am working to ensure that the Army Corps of Engineers has the ability to assist us in developing a countywide plan to curb flooding in the future."Lowey also highlighted the importance of getting small businesses reopened and back on their feet. In a letter sent yesterday to SBA Administrator Steven Preston, Lowey called on the SBA to immediately take steps so that businesses in the affected areas may report damage and begin the process to receive the various forms of assistance offered by SBA. Congresswoman Lowey repeated that call today."People’s livelihoods are at stake," Lowey continued. "The Small Business Administration must do everything it can to help businesses ravaged by this storm as quickly as possible. SBA should not wait on the President to decide about a disaster declaration before it starts working with businesses on relief efforts."In recent weeks, the House of Representatives has passed bills that would help address several flood-related challenges facing local communities. Last month, Lowey voted for legislation to provide over $15 billion in funds to address water infrastructure needs and solve sewer overflow problems. This week, she supported the Small Business Recovery Act to force SBA to develop a comprehensive disaster response plan, maintain a trained disaster reserve corps, increase loan limits from $1.5 million to $3 million, and expand the scope of businesses that can qualify for SBA disaster loans. ###
04.24.2007	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today lauded the White House’s decision to issue a major disaster declaration for parts of New York affected by last week’s Nor’easter and flooding. Lowey issued the following statement:“I commend the President for acting so quickly to recognize the critical needs facing Westchester and Rockland Counties in the wake of the Nor’easter,” Lowey said. “Today’s disaster declaration will help local residents get their lives back in order and help local businesses get back on their feet by beginning the flow of desperately-needed federal aid. Now that we’ve crossed this major hurdle, we must also focus on implementing long-term flood prevention measures.” ###
04.18.2007	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) was joined today by Congressmen Eliot Engel (D-NY17), Maurice Hinchey (D-NY22) and John Hall (D-NY19) in sending a letter to President Bush urging him to provide the disaster assistance Governor Spitzer requested for parts of New York affected by recent flooding and storms."It is vitally important that the areas ravaged by the nor’easter be given the federal support they need," Lowey said. "I will continue working closely with the Governor, County Executive Spano, and local governments in the coming days and weeks to press for the federal government’s support to address the aftermath of the flooding. I urge the White House to review and approve this request as quickly as possible."Congressman Eliot Engel said, "There are reports back from inspection teams saying that the damage is worse then anyone thought. Homes and businesses have been destroyed. Not only must the Federal government step in now, we must put together a program to prevent future flooding so the people of the Hudson Valley will not have to face this trauma again. Gov. Spitzer was quick to react and I fully support his call for Federal disaster relief.""Our area was pounded with a devastating storm that has left millions of New Yorkers looking for help, which is why we need the federal government to step in and provide the resources that can help people get back on their feet," Hinchey said. "Governor Spitzer moved quickly to request disaster relief and my colleagues and I today are urging President Bush to respond immediately with the necessary funding and support.""The flooding brought on by this devastating storm has affected homes and businesses throughout the Hudson Valley," said Hall. "FEMA needs to take swift action to help our communities cope with the widespread damage from this heavy rainstorm. Federal aid will be needed to ensure that the region recovers quickly and local families can begin to rebuild their lives as soon as possible." ###
04.18.2007	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today blasted new Transportation Security Administration (TSA) regulations for screening airport employees. The new regulations come in the wake of an incident at Orlando International Airport where two employees smuggled guns and marijuana onto a flight to Puerto Rico without ever passing through security.Lowey, who has introduced legislation calling for the screening of all airport employees with access to secure locations, issued the following statement in response:“TSA’s new regulations are one more weak substitute for full screening. Nothing less than 100 percent screening of workers at all airports will close this gaping hole in air security. Meticulously screening passengers while inconsistently screening workers is like installing an expensive home security system but leaving your back door wide open.”According to TSA Administrator Kip Hawley, TSA’s new six-point plan includes: behavioral recognition, employee training, targeted physical inspection, biometric access control, certifying certain employees to allow them greater access after additional screening, and technology deployment.The House Homeland Security Subcommittee on Transportation Security and Infrastructure Protection tomorrow will hold a hearing on airport security and consider legislation offered by Lowey to create a pilot program to require the physical screening of all workers at five airports, including two defined as “hub” airports. The legislation would mandate that airports screen all workers with access to secure and sterile areas under the same standards that apply to passengers as a first step toward screening workers at every airport in the country. ###
04.16.2007	WHITE PLAINS, NY – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today issued the following statement as heavy rains continue to flood homes, businesses and roads across Westchester and Rockland Counties:“As this nor'easter continues to pummel our region, our local and county officials, first responders, and National Guard are doing a tremendous job under difficult circumstances. Without their preparations and efforts, this situation could have been exponentially worse.“The federal government has already initiated its response to the flooding, sending teams across the affected area to survey the storm’s aftermath. This is the first step in what must be a comprehensive approach at all levels of government.“As the flooding tapers off and we assess the damage, I will push the federal government to assist the people of Westchester and Rockland as we work to recover from the storm.” ###
03.30.2007	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey, Chairwoman of the Foreign Operations Appropriations Subcommittee, released the following statement today:“The U.S. Department of State recently notified me and other Congressional leaders of its revised proposal for $59 million for Palestinian security assistance, in light of the Mecca Agreement and the new Unity Government of the Palestinian Authority.“Although I remain troubled that the Unity Government is unwilling to be a partner for peace with Israel, I am persuaded by Secretary of State Rice and the Government of Israel that United States security assistance is necessary to prevent the collapse of any chance for a peace agreement.“This new request, which has been reduced to $59 million, will be limited to training and non-lethal equipment for the Presidential Guard under President Abbas and improving the physical security infrastructure on the Palestinian side of the Karni/al-Mintar crossing point between Gaza and Israel, which is Gaza’s economic lifeline. By improving efficiency and security at this critical commercial crossing, this assistance will help to improve the security at Karni and, ultimately, economic conditions for the Palestinian people.“U.S. participation will ensure that we will be a key player in the multi-donor, international effort to strengthen forces loyal to Abu Mazin through training and equipment for his Presidential Guard. None of these funds will be provided directly to the PA or President Abbas.“In briefings and discussions with Secretary Rice and General Dayton, I have insisted upon transparency, accountability, strong predetermined benchmarks for what our assistance can achieve and concrete measures for our progress toward these benchmarks. I have received assurances that there will be proper vetting procedures to ensure that no training and equipment benefits anyone with links to terrorist organizations.” ###
03.28.2007	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today joined her House colleagues in passing H.R. 1538, the Wounded Warriors Assistance Act. This legislation responds to the problems brought to light at the Walter Reed Army Medical Center and other military health care facilities."Our military and our veterans deserve the very best we can provide," Lowey said. "They deserve the best equipment, the best training and certainly the best medical care. The problems at Walter Reed and across the VA health system are inexcusable and require immediate and effective action. Ensuring that our military men and women have the care they deserve is a promise we must keep."H.R. 1538 includes provisions to improve access to quality medical care for wounded service members who are outpatients at military health care facilities; begin restoring the integrity and efficiency of the disability evaluation system including cutting through bureaucratic red-tape; and improve the transition of wounded service members from the Armed Forces to the VA health system.Lowey’s efforts in this area extend beyond today’s action. She has also introduced legislation to improve VA hospitals by forcing the Department of Veterans Affairs to establish a formal Hospital Report Card Initiative and publish reports on individual hospital care. The report cards would evaluate quality measures including effectiveness, safety, timeliness and efficiency. These reporting requirements would force the VA to establish regular self-assessment of its hospital system and provide our veterans the information they need to make important health care decisions.Additionally, Lowey has called on the VA to partner with civilian rehabilitation centers to help treat some of the worst traumatic brain injury (TBI) cases. Over 1,500 Iraq and Afghanistan veterans have suffered devastating brain injuries, and such a partnership would provide veterans with the best care possible. ###
03.23.2007	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today delivered the following statement regarding H.R. 1591, the U.S. Troop Readiness, Veterans' Health, and Iraq Accountability Act of 2007, which sets benchmarks and a timetable for withdrawal. The following is her statement as prepared for delivery:“Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 1591 and commend Chairman Obey, Chairman Murtha and our Speaker for putting together a bill that protects our troops, responds to the will of the American people, and preserves our nation’s interests. Our men and women in uniform have served with honor and courage, but we are not doing our part. Our Armed Forces are not battle ready nor is their mission clear and achievable. There is no definition of victory, the nature of the battle has changed, and our troops now find themselves policing a bloody civil war. It is well past time to set clear parameters for this war.“Since the beginning, this war and reconstruction efforts have been ill-managed. Just yesterday, the Iraq IG reported yet again on how unprepared the Administration was for the task of reconstruction. The Defense Department had no strategy for restoring government institutions, establishing security, or rebuilding infrastructure, and the State Department was completely cut out of the loop.“There continues to be a lack of coordination and strategy to achieve our objectives. Putting billions of dollars more into this war without any parameters and risking the lives of more of our brave men and women is not only foolish, it is immoral. As the New York Times editorial noted on Thursday, if the President won’t step up to the task of setting benchmarks and ensuring the safety of our troops, then it falls to us—this Congress.“Mr. Speaker, this bill does just that—we are stepping up to our responsibilities. This legislation does not micromanage the war as many of my colleagues on the other side of the aisle claim; it is a very carefully considered approach to bringing accountability to the execution of the war and to the reconstruction efforts. Moreover, it sets a date certain for the end of this war so we can bring our troops home.“No amount of American blood or treasure can help Iraq if the Iraqis don’t help themselves. The Maliki government must exhibit the political will to confront extremists on both sides of the Sunni-Shi’a divide, to give all segments of society a stake in Iraq’s future, and to put Iraqi revenues towards the hard task of reconstruction. Congress didn’t pull these benchmarks from thin air -- they were put forth by the Iraqis and by President Bush in his January 10th speech.“Mr. Speaker, we are already into the fifth year of this war. This bill provides the funding the President requested, but it does not do so unconditionally. This bill sets benchmarks and provides a date certain for withdrawal. The days of open-ended commitment and unilateral check-writing privileges are over. This bill deals with Iraq responsibly, and I urge my colleagues to support it.” ###
03.21.2007	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY), the Chairwoman of the Subcommittee, gave the following statement:*As Prepared for Delivery*“I want to welcome Secretary Rice to the Subcommittee on State, Foreign Operations and Related Programs hearing on the President’s fiscal year 2008 International Affairs budget request. I recognize that you have a busy schedule, and I want to thank you for returning to our subcommittee to present the FY2008 budget.“Madam Secretary, I was pleased to see that for the first time, the Administration’s request for State, Foreign Operations is considered part of the National Security budget. I have long believed that our diplomatic and development programs are our first line of defense. Access to clean water, health care and education—a chance to improve one’s position in life—deprives terrorists of a base from which to recruit.“You are seeking a total of $34.9 billion in funding for state department operations and foreign assistance funds within the jurisdiction of this subcommittee, an increase of $3.7 billion or 12% over what Congress appropriated in FY2007. I strongly agree with the need to increase our international affairs budget, but I am disappointed that funding for essential programs like family planning, child and maternal health and other development funding was actually decreased. Our development aid is central to the war on terrorism, and your request minimizes the importance of these programs.“Before I address the regional issues, let me just note that the FY2008 request contains a sizable increase in the operating costs of the State Department yet cuts funding for USAID’s operating costs. I do not understand how on one hand you express concern about the lack of technical expertise at USAID and at the same time seek to cut their operating costs. Creating a civilian reserve force at the State department is not a sustainable solution. Over the past decade, USAID has increasingly been stripped of its policy role and its technical expertise. The result, as you have noted yourself, is that AID has become more of a procurement mechanism and less of a policy shop. This is a real loss to our foreign policy and is very shortsighted.“It seems the major increases in your budget are directed to the HIV/AIDS program, the Millennium Challenge Account, and for Global War on Terror countries. While I appreciate the importance of these programs, I am concerned about the resulting impact on the core development budget in Latin America and Africa and the steep decline in funding for Eastern Europe and the former Soviet countries.“For example, while your budget shows an impressive $2 billion increase in funding for Africa between FY06 enacted levels and the FY2008 request, virtually all of that increase is for HIV/AIDS and TB. Development Assistance, managed by USAID, is cut by $100 million and food aid is cut by $400 million.“My concern on the African continent is that we seem to be increasingly focusing our assistance on one intervention at a time, one disease at a time. Sustainable progress against any one problem requires a more comprehensive approach that addresses the underlying root problems of poverty, lack of infrastructure, health and education.“Furthermore, it seems in some places that the State Department and USAID are increasingly being replaced by the Defense Department. I do hope that you are retaining control of U.S. foreign policy in Africa and that the military is fully vetting and coordinating their activities with you.“I was also surprised to see that the Administration has requested no money under PKO for the African Union peacekeeping mission in Sudan (AMIS). In fact your FY2007 Supplemental request for Darfur and your FY2008 request reflect conflicting policy positions. I am troubled that the continuing recalcitrance from the Government of Sudan and the inability to get a UN mission off the ground, will lead to an even more detrimental situation in Darfur. Add to that a budget that factors in no funding for AMIS, the only force on the ground, and I am afraid that we will once again be caught short on funding, and civilians and humanitarian workers will suffer.“In Latin America we are witnessing a reversal of the political and economic gains made over the last several decades. Yet, overall funding for Latin America is decreased by nearly $150 million. As U.S. funding declines, other investors—many that do not hold our high human rights and labor standards are moving in. During my visit to the Andean countries last year, it was clear that China was becoming a major player in the energy sector. However, not all countries in that region are experiencing a decline in funding. I was surprised to see a quadrupling of your request for Cuba, and despite billions in a failed counter-narcotic strategy Colombia continues to see robust funding increases. I hope you can elaborate on how the administration is picking winners and losers in Latin America.“In South Asia, I recognize that President Musharraf is in a difficult situation and that he has provided vital cooperation in the Global War on Terror. Your budget requests nearly $800 million for Pakistan. Virtually all of that goes to the government of Pakistan in military assistance and budget support. However our experience with the earthquake has shown us that direct assistance to the Pakistani people has had an important impact on winning hearts and minds. I hope you can comment on what the U.S. is doing to work with the government and civil society organizations to promote human rights and to ensure that the upcoming elections are free, fair and transparent.“In addition, there seems to be a great deal of tension between President Karzai and President Musharraf. How are you resolving this?“In Afghanistan, I fear that we continue to do too little too late. Inadequate focus on the poppy problem has left us with few good options. However, I am alarmed by the proposal of our new ambassador to conduct a spraying campaign in Afghanistan. We can see that under Plan Colombia, after seven years and 5 billion dollars, illicit drug production has actually increased. Now it seems you are planning to export these failed policies to Afghanistan, where such a plan could well start an all out war. I expect Congress to be fully consulted before you embark on any program of spraying in Afghanistan.“Finally, let me turn to the Middle East. I hope you will update us on the most recent developments with the Palestinian Unity government that was approved this weekend. The Unity government stopped well short of meeting the quartet conditions. What will be the U.S. response and how will this impact the previously proposed security assistance package for forces loyal to President Abbas, which we have discussed?“Finally, on Iran, which is of grave concern, I look forward to your assessment of the meeting in Baghdad on March 10. But before I turn to you, let me turn to the Ranking Member, Rep. Frank Wolf, for any comments he may wish to make.” ###
03.19.2007	White Plains, NY – Congresswoman Nita Lowey today issued the following statement on the four-year anniversary of the beginning of the war in Iraq:“Today, as we enter the fifth year of the war in Iraq, we honor the memory of the more than 3,000 U.S. troops who have given their lives in this conflict, the sacrifice of the more than 20,000 who have been wounded, and the service of the American men and women in Iraq today.“This war has taken a heavy toll on our military and their families, decreasing troop readiness, overwhelming our military and veterans health systems, and compromising our ability to respond to threats, and it has diminished our reputation abroad.“As we take stock of all our country has lost in this ill-managed war, we must chart a new direction in Iraq. Clear parameters for our involvement in this conflict must be set, and Iraqis must take control of their own country. That is why I fully support the benchmarks Congress will consider later this week to require the President to certify that the Iraqis take responsibility for security in all of Iraq’s provinces by November 2007; pass legislation to share oil revenues among all Iraqis; spend $10 billion of their own money on reconstruction; hold provincial elections in 2007; and establish a process to reform the Constitution and the de-Baathification laws.“Under these provisions, a redeployment of U.S. troops must begin no later than March 1, 2008, and be completed by August 31, 2008. By passing these measures, Congress will hold the Bush Administration accountable for the war in Iraq so that we can bring our troops home safely as soon as possible.” ###
03.19.2007	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, on the four-year anniversary of the start of the Iraq war, Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) outlined a two-pronged approach to providing better health care to America’s veterans, especially those injured in the war in Iraq.Lowey sent a letter to Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) Secretary Nicholson today calling on the VA to partner with civilian rehabilitation centers to help treat some of the worst traumatic brain injury (TBI) cases. Over 1,500 Iraq and Afghanistan veterans have suffered devastating brain injuries, and such a partnership would provide veterans with the best care possible.Currently, severely brain-injured soldiers are first treated at military hospitals where they remain covered by an active military insurance policy that in some cases pays for private care. In many cases, however, the military quickly initiates a medical retirement process that turns the soldiers health care over to the VA, which is less experienced in caring for TBI and generally does not pay for private care."We owe it to the men and women who are suffering injuries as a result of putting their lives on the line for our country to provide them with the most state-of-the-art care available," Lowey said. "If the VA cannot currently provide such care, we must turn to the private facilities that can to meet this daunting medical challenge. Our military veterans deserve nothing less than the absolute very best. We owe it to our veterans and the soldiers of today to ensure that their sacrifice is honored with quality health care.""State-of-the-art care and rehabilitation services are available today at facilities across the country," said Jerry Donnellan, Director of the Rockland County Veterans Services Agency. "The Department of Veterans Affairs owes it to our veterans to utilize all the options available, especially with the knowledge that casualties are only going increase, and based on reports that they already cannot handle the incredible need that exists."Additionally, Lowey has introduced legislation to improve VA hospitals by forcing the Department of Veterans Affairs to establish a formal Hospital Report Card Initiative and publish reports on individual hospital care. The report cards would evaluate quality measures including effectiveness, safety, timeliness and efficiency. These reporting requirements would force the VA to establish regular self-assessment of its hospital system and provide our veterans the information they need to make important health care decisions. ###
03.13.2007	WASHINGTON, DC – The Transportation Security Administration (TSA) today issued a security surge for five airports based in Florida and Puerto Rico calling to increase screening of airport personnel in response to last week’s security breach at Orlando International Airport. Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), who has introduced legislation calling for the screening of all airport employees with access to secure locations, issued the following statement in response:“Nearly six years after September 11th, TSA is finally responding to a gaping hole in airport security. However, this response is inadequate. A temporary surge is not a solution to this long-term security gap, and nothing less than 100 percent screening of workers at all airports will close this loophole for good. TSA must recognize the severity of this situation and act to better protect all our airports before it’s too late.” ###
03.13.2007	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today joined her colleagues on the House Committee on Homeland Security passing the Rail and Public Transportation Security Act of 2007, which would address critical transportation shortcomings in our overall homeland security strategy.“For 11.3 million Americans, riding the rails and using mass transit are a part of the daily routine,” Lowey said. “Yet inexplicably, the Administration continues to dangerously under-fund rail security measures, ignoring clear risks to our infrastructure and Americans everywhere. The bill the House Homeland Security Committee passed today addresses a number of critical concerns, and I look forward to its passage by the full House.”The bill, H.R. 1401, would require a national rail and public transportation security plan, clarifying roles and responsibilities of federal, state and local agencies, in addition to strengthening intelligence sharing.It would also authorize $600 million per year for FY08-FY11 for a grant program dedicated to rail security and a total of $3.36 billion over fiscal years FY08-FY11 for a grant program dedicated to public transportation security. The grants would be distributed based on priorities established by the Department of Homeland Security.Also, the bill would authorize $140 million in grants for Amtrak to improve tunnels in the Northeast corridor, including improvements to six tunnels in New York City.In contrast, the President’s budget request for FY07 only allocated $41.4 million in the Transportation Security Administration’s (TSA’s) budget for surface transportation security – less than one percent of TSA’s overall budget. ###
03.08.2007	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today introduced legislation to close a gaping hole in airport security. Her bill, which is cosponsored by Homeland Security Committee Chairman Bennie G. Thompson (D-MS), would create a pilot program to require the physical screening of all workers at five airports, including two defined as “hub” airports. The legislation would mandate that airports screen all workers with access to secure and sterile areas under the same standards that apply to passengers.In 2001, Congress recognized this flaw in security and passed the Aviation and Transportation Security Act, requiring that the Transportation Security Agency (TSA) implement full worker screening. More than five years later, TSA has failed to implement this basic policy or even set a deadline for doing so.“It’s unfathomable that more than five years after September 11th, a measure as fundamental and simple as this one still has not been implemented,” said Lowey, who serves on the House Committee on Homeland Security. “Meticulously screening passengers but giving workers open access is like installing an expensive home security system but leaving your back door wide open.”“In order to better secure our skies, we put our baggage, cargo, passengers and pilots through rigorous inspection,” said Thompson. “However, many airport employees are currently free to roam wherever they want, even in ‘sterile’ areas without prior screening. This poses a serious security gap that could be exploited for the purposes of carrying out criminal activity, or even a terrorist attack on our nation. With the creation of this pilot program all employees with access to secure areas will be screened, this is critical first step in addressing this vulnerability.”Lowey’s bill requires standards that are already in place at airports in other countries. At London’s Heathrow Airport, the busiest international airport in the world, 100 percent of workers are screened. ###
03.05.2007	LAGUARDIA, N.Y. – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today was joined by American Federation of Government Employees (AFGE) National Vice President Derrick Thomas and TSA screeners at LaGuardia Airport to condemn the White House’s threat to veto legislation implementing key recommendations of the 9/11 Commission over an air security provision written by Rep. Lowey.The provision, which the House passed in January as part of the Implementing the 9/11 Commission Recommendations Act of 2007, would grant collective-bargaining rights to more than 42,000 federal airport screeners – the same rights held by employees of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), Customs and Border Patrol, and civilian employees of the Coast Guard. These measures would lead to a more professional, experienced and better-trained force of TSA screeners, stemming a tide of attrition, absenteeism and job dissatisfaction that plagues TSA.“The debate we’re having today is over how best to secure our airports and safeguard our skies,” Lowey said. “It’s shocking to me that more than five years after the September 11th attacks, the Administration still hasn’t learned the lesson that homeland security begins with the men and women on the front lines – people like our airport screeners. Ensuring that they are well-trained and experienced should be a point of bipartisan agreement, not an obstacle to implementing a broader set of homeland security improvements.”“The notion that granting bargaining rights to TSOs would result in a less flexible workforce is just plain nonsense and it is also an insult to the hundreds of thousands of dedicated public safety officers with collective bargaining rights from border patrol agents to firefighters to the Capitol Hill police," said Derrick Thomas, 14th District national vice president of the American Federation of Government Employees which represents TSOs as well as employees at 22 other agencies within the Department of Homeland Security.Lowey’s provision would provide much needed anti-discrimination and whistle-blower protections, retirement benefits, veterans’ preference for employment, and collective bargaining rights for workplace quality standards, assignment rotations, leave policies, and dispute resolution.The U.S. Senate is currently debating legislation to implement 9/11 Commission recommendations which includes a measure similar to Lowey’s. In the wake of the veto threat, debate has focused on amending this portion of the bill. Lowey has vowed to fight for the workplace protections offered by her provisions when the House and Senate negotiate the final version of the bill.###
03.01.2007	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, as the U.S. Senate debates legislation that would implement key 9/11 Commission recommendations, the White House reiterated its veto threat over a provision included by Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey. The provision would grant collective-bargaining rights to more than 42,000 federal airport screeners – the same rights enjoyed by employees of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), Customs and Border Patrol, and civilian employees of the Coast Guard.Lowey released the following statement in the wake of the White House’s threat:“It’s unbelievable that the White House would even consider vetoing this vital piece of legislation over a provision that would, in fact, make our airports safer.“These workers are on the front lines when it comes to protecting Americans from the very real threat of terrorism in the skies. Yet, because they lack adequate workplace protections, they suffer from high turnover, absenteeism and job dissatisfaction.“Reversing these trends is key to maintaining an experienced, skilled security force in our airports, and requires professionalizing these jobs, offering a clear career path, and treating these men and women with respect. Granting collective-bargaining rights will ensure that screeners build careers to help protect the flying public and secure our skies.“I believe this provision is of paramount importance, and I will continue to fight for it.” ###
03.01.2007	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY), the Chairwoman of the Subcommittee, gave the following statement:*As Prepared for Delivery*“Today we welcome Ambassador Mark Dybul, Director of the President’s Global HIV/AIDS Initiative. We are pleased to have you join us for a second year to discuss the President’s fiscal year 2008 request for the Global AIDS Initiative, which includes funding for HIV/AIDS and TB programs. Unlike previous years, we will not focus on malaria until a later hearing.“I am very pleased that this subcommittee was able to increase funding for HIV/AIDS, TB and malaria programs in the FY 2007 Continuing Resolution to $4.556 billion, $500 million over the President’s request. The President’s FY2008 budget request includes $5.38 billion, a 15% increase, continuing the growth in these programs.“This funding has had results: 822,000 people are on antiretroviral therapy, 61.5 million people have been reached through HIV prevention community outreach programs, and over 2 million orphans have received assistance. We can all be proud of these results, achieved in partnership with thousands of health care workers overseas.“However, the pandemic is unyielding. UNAIDS reported in 2006 that 39.5 million people were living with HIV with new infections on the rise. Disconcerting evidence indicates that some countries, which previously had stable or declining HIV rates, are seeing a resurgence of new cases. While our efforts are impressive, they are clearly not enough.“You reported that you anticipate meeting the goals, outlined in the authorizing legislation, “the U.S. leadership against HIV/AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria Act of 2003”, of treating 2 million people, averting 7 million infections, and providing care to 10 million people by the end of FY2008.“In addition, you state that you are on target to meet the 33 percent set aside for abstinence-until-marriage programs within the prevention earmark. I remain quite concerned that this large allocation places undue restrictions on prevention dollars and may often be culturally or contextually inappropriate. Furthermore, I am concerned that insufficient dollars are going toward prevention programs considering the continued growth of the epidemic. In places such as Haiti, Kenya and South Africa, where we have prevention programs in place, young people have fewer partners and increased condom use. Can you give us insight into PEPFAR’s prevention activities in these countries and what strategies might be making a difference? I would like to hear from you on whether PEPFAR’s current allocation of 20% for prevention is enough.“Additionally, the evidence is clear that basic education is also a highly cost effective prevention intervention. Better-educated girls tend to delay having sex and are more likely to require their partners to use condoms. Over the past few years, I have worked to expand funding for basic education programs in the hope that better educated children will make smarter decisions for themselves and their families.“I also remain concerned that not enough is being done to increase access to family planning for HIV positive women, to expand prevention programs targeted at men and to incorporate child and maternal health and malaria interventions into the Emergency Plan. I would also like to hear about your plans for the continuation of support for microbicides research in the coming year.“PEPFAR’s focused and targeted activities have had successes. However, this concentration on short-term outcomes has led to unforeseen consequences. The HIV/AIDS pandemic is not only a public health emergency but has also had a catastrophic impact on other development sectors. Our efforts must be multi-faceted and multi-sectoral.“Beyond prevention, I strongly support the Emergency Plan’s efforts to provide ARV treatment, which provides hope to the millions currently infected. In the past year, PEPFAR has made some strides in expanding the use of generic antiretroviral therapy. I urge you to continue this trend so that U.S. dollars are used most efficiently.“Clearly, the solution to the HIV/AIDS pandemic is larger than any one donor, and I am proud that the United States remains committed to the Global Fund. However, as in previous years, the President’s FY2008 budget request reduced the contribution to the Global Fund to a total of $300 million - $424 million below FY 2007 levels. Additionally, this entire amount was included in the Labor, Health and Human Services proposed budget. Not only could this contribution deny resources to other important research activities funded from the NIAID budget, but it also takes away the proper oversight role that this Subcommittee has had over the Fund’s activities. I am committed to maintaining the Subcommittee’s leadership role and I would like to hear your explanation for why these funds were not included in the State and Foreign Operations budget request.“Lastly, recent Boston Globe reports outlining the misuse of resources by Global Fund employees are disturbing. As you know, my ranking member, Mr. Wolf, raised these concerns with Secretary Rice last week and asked her to provide information on what the Administration is doing to ensure that the Fund’s resources are used as intended – to save lives. I also bring to your attention the language that this subcommittee has included in our bill that conditions 20% of the US contribution on the ability of the Fund to show that it is efficient, transparent and accountable. In light of the recent findings, we will be examining what additional measures are needed to ensure that the important and lifesaving work of the Global Fund is not hampered. I hope you will discuss the steps the U.S. is taking, as a Board member, to this end.“Ambassador Dybul, I look forward to hearing your remarks and working with you on these and other issues. Before we move to your testimony let me turn to my Ranking Member, Mr. Wolf, for his opening statement.” ###
02.28.2007	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Senator Charles E. Schumer, Congresswoman Nita Lowey, and Congressman Joseph Crowley today lauded the groundbreaking for a new air traffic control tower at LaGuardia Airport. Schumer, Lowey and Crowley said the new tower will help ease crippling flight delays at the airport and help controllers manage traffic on the runways."After a year filled with flight delays and near-runway accidents in the New York City area, this new control tower is essential to reducing delays and improving safety on the ground and in the skies," said Senator Schumer. "Today's groundbreaking at LaGuardia is a crucial step towards giving air traffic controllers and New York passengers the first-class treatment they deserve.""Today's groundbreaking brings LaGuardia one very important step closer to having its new tower," Lowey said. "The new tower will immediately improve safety and efficiency at one of our country's busiest airports. After years of fighting for this funding, I'm thrilled by today's groundbreaking.""A new air control tower will vastly improve safety standards and efficiency at LaGuardia, a major national transportation hub serving tens of millions of passengers annually," said Congressman Crowley, whose district includes LaGuardia Airport. "We will finally be able to see the fruits of our labor after fighting in Congress for years to get this project to replace the deteriorating old tower under way. I thank Senator Chuck Schumer and Congresswoman Nita Lowey for their work in helping to secure these funds for this critical step in improving air safety at LaGuardia Airport."The final plan for the new air traffic control tower includes a replacement of the aging 42-year-old control tower and the ability to install a Category II Instrument Approach, which allows aircraft to land during periods of inclement weather. The new tower will reduce delays and improve safety on the ground and in the skies.The current tower at LaGuardia is plagued by many safety concerns and limitations including visibility problems due to the US Airways terminal obstructing the view of certain taxiways. Not having an aircraft in sight visually from the tower compromises the efficiency and the safety of the airport. The size and capability of the current tower are also major liabilities as they make it very difficult to install new technical equipment, depriving air traffic controllers of the best available equipment for aviation safety. In addition, the constant installation and removal of equipment from the tower's roof and the decrepit state of the tower's structure have caused leaks to develop inside the tower itself. Over the past two years, leaks have forced air traffic controllers to install tarps directly above their heads. On numerous occasions, water has leaked onto the equipment and the controllers, interrupting operations and compromising the safety and efficiency of air traffic operations.The site selection for the new tower was approved June 1994. The initial Environmental Assessment was approved February 1997 and re-validated September 2004. The initial design of the facility commenced June 1997, and the final design was completed March 2006.Construction began on December 4, 2006, and the commissioning of the tower is scheduled for June 2010. ###
02.16.2007	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY), the Chairwoman of the Subcommittee, gave the following statement:*As Prepared for Delivery*“I want to welcome Secretary Rice to the Subcommittee on State, Foreign Operations and Related Programs hearing on the President’s request for Emergency Supplemental Appropriations for Fiscal Year 2007. I recognize that you have a busy schedule and that you are heading to the Middle East for trilateral talks with Prime Minister Olmert and President Abbas.“However, with the Administration asking for nearly $6 billion dollars in the FY07 supplemental for Iraq, Afghanistan, Lebanon, Sudan, Somalia and Kosovo, I think it is important to consider these requests separately from the base bill. So I thank you for delaying your departure long enough to testify today.“I would also like to note that as you know, I placed a hold on your request for $86 million dollars which was to provide security assistance for Palestinian forces loyal to President Mahmoud Abbas. I placed this hold before the Mecca summit because I have had questions since December that have yet to be answered. However, the Mecca summit raises additional questions and concerns and I look forward to receiving your response and hearing your report when you return.“Let me begin by expressing my frustration and grave misgivings about the situation in Iraq and Afghanistan. The war in Iraq was ill-conceived, poorly-planned and incompetently-executed. We are now mired in an ethnic and religious civil war which threatens to destabilize not only Iraq but the entire region.“The Iraq war has cost far too many lives and too much money. After four years and $38 billion for Iraq relief and reconstruction, what have we achieved? The delivery of essential services is at or below the pre-war levels during Saddam’s regime. Work done by contractors often has not been adequately monitored and has resulted in wasted resources and cost overruns. The Baghdad police academy, which cost taxpayers $75 million dollars and resulted in a building with raw sewage dripping from the ceiling, is only the most egregious example.“The President stated in his January 10th speech that America will hold the Iraqi government to certain benchmarks. Madame Secretary, I hope you will provide a fixed timetable for achieving these benchmarks, the criteria for determining if they have been met and the consequences if they have not.“I am particularly interested in how you will ensure that Iraq spends the $10 billion of its own revenues on reconstruction and how this spending will be monitored.“While I am glad that you have finally appointed a coordinator for Iraq reconstruction, I am concerned that he has neither the mandate nor the authority to truly oversee and coordinate all of the pots of money and branches of government that are currently working in Iraq.“In Afghanistan, I fear that we continue to do too little too late. Chances for consolidating success early on were lost as the Administration diverted its attention to Iraq. Now, the Taliban and Al Qaeda are growing stronger and the Karzai government is struggling to meet the expectations of the Afghan people. Corruption, lack of political will and lack of international support have plagued our efforts. We cannot afford to fail in Afghanistan; yet the news grows grimmer everyday.“Madame Secretary, you have requested $769.5 million for Lebanon. While I agree that the international community needs to help rebuild Lebanon and strengthen the Siniora government against Hezbollah, I have concerns about providing budget support in this volatile environment. If we are going to provide such a large sum of FMF funding to train and equip the Lebanese Army, then I would like some assurances and conditionality that the Lebanese Army will be deployed to secure the border to stop Hezbollah attacks against Israel.“I am very disturbed by the ominous drumbeat of an approaching conflict with Iran. While I do believe that Iran is playing a very destabilizing role in the region and I support the tough financial sanctions, I don’t think the American public is prepared to support another conflict. I am deeply perturbed by the reports in the Washington Post on Wednesday that this administration ignored credible overtures from the government of Iran in May of 2003, before Ahmadinejad, to engage in talks on a full range of issues including Iran’s nuclear program, cooperation on terrorism, Iraq, and the Israeli-Palestinian issues. I hope to pursue this matter with you further during the question period.“Finally, I look forward to hearing from you on what if any progress has been made in deploying UN peacekeepers to Darfur. It has been over two years since Congress and the Administration declared the atrocities in Darfur to be genocide, and yet the violence continues unabated and we have made little progress in resolving this calamity.“Let me turn to my Ranking Member, Rep. Frank Wolf, for any comments he may wish to make.” ###
02.15.2007	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today delivered the following statement on the floor of the House of Representatives regarding H.Con.Res. 63, which reconfirmed Congress' committment to our troops and expressed opposition to the President's plan to escalate U.S. troop levels in Iraq by more than 20,000.“A violent civil war is raging in Iraq with atrocities against innocent civilians mounting every day. Our troops are caught in the crossfire, dying and being maimed driving on local roads, patrolling neighborhoods, and moving about by helicopter. What is their mission today? What is the strategic objective of the escalation proposed by the President?“President Bush’s plan to deploy 20,000 additional U.S. combat troops to Iraq is not a new strategy, and nothing I have seen or heard has convinced me that this escalation will make a positive difference in Iraq or hasten the safe return of U.S. troops. In fact, General Abizaid said that “more American forces prevent the Iraqis…from taking responsibility for their own future.” Four previous troop surges between December 2003 and October 2006 have not made a dent in the level of violence nor in the number of U.S. casualties.“We have spent nearly $500 billion in Iraq and Afghanistan and yet inexplicably our troops still do not have the protection they need. Throughout this war, many in Congress have addressed the lack of equipment and protection for our troops. Now, military leaders are saying that there are not enough armor kits and vehicles to protect these additional five brigades the President plans to send to Iraq. It is unacceptable to send more soldiers to Iraq, but it is unconscionable to send them without proper armaments or an explanation from the Administration about how our troops will be protected.“3132 Americans in uniform have died and 23,417 have been wounded since the start of the war in Iraq. I visited our wounded soldiers at Walter Reed, and Bethesda Naval Hospital, and most recently at Landstuhl Military Hospital in Germany during my visit to Iraq with the Speaker. I stood at the bedside of a 23 year old severely wounded soldier – a soldier who was holding the hand of his 21 year old brother, currently serving in Iraq, and the hand of his father, who had also served in the armed forces – a soldier who will likely never come home. These families are making the ultimate sacrifice for our country. I am humbled by their commitment, professionalism and dedication. We have a responsibility to our armed forces, our citizens and the constituents who have elected us to bring them home as quickly and safely as possible.“I am convinced that the thorough analysis and conclusions of the bipartisan Iraq Study Group are correct. Iraqi leaders must take responsibility for the country’s security and government, and we must engage the international community to work toward stability in the region. There is no military solution to the crisis in Iraq and we cannot send more brave men and women to police a civil war.“As I have said many times before, there are no good solutions to the quagmire in Iraq. This war was ill-conceived, poorly-planned and incompetently-executed. The best military minds must now focus their efforts on the safe and responsible redeployment of our troops rather than on this escalation. I cannot support sending more of our brave men and women in uniform on a last-ditch, misguided mission. We best support our troops and our national interest by adopting this resolution, and by expressing clearly, on behalf of the American people, our firm determination to change course in Iraq.” ###
02.12.2007	White Plains, NY - Today Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey joined Congressmen Hall, Engel, Hinchey and Shays in introducing legislation that will require an Independent Safety Assessment (ISA) of the Indian Point Energy Center (IPEC) within six months. The bill will go beyond previous legislation to require the plant to comply with the ISA recommendations or be denied a license extension in 2013. The standard for compliance will go beyond standard Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) review for re-licensing to create a more in depth assessment of potential problems with the Indian Point Energy Center.The bill, which is sponsored by Rep. Hall, will also establish the composition of a 25 member ISA team and a five member Citizens Review Team to ensure public accountability. The bill is also specifically targeted at Indian Point and does not apply to other facilities.Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY) said, “No matter how many safety and operational malfunctions occur at Indian Point, the NRC refuses to execute a comprehensive analysis of safety and security measures at the plants. Local residents deserve assurance that everything possible is being done to secure this facility. Until NRC takes action to ensure the safety of our communities, my colleagues and I will fight to force NRC to perform an ISA at Indian Point.”“Indian Point is the nation’s most problematic power plant in the nation’s most densely populated corridor,” Hall said, “With 8% of the population of the United States within a 50 mile radius of the plant, our bill forces the NRC to give this plant the special attention it requires. This bill will force Entergy to do what it takes to run Indian Point safely or they won’t be able to run it at all.”Congressman Eliot Engel (D-NY) said, “In the absence of any real enforcement by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission regarding Indian Point’s offenses, an Independent Safety Assessment is a vital step in assuring that the employees, the residents of the immediate area, and indeed the whole metropolitan area are kept safe. Radioactive waste is leaking from Indian Point and Entergy cannot find the source of that leak. Now radioactive waste is being found in fish in the Hudson River. This is unacceptable.”Congressman Maurice Hinchey (D-NY) sad, "It's pretty clear that the vast majority of New York residents are troubled about the safety of Indian Point and unfortunately those concerns are not unwarranted. From trouble with alarms at the plant to known leaks of radioactive material, Indian Point is not functioning properly, which is why we need a comprehensive Independent Safety Assessment. This measure is improved from the one we introduced last year and will help identify the steps we need to take to help safeguard New Yorkers from the nuclear power plant that is their neighbor."Congressman Christopher Shays (R-CT) said, "Indian Point's location near highly populated areas means we have to go the extra mile to ensure it is safe. This legislation will ensure that if Indian Point continues to run, it meets strict safety standards and is continually monitored."Hall’s bill would:* Requires the completion of an Independent Safety Assessment at IPEC within 6 months of passage* Requires the ISA to be completed and any recommended repairs or actions to be fully implemented prior to NRC renewal of IPEC’s license* Requires the NRC and Department of Homeland Security (DHS) to complete a detailed evaluation of the radiological emergency plan for Indian Point.* Specifies that the ISA will be conducted by a 25 member team composed of 16 NRC officials not from NRC Region 1, 6 independent contractors, and three NYS appointees.* Specifies that the ISA will be monitored by a 4 member ISA Observation Group appointed by NY State, as well as a Citizens’ Review Team composed of five individuals appointed by NY, with one resident from each Emergency Planning Zone county.* Authorizes $10 million to carry out the ISA. ######
01.23.2007	Washington, DC –Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-NY) was appointed today by Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi to the new Select Intelligence Oversight Panel. It is part of the Appropriations Committee and is charged with strengthening oversight of intelligence in the Congress.“This new panel will work to ensure that our intelligence efforts are part of a comprehensive national security strategy,” said Lowey. “As Chairwoman of the State and Foreign Operations Appropriations Subcommittee and a member of the Homeland Security Committee and the Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee, I have a unique perspective on the impact of our intelligence on various security initiatives both domestically and internationally. I appreciate the opportunity to serve my country in this critical oversight role and will fight to ensure that our intelligence is robust to protect Americans from terrorism in the future.”Lowey joins the following Members on the panel, all of whom serve on either the Appropriations or Intelligence Committees. Congressman Rush Holt of New Jersey, ChairmanCongressman David Obey of WisconsinCongressman John Murtha of PennsylvaniaCongressman Silvestre Reyes of TexasCongressman Norm Dicks of WashingtonCongressman Bud Cramer of AlabamaCongressman Adam Schiff of California###
01.23.2007	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey released the following statement tonight in response to President George W. Bush’s State of the Union address.“Tonight, I was pleased to hear the President talk again about a promise he made before he was ever in the White House – to restore the bipartisan tone in Washington. However, this promise – like many we’ve heard in previous State of the Union addresses – has been broken.“Actions always speak louder than words. I hope that in the coming weeks and months, the President will truly work across party lines with the Democratic majority in Congress to take our country in a new direction.“Like most of the American people, I am concerned that the President will continue down the wrong path for our country. Sending more American men and women in uniform into harm’s way will not move us toward the political and diplomatic solution that is necessary in Iraq. Diverting funds that support our hospitals will not provide better health coverage for American families. And, continuing the underfunded, one-size-fits-all approach for the No Child Left Behind agenda simply will not help our children succeed academically.“When it comes to addressing our energy needs, the President’s actions have been too little, too late for the American consumer and too much, too often for Big Oil. It’s better late than never for the President to join Democrats in focusing on investments in alternative energy and conservation to put us on a path to energy independence.“In the first 100 hours of debate, House Democrats passed critical legislation to lower the costs of college for students and prescription drugs for seniors, address the energy crisis, expand stem cell research, increase the minimum wage, and restore integrity and bipartisanship to Congress.“I look forward to working with the President and my colleagues in Congress to continue and expand these efforts to take our country in a new direction.” ###
01.12.2007	WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey hailed the passage of legislation today in the House of Representatives to allow the federal government to negotiate with pharmaceutical companies to obtain lower drug prices for Medicare beneficiaries. The Medicare Prescription Drug Negotiation Act would repeal current law which prohibits the Secretary of Health and Human Services from negotiating for cheaper drugs and require these negotiations on behalf our seniors. Lowey issued the following statement:“I rise in support of this critical legislation.“The Part D prescription drug plan has caused mass confusion and, unfortunately, provided more in profits to drug companies than savings to seniors.“Private corporations, large pharmacy chains, and individual states all use their bargaining power to secure lower drug prices for the patients they represent. It simply makes no sense that the Department of Health and Human Services is prohibited from negotiating on behalf of millions more seniors.“In fact, a recent study by Families USA found that Medicare beneficiaries pay an average of 58 percent more for the same prescription drugs sold to patients who receive their drugs from the Veterans Department, which can negotiate cheaper prices.“Using the bargaining power of 42 million Medicare enrollees to secure the best drug prices for our seniors could save billions of dollars according to some estimates. These savings could then be used to begin to close the infamous “doughnut hole” or gaps in coverage that millions of seniors experienced last year and are expected to experience again in 2007.“Allowing the Secretary of Health and Human Services to negotiate prices won’t solve all of the problems associated with the drug benefit but it will set us on the right course toward providing our seniors with the comprehensive, affordable drug coverage they deserve.“I urge my colleagues to vote yes on this important bill.” ###
01.11.2007	WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-NY), Chairwoman of the State/Foreign Operations Appropriations Subcommittee, released the following statement in response to the President’s speech about his new plan for the war in Iraq:“Since the start of this ill-conceived, poorly-planned, and incompetently-executed Iraq war, I have had three primary concerns: the safety of our men and women in uniform, the future of Iraq, and the stability of the Middle East region. The President’s strategy as articulated last night accomplishes none of these goals.“If I could be convinced that a surge of 20,000 troops would make a positive difference to the situation in Iraq and Middle East, and that it would hasten the safe return of U.S. troops, I would support it. Nothing I have seen or heard, however, could lead me to this conclusion.“General Abizaid has said that ‘more American forces prevent the Iraqis…from taking responsibility for their own future.’ Four previous troop surges between December 2003 and October 2006 haven’t made a dent in the level of violence nor in the number of U.S. casualties. Our Active Duty, Guard, and Reserve military leadership remain deeply concerned that troops are overdeployed, hastily trained, and underequipped. As a United States Congresswoman with the responsibility to protect the best interests of my country and my constituents, I cannot support sending more of our men and women in uniform on a wishful-thinking, last-ditch, misguided mission.“3,008 Americans in uniform have died and 22,834 have been wounded in Iraq since March of 2003. Sending more Americans to be targets of the Iraqi insurgency will not resolve Iraq’s civil war. The President must embrace an approach that holds the Iraqi government responsible for the future of Iraq and makes other nations in the Middle East part of a regional solution. The President must give Prime Minister al-Maliki an ultimatum, tying U.S. diplomatic and technical support to the achievement of internal Iraqi benchmarks and setting forth plans for the redeployment of our troops.“The Iraq war has cost far too many lives and too much money. U.S. taxpayers have spent well over $350 billion – money that could have been directed to achieve other U.S. domestic and foreign policy priorities. In return, they have gotten a severely strained military and a world that is less safe. Congress must evaluate requests for further funding with this in mind.“The President’s strategy proposes additional funds for Iraq reconstruction. U.S. reconstruction plans thus far have been derailed by the intractable security situation, and U.S. taxpayer money has gone more to ensure the security of contractors than for the benefit of the Iraqi people. As Chairwoman of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on the State Department and Foreign Operations, I will be holding hearings to scrutinize this latest proposal, to assess Iraqi and other donor contributions to the reconstruction effort, and to ensure that taxpayer money is not being squandered.” ###
01.08.2007	Eastchester, NY – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) was flanked by local first responders and safety equipment today to hail the expected passage this week of the “Implementing the 9/11 Commission Recommendations Act of 2007,” which includes several Lowey proposals to better secure New York.“After failing to make the grade on the 9/11 Commission’s recommendations for more than two years, the Democratic Congress will finally implement its proposals to secure our nation,” said Lowey, a Member of the House Homeland Security Committee and the Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee. “I have fought for years to enact a common-sense, risk-based formula to give New York its fair share of homeland security funds and to provide the communications equipment first responders need to effectively communicate during emergencies. The 9/11 bill addresses both of these critical priorities.”Keith Fennelly of the Eastchester Board of Fire Commissioners, New Rochelle Fire Commissioner Ray Kiernan, and other Westchester County fire fighters and police officers joined Lowey in front of the Eastchester Fire Department to discuss how this legislation would help our first responders better protect our communities.The “Implementing the 9/11 Commission Recommendations Act of 2007” would base the majority of federal homeland security grants on risk, ensuring that the nation’s top targets have the resources to prevent and respond to attacks. A risk assessment would be used to determine each state’s funding from the Department of Homeland Security’s (DHS) Urban Area Security Initiative and State Homeland Security Grant Programs and the Law Enforcement Terrorism Prevention Program. After considering threat and vulnerability, funds would be topped off, ensuring that each state received a minimum of .25% of overall funding while border states would be guaranteed .45%.“This risk-based funding approach would ensure that New York and the other most at-risk regions of the country get the homeland security funds they need to keep us safe,” said Lowey. “The 9/11 bill would also help close the communications gap that plagued our response on September 11th and during other emergencies including Hurricane Katrina, the Columbine massacre, and the Oklahoma City bombing.”Last year, Lowey included a measure in the DHS appropriations bill requiring the development of a national strategy for interoperable first responder communications this year. The 9/11 Commission bill the House will pass this week includes her proposal to set up a federal communications grant program to help create a national interoperable communications network, ensuring that all response personnel on the scene of an emergency can effectively communicate with one another.“Communications is the most important aspect of our job -- it must be immediate and widespread,” said Tony Pagano, Fire Commissioner of Yonkers. “Take, for example, the gas leak in Manhattan this morning. The only way that we knew about it was by watching the television, but if we had interoperable communications systems, we would have been notified immediately.”Other key provisions of the bill are:* Whistleblower protections and collective bargaining for air screeners, measures Lowey has fought to enact to create a more skilled screener force;* 100% screening of air cargo;* Scanning of cargo containers coming into U.S. ports;* Improvements to the National Assets Database which is used by DHS to track at-risk infrastructure;* Greater information and intelligence sharing with local law enforcement officials; and* International counter-terrorism and non-proliferation strategies.“Making America as safe as possible is a bipartisan priority,” said Lowey. “I look forward to working with my colleagues in Congress to pass the 9/11 Commission bill in the coming days and other measures to secure our nation in the coming months.” ###
01.05.2007	WASHINGTON, DC - Today the House of Representatives passed the rules and regulations that will guide the 110th Congress. Among the rules for the new Congress are sweeping changes to restore ethics, fiscal responsibility and civility to the House.“The American people have sent a clear message that they want integrity and civility restored to the People’s House. These new rules will break the grip lobbyists have previously held over this institution and restore the confidence of the American people in their elected officials,” said Lowey, a cosponsor of the rules package.Among the changes put in place for the new Congress are provisions prohibiting Members from accepting gifts from lobbyists, or participating on trips paid for or organized by lobbyists.The new rules will also restore fiscal discipline to the House by instituting pay-as-you-go budgeting which will ensure any new spending will not further increase the deficit or decrease any potential budget surplus.To restore openness and civility to the House, the new rules prevent any vote from being kept open simply to influence the outcome; requires Members to certify that neither they, nor their spouse, will benefit financially from an earmark; and requires any conference committee meeting between the House and Senate to be open to all Members with relevant jurisdiction.“I am pleased that these new rules will immediately restore a culture of openness, inclusiveness, and bipartisanship that will provide a new direction for America,” said Lowey.###
01.04.2007	Washington, DC -- Today, the 110th Session of Congress began under a new Democratic Leadership. Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-NY) made the following statement:“It is an honor to serve the people of the 18th Congressional District of New York. Today marks the beginning of an exciting new direction in the House of Representatives. “I look forward to working in a bipartisan way with my colleagues to restore integrity to the People’s House, to secure our nation, and to finally give families relief from rising health, energy, and college tuition costs.“As a subcommittee chair on the Appropriations Committee and a Member of the Homeland Security Committee, I will continue fighting for the hard-working families in the 18th district.”# # #
11.08.2006	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) issued the following statement today on the resignation of Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld. “Secretary Rumsfeld’s resignation is a clear acknowledgement that the U.S. campaign in Iraq has been a massive failure. I am hopeful that the nomination of Dr. Robert Gates as the new Defense Secretary will signal a new direction for U.S. policy toward Iraq. ”If confirmed by the Senate, Dr. Gates must apply the lessons he has learned as a member of the Iraq Study Group and through a 27-year career in public service to honestly assess the situation in Iraq and set us on a path toward speedy redeployment of our troops. “My colleagues in Congress and I stand ready to work on a bipartisan Iraq policy to achieve clear diplomatic and military goals and bring our men and women in uniform home as soon as possible.”
10.12.2006	WHITE PLAINS, NY – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) and afterschool program participants across Westchester and Rockland Counties today celebrated Lights On Afterschool, a national day of celebration to promote the critical importance of afterschool programs in the lives of children, families, and communities.“Study after study has confirmed that afterschool programs help students learn while ensuring that children are safe and productive after the regular school day ends,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “Lights on Afterschool gives students, educators, and parents the opportunity to show their communities the good work being done in afterschool programs.”A study by the Afterschool Alliance found that more than 14 million American children are alone after the school bell rings at 3:00 pm. This is especially troubling because the hours between 3:00 and 6:00pm can be a dangerous period for children spending time alone. Kids are most likely to experiment with risky behavior when parents or other adults are not able to make sure their children are participating in safe and responsible activities.Afterschool programs are the solution to this problem for many families. They provide a secure and supervised environment for kids and peace of mind for their parents. In fact, parents of more than 15 million youngsters said their kids would participate in an afterschool program if one was available in their community.Last month, the U.S. House of Representatives unanimously passed a resolution Congresswoman Lowey introduced in support of the goals and ideals of Lights On Afterschool.“I’m proud to take part in events celebrating afterschool programs today, but we need to support afterschool programs every day,” said Lowey. “I support increasing federal funding for these programs and working with local officials and educators in Westchester and Rockland Counties to expand the reach of our afterschool initiatives. We cannot let afterschool programs become an afterthought in our children’s education.”Congresswoman Lowey has long promoted legislation and funding to advance afterschool programs. In 1996, from her seat on the Appropriations Committee, Lowey created the 21st Century Community Learning Centers, the first ever federal afterschool initiative. And, in 2005 she formed the Congressional Afterschool Caucus to build support for these programs in Congress and provide sufficient funding to meet the growing demand for afterschool initiatives. She has secured nearly $6 million in federal funds for afterschool programs for various schools including New Rochelle, Ossining, Port Chester, and Yonkers. ###
10.11.2006	WASHINGTON, DC - Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY), Congressman Eliot Engel (D-NY), and Congressman Maurice Hinchey (D-NY) today said that any security review short of a full Independent Safety Assessment (ISA) conducted by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) would be considered insufficient. The comments from the House members came as an immediate response to an announcement from NRC Chairman Dale Klein that he has ordered the agency to develop a plan to review the process of how the Indian Point plant's safety is evaluated, but not an overall review of the safety procedures themselves.“While I am pleased that the NRC recognizes there are problems with the Indian Point power plant, nothing less than a full Independent Safety Assessment will be sufficient to help adequately protect the 20 million residents living in the shadow of Indian Point,” Hinchey said. “What the NRC has announced is that it will review its oversight process, not conduct new oversight. We need a comprehensive review of Indian Point overall, not a bureaucratic assessment of how things are reviewed. What the NRC is doing is equivalent to an office reviewing its fire evacuation route in place of also reviewing how the building could be made more fireproof.”Lowey said, “The NRC is continuing to blow smoke when it comes to performing a complete and independent safety analysis at Indian Point. If the NRC wants to get serious about safety at Indian Point, the agency will initiate a complete Independent Safety Assessment to review the actual safety and security standards in place instead of wasting time on assessing the NRC review process. This falls far short of what the communities surrounding Indian Point need.”Engel said, “This is a step in the right direction, but more needs to be done. While I continue to believe our constituents' safety requires nothing less than a comprehensive Independent Safety Assessment on Indian Point, I am pleased that the new Chairman of the NRC recognizes that the repeated system malfunctions at Indian Point seriously warrant more oversight.”Earlier this year, Hinchey introduced a measure that Lowey and Engel cosponsored, which would require the NRC to conduct an ISA of the Indian Point nuclear power plant. The legislation would force the NRC to report its findings on the safety of Indian Point no later than six months from the day the measure is signed into law. The bill requires a focused, in-depth ISA of the design, construction, maintenance, and operational safety performance of Indian Point. It also demands a comprehensive evaluation of the emergency evacuation plan for the nuclear power plant in the event of a terrorist attack or radiological accident. The NRC's announcement today only focuses on a review of the safety procedures and does not deal with the overall design, construction, and maintenance of the plant.Indian Point, which is located 24 miles north of New York City, has experienced a series of safety problems throughout the span of its operation. In light of the fact that Entergy, the company which owns Indian Point, is anticipated to seek a 20-year license extension by 2007 for both reactors, Hinchey and his colleagues are pushing for an ISA. The House members said an ISA conducted now would afford Entergy the opportunity to identify and rectify potential safety problems with the facilities to prevent additional problems and accidents. ###
10.04.2006	GREENBURGH, NY – Over the last decade, communications failures have thwarted first responders’ ability to respond to some of the biggest disasters this nation has faced. In Oklahoma City in 1995, in Columbine in 1999, in New York in 2001 and in the Gulf region following Hurricane Katrina last year, emergency response efforts were impaired by the lack of interoperable radio communications. Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today announced that an interoperability strategy she authored will be enacted as part of the Fiscal Year 2007 Homeland Security Appropriations bill to help ensure that our nation’s first responders can communicate with each other during emergencies.“A federal plan for first responder communications is long overdue. It is time to give our first responders the tools they need to effectively communicate instead of having to use many of the same tactics as Paul Revere,” said Lowey. “The inclusion of my interoperability strategy in the FY07 Homeland Security spending bill is a victory for first responders.”Lowey’s provisions require the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) to establish a comprehensive plan to close the communications gap for first responders, including the following measures:* Complete a study of current capabilities;* Create a resource plan;* Expedite voluntary consensus standards;* Set goals and time frames;* Identify obstacles;* Coordinate planning with other federal, state, local, and private sector partners;* Design backup systems in the event that primary systems fail; and* Verify manufacturers’ claims that equipment meets certain interoperability standards.Amazingly, DHS currently has no real plan to solve the emergency communications crisis and has not made the issue a priority. Only a handful of the Department’s 180,000 employees work on communications issues, and the interoperability office receives less than one-half of one percent of the total DHS budget.“For five years, I’ve pushed the Administration and DHS to put standards in place to help local officials improve interoperability. I’ve been frustrated and disappointed with the lack of attention to this issue,” added Lowey. “This measure is a step toward making first responder communications a priority, and I will continue fighting to establish a federal grant dedicated to funding communications equipment for emergency personnel.”Congresswoman Lowey is the author of the Connecting the Operations of National Networks of Emergency Communications Technologies for First Responders Act, or CONNECT First Responders Act. In addition to the interoperability strategy in the FY07 Homeland Security Appropriations bill, which was passed last week by the House and Senate, the CONNECT First Responders Act includes a five-year, $5 billion grant to assist local governments in improving interoperable communications equipment. ###
10.03.2006	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), U.S. Postal Service representatives, local officials, and residents came together to formally dedicate the Tuckahoe Post Office in memory of Ronald “Ronnie” Bucca. Bucca, a New York City firefighter, was killed in the September 11th attacks.“For more than two decades, Ronnie Bucca dedicated his life to protecting the people of New York, and it is truly an honor to dedicate this building to his memory and sacrifice,” said Lowey. “This building will now permanently bear Ronnie’s name and be a reminder of his bravery and courage for his family, friends, and our entire community.”Tuckahoe Mayor Michael J. Martino said, “Thanks to the assistance of Congresswoman Nita Lowey, we are able to appropriately honor Ron Bucca, a quiet hero and gentleman who accomplished more in one lifetime than any one person would ever be expected to accomplish.”Ronnie Bucca was a 23-year veteran of the New York Fire Department (FDNY) serving in various units throughout the five boroughs including Rescue 1 and the FDNY Terrorist Task Force. In 1992, he was promoted to Fire Marshal. He also served in the military for 29 years, including service as a Special Forces Green Beret and in the 101st Airborne Division. For his brave service to our nation, the military has also honored Ronald Bucca. When the 800th Military Police Brigade took command of British Enemy Holding Area Freddy in Southern Iraq, it was promptly renamed Camp Bucca.On the morning of September 11th, 2001, Bucca was one of just two fire fighters to reach the fire floor in the South Tower. The men made it to the 78th floor where they began stretching a hose line to protect victims of the attack. He was the first Fire Marshal to be killed in the line of duty.“Ronnie Bucca was a hero in every sense of the word, and I am proud Congress has moved to recognize someone who dedicated his life to protecting the people of New York,” said Lowey. “I hope that the newly-named Ronald Bucca Post Office will allow Tuckahoe to continue to honor a man who truly loved being a part of this community, who spent his life protecting and defending our communities, and whose legacy we will always remember and honor.”Because Tuckahoe had been Bucca’s home for more than twenty years, Congresswoman Lowey introduced legislation in March 2006 to rename the Tuckahoe Post Office in his memory. The bill passed the House on May 2nd and the Senate on July 20th and was signed into law on August 2nd by President Bush. ###
09.29.2006	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) issued the following statement on the Electronic Surveillance Modernization Act the U.S. House of Representatives passed last night.“Our intelligence agencies must have the tools they need to monitor suspected terrorists. Congress has a duty to ensure that U.S. law aids these efforts while preserving the constitutional protections upon which our nation was built.“I voted against the Electronic Surveillance Modernization Act because it would allow the Administration to monitor Americans without obtaining a warrant, begin a massive data-mining operation of innocent Americans, and collect information on Americans who are not targets of investigations.“The Administration began its unconstitutional NSA warrant less surveillance program because it claims the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act (FISA) system is inadequate. However, in the twenty-eight year history of the program, the secret FISA court has only denied a handful of the 20,000 government requests for warrants. In cases where the government does not have time to obtain a warrant, it can already launch surveillance activity, and then go to the court after the fact for a warrant. Since September 11th, Congress has passed numerous measures to make FISA courts more flexible.“The NSA and other agencies must be able to collect information on those who wish to do us harm. That is why I am a cosponsor of the LISTEN Act, which would require all eavesdropping programs to fall within FISA and ensure that FISA courts have the necessary resources to process all warrant requests. If the current system is inadequate, we should take the necessary steps to make FISA courts more responsive, not simply allow the Administration to sidestep courts and spy on Americans without warrants. The government should have every tool to stop terrorists, but it must act within the scope of the law.” ###
09.29.2006	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) announced today that she has secured $10 million for projects in Westchester County in the FY2006 spending bill for the U.S. Department of Defense. The bill passed in the U.S. House of Representatives earlier this week and U.S. Senate this morning.“Residents and businesses here in Westchester County are working to protect Americans every day,” said Lowey, a Member of the House Appropriations Committee. “I am pleased to have secured critical federal funds that will help them continue making valuable contributions to this nation’s defense.”“I am especially excited to announce additional federal funds for Davids Island. As a former Army post, Davids Island contributed greatly to our community for many years. Since the clean-up of the island began last year, real progress has been made in restoring this unique jewel of the Long Island Sound,” said Lowey. “These funds will allow us to continue the important work to make Davids Island safe and accessible once again, and I will continue to work with local officials and the Army Corps of Engineers to finish this important project.”The FY07 Department of Defense Appropriations conference report includes funds for the following projects requested by Lowey:* $9 million - Davids Island - This funding will allow the Army Corps of Engineers to continue to clean up and remove the unsafe structures on Davids Island, which is located off the coast of New Rochelle. Congresswoman Lowey previously secured $9.1 million for this effort.* $1 million – U.S. Navy Smart Visor Technology – This funding will enable Holographic Optics, a Millwood-based company, to continue its work in developing a single, integrated visor system capable of protecting the eyes of naval aircrew members against threats while improving their mission effectiveness through better integration with sensors. ###
09.28.2006	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) and House Democrats unveiled an effort to force a vote to reverse a little-known provision in Medicare Part D drug bill that will increase Part B premiums as much as double for many seniors next year. The Administration has also proposed the removal of inflation adjustments for Medicare Part B, which could result in higher premiums for millions more Medicare beneficiaries in the coming years.“The Medicare Part D drug program was bad enough, causing confusion and failing to substantially lower drug costs for millions of seniors. Now we learn that this legislation will actually increase premiums for many seniors who depend on Medicare Part B for their primary health coverage,” said Lowey. “This one-two punch puts many seniors’ financial security at risk.”“It is simply unacceptable that nearly 2 million Medicare premiums will double beginning this January,” House Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi said. “Seniors, who are already struggling to make ends meet, should not pay the price for failed Republican policies. With further premium increases slated in the future for even more beneficiaries, we must act immediately to protect America’s seniors.”“The beauty of Medicare is that we’re all in it together, whether you are rich or poor, healthy or sick,” commented Rep. Charles B. Rangel, senior Democrat on the Committee on Ways and Means. “Charging certain people more is the first step toward destroying Medicare’s universality and turning it into a welfare program.”“Requiring some seniors to pay more for Medicare is a red herring from Republicans who want nothing more than to end Medicare as we know it,” said Rep. Pete Stark, ranking Democrat on the Ways and Means Health Subcommittee. “Upper-income seniors paid more into Medicare when they worked. Applying a new surcharge is essentially double taxation and should be rejected.”Nearly fifty members of the House have signed a discharge petition to bring Lowey’s Act to the floor. Her bill would stop means testing of Part B premiums.Since 2000, Medicare Part B premiums have doubled. The law creating the prescription drug program, the Medicare Modernization Act of 2003, will require many seniors to pay even higher Part B premiums depending on income. Currently, the federal government assumes 75 percent of the Medicare Part B premium, and the beneficiary pays the remaining 25 percent or $88.50 a month in 2006.Starting in 2007, the federal government’s share will be reduced on a sliding scale for beneficiaries with annual incomes over $80,000 or $160,000 for couples. By 2009, the government’s portion will drop to 65 percent for individuals with annual incomes between $80,000 and $100,000, 50 percent for $100,000 to $150,000, 35 percent for $150,000 to $200,000, and 20 percent for annual incomes over $200,000.Next year, seniors with an income of $80,000 could see premiums increase from $88.50 per month to $173, almost double the current cost. Within three years, some seniors could pay as much as $413 per month for Part B.The Medicare Modernization Act of 2003 would have adjusted these figures to inflation. However, President George W. Bush’s recent budget proposal would eliminate those inflation adjustments, resulting in higher premiums for more and more middle class seniors over time. As annual incomes rise with inflation, no adjustment would be made to the income threshold for means testing in Medicare Part B.For example, a senior with an annual income of $80,000 in five years will likely have less buying power than a senior with the same income today; however, the President’s plan would hold the means testing threshold at $80,000 regardless of inflation. According to the Congressional Research Service, assuming a 3% rate of inflation, a senior with an income of $69,000 today will cross the $80,000 threshold within only five years.Ninety-three percent of Medicare’s 44 million beneficiaries have Part B coverage. According to the Congressional Budget Office, means testing with adjustments for inflation would hit nearly 2 million seniors with higher premiums in 2007 and at least 2.8 million, or six percent of current beneficiaries, by 2013.Under President Bush’s plan to eliminate adjustments for inflation, even more seniors would pay higher rates for Part B. In addition, seniors would likely be affected at a higher rate in areas where the median income level and the cost of living are generally higher than other regions.“Instead of lowering overall drug and health costs, this provision of the Medicare Part D bill could significantly increase the cost of basic health coverage for millions of seniors,” said Lowey. “I am pleased to be joined by my Congressional colleagues in fighting to stop this provision from hurting current and future Medicare beneficiaries.” ###
09.27.2006	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) issued the following statement on the Military Commissions bill the U.S. House of Representatives passed this evening.“I support providing our military and law enforcement officials with the tools they need to catch terrorists and bring them to justice. It is an outrage that, five years after 9/11, not one person responsible for the attacks on our country has been brought to justice. Unfortunately, the Military Commissions bill passed by the House of Representatives today will not speed up this process.“The Military Commissions bill endangers U.S. troops in the field by allowing the President to single-handedly reinterpret the Geneva Conventions, strips detainees of the basic right to have their cases heard in court, and creates an entirely new and untested appeals process for military commission cases.“I supported a motion to provide expedited judicial review of the provisions in the Military Commissions bill to ensure terrorist prosecutions are not delayed further by endless legal challenges and to require reauthorization of the bill after three years. These were common-sense provisions, and I am disappointed that my Republican colleagues did not support them.“This bill will not make us safer. It will undermine U.S. efforts to promote freedom and democracy around the world and may not pass constitutional muster.” ###
09.25.2006	HAVERSTRAW, NY – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today called on the Republican Leadership in Congress to immediately put identity theft legislation on the Congressional agenda to protect American consumers before Congress adjourns this week for a month. She again urged President Bush to set identity protection standards and set aside funds to protect personal information from being stolen from government agencies.“Identity theft is an increasing problem throughout the country, and in 2005 New York State had the third highest number of identity theft victims in the nation,” stated Lowey. “What’s worse is that the federal government has compromised the personal data of millions of Americans in recent months, most recently at the Department of Commerce where 1,100 laptop computers are missing, 250 of which contain personal, sensitive information from Census Bureau data. Congress must quickly adopt legislation to protect consumers, and the Administration must act immediately to better protect Americans’ personal information.”On May 10, 2006, President Bush signed an Executive Order creating an Identity Theft Task Force to review the activities of the executive branch and to draft a strategic plan to improve the effectiveness and efficiency of the government’s identity theft awareness, prevention, detection, and prosecution activities. Since the Executive Order was signed, data breaches at the Department of Commerce, Department of Veterans Affairs, Internal Revenue Service, Department of Energy, Department of Agriculture, U.S. Navy, Department of Transportation, and the Department of Education have affected tens of millions of Americans.“The President’s Identity Theft Task Force must quickly adopt a workable strategy for all federal agencies so that Americans’ personal and sensitive data are not further compromised,” stated Lowey. “I urge the Administration to require that all sensitive information be encrypted and kept in a secure environment and to provide each agency with the resources to prevent data breaches. I will continue fighting to ensure that the government takes responsibility for recent breaches that could potentially affect the lives of millions of hard-working Americans including many men and women who have served in our armed forces.”The House Financial Services and Energy and Commerce Committees and the Senate Commerce and Judiciary Committees have considered legislation on data security. Congresswoman Lowey called on the Republican Leadership to bring a data security bill to the floor that adopts the following key items:* Require consumers to be notified if there is a reasonable risk that a security breach could lead to identity theft;* Allow consumers to access files generated by information brokers to flag, change, or delete any incorrect data;* Fine companies for pretexting, the practice of obtaining information under false pretenses; and* Allow any consumer to place a freeze on his or her credit reports to prevent identity theft.Congresswoman Lowey is a cosponsor of the “Veterans’ Identity Protection Act of 2006” (H.R. 5455), legislation aimed at helping veterans whose personal data were stolen earlier this year. This legislation was designed to protect veterans from identity theft by requiring the VA to provide them with one year of free credit monitoring to alert them of changes in their credit and stop theft before it got out of control. The stolen VA computer has since been located and the VA has indicated that no veteran’s personal data have been compromised. However, Lowey said incidents like this underscore the need to address the lax protection of personal information by government agencies.As part of today’s event, Congresswoman Lowey and members of her staff assisted veterans in obtaining a free yearly credit report. ###
09.25.2006	WASHINGTON, DC - Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) issued the following statement on the recent newspaper reports on an April 2006 National Intelligence Estimate which concluded that the war in Iraq was making the war on terror more difficult to fight and win.“The Administration manipulated intelligence to get us into Iraq, but they can’t spin us out of this mess. The National Intelligence Estimate simply confirms what has become tragically clear to the American people – the President’s handling of the war in Iraq has made us less safe and has hurt our efforts in the war on terror.“The war has been a massive boondoggle for Bush political loyalists – with plenty of jobs and lucrative contracts to go around. However, it has been nothing but a raw deal for our men and women in uniform, for their families, and for all American taxpayers.“This is just one more wake-up call that the war in Iraq has diverted our focus from the broader war on terrorism and created a terrorist breeding ground. It’s time for the administration to focus on a plan to stabilize the region and bring home our troops.” ###
09.25.2006	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) last week joined American Cancer Society volunteers from New York for “Celebration on the Hill,” a grassroots event celebrating cancer survivorship and empowering all those affected by cancer to advocate for laws that will help fight against this disease.“I am grateful to have had the opportunity to meet with volunteers from New York and share with them my continued commitment to increased funding for federal cancer research, prevention initiatives, expanded access to care and early detection programs,” stated Lowey. “I am also a proud signer of the American Cancer Society Congressional Action Network Congressional Cancer Promise, which outlines the near-term steps Congress must take to put the country on track to accomplish the goal of eliminating suffering and death from cancer by 2015.”“Celebration on the Hill” is an event hosted by the American Cancer Society Cancer Action Network (ACS CAN) to celebrate cancer survivorship and empower cancer advocates. Nearly 10,000 cancer advocates gathered in Washington, DC, on September 19th – 20th for the event. ###
09.21.2006	WASHINGTON, DC – Many seniors enrolled in Medicare Part D, the prescription drug plan, are falling into the gap in coverage, or the “doughnut hole,” in which beneficiaries are responsible for 100% of total drug costs between $2,250 and $5,100. One day before “Doughnut Hole Day” the day the average Part D beneficiary will begin to experience a gap in coverage, Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today issued a report showing how these gaps are hurting New York seniors and called on the federal government to take action to close the “doughnut hole.”“Congress must plug the gaping doughnut hole in the Part D benefit before millions of seniors are forced to pay thousands of dollars in out-of-pocket expenses for their necessary medications,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “Of the 19,035 individuals in the 18th Congressional District enrolled in Part D, an estimated 17,512 are at risk of experiencing gaps in coverage. It is unacceptable that these seniors could be forced to spend thousands more in drug expenses before their coverage is restored.”An estimated 6.9 million seniors are expected to be affected by these gaps in coverage, which will force many to pay $75 to $125 or more for drugs they are receiving for a co-payment of $20 to $30. An estimated 156,083 New Yorkers could fall into the doughnut hole this year, including 22,753 seniors in Westchester County and 5,493 in Rockland County.The Lowey report provides significant savings options for Medicare that can be used to close coverage gaps. By eliminating subsidies to private plans and instead paying them the same coverage rate as traditional Medicare, Medicare would save $34.9 billion over ten years. Other flaws in the plan are that it does not allow for re-importation of safe, less expensive drugs from other countries, and it prohibits the federal government from negotiating lower drug prices. A 2004 study published in Health Affairs titled “Doughnut Holes and Price Controls” found that if the United States negotiated drug prices, there would be enough savings to completely eliminate the doughnut hole.“Since the enrollment period began, seniors have been the victims of delays in payments, overzealous and unscrupulous marketing, and absolute mass confusion about this benefit,” added Lowey. “Now they’re being forced to pay thousands of dollars out-of-pocket in addition to their regular premiums while they go without coverage. Many seniors who simply cannot afford to pay full price for their medications may forgo taking them, costing Medicare even more for emergency care or hospitalization later.”Congresswoman Lowey has authored and cosponsored various pieces of legislation to eliminate the gaping holes in the Part D benefit through the following provisions:o Requiring Medicare to negotiate with drug companies for lower drug prices like the Veterans’ Administration does now;o Allowing the safe re-importation of prescription drugs;o Extending the enrollment deadline so that beneficiaries who sign up after the May 15th deadline will not face a significant penalty—an increase in monthly premiums of 1 percent for every month past the deadline; ando Allowing beneficiaries to change plan without penalty if they are dissatisfied with their plans during the first year of coverage. ###
09.19.2006	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) issued the following statement in celebration of Hispanic Heritage Month, which begins today and will continue through October 15th.“For the next thirty days, millions of Americans will join together to celebrate the legacy of Hispanic cultures in our nation. Hispanic values – faith, family, love of country – are American values. The Hispanic dream – the hope of a better future – is the American Dream. During Hispanic Heritage Month, we honor the Hispanic community and pay tribute to the extraordinary contributions that Hispanics make to America year-round. “While Hispanics are now the fastest growing population in our country, their history and culture has helped shape our nation from its founding. Their hard work, deep faith and closely-knit families have made America a better and stronger country. Hispanic influence on popular culture is immediately evident in music, film, food, and other areas. Economically, culturally, and politically, Latinos are an integral part of our nation. Today we see their strong influence on New York’s vibrant Hispanic neighborhoods, restaurants and businesses. Our communities have benefited from the nearly three million Hispanics who call our state ‘home.’“Recognizing that Latinos are an integral part of our nation means that we must advance initiatives that support empowerment for all. Democrats have introduced an agenda, a New Direction for America, which reflects our commitment that America should work for everyone by building opportunity and prosperity for all and guaranteeing real security at home and around the world. Under our New Direction plan, we are proposing important initiatives that would benefit millions of Latino families, such as expanding access to college, ending tax giveaways that reward companies for moving American jobs overseas, lowering gas prices, moving towards energy independence, making prescription drugs more affordable, and providing true retirement security.“This month is an opportunity for us to celebrate the differences in culture that have made our nation as strong as it is today. But we should not limit our celebration of Hispanic culture to just this month; we should look for opportunities throughout the year to honor the contributions of generations of Hispanic Americans.”# # # LOWEY CONMEMORA EL MES DE LA HERENCIA HISPANA WASHINGTON, DC - La representativa Nita Lowey, (D-Condado Westchester y Rockland) publicó la siguiente declaración en celebración del Mes de la Herencia Hispana que comienza hoy y continuará hasta el día 15 de Octubre. “Durante los próximos treinta días, millones de americanos se juntarán para celebrar la herencia de las culturas hispánicas en nuestra nación. Los valores hispanos— la fe, la familia, el amor a la patria— son valores estadounidenses. El sueño hispano— la esperanza de un futuro mejor— es el sueño americano. Durante el Mes de la Herencia Hispana, honramos a la comunidad hispana y rendimos tributo a las contribuciones extraordinarias de los hispanos en los Estados Unidos durante el año.“Mientras que los hispanos ahora son la población en crecimiento más rápida de nuestro país, su historia y cultura han ayudado a formar a nuestra nación desde su fundación. Su trabajo fuerte, su fortalecida fe y su dedicacion a la famila han hecho que los Estados Unidos sea mejor y mucho más fuerte hoy en día. La influencia hispana en la cultura popular es inmediatamente evidente en la música, el cine, la comida y en otras áreas. En la economía, la cultura y la política, los latinos son una parte integral de nuestra nación. Hoy vemos a su influencia fuertemente en los vibrantes barrios, restaurantes, y negocios en Nueva York. Nuestras comunidades han beneficiado de los casi 3 millones de hispanos que consideran a este estado como “su hogar”.“Reconociendo que los latinos son una parte integral de los Estados Unidos significa que debemos avanzar iniciativas que habiliten el poder de todos. Los demócratas han introducido una agenda, una Nueva Dirección para los Estados Unidos, que refleja al compromiso de que los Estados Unidos debe trabajar para todos en forma que construye oportunidades y brinde prosperidad a todos y también garantizando seguridad real en el hogar y alrededor del mundo. Bajo nuestra agenda de la Nueva Dirección, estamos proponiendo iniciativas importantes que beneficiarían a millones de familias hispanas como por ejemplo: la expansión de admisiones a las universidades; la terminación de subsidios que benefician a compañías estadounidenses que se trasladan al extranjero; la disminución del precio de la gasolina y la búsqueda de la independencia energética; la reducción del precio de las prescripciones médicas; y proveer un retiro seguro.“Este més es una oportunidad para celebrar las diferencias en la cultura que han hecho que nuestra nación sea tan fuerte como lo es hoy. Aun, no debemos limitar a nuestra celebración de la cultura hispána a solamente este mes; debemos buscar oportunidades a través del año para honrar a las contribuciones de las generaciones de los hispanos americanos.”# # #
09.18.2006	For more than 40 years, Medicare has provided affordable, reliable and quality health care for millions of seniors. Unfortunately, changes to Medicare enacted as part of the prescription drug plan, or Part D, pose an increasing threat to the financial security of seniors.Congress and the Bush administration implemented an overly complex prescription drug plan that is doing more to line the pockets of insurance and pharmaceutical companies than to provide significant savings for the average senior.This year alone 6.9 million seniors in Part D are expected to fall through the "doughnut hole," the gap in coverage that forces them to pay 100 percent of drug costs. The other shoe is about to drop, hitting many seniors with substantially higher premiums for basic Medicare Part B health coverage starting Jan. 1.Despite the fact that premiums for Medicare Part B have doubled since 2000, depending on income, many seniors will face dramatic increases due to a means testing provision Republicans snuck into the 2003 Medicare Modernization Act at the last minute with no debate.This tax on seniors just isn't fair and would save less than three-tenths of 1 percent of Medicare's total budget.The federal government currently pays 75 percent of every senior's Part B premium. In 2007, the federal government's share will be reduced for beneficiaries with an annual income above $80,000. These seniors' Part B premiums could increase from $88.50 per month in 2006 to as much as $162 per month in 2007 —- that's nearly double. Within three years, some seniors could be paying $395 per month for Part B.Some argue that higher income seniors can afford to shoulder more of the burden. Indeed, they already do by paying higher income and Social Security taxes, which help to subsidize Medicare. In many areas of the country, the cost of living is so high that seniors of most any income level simply can't afford to pay nearly $3,700 more annually for basic health coverage.To make matters worse, in President Bush's proposed Fiscal Year 2007 budget, the inflation adjustment for Part B means testing is eliminated. While seniors with current incomes of less than $80,000 would not be affected initially, means testing will creep deeper into the middle class.Just as the Alternative Minimum Tax —- created to ensure that the wealthiest Americans paid their fair share of income taxes —- could hit 23 million American families next year because it isn't adjusted for inflation, means testing will hit more and more middle-class seniors over time.Medicare Part B premiums have become the new "target for convenience" for saving Medicare dollars when better options exist, such as giving Medicare the power to negotiate lower drug prices for Part D or re-importing cheaper, safe drugs.Robbing Peter to pay Paul has never worked, and robbing them both certainly won't. Raising seniors' primary health care coverage to pay for a complicated plan that's not bringing down their drug costs will hurt seniors financially overall in the end.The Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services already estimates that 50,000 seniors will leave the program because of increased premiums. If higher-income seniors leave Medicare because they can get a better deal elsewhere, it will become a welfare program for the poorest and sickest, undermining the universality that has kept the program strong for generations.We can't let that happen.I've introduced the Medicare Part B Premium Fairness Act to stop means testing. It may not be the solution to Medicare's long-term solvency, but it will put the brakes on a plan that sends Medicare speeding toward disaster.And, it should be the start of the bipartisan, thoughtful debate Congress must have to ensure Medicare's financial stability.This op-ed by Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey was published in the Atlanta Journal Constitution on Sunday, September 17, 2006. ###
09.11.2006	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) issued the following statement on President Bush’s Speech last night marking the fifth anniversary of the 9/11 terror attacks .“It is deeply troubling that the President ended such a somber day with a blatantly political speech that dishonors the men and women we lost on September 11, 2001. The fifth anniversary of September 11th was the wrong time for President Bush to again draw links between the war on terror and the war in Iraq.“In fact, the President’s failures in Iraq have diverted focus from the broader war on terrorism and created a terrorist breeding ground. It’s time for the administration to focus on a plan to stabilize the region and bring home our troops.” ###
09.10.2006	VALHALLA, NY - Five years have come and gone. Five years in which our nation has labored to rebuild physically and emotionally. Five years in which we have acquired a more sober understanding of the world’s perils. Five years in which to absorb the painful absence of family, friends and colleagues.Much has changed. In our daily lives, we accept as routine the screenings and security checks that would once have seemed unacceptable. In the Middle-east and central Asia, we are at war. At ground zero, the rubble is gone and the foundation is laid for a new downtown.And yet for all that has transpired, for all the healing power of time, it seems at certain moments as though these five years passed in an instant - as though that clear, blue morning turned to ash and dust only yesterday.It takes only a fleeting image of a lost loved one. Or the jarring news of a new plot to kill. Or a human crisis, even one far removed from our own land, in which civilized life descends into chaos.And we know . . . the wounds of September 11th are still raw.So at this time of year, we gather for vigils in churches and synagogues. At city halls and civic centers. To draw comfort and confidence from each other. Today, as we dedicate this beautiful and solemn memorial to Westchester’s victims of September 11th, we gather to say to the families who lost loved ones that we are inspired by their strength . . . and share their grief. This memorial will be a permanent reminder of the tragic human toll of senseless hatred, and of our certainty that tolerance and freedom will prevail over prejudice and murder.It reflects, too, the generous spirit of the people of Westchester, who donated to its creation in such great numbers. For me, it is a privilege and an honor to be part of this effort. But our national government can and must do more. As your representative in Congress, I will continue to enlist the resources of the federal government in the work of building a more secure society - protected from threat at home, respected by those who share our belief in freedom, and feared by those who do not.There is much work ahead before we can say these goals are accomplished . . . before we can look to these families and say that we have fully honored their sacrifice. Far more must be done to secure our ports and mass transit systems, to defend our vulnerable chemical and nuclear plants. Far more must be done, as we learned a year ago on the Gulf coast, to prepare for sudden emergencies and provide clear direction in a crisis.But I know also that Americans have historically risen to every challenge in every era, and that, for the sake of our children and grandchildren and all that we hold dear, we must rise to these challenges with strength, courage and determination.Let us, therefore, move forward with faith in our future and in each other. Faith that through determination and vigilance the darker impulses of man can be tamed and, in all lands, the good can prevail.Thank you. God bless you. And God bless the United States of America.###
09.08.2006	WHITE PLAINS, NY – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today joined fellow House Homeland Security Committee Democrats in issuing a report titled “Real Security: A Plan To Fulfill the 9/11 Commission Recommendations,” about their fight to improve Homeland Security Protections for U.S. Citizens and the security gaps that have been left dangerously unaddressed since September 11th.“Five years after September 11th, two-thirds of New Yorkers are “very concerned” about an attack on their city, and 39% of Americans say they feel less safe today than five years ago,” said Lowey. “It’s no surprise Americans don’t feel safer when you consider the lack of progress the Administration and Republican Leadership in Congress have made on a number of security priorities facing our nation. That is why I today joined fellow Democrats on the Homeland Security Committee in issuing a report on the steps that we must take to make the grade on these key homeland security priorities.”Congresswoman Lowey, a member of the House Homeland Security Committee, and Homeland Security Democrats have proposed numerous bills and amendments to fulfill the recommendations of the 9/11 Commission. For example, Lowey successfully fought to amend the Fiscal Year 2007 DHS Authorization Act to overhaul the National Asset Database, a bloated list of over 77,000 assets including an auto shop, poker room, flea market, and even something listed as a “Beach at End of Street.” But unfortunately, many of the 9-11 Commission’s other proposals have not received votes or have been rejected – mostly along party-lines. Democrats know that we need a New Direction to protect the American people and the report issued today outlines what we must do to protect America and restore our leadership in the world.“The House Democrats’ Homeland Security Committee report underscores that all too often, the Administration has failed to adequately fill the security gaps we still face today,” added Lowey. “Slow and steady will not win the race against terrorists that seek to harm Americans, and as an elected official, I believe one of the best ways our government can honor the memory of those lost on September 11th is to ensure that Americans are never again the victims of a terrorist attack on our own soil.”To review the House Homeland Security Democrats' Report, please visit the following link:https://hsc-democrats.house.gov/ ###
09.06.2006	WHITE PLAINS, NY – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today called on the Republican Leadership in Congress to immediately put identity theft legislation on the Congressional agenda to protect American consumers. She also sent a letter to President Bush asking him to set identity protection standards and set aside funds to protect personal information from being stolen from government agencies.“Identity theft is an increasing problem throughout the country, and in 2005 New York State had the third highest number of identity theft victims in the nation,” stated Lowey. “What’s worse is that the federal government has compromised the personal data of millions of Americans in recent months. Congress must quickly adopt legislation to protect consumers, and the Administration must act immediately to better protect Americans’ personal information.”On May 10, 2006, President Bush signed an Executive Order creating an Identity Theft Task Force to review the activities of the executive branch and to draft a strategic plan to improve the effectiveness and efficiency of the government’s identity theft awareness, prevention, detection, and prosecution activities. Since the Executive Order was signed, data breaches at the Department of Veterans Affairs, Internal Revenue Service, Department of Energy, Department of Agriculture, U.S. Navy, Department of Transportation, and the Department of Education have affected tens of millions of Americans.“The President’s Identity Theft Task Force must quickly adopt a workable strategy for all federal agencies so that Americans’ personal and sensitive data is not further compromised,” stated Lowey. “I urge the Administration to require that all sensitive information be encrypted and kept in a secure environment and to provide each agency with the resources to prevent data breaches. I will continue fighting to ensure that the government takes responsibility for recent breaches that could potentially affect the lives of millions of hard-working Americans including many men and women who have served in our armed forces.”The House Financial Services and Energy and Commerce Committees and the Senate Commerce and Judiciary Committees have considered legislation on data security. Congresswoman Lowey called on the Republican Leadership to bring a data security bill to the floor that adopts the following key items:* Require consumers to be notified if there is a reasonable risk that a security breach could lead to identity theft;* Allow consumers to access files generated by information brokers to flag, change, or delete any incorrect data;* Fine companies for pretexting, the practice of obtaining information under false pretenses; and* Allow any consumer to place a freeze on his or her credit reports to prevent identity theft.Congresswoman Lowey is a cosponsor of the “Veterans’ Identity Protection Act of 2006” (H.R. 5455), legislation aimed at helping veterans whose personal data was stolen earlier this year. This legislation would protect veterans from identity theft by requiring the VA to provide them with one year of free credit monitoring to alert them of changes in their credit and stop theft before it gets out of control. The bill would also provide veterans with one free credit report each year for two years after the end of credit monitoring in addition to the free credit report available under the Fair Credit Reporting Act and authorize $1.25 billion in emergency funds for the first year of implementation. ###
09.06.2006	WASHINGTON, DC – In the wake of Hurricane Ernesto that left more than 90,000 residents in Westchester without power over the weekend, Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton and Congresswoman Nita Lowey today called on Con Edison to take additional steps to prevent future power outages from occurring.“Restoring power to everyone in Westchester County needs to be an immediate priority – we cannot leave residents in the dark - and I know that crews are working hard towards that goal. However Con Ed should also do whatever it can to ensure that these kinds of outages don’t happen again. By trimming trees and replacing worn poles, and by working to put in place back-up power options, Con Ed can and should take steps now to protect the community against future outages and to minimize their impact when they do happen,” Senator Clinton said.“Con Ed must work quickly to restore power to the thousands of Westchester residents who have been without power since Saturday,” stated Congresswoman Lowey. “It is absolutely crucial that Con Ed also take this opportunity to evaluate the reliability of the distribution and emergency response systems and do everything possible to prevent and mitigate the impact of future outages.”[A copy of the letter is below]September 6, 2006Mr. Kevin BurkeChairman, President, and Chief Executive OfficerConsolidated Edison, Inc.4 Irving PlaceNew York, NY 10003Dear Mr. Burke:We write in regard to the power outages that have impacted more than 90,000 of your customers, primarily in Westchester County.As the most urgent priority, we ask that you take all possible steps to restore power to those customers who remain in the dark. Tens of thousands of customers lack power, and we continue to hear from constituents who are frustrated with the pace of progress and with the lack of information from Con Ed about when power might be restored.Equally important, however, is that we use this outage as an opportunity to improve the reliability of both the distribution system and the emergency response system so that future outages are less extensive and less severe. With those goals in mind, we ask that you take several additional steps after power has been restored to all customers. First, we ask that you use the crews that you have assembled to do maintenance work, such as tree trimming and replacing worn poles, to reduce the extent of outages from future storms. Second, we were concerned to hear from constituents who have acute needs for power, such as the need to operate a respirator or other medical equipment. It is clear from their experiences and the experiences of local governments in Westchester that communication must be improved both before and during events like this weekend’s storm. We ask that you put measures in place to ensure that those who have medical and other acute power needs are adequately addressed and to improve communication about power restoration with the public and with local elected officials.We thank you for your prompt consideration of these requests, and look forward to your reply.Sincerely,Senator Hillary R. ClintonCongresswoman Nita Lowey ###
08.24.2006	WASHINGTON, DC - Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey, a member of the House Health Appropriations Subcommittee, released the following statement today applauding the decision by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to approve over-the-counter status for Plan B emergency contraception for women 18 and older.“I am pleased that after so many years of delay, the FDA has finally ruled in the best interest of women’s health. It is unfortunate this decision, which will help reduce the number of unintended pregnancies and abortions, became so politicized and was thwarted by scientifically baseless claims for too long.“With one of the western world’s highest rates of teen pregnancy in the United States, I hope the FDA will continue to evaluate the safety of this drug for over-the-counter use by all women of childbearing age. We must now work to educate the public about the availability of emergency contraception over-the-counter and ensure it is available to all American women who may need it.” ###
08.17.2006	WHITE PLAINS, NY – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today sent a letter to President Bush calling on him to ask Congress for additional funding for our country’s homeland security needs, specifically calling on the Administration to invest sufficient resources in research and development so our country is not scrambling every time a new terror threat arises.“We can all agree that protecting Americans is the greatest responsibility of our government, and that terrorism is a grave threat to our safety and security. That is why I am urging the President to jump-start our research efforts and develop and deploy new screening technologies for airports capable of detecting explosives and their components whether they are solid or liquid,” said Lowey.The recently foiled bomb plot in Great Britain has highlighted gaps in our ability to detect both explosives and the components of explosives that could be mixed on board an airplane and then detonated. In 1995 a plot to bomb twelve American airplanes over the Pacific Ocean with liquid explosives was discovered when bomb makers accidentally set fire to their laboratory in Manila, exposing their deadly plot. One of the planners involved with this plot was Ramzi Yousef, who was also linked to the 1993 bombing of the World Trade Center. Despite awareness of this threat, little if anything has been done to address it before liquids were banned from all flights a little over a week ago. In fact, in 2003 the Transportation Security Administration (TSA) redirected more then half of $110 million intended for research and development for the personnel costs of airport screeners.“In the wake of last week’s foiled terrorist plot we are all examining homeland security priorities and the adequacy of our current efforts. We have long recognized the threats posed by liquid explosives, yet we have made little progress in reducing them,” added Lowey. “Our current lack of detection ability is not for lack of awareness of a potential threat, but is in fact due to insufficient funding of research and development of new technologies.” ###
07.25.2006	WASHINGTON, DC – Over the last decade, communications failures among first responders have contributed to some of the biggest disasters this nation has faced. In Oklahoma City in 1995, in Columbine in 1999, in New York in 2001 and in the Gulf region following Hurricane Katrina last year, emergency response efforts were impaired by the lack of interoperable radio communications. Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) is fighting to prevent this from ever happening again by working with fellow Members on the House Homeland Security Committee to pass legislation today that will help ensure that our nation’s first responders are able to communicate with each other during an emergency.“This legislation is long overdue. It is time we give our first responders the tools they need to adequately communicate with one another without having to use many of the same tactics as Paul Revere,” said Lowey. “I am thankful the House will consider today legislation based in part on a strategy I first proposed last Congress to require DHS to create a real interoperability plan.”The 21st Century Emergency Communications Act of 2006 was originally approved as part of the Committee on Homeland Security’s Hurricane Katrina “Lessons Learned” legislation. The bill drafted by Representatives Lowey, Pascrell and Reichert, Chairman King, Ranking Member Thompson, and other members of the Committee takes necessary steps to help ensure that our nation’s first responders are able to communicate during an emergency. The bill was drafted following recent Subcommittee hearings on the state of emergency communications.“For four years, I’ve pushed the Administration and DHS to put the standards and funding in place to help local officials improve interoperability. I’ve been very frustrated and disappointed with the lack of attention to this issue,” added Lowey. “Although this bill does not include funding for first responders to plan, purchase, and maintain communications systems, it makes first responder communications a priority. It is imperative the Senate adopt similar legislation.”Congresswoman Lowey is the author of legislation, not included in this bill, to create a direct federal grant program to provide local officials with the funds needed to upgrade and coordinate radio communications. Her legislation, the Connecting the Operations of National Networks of Emergency Communications Technologies for First Responders Act, or CONNECT First Responders Act, would create a five-year, $5 billion grant to assist local governments in improving interoperable communications equipment. ###
07.25.2006	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) joined Members of Congress in signing a letter to Speaker of the House Dennis Hastert condemning recent comments by Iraqi Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki’s and Speaker of the Iraqi Parliament Mahmoud al-Mashhadani.“We do not ask Prime Minister al-Maliki to agree with every aspect of U.S. policy. But we do expect him to support a most fundamental principle: the condemnation of terrorists and their tactics,” stated Lowey. “The U.S. Congress should not provide a platform for supporters of Hezbollah, and unless Prime Minister al-Maliki formally apologizes for his comments and those of Iraqi Parliament Speaker al-Mashhadani, I will not attend his address to Congress tomorrow and will actively urge others not to attend.”On Wednesday, July 19th, in reference to the conflict in Lebanon, Prime Minister Maliki said, “I condemn these aggressions and call on the Arab League foreign ministers meeting in Cairo to take quick action to stop these aggressions. We call on the world to take quick stands to stop the Israeli aggression.” Additionally, the Iraqi Parliament voted unanimously to condemn Israel, calling Israel’s actions “criminal aggression.” These comments and actions are in direct conflict with the position of both the President of the United States and the United States House of Representatives which voted 410-8 to support “Israel's right to take appropriate action to defend itself, including to conduct operations both in Israel and in the territory of nations which pose a threat to it, which is in accordance with international law, including Article 51 of the United Nations Charter.”“Prime Minister al-Maliki, whose country and people have been ravaged by terrorists as well, should know better than to condemn another sovereign nation for defending itself,” added Lowey. “Until the Prime Minister recognizes this, he should not be given a place of honor at a joint session of Congress.” ###
07.25.2006	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) issued the following statement on the recent conflict in the Middle East.“Let us be clear about what is happening in the Middle East. Israel has been dragged into battle on two fronts to defend itself against terrorists who target Israeli civilians and seek the destruction of the Jewish State. The current hostilities were initiated, in both cases, by incursions of terrorists across recognized borders and the kidnapping of Israeli soldiers. As we know all too well, these battles are merely the latest chapter in a war that has been waged against Israel since its establishment in 1948.“I join all those who yearn for peace in praying for an end to the hostilities. Israeli civilians have had their lives upended, living in constant fear of increasingly potent rocket attacks. Civilians in Lebanon and Gaza, used by the terrorists as human shields, have suffered immeasurably. It is impossible to witness what is happening and not hope for it to end now.“However, I also recognize that the fighting can only be stopped by the terrorists who initiated it. I believe the U.N. should play a role in ending this conflict, but the deployment of another force with the same, weak mandate as UNIFIL will not get the job done. The U.N. and the international community need to unite to demand an end to this reign of terror and full implementation of U.N. Security Council Resolution 1559. The Lebanese government must establish sovereignty over its own territory instead of allowing Hezbollah and Iranian Guards to operate freely. And we must keep the focus on Iran and Syria -- the root causes of this conflict.“In the meantime, we must continue to support Israel. The last several weeks have demonstrated beyond all doubt why Israel must maintain its qualitative military edge in the region. Any action taken by the international community must respect Israel’s right to protect its own citizens and must be aimed at disarming Hezbollah and Hamas and terminating their ability to attack Israel.“Israel aggressively seeks peace and has taken risks to achieve it time and time again. Sadly, its sacrifices have been met only with escalated threats and violence.“Israel withdrew from Lebanon in May 2000 in compliance with U.N. resolutions. In return, it has been continuously threatened by Hezbollah terrorists on its northern border, allowed free reign by a feckless Lebanese government with Syria and Iran calling the shots in violation of U.N. Security Council Resolution 1559.“Israel withdrew from Gaza in 2005. In return, it is faced with a Hamas-led Palestinian Authority that supports attacks against civilians and competes with exiled Hamas members over who can be more extreme.“This latest violence confirms that Iran currently poses the single greatest threat to regional stability. It has the motivation and resources to stage a methodical campaign of terror and violence throughout the Middle East, concentrating on fomenting sectarian violence in Iraq and supporting Hezbollah in Lebanon. Syria continues to shelter Hamas leaders and is widely acknowledged to be complicit in the kidnapping of Corporal Shalit. Both countries are transit points and suppliers of weapons to terrorists.“The current hostilities are mere symptoms of the disease Iran and Syria have brought on the region. And our policies and those of the international community must respond accordingly.“We have potent tools to deal with Iran and Syria that we have ignored. The Iran Freedom Support Act passed the House of Representatives overwhelmingly but has been held up by the Senate leadership and the Administration. The Syria Accountability and Lebanese Sovereignty Restoration Act became law in 2003, but the Administration has largely ignored the instruments it provides to pressure Syria. I welcome Secretary Rice’s visit to the region, and hope that the symbolism of a high-level visit will give way to a concrete strategy to join with like-minded nations to force Iran and Syria to abandon their campaigns of terror.“I join my constituents in standing in solidarity with Israel during this difficult time. New Yorkers understand what it means to be targeted on our own soil – to fear for the safety of our children and our way of life. I am proud to tell you that there remains overwhelming support in Congress for Israel’s right to self-defense.“This past weekend, Jewish congregations throughout our community read words of hope offered by the ancient prophet Jeremiah: “And I will bring you to the fruitful land, to eat its fruits and its plenty.” Let us hope that our vision for a fruitful Israel and a prosperous Middle East, where children can grow and thrive in plenty and in peace, will prevail.” ###
07.24.2006	WASHINGTON, DC – For years, Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D- Westchester/Rockland) has pushed the Transportation Security Administration (TSA) to better protect Americans by requiring the physical screening of all airport workers. The House Committee on Homeland Security last week approved an amendment by Lowey to fill this security gap, as part of the Department of Homeland Security Authorization Act of 2007.“We know that there are vulnerabilities in the current system. That is why passengers and baggage all go through rigorous inspection. Yet nearly five years since September 11th, many airport workers can obtain access to secure and sterile areas without any physical screening. This just doesn’t make any sense,” said Lowey. “The committee took a step in the right direction by addressing this problem head-on and requiring physical screening for all airport workers.”“I congratulate Congresswoman Lowey on the passage of this amendment to the Homeland Security authorization bill in the House of Representatives. This amendment would add another important layer of protection to the security measures already in place at the Westchester County Airport,” said County Executive Andy Spano. “It both complements and supplements our own efforts and will add significantly to the overall safety of our residents and to the safety of the airport's employees and customers, in particular.”The Government Accountability Office (GAO) estimated that there are currently more than 1 million airport workers, including cabin cleaners, maintenance crews, and caterers, who are permitted to bypass metal detectors or other physical screening before accessing secure areas. Without stricter efforts to screen airport employees, this security gap could be exploited for the purposes of carrying out criminal, or even terrorist, acts. The GAO recommended that the TSA take steps to address this problem, but so far, it has failed to do so.The amendment would require that regulations be drafted by TSA to require 100% worker screening within a year of enactment at which point they would have three years to implement the new rules. Lowey’s amendment is based on legislation she introduced in 2004, the Guaranteeing Airport Physical Screening Standards Act, or GAPSS Act, that would require the physical screening of airport workers entering secure areas.“It just makes sense that employees with access to airplanes should undergo the same screening as passengers and baggage,” said Lowey. “Today, a maintenance worker or cabin cleaner could exploit access to aircraft to store weapons on a plane or otherwise endanger passengers, effectively circumventing all passenger screening programs. At London’s Heathrow Airport, the busiest international airport in the world, 100% of workers are physically screened. These reasonable steps can help us to better ensure the security of our airports, airplanes and travelers, and help prevent potential future terrorist attacks.” ###
07.24.2006	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) announced the U.S. Senate passed a bill that she authored to re-name the Tuckahoe Post Office in memory of Ronald “Ronnie” Bucca late last week. Bucca, a New York City firefighter, was killed in the September 11th attacks.“I thank my colleagues in the Senate for their help in permanently memorializing Ronnie’s bravery and courage,” said Lowey. “For more than two decades, Ronnie Bucca dedicated his life to protecting the people of New York, and this bill will honor his memory and sacrifice.”Ronnie Bucca was a 23-year veteran of the New York Fire Department (FDNY) serving in various units throughout the five boroughs including Rescue 1 and the FDNY Terrorist Task Force. In 1992, he was promoted to Fire Marshal. He also served in the military for 29 years, including service as a Special Forces Green Beret and in the 101st Airborne Division. For his brave service to our nation, the military has also honored Ronald Bucca. When the 800th Military Police Brigade took command of British Enemy Holding Area Freddy in Southern Iraq, it was promptly renamed Camp Bucca.On the morning of September 11th, 2001, Bucca was one of just two fire fighters to reach the fire floor in the South Tower. The men made it to the 78th floor where they began stretching a hose line to protect victims of the attack. He was the first Fire Marshal to be killed in the line of duty.“In Iraq, Camp Bucca is named in Ronnie’s honor, and I feel we should honor his memory here at home as well,” said Lowey. “Ronnie Bucca was a hero in every sense of the word, and I am proud Congress has moved to recognize someone who dedicated his life to protecting the people of New York.”Because Tuckahoe had been Bucca’s home for more than twenty years, Congresswoman Lowey introduced legislation in March 2006 to honor his memory by re-dedicating the Tuckahoe Post Office the Ronald Bucca Post Office. ###
07.19.2006	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today added an amendment to the Department of Homeland Security Authorization Act of 2007 to greatly enhance our ability to account for critical infrastructure by revamping the seriously flawed Department of Homeland Security (DHS) National Asset Database. Currently, the database contains over 77,000 assets, but only 11,000 are considered nationally significant.“New York is home to countless national icons that could be targets; yet DHS continues to ignore this fact. We cannot expect risk-based funding to be effective if DHS’s system for evaluating vulnerable targets is so incredibly defective,” stated Lowey. “My amendment would enact the recommendations of the Inspector General to require the DHS to identify and evaluate key milestones, remove “extremely insignificant” items, provide states better opportunities to review and remove items, and clarify guidance to obtain more uniform and accurate information, to make sure we inject some common sense into the risk evaluation process.”Last week the DHS Inspector General issued a report on the National Asset Database, one of the tools DHS has stated it uses to allocate anti-terrorism grants. The report found that the list is critically flawed and does not take into account many assets in essential areas such as business, finance, and telecommunications sectors, which have significant presences in New York, while it includes highly unlikely targets such as a popcorn factory and a mule festival as top terror targets. Lowey said it is disgraceful that DHS has wasted time and resources on a database that is practically useless at a time when it has cut critical homeland security funding by 40% for New York and Washington, DC, the top two terrorist targets in the nation.Some of the other outrageous items included on the list were petting zoos, a Kentucky bourbon festival and golf tournament, bingo and ice cream parlors, a cookie shop, breweries, fishing shops, gyms, pet food makers, redwood trees, an Illinois “Apple and Pork Festival, and even something listed as a “Beach at End of Street.”“In the past three years, terrorists have attacked the Madrid, London, and Mumbai transit systems. In the past three weeks, we have discovered that terrorists once again targeted the New York transportation system. DHS must focus on critical infrastructure that may be attacked, not auto shops, bingo parlors, and petting zoos,” added Lowey. “I will continue to work with my colleagues in Congress and the Department of Homeland Security to overhaul this seriously flawed database and inject common sense into the risk evaluation process.” ###
07.19.2006	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) issued the following statement on the Stem Cell Research Enhancement Act of 2005 that the U.S. House of Representatives voted on today.“I am proud to be a cosponsor of HR 810, the Stem Cell Research Enhancement Act, and I rise in strong support of the veto override of this critical legislation.“At issue here is the fundamental value of saving lives—a value that we all share regardless of race, culture, or religion. Embryonic stem cells have the potential not just to treat some of the most devastating diseases and conditions, but to actually cure them.“The President’s veto of this life-saving legislation is a slap in the face to the millions of Americans suffering from diseases like Alzheimer’s, Parkinson’s or debilitating physical injuries who found new hope for treatments and cures with the passage of H.R. 810.“This hope will remain only if researchers have access to the science that holds the most potential, and are free to explore—with appropriate ethical guidelines—medical advances never before imagined possible.“The 67 percent of the American public that supports embryonic stem cell research understands this. Why doesn’t the President?“There is no question that scientific advancement often comes with moral dilemmas. That is why we have examined and debated difficult ethical and social questions before passing this legislation.“Like many of you, I believe that strong guidelines must be in place with vigorous oversight from the NIH and Congress before allowing federally-funded embryonic stem cell research.“H.R. 810 would strengthen the standards guiding embryonic stem cell research and would ensure that embryos originally created for the purpose of in vitro fertilization could be made available for research only with the consent of the donor.“So today I ask my colleagues to be as determined to find a cure as science allows us to be. We are closer than ever to remarkable discoveries and on the brink of providing hope to millions of individuals who otherwise have none. Congress must not allow the President to once again put ideology before science.“I urge my colleagues to vote to override of the President’s veto of the Stem Cell Research Enhancement Act.” ###
07.18.2006	WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) and Congressman Maurice Hinchey (D-NY) today called on the General Electric (GE) Company to stop stalling the Hudson River PCB clean-up. GE is once again challenging the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) over two important issues related to the design and implementation of the Hudson River PCB cleanup. The latest dispute is likely to further delay the Hudson clean-up start date.“It is time for GE to step up to the plate and accept its responsibility to all New Yorkers to clean up the Hudson River. Instead of spending valuable time and resources on lawyers and further litigation, GE should focus on cleaning the Hudson River,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “If GE wants to prove it is becoming a green company, it should use its ‘ecomagination’ to accept responsibility for cleaning up the environmental damage it has wrought on our communities.”GE is disputing two issues with the EPA as part of a dispute-resolution process within the Agency. First, GE does not want to pay for alternate water supplies for communities such as Waterford and Halfmoon should a PCB problem occur during dredging, and it refuses to restore the river bottom and shoreline with adequate amounts of clean sediment after dredging takes place. Two years ago, GE disputed the criteria for determining what areas should be dredged, adding six to eight months delaying the start date for the project from 2006 to 2007. These two new issues could further delay clean-up increasing PCB levels in the upper Hudson River floodplain.“Once again, GE is showing its true colors. In my view, this is not about what GE 'wants' to do, but what it 'must' do as a responsible corporate citizen. Every time we turn around, GE is disputing nickels and dimes, and by doing so, they are obstructing progress on a crucial clean-up of the problems they caused in the Hudson. They are also playing their cards pretty open when it comes to where they will likely stand when the big ticket items are on the table, such as Phase 2 of the clean-up project,” added Congressman Hinchey. “Clearly, GE is testing the Environmental Protection Agency's will to require them to do what was set out in the consent decree. EPA should flatly reject this latest attempt to stall the project, and require both the restoration of the river bottom and the supply of drinking water to residents if their water supplies are affected by the dredging.” ###
07.14.2006	WHITE PLAINS, NY – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) announced today she will offer an amendment next week to the Department of Homeland Security Authorization Act of 2007 to greatly enhance our ability to account for critical infrastructure by revamping the seriously flawed Department of Homeland Security (DHS) National Asset Database. Lowey was joined at the press conference by local officials and first responders who put their lives on the line everyday to protect sites and infrastructure in New York, the number one potential terrorist target area.“New York is home to countless national icons that could be targets; yet DHS continues to provide inadequate security funding for our region,” stated Lowey. “We cannot expect risk-based funding to be effective if DHS’s system for evaluating vulnerable targets is so incredibly defective. DHS’s inventory of national assets and landmarks must prioritize infrastructure and historic sites that are most at risk. That is why I am offering an amendment next week to the DHS Authorization Act to make sure we inject some common sense into the risk evaluation process.”This week the DHS Inspector General issued a report on the National Asset Database, one of the tools DHS has used to allocate anti-terrorism grants. The report found that the list is critically flawed and does not take into account many high-risk terrorist targets in New York and around the country, while it includes highly unlikely targets such as a popcorn factory and a mule festival as top terror targets. Lowey said it is disgraceful that DHS has wasted time and resources on a database that is practically useless at a time when it has cut critical homeland security funding by 40% for New York and Washington, DC, the top two terrorist targets in the nation.Some of the other outrageous items included on the list were petting zoos, a Kentucky bourbon festival and golf tournament, bingo and ice cream parlors, a cookie shop, breweries, fishing shops, gyms, pet food makers, redwood trees and an Illinois “Apple and Pork Festival.“I find it mind-boggling that according to the report, as of January the state of Indiana was the most target-rich in the nation with 8,591 potential terrorist targets, 50 percent more than New York and more than twice as many as California,” added Lowey. “I will continue to work with my colleagues in Congress, the Department of Homeland Security, and local officials to overhaul this seriously flawed database and make sure that all federal homeland security dollars are truly distributed based on risk.”The House has three times passed legislation Congresswoman Lowey, a member of the House Committee on Homeland Security, sponsored to require that threat, vulnerability and consequence are the first criteria when it comes to distributing homeland security grant funds. In response to drastic cuts in New York’s homeland security grant funds, she led the effort in the House to restore approximately $750 million for homeland security grant funds in the FY 2007 Homeland Security Appropriations bill. ###
07.12.2006	WASHINGTON, DC – On Tuesday the Department of Homeland Security’s Inspector General issued a report on the National Asset Database. The database is used by DHS to help determine how hundreds of millions of dollars in antiterrorism grants are allocated each year, including the program that cut money to New York City and Washington, DC, by 40 percent this year. The report found that the list is critically flawed and does not take into account many high-risk terrorist targets in New York and around the country. Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) issued the following statement on the report.“What has become abundantly clear from the report issued yesterday by the inspector general of the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) is the National Asset Database is flawed. I find it mind-boggling that according to the report, as of January the state of Indiana was the most target-rich in the nation with 8,591 potential terrorist targets listed, 50 percent more than New York and more than twice as many as California.“DHS is simply out of touch with the reality that New York is the top terrorist target in the U.S. Terrorists attacked the World Trade Center on two separate occasions. The NYPD has intercepted attempts to bomb the Brooklyn Bridge and other transportation infrastructure, and just last week we were informed that the FBI scuttled a plot to blow up critical transportation arteries into New York City.“We cannot expect risk-based funding to be effective if DHS’s system for evaluating vulnerable targets is so incredibly defective. DHS’s inventory of national assets and landmarks must prioritize infrastructure and historic sites that are most at risk.“New York is home to countless national icons that could be targets; yet DHS continues to ignore this fact. I will continue to work with my colleagues in Congress, the Department of Homeland Security, and local officials to inject common sense into the risk evaluation process and to increase funds for the first responders putting their lives on the line everyday to protect legitimately vulnerable targets.”The House has three times passed legislation Congresswoman Lowey, a member of the House Committee on Homeland Security, sponsored to require that threat, vulnerability and consequence are the first criteria when it comes to distributing homeland security grant funds. Only after those grants are distributed would each state’s total allocation be evaluated to ensure that it receives a minimum amount of funding. The minimums would be set at .25% of available grant funding for non-border states and .45% for border states. ###
07.06.2006	YONKERS, NY - Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today announced $160,000 in federal funds for the Yonkers Police Department. She was joined by local officials at a press conference to discuss the new funding which was included in the Fiscal Year 2006 State-Science-Justice-Commerce Appropriations bill.“Since September 11th, I have worked closely with local officials, such as Yonkers Mayor Phil Amicone and Police Commissioner Robert Taggart, to fight for critical security funding from the federal government,” said Lowey, a member of the House Appropriations Committee and the Committee on Homeland Security. “It is essential that our police officers have the necessary equipment to secure the safety of the public. These federal funds will help train our first responders and help them obtain more of the technology and equipment they need to protect our communities.”“The facilitation of emergency preparedness is a critical role fulfilled by our police department, and one that requires a lot of training,” said Yonkers Mayor Phil Amicone. “This important grant delivered by Congresswoman Lowey will provide the money we need to equip our police officers and provide them with the proper training, making Yonkers a safer place for all our residents.”“This funding comes at a critical time in our law enforcement efforts. The equipment needs and training demands being placed upon us, in these critical times, are becoming greater and greater while many of the sources for funding are becoming depleted,” said Commissioner Taggart. “We have recently seen that homeland security funding to New York State is being reduced and this funding, secured by Congresswoman Lowey, will allow us to continue our efforts to fight crime and maintain critical training for homeland security. The training and equipment will provide an extra level of safety for our officers and for our community.”The Yonkers Police Department will use the funding to train personnel in its Emergency Service Unit (ESU). The department will also purchase equipment, such as protective clothing, communications devices, and first aid equipment, needed to complete Counterterrorism and HazMat training.The funding will be distributed by the U.S. Department of Justice. The FY06 State-Science-Justice-Commerce Appropriations legislation was passed by the House and Senate in late 2005 and has been signed by the President. ###
06.28.2006	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today praised the Senate Health, Education, Labor and Pensions (HELP) Committee for passing the Breast Cancer and Environmental Research Act. The bill that passed the Senate HELP Committee today is based on legislation that Lowey first introduced in 1999 to increase research into environmental causes of breast cancer.“Research into environmental factors is critical to preventing and treating breast cancer, and I applaud the Senate HELP Committee’s actions today to improve the information available to women and their health care providers,” said Lowey. “Now it is time for the House to act on this critical legislation.”Breast cancer is the most commonly diagnosed cancer in the United States and worldwide. Approximately three million women in the United States are currently living with breast cancer - two million have been diagnosed and an estimated one million do not yet know they have the disease. More than 258,000 new cases of breast cancer will be diagnosed among women in the United States this year, and 40,000 women will die of this disease.While there have been isolated studies looking at suspected environmental links to breast cancer, the overall issue of what causes breast cancer and the association between the environment and breast cancer have not been thoroughly examined.Congresswoman Lowey most recently introduced the Breast Cancer and Environmental Research Act in the House of Representatives in 2005. The bill authorizes the National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences (NIEHS) to award grants to establish and operate up to eight multi-institutional, multi-disciplinary research centers to study environmental factors that may be related to the development of breast cancer. The bill authorizes $30 million per year for five years for this vital research. The bill currently has the bipartisan support of 246 members of Congress.“Too many families have lost mothers, daughters and sisters to breast cancer, yet we still don’t know enough about the causes of this disease,” added Lowey. “I look forward to working with my colleagues in both the House and Senate to pass this important legislation and to help eradicate this deadly disease.” ###
06.26.2006	NEW ROCHELLE, NY – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today met with students at the College of New Rochelle to discuss two permanent changes to student loan programs that will take place on July 1st. These changes will significantly increase student and parent borrowing for college, making the college affordability crisis worse.“At a time when tuition at four-year public colleges has risen 40 percent since 2001, this one-two punch will saddle millions of students with even more debt than they currently face and may even put college out of reach for millions more,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “It is unconscionable that the Majority in Congress could pass a bill to cut student aid by $12 billion and increase interest rates on student loans.”Beginning on July 1st, the interest rates on outstanding federal student loans - for students who have already graduated from college - are going to rise to 7.14 percent for students and 7.94 percent for federal parent loans. Current consolidation rates are between 4.75 and 6 percent. On the same day, loans for current and future college students will be set at a fixed rate of 6.8 percent for undergraduate students and 8.5 percent for parent borrowers. The current rates are between 5.1 percent and 6 percent.“The typical student borrower, which includes more than two-thirds of students, graduates from college with $17,500 in debt,” added Lowey. “I am urging students with outstanding loans to consider consolidating before July 1st. Consolidation will allow students to lock in an interest rate as low as 4.75 percent, which would save an average of nearly $3,500 over the life of their loans.”Congresswoman Lowey is a cosponsor of legislation to reverse the Republican “Raid on Student Aid.” This bill would cut interest rates on student loans in half—from 6.8 percent to 3.4 percent for student borrowers and from 8.5 percent to 4.25 percent for parent borrowers. Under this legislation, the average student borrower, who has $17,500 in debt and 15 years to repay the loan, would save approximately $5,600 over the life of the loan.To find out how much money students could save under the Democratic plan, they can visit www.house.gov/lowey to use the Student Aid Calculator. ###
06.21.2006	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today issued the following statement at the House Committee on Homeland Security hearing “Department of Homeland Security Terrorism Preparedness Grants: Risk-Based or Guess-Work?”“Mayor Bloomberg, I think you, Chairman King, and I understand exactly why New York was so dramatically shortchanged in its grant allocations this year, and I thank you for being here today to discuss the impact of these cuts and our joint efforts to fight for adequate funds to protect the number one terrorist target in the nation – New York.“First and foremost, the Administration has led the effort to slash funding for the three largest homeland security grants – the State Homeland Security Grant Program, Law Enforcement Terrorism Prevention Program, and Urban Area Security Initiative. In FY05, the President requested $2.45 billion for the three programs, lowered it to $2.04 billion in FY06, and then again reduced the request to $1.47 billion in FY07. Each time Congress has failed to fully restore damaging cuts to these programs.“This is an unacceptable insult to every official and first responder working day-in and day-out to protect New York. That is why I offered a motion to recommit the FY07 spending bill to require that states receive no less in FY07 than the higher of the amounts received in FY05 or FY06. Unfortunately, this amendment failed. However, the buck stops with the President, and we need you to join us in pushing the President to insist that the Republican majority in the House and Senate restore these funds in the FY07 DHS appropriations bill.“New York took its greatest hit in the UASI program, which was designed to help the top urban, high-risk areas, because it has been stretched too thin. Since FY03, the number of recipients for UASI has increased from seven cities to 46 regions comprising 53 cities. This year, the original seven UASI cities will receive only 50% of total funding; New York will receive 40% less than last year; and its share of UASI has been cut by 30%.“In addition, DHS’s effort to base funding for all the grants on risk failed. They created a confusing process that, among other things, poorly categorized critical infrastructure, evaluated assets that pose little to no risk of being attacked, and lacked common sense.“For example, DHS’s assessment deemed NYPD’s counterterrorism program, which has been touted by FBI Director Mueller and former Secretary Ridge, ineffective. One thing is certain – programs that go unfunded certainly won’t be effective.“Again, I thank you for coming here today to discuss with this committee the impact these funding cuts will have on your efforts to protect New York. I look forward to continuing our work together to restore these vital funds and base homeland security grants on a real risk-based approach.”The House has three times passed legislation Congresswoman Lowey authored to require that threat, vulnerability and consequence are the first criteria when it comes to distributing homeland security grant funds. Only after those grants are distributed would each state’s total allocation be evaluated to ensure that it receives a minimum amount of funding. The minimums would be set at .25% of available grant funding for non-border states and .45% for border states. ###
06.16.2006	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today issued the following statement on H. Res 861 regarding the war in Iraq.“U.S. policy toward Iraq should be focused on bringing home U.S. troops as soon as possible while minimizing chaos in Iraq and maximizing Middle Eastern stability. I believe that 2006 must be a year of significant transition toward full Iraqi sovereignty both politically and militarily and with the strategic redeployment of U.S. forces.“Americans deserve a serious discussion in Congress about the future of U.S. involvement in Iraq. Instead, the Republican resolution before Congress today fails to address the road forward. A resolution to achieve a sovereign, free, and united Iraq is not a strategy.“This resolution is a partisan attempt to avoid the debate that the American people are demanding. It blurs the line between the War on Terror and the war in Iraq in an effort to legitimize Bush Administration mistakes, and fails to deal with key issues such as the effect of our ‘stay-the-course-at-any-cost’ policy on other threats to our national security and military recruitment and the lack of oversight and accountability over the billions of dollars wasted or stolen in the war and reconstruction effort.“I am a strong supporter of our troops, and I have voted consistently to give them the funding and equipment they need to carry out their missions in Iraq and Afghanistan. Our courageous men and women in uniform have met their challenges with skill, bravery, and selfless dedication. We mourn the loss of the 2,500 troops who have died in Iraq and offer our support and prayers to the nearly 18,400 who have been injured in the line of duty.“While this resolution expresses our gratitude toward the troops, it fails to acknowledge the missteps, misrepresentations, and misjudgments that have fatally flawed our involvement in Iraq from the very beginning, making the mission of our troops more perilous. The President rushed to war based on false and faulty intelligence against the protests of the majority of our allies. Warnings from U.S. commanders about troop levels and equipment went unheeded, and short-sighted decisions were made which seriously damaged our efforts to establish peace and security in Iraq.“The Administration’s horrendous miscalculations have damaged our ability to aggressively confront other emerging threats around the world and have endangered the stability of the Middle East. To make matters worse, the Administration has consistently rejected calls for accountability for some of its worst mistakes, including the squandering of billions of dollars in reconstruction funds, torture at Abu Ghraib and the provision of inadequate equipment for our troops. The sham resolution before us today is intended to avoid an honest discussion of these issues.“The American people deserve better than today’s partisan grandstanding and the contempt of the Republican leadership for their genuine concern about U.S. policy toward Iraq. For this reason, I will oppose the resolution.” ###
06.13.2006	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) will today offer an amendment to the Labor, Health and Human Services and Education Appropriations bill in full committee mark-up to require bioterror grants to be distributed on the basis of risk. Lowey is a long-time leader in the fight for risk-based distribution of homeland security funds.“Under the current system, New York receives less per capita in funding than many areas across the country that are at far less risk,” added Lowey. “Yet experts tell us that a bioterror attack is most likely to occur in a heavily populated area like New York City and that its effects could quickly expand to surrounding communities. When it comes to our homeland security, we must put our resources where they are needed most.”New York currently receives less in funding per capita than much less populated areas. For example, New York State, not including New York City, ranks 41st out of 54 entities on a per capita basis for funding under the Health Resources and Services Administration (HRSA) Bioterrorism Hospital Preparedness program. New York City fares even worse, ranking last out of 54. The State receives only $1.60 per person, and the City receives $1.53 per person while sparsely populated states like Wyoming receive as much as $2.51 per person.New York State, not including the City, ranks 46th out of 54 for Centers for Disease Control (CDC) Public Health Preparedness funding. The State receives $4.14 per person compared to $12.28 per person in Wyoming, which ranks number one in the program.Lowey and Congressman Vito Fossella (R-Staten Island) introduced a bill earlier this year to require agencies that distribute bioterror preparedness grants to consider risk. Risk-based funding would ensure that areas most likely to be targeted by terrorists are also most likely to receive federal funds.“It amazes me that we’ve gone this long allocating such a large portion of homeland security funds—including bioterrorism funds—based on everything but the threat of a terrorist attack to a particular area or region,” said Lowey. “There is no question that the threat to New York and the surrounding counties is serious and ongoing, yet many have fought my efforts to distribute funds based on risk every step of the way. I will continue to fight to make sure that every penny that comes from the federal government for homeland security preparedness is distributed based on risk.”This legislation is a continuation of Lowey’s efforts to promote risk-based funding. Three times, the House has passed her proposal to require consideration of threat, vulnerability, and consequence for homeland security grants. ###
06.06.2006	WHITE PLAINS, NY - Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today announced the release of a report by The National Academy of Sciences (NAS) which shows we can continue to meet the state’s energy needs without Indian Point. Lowey secured $1 million in federal funds for NAS to identify alternatives for replacing the power generated by the nuclear facility.“While I believe that Indian Point must be decommissioned to protect the safety and security of our region, I also recognize the responsibility to ensure the reliability of our power grid,” said Lowey. “I’m pleased to announce today that this authoritative study is complete and the bottom line is this: we can meet the region’s increasing energy demands without Indian Point. Through conservation and efficiency, modest new generation, and transmission improvements, we can replace the power produced by Indian Point and finally close this facility without the lights going off and without dramatic price increases.”Congresswoman Lowey initially called for the plants to be decommissioned in February 2002 and has worked to increase security at and around Indian Point. More than four years after the terrorist attacks of September 11th, health, safety, and security problems continue at the facility. Widespread failures of the emergency siren system, leakage of dangerous radioactive materials, and an inadequate emergency response plan put the safety and security of our community at risk, she said.The NAS study was conducted by a committee of 17 of the nation’s premier experts on energy. Several committee members joined Congresswoman Lowey at her press conference today at Pace University Law School to discuss the study and its findings.The NAS study shows that through a comprehensive plan, a total of 5300 megawatts (MW) of additional energy resources can be developed over the next 10 years to both meet increasing energy needs and replace the 2000 MW of energy produced by Indian Point. The report also concludes that there are no technological impediments to replacing Indian Point’s electricity and identifies a combination of strategies, including new generation, transmission, and demand-side management that can be used to meet the state’s growing energy needs. Through smart investments in energy efficiency and demand-side management programs, the NAS report estimates that it is possible to reduce the demand for electricity by almost 4000 MW by 2015, while decreases of 850 MW are easily attainable.Lowey said the report indicated that wholesale energy prices might rise only slightly if Indian Point were closed. Previous studies have predicted increases as low as a few dollars per month per family.While Entergy claims to be a low-cost electricity producer, in the day-ahead market where most electricity is purchased, the consumer pays the exact same price for power produced at Indian Point as that produced by any other plant. As evidenced by its hundreds of millions in profits for nuclear operations alone, Entergy’s executives and stockholders benefit from its low-cost production, while consumers continue to pay the price fixed by the market, Lowey said.“Where there’s a will, there’s a way. This report clearly outlines the options for replacing the energy produced at Indian Point and meeting future energy needs. Now we need the will and strong leadership to decommission this facility,” added Lowey. “I look forward to working with the officials on all levels of government to finally eliminate this looming threat to the safety and security of our communities.” ###
05.31.2006	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, the Department of Homeland Security announced allocations for three components of the Fiscal Year (FY) 2006 Homeland Security Grant Program (HSPGP) - the State Homeland Security Grant Program (SHSGP), the Law Enforcement Terrorism Prevention Program (LETPP), and the Urban Areas Security Initiative (UASI). Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) issued the following statement on the allocations for New York. “Today’s grant allocation announcement by the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) is a blow to New York’s efforts to prevent and prepare for another terrorist attack. DHS is simply out of touch with the reality that New York is a terrorist target. While I am pleased this is the first time the Department of Homeland Security has considered risk in SHSGP and LETPP calculations, the overall cuts to these funds will drastically effect how New York prepares for a future attack. “It is unbelievable that New York, which faces one of the greatest risks for a terrorist attack is only receiving a $124 million allocation in UASI funds this year. USAI is one of our biggest homeland security funding sources and it is being cut by $83 million or almost 40%, from last year’s $207 million allocation for New York. “This is the first time that SHSGP and LETPP have a portion allocated based on risk and New York will receive 4.99% of SHSGP this year, and 6.59% of LETPP funds this year. Although these percentages reflect a slight increase over last year’s levels, SHSGP funding is 50% lower this year than last, so New York’s actual allocation will decrease dramatically. UASI funds for the state were slashed overall and New York State will get $183.7 million, which is a 20 percent drop from last year. New York State's per capita share of grant funds, which totals $2.78 per person, will drop to an even lower level compared to some rural states, like Wyoming, which will get $14.83 per person this year. “The House has three times passed legislation I authored to require that threat, vulnerability and consequence are the first criteria when it comes to distributing homeland security grant funds. Only after those grants are distributed would each state’s total allocation be evaluated to ensure that it receives a minimum amount of funding. The minimums would be set at .25% of available grant funding for non-border states and .45% for border states. “The grant funding should not be based on anything other than risk. I will continue to work with my colleagues in Congress, the Department of Homeland Security and local officials to increase funds for homeland security and make sure we put federal funds where they are needed most.” ###
05.26.2006	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, on the eve of Memorial Day weekend, Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) discussed with members of the American Legion Post 8, the efforts she is taking in Congress to protect veterans’ credit and personal information that was stolen from the VA Earlier this week, Veterans Affairs Secretary James Nicholson announced that sensitive data collected by the government for approximately 26.5 million veterans -- names, Social Security numbers and dates of birth as well as some disability ratings -- were stolen from the home of a VA official who had removed this data from the VA offices. “The revelation that the private and personal records of all of these veterans had been taken home by a VA employee and then stolen is appalling. Our veterans and their families deserve better,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “This is an outrageous, unacceptable violation of the privacy of 1,171,900 brave men and women in New York who served our country proudly.” Congresswoman Lowey is a cosponsor of the “Veterans’ Identity Protection Act of 2006” (H.R. 5455), legislation aimed at helping veterans whose personal data was stolen. This legislation would protect veterans from identity theft by requiring the VA to provide them with one year of free credit monitoring to alert them of changes in their credit and stop theft before it gets out of control. The bill would also provide veterans with one free credit report each year for two years after the end of credit monitoring, in addition to the free credit report available under the Fair Credit Reporting Act, as well as authorize $1.25 billion in emergency funds for the first year of implementation. “The government must take responsibility for this egregious breach of security that could potentially affect the lives of millions of veterans,” added Lowey. “Passing the “Veterans’ Identity Protection Act” is the first step toward correcting this huge problem that should have never happened in the first place. Protecting the brave Americans who have served against identity theft is the least we can do to ensure they are not left vulnerable as a result of government negligence.” As part of the event, Congresswoman Lowey also presented service medals to World War II veteran Carl Howard. Howard, a resident of New Rochelle served in the Army from 1941-1945. During World War II, he served in Europe in Ardennes, Central Europe, and Rhineland. ###
05.25.2006	WASHINGTON, DC – “I want to first take this opportunity to thank the Chairman for his hard work this year, and throughout his tenure, in creating a bipartisan environment for examining our foreign policy priorities and addressing the funding needs of our foreign assistance programs. The Chairman has shown tremendous leadership in steering this subcommittee and setting an example of bipartisan cooperation and collaboration that is rare in Congress today, and leaves behind an impressive legacy. Chairman Kolbe has overseen the largest increases in the foreign aid budget post-Cold War. Under his stewardship, funding in the bill to combat HIV/AIDS has increased from $485 million in FY02 to $3.43 billion in the mark before us today, and basic education has increased from just $100 million to $550 million. I know he is particularly proud of his work on trade promotion and trade capacity building as well as on shaping and promoting the Millennium Challenge Account. “At this meeting of the Committee, the last time he will steer a bill through full Committee markup, I hope we can all take a moment to express our appreciation for the Chairman’s service and his friendship. The Committee will feel your absence in the 110th Congress. “Turning to the bill before us, Mr. Chairman, I know we were presented with challenges but, with a couple of exceptions, the provisions included in the bill before us today represent the product of bipartisan negotiation and cooperation. I will be supporting the bill, and I urge my colleagues to do the same as it moves through the legislative process. “The Subcommittee’s 302(b) allocation is a full $2.4 billion below the request level, and into this reduced allocation we have had to fit increases in Presidential priorities such as the Millennium Challenge Account and the President’s Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief as well as increased funding for Afghanistan and Iraq. “I generally agree with my chairman on the spending levels recommended within the reduced allocation. We worked closely together to ensure that, in the face of devastating cuts, we at least level-funded child survival and health and development assistance priorities. We provide the President’s request for HIV/AIDS, increasing the overall amount in this bill for HIV/AIDS and TB by $751 million over the FY06 enacted levels and more than doubling the President’s request for the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, TB and Malaria to the FY06 enacted level of $444.5 million. Although I wish we could have done more for the Global Fund, I believe we are doing the best we can with the resources we have. “The bill maintains level funding for basic education in the Development Assistance account at last year’s level of $365 million, and I am pleased that we have been able to increase non-DA funds for basic education for a bill total of $550 million. We also continue the U.S. reconstruction program in Afghanistan, fully fund the requested levels for Liberia, Haiti, and Sudan, and fully fund our strategic commitments in the Middle East. “I am pleased that we have also restored deep cuts the President requested in family planning and reproductive health programs. The bill substantially increases family planning funding in the Child Survival and Health account from the President’s request, fully restores bill-wide bilateral funding to $432 million, the FY06 House-passed level, and earmarks $34 million bill-wide for the United Nations Population Fund. “I am also pleased that we were able to restore funding for several key UN agencies, including UNICEF, UNDP, UNIFEM and the UNIFEM Trust Fund. “I want to commend the Chairman for his willingness to take a critical look at the Andean Counternarcotics Initiative, and specifically how the continuation of a special program aimed primarily at eradication of coca is consistent with the myriad U.S. foreign policy goals in the Andean region. I believe that our overemphasis on the drug war has caused us to neglect many other critical objectives throughout Latin America, and I hope the changes made by the Chairman in the allocation of these funds in this bill are the first steps toward a wholesale reevaluation of our foreign aid program in the region. “I want to point out a few specific concerns I have with the bill at this time. Our shamefully low allocation required us to make cuts from the request in several key areas, including Migration and Refugee Assistance, peacekeeping, programs for Eastern Europe and the Former Soviet Union, key Economic Support Fund programs, and Congo debt relief. It is my hope that we will be able to restore these cuts, and even provide increases where warranted, in conference, and that funding for many of these priorities will survive conference negotiations on the FY06 Supplemental. I am also hopeful that we can restore full funding for the U.S. commitment to the Global Environmental Facility – the President’s requested level, granted in this bill, is a little more than half of what is actually needed. “I am disappointed that this bill places no conditionality whatsoever on U.S. military assistance to Indonesia and Guatemala. Despite constructive language on Indonesia included in the FY06 bill, this bill fails to send the message that the U.S. expects Indonesia to continue on the path of achieving true civilian control over the military and accountability for human rights abuses. “I look forward to continuing to work with the Chairman and with our Senate counterparts as the bill moves to the House floor and into conference to remedy some of the concerns I have expressed. However, I think the Chairman’s mark before us today is a good start to this process. I appreciate the Chairman’s help, the involvement of all of our Subcommittee members and associate staff, and, of course, the hard work of the Subcommittee staff – Nisha, Beth, Betsy, Craig, Rob, Delia, Lori, and Todd, in crafting this bill.” ###
05.19.2006	WASHINGTON, DC - “Good morning. I want to first take this opportunity to thank the Chairman for his hard work this year, and throughout his tenure, in creating a bipartisan environment for examining our foreign policy priorities and addressing the funding needs of our foreign assistance programs. The Chairman has shown tremendous leadership in steering this subcommittee and setting an example of bipartisan cooperation and collaboration that is rare in Congress today. So before we proceed with today’s mark-up, which is the Chairman’s last subcommittee markup, let me take a moment to recognize Chairman Kolbe for his outstanding work on this subcommittee, his leadership, and his commitment to promoting stability and alleviating poverty around the world. The Chairman leaves behind an impressive legacy, overseeing the largest increases in the foreign aid budget post-Cold War. Under his stewardship, funding in the bill to combat HIV/AIDS has increased from $485 million in FY02 to $3.43 billion in the mark before us today, and basic education has increased from just $100 million to $550 million. I know he is particularly proud of his work on trade promotion and trade capacity building as well as on shaping and promoting the Millennium Challenge Account. “All of these are important and worthy legacies. But to me, what has been the hallmark of the Chairman’s tenure is his commitment to building bipartisan support for our nation’s foreign policy and foreign assistance programs while at the same time preserving the vital role of Congress in oversight over appropriations. He has run this subcommittee fairly, efficiently and effectively. And, of course, he has kept us on time and on track. “Mr. Chairman, one of my indelible memories of you on this subcommittee is of your strict enforcement of the 5 minute rule -- watching the hour glass, occasionally tapping it, encouraging the sands of time to flow a little faster. Those of us who have, on rare occasions, been late to hearings or joint meetings know well your commitment to punctuality. It is therefore my pleasure, on behalf of the Subcommittee and staff, to present you with this hourglass as a memento of your tenure and a token of our deep esteem. “Now, if you will allow me a few minutes to make some brief remarks on the bill before us. “Mr. Chairman, I know this bill presented particular challenges but, with a couple of exceptions, the provisions included in the bill before us today represent the product of bipartisan negotiation and cooperation. I will be supporting the bill, and I urge my colleagues to do the same as it moves through the legislative process. “The Subcommittee’s 302(b) allocation is a full $2.4 billion below the request level, and into this reduced allocation we have had to fit increases in Presidential priorities such as the Millennium Challenge Account and the President’s Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief as well as increased funding for Afghanistan and Iraq. “I generally agree with my chairman on the spending levels recommended within the reduced allocation. We worked closely together to ensure that, in the face of devastating cuts, we at least level-funded child survival and health and development assistance priorities. We provide the President’s request for HIV/AIDS, increasing the overall amount in this bill for HIV/AIDS and TB by $751 million over the FY06 enacted levels and more than doubling the President’s request for the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, TB and Malaria to the FY06 enacted level of $444.5 million. Although I wish we could have done more for the Global Fund, I believe we are doing the best we can with the resources we have. “The bill maintains level funding for basic education in the Development Assistance account at last year’s level of $365 million, and I am pleased that we have been able to increase non-DA funds for basic education for a bill total of $550 million. We also continue the U.S. reconstruction program in Afghanistan, fully fund the requested levels for Liberia, Haiti, and Sudan, and fully fund our strategic commitments in the Middle East. I am pleased that we have also restored deep cuts the President requested in family planning and reproductive health programs. The bill substantially increases family planning funding in the Child Survival and Health account from the President’s request, fully restores bill-wide bilateral funding to $432 million, the FY06 House-passed level, and earmarks an additional $22.25 million in International Organizations and Programs funds, and $34 million bill-wide, for the United Nations Population Fund. “I am also pleased that we were able to restore funding for several key UN agencies, including UNICEF, UNDP, UNIFEM and the UNIFEM Trust Fund. “I want to commend the Chairman for his willingness to take a critical look at the Andean Counternarcotics Initiative, and specifically how the continuation of a special program aimed primary at eradication of coca is consistent with the myriad U.S. foreign policy goals in the Andean region. I believe that our overemphasis on the drug war has caused us to neglect many other critical objectives throughout Latin America, and I hope the changes made by the Chairman in the allocation of these funds in this bill are the first steps toward a wholesale reevaluation of our foreign aid program in the region. “I want to point out a few specific concerns I have with the bill at this time. Our shamefully low allocation required us to make cuts from the request in several key areas, including Migration and Refugee Assistance, peacekeeping, programs for Eastern Europe and the Former Soviet Union, key Economic Support Fund programs, and Congo debt relief. It is my hope that we will be able to restore these cuts, and even provide increases where warranted, in conference, and that funding for many of these priorities will survive conference negotiations on the FY06 Supplemental. I am also hopeful that we can restore full funding for the U.S. commitment to the Global Environmental Facility – the President’s requested level, granted in this bill, is a little more than half of what is actually needed. “I am disappointed that this bill places no conditionality whatsoever on U.S. military assistance to Indonesia and Guatemala. Despite constructive language on Indonesia included in the FY06 bill, this bill fails to send the message that the U.S. expects Indonesia to continue on the path of achieving true civilian control over the military and accountability for human rights abuses. “In the interest of time, I will save any other comments I have on the bill until Full Committee markup. I would like to thank the Chairman once again for being such a good partner in this process. I believe we have put together a reasonable bill within the context of our difficult allocation, and I appreciate your help, and the hard work of the staff, in getting this bill to markup this morning.” ###
05.17.2006	WASHINGTON, DC – The House Committee on Homeland Security, by a vote of 28-0, today approved a bill that underscores the importance of improving interoperable communication for first responders. This bill requires the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) to make emergency communications a priority by including the interoperability strategy that was first proposed in May 2004 by Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland). “It is time that we give our first responders the tools they need to adequately communicate with one another without having to use many of the same tactics as Paul Revere,” said Lowey. “The committee took a step in the right direction today by voting for this bill and providing additional resources and tools our first responders need.” The National Emergency Management Reform and Enhancement Act outlines crucial provisions on first responder communications. It requires DHS to make emergency communications a priority by requiring a national interoperable emergency communication inventory and identifying appropriate interoperable emergency communications capabilities necessary for federal, state, local, and tribal governments to operate at all threat levels. It also addresses short- and long-term solutions to achieving seamless systems and identifies how the federal government can work effectively with state, local, and tribal governments to implement the strategy. DHS must also set goals and timeframes for achieving a nationwide interoperable communications system. In addition to interoperability standards, Lowey added a section to the bill requiring DHS to conduct a 50 state full-scale exercise with HHS, USDA, and the heads of other federal, state, and local governments on the implementation of the President’s National Strategy for Pandemic Influenza. “Lack of interoperable equipment was a major problem during the 1993 World Trade Center bombing and eight years later, that same equipment was used during the response to September 11th,” added Lowey. “We cannot afford to let our equipment fail us again in a terrorist or pandemic flu attack. The time to act is well overdue.” ###
05.15.2006	PORT CHESTER, NY – In honor of the kick off of Women's Health Week, Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton and Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) announced that they will introduce a Congressional resolution in support of strengthening family planning services. “I believe it’s more important than ever that we fight to protect a woman’s right to make her own decisions about her reproductive health,” Senator Clinton said. “Our resolution will make it clear that Congress recognizes that educating and supporting women so that they do not become pregnant in the first place is one of our most important investments."“Whether it’s through contraceptive equity, increasing funding for Title X, or encouraging states to expand Medicaid family planning services, expanding access to contraception should be a shared national goal,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “If you are for reducing unintended pregnancies and abortions, than you should be for family planning. It’s as simple as that, and that is exactly what Senator Clinton and I call for in our resolution that we intend to introduce in Congress.”The Clinton-Lowey resolution calls on all members of Congress to put themselves on the record in support of family planning services and education. The resolution does not cost any money it simply asks that Congress officially go on the record in support of programs and policiesthat make it easier for all women at all income levels to obtain contraceptives and use them consistently and correctly over time.Recently, the non-partisan Guttmacher Institute released a major report revealing the tragic two-tiered system that is steadily emerging in our country. High-income women have quick, convenient access to contraceptives, while low-income women do not and as a result more often become pregnant unintentionally. In fact, a poor woman is four times as likely to experience an unplanned pregnancy as a higher-income woman.The United States has one of the highest rates of unintended pregnancies in the industrialized world. Half of the 6 million pregnancies in America are unintended, and nearly half of those end in abortion every year. Lack of coverage for contraception and other health care costs results in women of reproductive age paying 68% more in out-of-pocket costs for health care services than do men of the same age. Furthermore, the Deficit Reduction Act of 2005 that passed the Senate in late December placed family planning services in further jeopardy. The new law eliminated a longstanding guarantee, in place since 1972, which guaranteed that all Medicaid enrollees are covered for family planning services and supplies. The new law allows states to offer stripped-down benefit packages to some enrollees—including some parents and pregnant women.At the press conference Senator Clinton also announced that she will be introducing legislation - the Unintended Pregnancy Reduction Act of 2006 – that will strengthen Medicaid coverage of family planning services, by ensuring that Medicaid coverage for family planning services remains accessible to low-income women.The Senator’s legislation, which she will introduce with Senator Harry Reid (D-NV), will also amend the Medicaid statute to ensure that states extend coverage for family planning services and supplies to women who would be entitled to Medicaid funded prenatal, labor, delivery and postpartum care.“I hope my colleagues in the Senate, from both sides of the debate, Republican and Democrats; join me in ensuring all women have the family planning services they need, so that together we can help to decrease the amount of unintended pregnancies,” Clinton said. ###
05.11.2006	YONKERS, NY – Today the Lower Manhattan Development Corporation voted to move forward on the Yonkers-Haverstraw-Lower Manhattan ferry project, for which Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) has secured $2.45 million to address the critical transportation infrastructure needs in the Hudson Valley. “Ferry service is essential to improve our transportation infrastructure in the Lower Hudson Valley,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “A new route connecting Haverstraw, Yonkers and New York City will help relieve congestion on our already over-burdened roads. I have worked with local officials to secure $2.45 million to help create this service, and I am thrilled it is one step closer to becoming a reality.” The ferry will improve the quality of life for those who must commute in heavy, hard-to-predict traffic every day from Rockland and Westchester to New York City. This service will not only make the hectic daily routine easier for thousands of people, it is also a critical homeland security preparedness measure for the New York City metropolitan area. On September 11th, ferries were used to evacuate Manhattan and replaced other modes of transportation in the following months. “This ferry service is another way we can help ensure our communities are able to respond to any disruption in our transportation networks,” added Lowey. “I will continue to fight in Washington to bring critical transportation funds home to New York to improve our communities and to ensure that Rockland residents reap the benefits of ferry service to Manhattan." ###
05.08.2006	WHITE PLAINS, NY – As we approach Mother’s Day, Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D- Westchester/Rockland) today called on the Republican Majority in Congress to give America’s older or senior mothers a real Mother’s Day gift - an extension of the May 15th deadline to sign up for the Medicare prescription drug plan until December 31st so that beneficiaries are not forced to pay a lifetime penalty of permanently higher premiums. “One week before the May 15th deadline, millions of seniors and people with disabilities still have not signed up for a plan, as a result of the enormous complexity and confusion of the prescription drug program,” stated Lowey. “I will continue fighting in Congress to extend the May 15th deadline through the end of the year, eliminating late-enrollment penalties for seniors this year.” Without an extension of the deadline, millions of beneficiaries will be rushed to make a vital health care decision at the last-minute or face a lifetime penalty. A new Kaiser Family Foundation poll shows that nearly half of the nation’s Medicare beneficiaries still don’t realize May 15th is the deadline and are unaware of the penalties they will pay if they miss the deadline and sign up later. As of April 18th, of the 16 million Medicare beneficiaries who previously did not have drug coverage, approximately 7 million had not signed up for the Part D benefit. In addition to incurring increased costs due to late enrollment, many seniors are facing high costs due to one of the biggest flaws of the Part D program the “doughnut hole” effect. Under the “doughnut hole,” seniors have to pay 100% out-of-pocket for drug costs between $2,251 and $5,100. But that’s not the only hole in the benefit. The law does not allow re-importation of safe, less expensive drugs from other countries, and it prohibits the federal government from negotiating for lower drug prices.“Since the enrollment period began in November, we have seen seniors left without coverage, delays in payments, overzealous and unscrupulous marketing, and absolute mass confusion about this benefit,” added Lowey. “We need to plug these gaping holes in the Part D benefit before it millions of seniors are asked to pay thousands of dollars in out-of-pocket expenses.” Congresswoman Lowey has authored and cosponsored various pieces of legislation to eliminate these gaping holes in the Part D benefit, through the following provisions: o Requiring Medicare to negotiate with drug companies for lower drug prices like the Veterans’ Administration does now; o Allowing the safe re-importation of prescription drugs; o Extending the enrollment deadline so that beneficiaries who sign up after the May 15th deadline will not face a significant penalty—an increase in monthly premiums of 1 percent for every month past the deadline; and o Allowing beneficiaries to change plan without penalty if they are dissatisfied with their plans during the first year of coverage. ###
05.03.2006	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) joined fellow Members of Congress today to vote against the Lobbying Accountability and Transparency Act. “Over the past several years, the American public has witnessed shameful abuses of power by some Members of Congress. These actions have made Congress less responsive to the needs of the public and more beholden to special interest groups,” said Lowey. “I believe we must take steps now to restore the integrity of the legislative branch; however the bill we considered today failed to measure up.” The bill fails to sever the links between Members of Congress and special interests. Specifically, it does nothing to slow the revolving door between congressional service and lobbying and does not require the disclosure of Members’ contacts with lobbyists, lobbyists’ fundraisers or other events that honor Members of Congress. There is no provision to crack down on pay-to-play schemes, like the “K Street Project,” and loophole-laden earmark provisions fail to stop “dead of night” special interest deals. In contrast, the Democrats have proposed a much tougher version of lobbying reform. The Honest Leadership and Open Government proposal, which Lowey is a co-sponsor of, would end practices that subvert the open and fair legislative process. It would stop “dead of night” legislating used to pass crucial and complex legislation without full public or Member review; require earmark reform; and mandate open conference committee meetings so that special interest provisions cannot be slipped into bills without public scrutiny “The Republicans proposed modest changes instead of a comprehensive, permanent overhaul of accountability and transparency measures,” added Lowey. “A much stronger alternative was offered, but the majority refused to allow it to even be considered.” ###
05.03.2006	Washington, DC – In response to the White House’s unveiling of part two of the national plan for a flu pandemic, today Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) issued the following statement. “The plan released today by the White House is another unfunded federal mandate on state and local governments. It requires them to take on much of the responsibility for planning and response and pay 75% of the cost of antivirals while the federal government will pay only 25%. “It is still not clear which federal official is the primary authority in charge of responding to a pandemic. We would no more look to Michael Chertoff to be the nation’s doctor than we would ask the CDC to train firefighters. “Pandemic preparedness is a race against the clock, and it’s time for the President to determine whether DHS or HHS will be in charge when an outbreak occurs. If we do not plan ahead, we risk another Katrina, a breakdown of government just when our citizens need us most, and finger-pointing and blame in the aftermath.”
05.03.2006	WASHINGTON, DC – Joined by the Asthma & Allergy Network Mothers of Asthmatics, Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) marked Asthma Awareness Day, by issuing the following statement. “It is a pleasure to be here this morning to celebrate the 9th Annual Asthma Awareness Day. “I’d like to first recognize Nancy Sander, President and Founder of the Allergy and Asthma Network and Mothers of Asthmatics. Your dedication to fighting this illness is limitless. Thank you for leading this effort to stop asthma in its tracks. “For those of us who have been working on this issue for years, we know that asthma is more than a nuisance. It is a serious illness that affects almost 21 million Americans, including 9 million children. “There is no cure for asthma, and for reasons that we don’t fully understand, asthma rates have risen dramatically over the last 20 years. “That’s why we must give researchers the tools they need to study this debilitating condition. “We must give public health officials and community organizations the resources they need to spread the word about how it can be prevented and controlled. “And with an epidemic like this, we must also engage schools in helping children more effectively manage asthma. “That is why I have introduced a comprehensive bill to address the asthma epidemic in our country. “My bill would encourage states to establish pediatric asthma action plans, create a National Asthma Coordinating Committee to improve our nationwide response, and bolster public awareness and education efforts through the CDC. It will also provide desperately needed assistance to low-income schools hardest hit by asthma to implement asthma programs. “Asthma is an indiscriminate disease that strikes Americans of all ages, races, and places. “I look forward to continuing to work with my colleagues and with AANMA to alleviate the burden of asthma and to finally get this bill signed into law. “Thank you all for your hard work and leadership on this issue.” Congresswoman Lowey is Congressional Co-Chair of Asthma Awareness Day. ###
05.02.2006	WASHINGTON, DC -Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed a bill, introduced by Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), to re-name the Tuckahoe Post Office in memory of Ronald “Ronnie” Bucca. Bucca, a New York City firefighter, was killed in the September 11th attacks. “For more than two decades, Ronnie Bucca dedicated his life to protecting the people of New York, and this bill would honor his memory and sacrifice,” said Lowey. “I thank my colleagues in Congress for their help in permanently memorializing Ronnie’s bravery and courage.” Ronnie Bucca was a 23-year veteran of the New York Fire Department (FDNY) serving in various units throughout the five boroughs including Rescue 1 and the FDNY Terrorist Task Force. In 1992, he was promoted to Fire Marshal. He also served in the military for 29 years, including service as a Special Forces Green Beret and in the 101st Airborne Division. For his brave service to our nation, the military has also honored Ronald Bucca. When the 800th Military Police Brigade took command of British Enemy Holding Area Freddy in Southern Iraq, it was promptly renamed Camp Bucca. On the morning of September 11th, 2001, Bucca was one of just two fire fighters to reach the fire floor in the South Tower. The men made it to the 78th floor where they began stretching a hose line to protect victims of the attack. He was the first Fire Marshal to be killed in the line of duty. Because Tuckahoe had been Bucca’s home for more than twenty years, Congresswoman Lowey introduced legislation in March 2006 to honor his memory by re-dedicating the Tuckahoe Post Office the Ronald Bucca Post Office. “In Iraq, Camp Bucca is named in Ronnie’s honor, and I feel we should honor his memory here at home as well,” said Lowey. “Ronnie Bucca was a hero in every sense of the word, and I am proud Congress has moved to recognize someone who dedicated his life to protecting the people of New York.” The bill has been co-sponsored by every member of the New York Congressional delegation. It will now await passage in the U.S. Senate.
04.28.2006	WHITE PLAINS, NY – As gas prices soar above $3 a gallon in parts of New York, and oil company CEO’s reap the profits, Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) is urging the Bush Administration and Congress to take steps to combat price increases.“These skyrocketing gas prices are a reflection of the Republican energy plan – too little, too late for the American consumer, too much, too often for big oil,” said Lowey. “We need a long-term strategy to lower gas prices and meet our energy needs, yet Republicans passed up a golden opportunity in major energy bills last year. Even proponents admitted they did little to reduce short-term energy costs. That’s because those bills were little more than tax windfalls and giveaways to oil companies that have been making record profits over the past few years while American consumers continue to suffer.”While American families feel the pain at the pump, oil company CEO’s reap the profits. The oil industry is benefiting from Republicans’ misplaced priorities while American families are suffering. According to the American Automobile Association’s Daily Fuel Gauge Report, families in New York are paying an average cost of $3.09 a gallon, up almost 80 cents from last year and 50 cents from one month ago. Yet the Exxon Mobil Corporation, the world’s largest publicly traded oil company, announced yesterday that its first quarter profit is up 7% over last year’s to more than $8 billion.“Democrats have a plan to give American families the relief they deserve. I will continue pushing Congress to pass a serious, innovative plan to protect American consumers,” added Lowey. “Congress must immediately consider both long-term solutions to rising gas and energy prices and additional short-term steps.”Congresswoman Lowey supports short-term solutions including repealing $8 billion in giveaways to big oil to help low-income consumers and small businesses; preventing, detecting, and punishing price gougers; and monitoring refining capacity to better anticipate and address price spikes before they happen.Lowey also supports long-term initiatives. Conservation efforts such as raising fuel economy standards for cars and light trucks, alternative energy sources, such as ethanol and new refined gas reserves would help preserve energy supplies and keep prices lower in the future.Congresswoman Lowey is a co-sponsor of the following energy-related bills:H.R. 3762, introduced by Rep. Boehlert, would raise the fuel economy standards of cars and trucks so that domestic use of oil for automobiles can be reduced by 10% by 2016.H.R.4409, introduced by Reps. Kingston and Engel, would encourage conservation policies as well as the expansion of alternative fuels, including cellulosic ethanol. It would authorize funds for demonstration programs, increasing the number of flex fuel cars and eliminate tariffs currently placed on ethanol produced in other countries such as Brazil.H.R. 4479, introduced by Rep. Higgins, would repeal about $8 billion in tax breaks and subsidies for the oil and gas industry and direct them to fully funding LIHEAP over the next two years and giving tax credits to farmers and small business owners for increased energy costs.H.R. 3936, introduced by Mr. Stupak, would target potential gouging.H.R. 3792, introduced by Rep. Brown, would create three to five refined gas reserves located in different parts of the country, which could be tapped in the event of an emergency or at the request of a Governor. ###
04.28.2006	WASHINGTON, DC – In anticipation of the Save Darfur Coalition’s Rally to Stop Genocide, which will be held this Sunday, April 30th in Washington, DC, Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) issued the following statement.“I add my voice to those of the thousands of Americans who will demonstrate solidarity with the people of Sudan at the Save Darfur Coalition’s Rally to Stop Genocide. In Washington, D.C., and all across the country, concerned people of all walks of life will let the people of Darfur know that their plight has not been forgotten, and let policymakers know that the international community must take decisive action to end the Darfur genocide.“On Sunday, people of all faiths, races and cultures will raise their voices in support of the people of Darfur, whose cries have been silenced by a brutal campaign of genocide. We understand that our own freedom is threatened when others are enslaved -- by violence, senseless hatred, starvation and abject poverty.“Led by the Save Darfur Coalition, thousands of activists have already made a difference in encouraging international action on Darfur. The concern of ordinary Americans has helped focus the attention and resources of our government – the White House, the State Department, and hundreds of Members of Congress – on solving the Darfur conflict, providing over $1.3 billion in assistance for Darfur and southern Sudan since 2000.“This activism also encouraged the U.S. to use its chairmanship of the U.N. Security Council in February to push for the establishment of a U.N. peacekeeping force in Darfur, which will build on and expand the efforts of the current, 7,700-strong African Union Mission in Sudan (AMIS). The Security Council has asked Secretary General Annan to expedite preparation for the transition of the AMIS into a U.N. force, and we must make sure that force has enough personnel and a strong mandate.“I urge those who have already spoken out to redouble their efforts. We must urge the President to continue to make Darfur a priority in our relations with other nations. We must press the U.N. to impose sanctions on all of those who are responsible for the bloodshed in Darfur. We must continue our efforts to reinforce the African Union force, training them up to U.N. standards so many of them can transition smoothly to participation in a U.N. peacekeeping force and bolstering their efforts with NATO support. And we must appoint a U.S. special envoy for Sudan, one point person responsible for U.S. efforts to end the Darfur conflict and maintain the North-South Comprehensive Peace Agreement.“I look forward to working with my constituents and my colleagues to accomplish these goals. Let the Rally to Stop Genocide rejuvenate, rather than culminate, our efforts on behalf of the people of Darfur.” ###
04.26.2006	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today announced the re-introduction of legislation that would focus U.S. attention on the need to provide all children around the world with a quality basic education. The Education for All Act, which Lowey discussed at an event to celebrate international “Send My Friend to School Week,” would focus on policy, leadership and resources, three areas in which U.S. action has long been lacking.“This isn't just about education - although that is important; this initiative focuses our attention on a glaring global problem. Today, too many children are either not educated or are being educated to hate,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “This is a part of our broader war on terror - by helping these children get a quality education we are promoting stability and prosperity in the future.”In its report, the 9/11 Commission made education in the Muslim world a key part of our long term strategy to combat terrorism. The 9/11 report emphasized that the education system in the Middle East contributed significantly to the rise of militant Islam.The bill’s re-introduction was announced as part of the 2006 Global Campaign for Education Week, which advocates for over 100 million poor children around the world who have been denied an education.Under this legislation, the United States would provide up to $2.5 billion by 2009, tied to strong standards of accountability and performance, to aid developing countries in establishing universal education systems. The legislation calls on the United States to coordinate the efforts of various federal agencies and work with other donor nations and NGO's to provide incentives and assistance to these countries. The goal is to establish universal basic education by 2015.“We must reach out to those with limited opportunities and show them that our nation stands for compassion as well as strength,” said Lowey. “This legislation would provide a framework to comprehensively provide basic education for all children.” ###
04.26.2006	WASHINGTON, DC - Today, Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) joined a bipartisan effort to ensure 100% inspection of all cargo containers before they arrive at U.S. ports. The measure failed in Committee by a vote of 18-16.“This is a workable proposal. At two of the largest shipping terminals in the world, every container is screened. If it can be done elsewhere, it can be done here,” said Lowey. “We should have taken these steps long ago. We cannot wait to be attacked before we secure our ports.”The Markey-DeFazio-Harman-Lowey-Jackson Lee 100% Container Screening Amendment, was offered today during the Homeland Security Committee mark up. H.R. 4954 “Safe Ports” bill would require the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) to ensure that containers heading for ports in the U.S. have been inspected using radiation and X-ray detectors before they are loaded onto boats headed for this country. When a similar amendment was offered during the Subcommittee markup, it was defeated on a straight party line vote.The Amendment to protect America’s ports would require the following.Ø Within 3 years of enactment, the Department of Homeland Security must ensure that the only containers that can enter the U.S. from larger ports have been inspected both for radiation and using X-rays before the containers are loaded onto boats headed for this country. Smaller ports are given 5 years to comply.Ø The Department of Homeland Security must also ensure that tamper-proof seals are placed on each container, and that if the seals are tampered with they will send an alarm to the Department of Homeland Security before the boat enters U.S. waters.“The Department of Homeland Security is destined to fail if we only pay lip service to homeland security measures,” added Lowey. “In order to protect our country, we must devote resources to doing the job. It is our duty to implement strong security measures.” ###
04.20.2006	Yonkers, NY - Today, Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), along with 1199 SEIU members, St. John’s Riverside Hospital representatives and other elected officials announced that Westchester County hospitals will lose over $32.5 million by 2011 under President Bush’s proposed Medicare cuts.President Bush’s proposed 2006-07 budget includes nearly $50 billion in cuts to the Medicare and Medicaid programs from 2007 to 2011. Medicare payments to hospitals in New York State would be cut by more than $700 million over those five years, and payments to nursing homes and home health providers would be cut by approximately $450 million over those same five years, bringing the total Medicare payment reductions to New York State healthcare providers to almost $1.2 billion by 2011."Proposed budget cuts to Medicare could put our local hospitals on life support," said Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), a member of the House Appropriations and Homeland Security Committees. "It makes no sense to cut much-needed funding from our health care providers at a time when we depend on them more and more to meet the public health and homeland security challenges we face. I am fighting in Congress to stop these detrimental cuts."These cuts would occur in a fiscal environment in which New York hospitals have suffered seven consecutive years of bottom line losses, and more than half of New York's nursing homes and certified home health agencies are losing money. If enacted, they would spell disaster for Westchester County’s financially struggling hospitals.Among the hospitals hardest hit is St. John’s Riverside Hospital, which would lose nearly $3 million. Westchester Medical Center is projected to lose over $7.5 million and White Plains Hospital over $3.4 million. ###
04.17.2006	WHITE PLAINS, NY – Millions of Americans are sending in their annual tax returns today and tomorrow. Many are facing increased taxes due to the Alternative Minimum Tax (AMT), which could affect millions more working class Americans next year if Congress doesn’t extend provisions as part of tax reconciliation considerations this year.“The Republican leadership in Congress has allowed temporary relief from the AMT to expire. If they don’t act this year, next April millions more Americans will be forced to pay higher tax bills,” said Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland). “We must act now so that tax day doesn’t become tax hike day.”The AMT was first designed in the 1960’s to ensure that the very wealthiest Americans paid some share of taxes. However, failure to adjust the AMT to inflation has allowed its effects to creep into the pocketbooks of working families. Temporary fixes have mitigated some of these effects, but they expired at the end of 2005. If they are not retroactively extended this year, 15 million additional middle-class families will be forced to pay the AMT. In fact, married couples with two children filing joint returns could have to pay the AMT even if their income is as little as $67,500.New Yorkers are hit especially hard by the AMT. In 2003, of the more than 2,350,000 Americans paying the AMT, nearly 15%, or more than 350,000, were New Yorkers. If Congress fails to extend AMT relief for 2006 and the percentage of AMT filers from New York remains the same, 2-3 million New Yorkers will be hit by the AMT next year.Lowey recently voted in support of keeping an AMT fix in the final tax reconciliation bill which is being negotiated by Members of the House and Senate. She has introduced legislation with Long Island Congressman Steve Israel to permanently reform the AMT by raising the income exemption to $100,000 for married couples and indexing it to inflation.“Middle class families should not have to pay the AMT,” said Lowey. “I’m fighting to permanently fix this problem so that millions of working class Americans won’t have unhappy returns on tax day 2007.” ###
04.05.2006	"Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 3127, the Darfur Peace and Accountability Act. Passage of this bill, which is long overdue, will help fulfill the U.S.’s role in ending the genocide in Sudan."More than a year and a half ago, Congress voted unanimously to condemn the genocide in Darfur. Then-Secretary of State Colin Powell declared the atrocities in Darfur to be genocide, a statement that was hailed as significant and meaningful coming from the highest echelons of the U.S. government. Despite these clear pronouncements, however, more people die every day and the slow genocide in Darfur persists unabated."It is beyond imagination that the collective might and concerted will of the nations of the world cannot find a way to end this daily toll of human misery. I hope and pray that Sudan will allow the proposed UN peacekeeping mission to move forward so that we can end this devastation. While we wait, however, we must find ways to make the African Union Mission in Sudan (AMIS) stronger, and to bolster these efforts with a NATO support."We must also send the message to those who perpetrate genocide that there will be consequences. The Darfur Peace and Accountability Act would impose harsh sanctions against those who are complicit in or responsible for acts of genocide, freezing their assets and restricting their ability to travel, and would block the Government of Sudan’s access to the oil revenues used to fund the ongoing genocide."The bill also properly recognizes that ending the genocide in Darfur is not a challenge to be solved by the United States alone. It provides clear support for efforts to establish a U.N. peacekeeping presence in Darfur and other multilateral initiatives to pressure the Sudanese government to end the genocide."My colleagues, 'Never Again' is a phrase we have all heard before. We have all said it before. It is one of the most powerful expressions of the natural human inclination to stop suffering, to end the death and destruction that stems from senseless hatred and indifference to human life."Never Again will we let 6,000,000 Jews perish under the noses of the civilized world. Never Again will we let Rwandans be rounded up and indiscriminately killed because of their tribal affiliation. Never Again will we allow ethnic cleansing in the Balkans."The problem with the phrase 'Never Again,' however, is that it is usually uttered after the violence is over, as a rallying cry against history repeating itself. We have seen, time and time again, that history does repeat itself, and it is simply not enough to say that we will prevent it next time. We must end the genocide in Darfur now."The Darfur genocide is not a Sudanese problem or an African problem. It is a human tragedy, and it is ours to solve. If we are serious about “Never Again,” let passage of the Darfur Peace and Accountability Act today be just one step along this long and arduous road." ###
04.03.2006	PLEASANTVILLE, NY – College costs are soaring across the country. Over the past five years, the costs of four years at a public university have risen by more than 40%. At the same time, studies have shown that a college degree is critical for future success, with college graduates making over $1 million more over their lifetimes than high school graduates. For families, it has never been more difficult to pay for a college education, yet it is more important than ever.Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) is working to make higher education more affordable for families. Today, she was joined by officials from Pace University, Purchase College, Westchester Community College, Iona College, and the College of New Rochelle to announce new legislation to help families bear the costs of college.“A college education is critical for students as a springboard for a better life. It is also crucial to our national economy to develop young talent in order to maintain our global competitiveness,” said Lowey. “Unfortunately, college costs have skyrocketed making it much more difficult for students to graduate without incurring mountains of debt. Sadly, some students are not able to attend or complete college because of these costs. My bill will help reverse that trend by providing more assistance to families and recent college graduates.”Lowey’s legislation, the Deductibility and Incentives to Promote Learning Opportunities and Maximize Assistance Act (DIPLOMA Act), will help families with the costs of college through either of the following options:* Full deductibility of all college-related expenses including tuition and fees, room and board, and books, from federal income tax. This provision is capped for couples making up to $160,000 or singles making up to $80,000.* A fully refundable tax credit for college-related expenses. The Earned Tuition Tax Credit (ETTC) would be available for all four years of college and would cover 100% of expenses up to $1500 and 50% of expenses up to an additional $2500.The DIPLOMA Act would also help recent graduates by allowing them to fully deduct both the principle and interest of their student loan payments for five years after graduation. After that time, they could still deduct their interest payments from their federal income taxes. Current law allows graduates to deduct only interest payments.This legislation provides maximum flexibility for families of all incomes to be able to reduce their tax burden if they are paying for a college education. Because it includes the option of either deductions or credits, a family can benefit even if they pay little or no income tax.For example, a family filing jointly and making $120,000 a year would save $7781 through the tuition tax deduction, while a single parent making $25,000 would save $2750 through the ETTC. A recent graduate with an income of $40,000 and loans totaling $20,000 with 4.7% interest payments would save $388.In addition, today Congresswoman Lowey also released a bipartisan letter signed by 89 Members of Congress, to the Chair and Ranking Member of the House Budget Committee. The letter, which Lowey authored, calls on the Committee to restore funding for the Perkins Loan Program, which the President’s budget targeted for elimination. If eliminated, 463,000 students across the nation would lose access to the program’s low interest loans.“Every family faces different challenges in paying for a college education. My bill would provide nearly every family with relief,” said Lowey. “At the same time, I will fight for Perkins loans and other exiting programs to make sure we are providing the maximum amount of assistance to families. It is too important to our nation’s future to not invest in higher education now.”Congresswoman Lowey is also seeking the stories and views of residents of Westchester and Rockland Counties on this issue. To share opinions and insights, constituents can go to www.house.gov/lowey/diploma.htm. ###
03.26.2006	NEW CITY, NY – Veterans came together today to record oral histories about America’s military past as part of the Veterans History Project, an initiative spearheaded locally by Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland). The Veterans History Project allows local residents and students to learn first-hand about the history of this nation while recording local veterans’ memories for the archives of the Library of Congress. “Our veterans have given so much to this country. We can never repay the sacrifices they have made, but we can make sure those sacrifices are remembered by future generations,” said Lowey. “This project preserves the stories through the Veterans History Project at the Library of Congress and gives our entire community an opportunity to learn firsthand about local veterans’ experiences.” The Veterans History Project was established by Congress, with Lowey’s support, in 2000. The Project honors the legacy of our veterans by preserving their personal accounts and memories of service in the archives of the Library of Congress. On Veterans’ Day 2005, Congresswoman Lowey announced that she would coordinate taping sessions to gather veterans’ histories in Westchester and Rockland Counties. Since that time, many students from schools in the 18th District have been paired with local veterans to collect and preserve written, audio, and video histories from America’s war heroes. Today, Congresswoman Lowey and Sally Pellegrini, Director of Community Relations and Local History for the New City Library, interviewed a group of Rockland County veterans for the project. This was the third taping session that has taken place since last November. More than 25 students and 25 veterans have participated in the event thus far. The accounts from these sessions will be sent to the Library of Congress for inclusion at the American Folklore Center and will be available online through the Library of Congress. “This is a wonderful opportunity for local residents and students to learn of the heroism of their neighbors and to enrich their knowledge of important chapters in our nation’s history,” said Lowey. ###
03.23.2006	Armonk, NY – A little-known provision of the law creating the Medicare Part D drug plan will soon take a chunk out of the pocketbooks of seniors across the country by means testing Medicare Part B for the first time in history. The Administration has also proposed the removal of inflation adjustments for Medicare Part B, which could result in higher premiums for millions more Medicare beneficiaries in the coming years. “The Medicare Part D drug program was bad enough, causing confusion and failing to substantially lower drug costs for millions of seniors. Now we learn that this legislation will actually increase premiums for many seniors who depend on Medicare Part B for their primary health coverage,” said Lowey. “This one-two punch puts many seniors’ financial security more at risk.” Since 2000, Medicare Part B premiums have doubled. The law creating the prescription drug program, the Medicare Modernization Act of 2003, will require many seniors to pay even higher Part B premiums depending on income. Currently, the federal government assumes 75 percent of the Medicare Part B premium, and the beneficiary pays the remaining 25 percent or $88.50 a month in 2006. Starting in 2007, the federal government’s share will be reduced on a sliding scale for beneficiaries with annual incomes over $80,000, or $160,000 for couples. By 2009, the government’s portion will drop to 65 percent for individuals with annual incomes between $80,000 and $100,000, 50 percent for $100,000 to $150,000, 35 percent for $150,000 to $200,000, and 20 percent for annual incomes over $200,000. Next year, seniors with an income of $80,000 could see premiums increase from $88.50 per month to $173, almost double the current cost. Within three years, some seniors could pay as much as $413 per month for Part B. The Medicare Modernization Act of 2003 would have adjusted these figures to inflation. However, President George W. Bush’s recent budget proposal would eliminate those inflation adjustments, resulting in higher premiums for more and more middle class seniors over time. As annual incomes rise with inflation, no adjustment would be made to the income threshold for means testing in Medicare Part B. For example, a senior with an annual income of $80,000 in five years will likely have less buying power than a senior with the same income today; however, the President’s plan would hold the means testing threshold at $80,000 regardless of inflation. According to the Congressional Research Service, assuming a 3% rate of inflation, a senior with an income of $69,000 today will cross the $80,000 threshold within only five years. Ninety-three percent of Medicare’s 44 million beneficiaries have Part B coverage. According to the Congressional Budget Office, means testing with adjustments for inflation would hit 1.2 million seniors with higher premiums in 2007 and at least 2.8 million, or six percent of current beneficiaries, by 2013. Under President Bush’s plan to eliminate adjustments for inflation, even more seniors would pay higher rates for Part B. In addition, seniors would likely be affected at a higher rate in our area where the median income level and the cost of living are generally higher than other regions. Local seniors joined Congresswoman Lowey today to discuss the financial hardships that will result from means testing. Lowey is fighting the President’s budget proposal that would remove inflation adjustments in order to protect working class seniors. She also announced that she is preparing to introduce new legislation to stop means testing from taking effect. The National Active and Retired Federal Employees Association (NARFE), the Seniors Citizens League, and the National Committee to Preserve Social Security and Medicare endorsed Lowey’s legislation. NARFE representatives joined Lowey at the press conference today. “Instead of lowering overall drug and health costs, this provision of the Medicare Part D bill could significantly increase the cost of basic health coverage for millions of seniors,” said Lowey. “I’m going to do everything I can to stop this from hurting current and future Medicare beneficiaries.” ###
03.17.2006	TUCKAHOE, NY - Over the past three decades, public health officials say the obesity rate has more than doubled in preschool children and adolescents and has more than tripled in 6- to 11-year-olds. This has increasingly contributed to health problems among children, including a rise in Type II adult-onset diabetes. For the first time ever, this generation of children may face a lower life expectancy than their parents’ generation due to increased incidence of obesity and decreased activity.Young people spend the bulk of their days at school, which is a crucial environment for learning healthy eating habits and practicing healthy nutrition. Unfortunately, a recent study has shown that too often schools teach the wrong lessons when it comes to good nutrition and physical activity. Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) is working to help schools counteract these trends through a new initiative aimed at improving healthy habits among students.“March is National Nutrition Month and it is critical that we take this time to educate young people about how good eating habits now can prevent health problems later,” said Lowey. “But we can’t just focus on nutrition and exercise one month a year – fighting obesity should be a year-round goal. My new legislation would provide schools with the information and resources they need to foster healthier habits.”A recent study by researchers at the University of Minnesota School of Nursing underscores the impact that school policies can have on the health and weight of students. The study found that students who attended schools that allowed certain food practices, such as using food as a reward or incentive for students or using food in school and classroom fund-raising, tended to have, on average, a higher body mass index (BMI). BMI is the ratio of height to weight, which health providers use to determine whether an individual is overweight. These types of practices contribute to increasing obesity rates and related health problems across the country. Every year, obesity-related illnesses cost this nation $117 billion in increased health care costs, according to the Department of Health and Human Services. Approximately 176,500 teenagers live with Type II diabetes. Those rates will only increase if our nation continues on its present course.Congresswoman Lowey was joined today by officials from the Tuckahoe Union Free School District to discuss the important role schools play in teaching healthy habits. The William E. Cottle School in Tuckahoe is taking a proactive approach to counteract unhealthy trends among its students. The school’s administrators formed a nutrition and physical activity advisory committee comprised of parents and local health experts, to make recommendations on how the school and community can cut down on obesity rates. Among programs undertaken by the advisory board is an initiative to offer healthier lunch choices to students and a public service announcement (PSA) campaign directed to parents through the local community access cable station.Congresswoman Lowey is seeking to expand these types of programs by introducing new legislation, the Stop Obesity in Schools (S.O.S.) Act. This bill would:Provide federal funding to local school districts to develop wellness policies;Provide resources to the Centers for Disease Control (CDC) to enable the agency to provide technical assistance on wellness policies;Require CDC to establish a mechanism to measure the policies’ effectiveness; andRequire additional federal research on the causes of obesity and effective treatments to combat obesity to better guide the development and implementation of obesity reduction and prevention programs.“Obesity is a tremendous problem for millions of Americans. We must provide better care for obesity-related illnesses and prevent obesity from occurring in the first place. As any teacher can tell us, lessons learned in schools – from the three R’s to nutrition – can last a lifetime,” said Lowey. ###
03.17.2006	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) introduced legislation to honor Tuckahoe resident Ronald “Ronnie” Bucca by naming the Tuckahoe Post Office in his memory. Bucca, a New York City firefighter, was killed in the September 11th attacks.“For more than two decades, Ronnie Bucca was dedicated to protecting the people of New York and he ultimately gave his life in the line of duty,” said Lowey. “This legislation would honor his memory and sacrifice.”Ronnie Bucca was a 23-year veteran of the New York Fire Department (FDNY) serving in various units throughout the five boroughs including Rescue 1 and the FDNY Terrorist Task Force. In 1992, he was promoted to Fire Marshal. He also served in the military for 29 years, including service as a Special Forces Green Beret and in the 101st Airborne Division.On the morning of September 11th, 2001, Bucca was one of just two fire fighters to reach the fire floor in the South Tower. The men made it to the 78th floor and began stretching a hose line to protect survivors in the 78th floor lobby. He was the first Fire Marshal to be killed in the line of duty.Because Tuckahoe had been Bucca’s home for more than twenty years, Congresswoman Lowey today introduced legislation to honor his memory by re-dedicating the Tuckahoe Post Office the Ronald Bucca Post Office. “In Iraq, Camp Bucca is named in Ronnie’s honor. I feel we should honor his memory here at home as well,” said Lowey. “I am proud to introduce this legislation to recognize a Westchester hero.”The bill has been co-sponsored by every member of the New York Congressional delegation. ###
03.16.2006	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed an amendment to provide an additional $50 million to support the African Union Mission in Sudan (AMIS). The amendment was offered as part of the Emergency Supplemental Appropriations bill. Congresswoman Lowey voted in favor of the provision and gave the following floor statement on the amendment: “Mr. Chairman, I rise in support of the Capuano amendment. More than a year and half ago the House and Senate voted unanimously to condemn the genocide in Darfur. And yet, every day, more people die and the slow genocide persists unabated. “It is beyond imagination that the collective might and concerted will of the nations of the world cannot find a way to end this daily toll of human misery. Mr. Chairman, I hope and pray that Sudan will allow the UN peacekeeping mission to move forward so that we can end this devastation. While we wait, however, we must find ways to make the African Union mission more effective. “I would note to my colleagues that the problem in Sudan has not generally been a lack of resources. With bipartisan support, and often under Democratic initiative, Congress has provided over $1.3 billion in assistance for Darfur and southern Sudan since 2000. This assistance has been and continues to be needed, and we are committed to providing it. “The primary problem, in my opinion, has been a lack of political will from the government of Sudan, from the international community, and, to a certain extent, from the United States. Until we address these issues of political will, I am afraid we will be forced to rely on solutions that treat the symptoms without curing the disease. “I support this amendment because it seeks to make a bad situation better. I thank the gentleman for offering it, and I also want to acknowledge the leadership of members of the Foreign Operations Subcommittee, specifically Representatives Jackson and Kilpatrick and Chairman Kolbe, who have worked diligently to bring attention and focus to the situation in Darfur.” ###
03.08.2006	WASHINGTON, DC – For years, Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) and other Members of Congress have called for Medicare to begin negotiating bulk drug purchases to bring down costs. Now a recent study has found that prices at the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) facilities have consistently beaten Medicare drug prices. Today, Congresswoman Nita Lowey questioned Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) Secretary Mike Leavitt about why Medicare and HHS continue to resist negotiating for the lowest prices.“This is not an issue where there is no data to support a position one way or the other. We have evidence from VA purchasing that price negotiating creates big discounts, not only for veterans, but for American taxpayers,” said Lowey. “We must take the smart, fiscally responsible path and use price negotiating in Medicare as well.”The Medicare Part D program created by Congress in the fall of 2003 specifically prohibits Medicare from using the price negotiating power of 43 million enrolled seniors to secure lower prices from drug companies. In contrast, the VA has long negiotiated lower drug prices for its five million veterans. A December 2005 study by Families USA found that the VA beat the drug prices of private plans under Medicare Part D for 19 of the 20 drugs analyzed and that the VA discounts were two to three times deeper.Today, in a hearing of the House Labor-Health and Human Services Appropriations Subcommittee, Congresswoman Lowey questioned Secretary Leavitt on whether the Administration would push for the authority to negotiate prices given this recent evidence. When Leavitt declined to commit take this common-sense step, Lowey vowed to work with her colleagues in Congress to ensure that Medicare is not passing up this opportunity to save seniors and taxpayers money.“I was disappointed, but not very surprised, to hear Secretary Leavitt oppose bulk price negotiating. This Administration pushed a drug plan that helps drug companies more than seniors and they are sticking with it,” said Lowey. “But I will not give up in my fight to lower drug prices and ease the financial burden on our nation’s seniors.” ###
03.07.2006	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) praised the Small Business Administration (SBA) for approving economic injury assistance for small businesses in Pelham. The businesses were hurt by a rock slide in December 2005.“This is great news for small businesses in Pelham. This assistance will provide business owners with operating funds until the businesses are able to recover from the rock slide,” said Lowey. “For weeks, I have worked closely with the Village, local business owners and Governor Pataki’s office to make sure the SBA would approve this assistance and our efforts bore fruit today.”The rock slide occurred after midnight on December 20, 2005. Although no one was hurt, it caused serious financial losses to sixteen businesses on 5th Avenue, including the complete displacement of eight. Congresswoman Lowey has been working with the Village and New York State to ensure the Village would be granted an economic injury designation for the affected businesses. This declaration will allow the business owners to apply for low-interest SBA loans. On January 6, Lowey met with local business owners and officials to discuss the process by which the Village could apply for federal assistance. Lowey assisted the Village in compiling the information for the application of assistance and wrote to Governor George Pataki in support of the Village’s petition. On February 17th, a staff member of Congresswoman Lowey’s staff attended a meeting in Pelham with representatives of the State Emergency Management Office (SEMO), the SBA, Westchester County, and Service Corps of Retired Executives (SCORE) to urge quick action on this matter so that business owners could begin to receive assistance.Last week, New York Governor George Pataki approved the designation and forwarded the Village’s petition to the SBA. Congresswoman Lowey also wrote to Hector V. Barreto, the Administrator of the SBA, to urge quick action on the Village’s petition. Today, the SBA granted the Village’s request for assistance. Through December 31, 2006, eligible businesses can apply for SBA loans at an interest rate of 4%. A temporary SBA office will soon open locally to help process applications. “This assistance will make a big difference in rebuilding the businesses and helping to prevent further economic loss,” said Lowey. “Some of our business owners are already facing the harsh choice of whether or not to close down. These low-interest loans will help keep doors open and smooth the path to recovery. While the road to full economic recovery may be long, I'm glad that the federal government is stepping up to help that process.” ###
03.06.2006	WHITE PLAINS, NY – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) announced today that she will co-sponsor legislation to require nuclear plant operators to notify the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) and state and local officials of unplanned releases of radioactive materials. In recent months, local officials and the public have been kept in the dark about leaks at the Indian Point power plant.“The issue is simple: local officials need to know if radioactive material is being discharged into our communities to protect the public. I was angry when the NRC and Entergy didn’t immediately notify local officials of a leak at the plant. And more recently, the state of New York failed to immediately inform local officials that Stronium-90 was found about 100 yards from the Hudson River. We have to stop this pattern of withholding information related to the health and safety of local residents,” said Lowey.Under current law, nuclear plant operators are only required to notify state and local officials of unplanned discharges if those discharges pose an immediate threat to public health or safety. Congresswoman Nita Lowey today announced that she will co-sponsor H.R. 4825, the Nuclear Release Notice Act, which requires that in the event of an unplanned release, the plant licensee immediately notify the NRC and the state and county in which the facility is located. Under the legislation, such notification would be required for releases outside of the allowable limits for normal operation or a release within the limits but which occurs more than twice in a two-year period originating from the same source.Under H.R. 4825, Entergy would have been required to immediately notify the NRC, New York State, and Westchester County of leaks in the spent fuel pool at Indian Point 2 because the releases were outside of those allowed for normal operations at the facility.“We must bring transparency and notification for local officials into this process so that those entrusted with protecting our communities have the information they need to keep residents safe,” said Lowey. Last week, Congresswoman Lowey also joined Congressman Eliot Engel (D-NY17) in urging the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to initiate an investigation into the Indian Point leak. ###
03.03.2006	WHITE PLAINS, NY – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) this week wrote to the Small Business Administration (SBA) to push for approval of federal aid for small business owners in Pelham. A rock slide in late December severely hurt a number of businesses in the Village.“This rock slide was a disaster for business owners in Pelham. Some of them have had to close their doors, and others are considering that terrible choice. They need assistance as soon as possible,” said Lowey.The rock slide occurred after midnight on December 20, 2005. Although no one was hurt, it caused serious financial losses to sixteen businesses on 5th Avenue, including the complete displacement of eight. Congresswoman Lowey has been working with the Village to compile the information necessary to apply for an economic injury designation for the affected businesses. Such a declaration would allow the business owners to apply for low-interest SBA loans. This week, New York Governor George Pataki approved the designation and forwarded the Village’s petition to the SBA. Congresswoman Lowey wrote to Hector V. Barreto, the Administrator of the SBA, to urge quick action on the Village’s petition. The SBA will make the final determination on whether to provide federal assistance. “It is clear to me that these businesses have been severely damaged because of a natural disaster beyond their control,” said Lowey. “I will continue to push for economic assistance from the Small Business Administration so that business owners and the Village of Pelham will not be irreparably harmed by this disaster.”### March 2, 2006 Mr. Hector V. BarretoAdministratorSmall Business Administration409 Third Street, SWWashington, DC 20416Dear Administrator Barreto:I am writing in strong support of the request made to you today by New York State Governor George Pataki seeking a Declaration of Economic Injury for the Downtown Pelham area due to a rock slide that occurred after midnight on December 20, 2005.We are all grateful that this disaster occurred in the middle of the night and no one was physically harmed, but this unfortunate event has caused serious financial loss to 16 business owners, including complete displacement of 8 businesses. This rock slide completely destroyed the building at 100-112 5th Avenue; caused substantial damage to the building at 116 5th Avenue, which is home to the Pelham Medical Group, and made the building located at 126-142A 5th Avenue unsafe to re-open. The losses that continue to accumulate with every day that these businesses are unable to operate not only make life increasingly difficult for the business owners, their employees, and all of their families to meet everyday responsibilities, but negatively impact the residents of Pelham through lost revenues. I recently met with the business owners affected by this disaster and they face many challenges in the days and months ahead. Fighting to receive the assistance they so desperately need and deserve from government should not be one of them. If you need any additional information or I can be of any assistance as you process this request, please don’t hesitate to contact me. I thank you for your consideration of this important application and for keeping me apprised of its status. Sincerely, ###
03.03.2006	VALHALLA, NY – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) is fighting to stop an unfair tax on seniors in assisted living facilities. Seniors entering these facilities often pay initial entrance fees that can total many thousands of dollars followed by monthly residency fees. Residents use money they have worked hard to earn and invested throughout their lives to purchase the housing and services provided by assisted living communities. In addition to the income taxes residents have already paid on these funds, the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) is levying a second tax on the entrance fees, treating them as interest-income over the time seniors live in the facility. However, seniors never receive any interest because the fees are payment for their residency.“This is a double tax on seniors who have worked hard to save for their retirements. This tax is unfair, and Congress must stop it now,” said Lowey.Today, Lowey was joined by residents of the Westchester Meadows and Kendal on Hudson assisted living communities to announce that she is co-sponsoring legislation to make it clear to the IRS that entry payments should not be taxed. H.R. 4608, the Continuing Care Seniors Housing Act, would ensure that seniors in assisted living facilities are not levied this tax on their housing costs.“Seniors shouldn’t pay taxes on interest income they simply don’t earn. This bill would end this hurtful double tax on seniors in assisted living facilities. I will continue fighting to pass this and other legislation to ensure retirement security for our seniors,” said Lowey. ###
02.28.2006	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) has joined a bipartisan effort to ensure that a pending deal to transfer the management of six American ports to a government-run company from the United Arab Emirates (U.A.E.) is thoroughly reviewed by Congress.“We have safeguards that should ensure that the security of our ports is maintained regardless of management. However, in this case, those safeguards and mandatory reviews were ignored,” said Lowey. “That is simply unacceptable. This legislation will give Congress the opportunity to review the management contract so that national security concerns are given the proper consideration.”The Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States (CFIUS) recently approved a proposed acquisition of terminals at six American ports, including New York, by Dubai Ports World (DP World), a firm owned by the government of U.A.E.Current U.S. law requires that any such agreement undergo a 30-day review followed by a 45-day review if security concerns arise. According to recent media reports, the U.S. Coast Guard warned the Bush administration that it could not rule out that the DP World’s assets could be used for terrorist operations. Yet, a 45-day security review was not conducted.Today, Congresswoman Nita Lowey co-sponsored legislation authored by Congressman Peter King (R-NY) to require a 45-day review. In addition, the legislation would ensure that all issues are thoroughly investigated by requiring Congressional approval before the DP World acquisition can be finalized. While DP World and the Bush Administration have come to an agreement to conduct a security review, the deal could still proceed without any Congressional oversight.“Congress must be involved so that the American people can have confidence that the review of Dubai Port World’s acquisition of ports receives the most rigorous scrutiny,” said Lowey. ###
02.27.2006	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) has received a 100% rating from the Children’s Defense Fund (CDF) Action Council for 2005. The CDF compiled the legislative scorecard to inform families about Senators’ and Representatives’ records on issues of importance to children. Lowey’s perfect score reflects her votes in support of gun safety, affordable housing and early education programs, among other issues."It is absolutely critical that Members of Congress do everything we can to ensure that all children are able to live in safe and healthy communities,” said Lowey. “I am proud to have received such a high rating from the Children’s Defense Fund because it is one of the leading national organizations devoted to helping protect the most vulnerable members of our society.”Founded in 1969, the CDF Action Council is a non-partisan organization dedicated to providing a strong, effective voice for all the children in America who cannot vote, lobby, or speak for themselves. The annual Nonpartisan Scorecard is part of CDF Action Council’s public education, ongoing policy analysis, and advocacy for children.The CDF Action Council scorecard can be seen online at: https://www.cdfactioncouncil.org/scorecard2005.pdf ###
02.24.2006	White Plains, NY - Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) issued the following statement on today’s announcement of the selection of a vendor to provide and install the new siren alert notification system for the Indian Point Energy Center. Entergy, which owns and operates Indian Point, has selected Acoustic Technology, Inc. (ATI).“Today’s announcement is a good step forward in fixing a problem that has plagued this community for far too long. Like many residents of Westchester and Rockland Counties, I have been very concerned over the frequent failures of the existing siren system, which was clearly inadequate and in need of replacement.“Now, the acquisition and installation of the new system must occur as quickly as possible, in close coordination with county officials, the State Emergency Management Office (SEMO), and the Department of Homeland Security (DHS). In the event of a disaster at the nuclear facility, public notification must be swift and seamless, and the government agencies responsible for emergency preparedness must have full knowledge of and confidence in the new system. I hope the new sirens finally meet the security needs of our communities.” ###
02.22.2006	Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) issued the following statement on the pending agreement to allow a state-run business in the United Arab Emirates (UAE) to manage six American ports, including New York City’s.“Like most Americans I was alarmed when I learned of the proposal to soon hand over port operations to a government-run company from the United Arab Emirates. Congress and the public deserved greater and earlier notification of this decision. Furthermore, the review process that the Administration relied upon should have been much more transparent.“Frankly, it is unconscionable that four and half years after September 11th, fewer than five percent of the cargo containers entering U.S. ports are screened. This administration’s track record begs greater congressional scrutiny of port management and the broader issue of port security. Congress must be briefed on the decision to approve the management contract so that it can determine whether the deal should go forward based on our national security needs. I am working with my colleagues in Congress to ensure that this will happen.” ###
02.17.2006	WASHINGTON, DC – Next week, a commissioner from the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) will visit the Indian Point power plants to discuss emergency planning with plant operators, local officials, and first responders. Several area Members of Congress today wrote to Commissioner Gregory Jaczko to urge him to use his visit and tour of the facility to conduct a thorough evaluation of flawed response and evacuation plans.“For years, I have warned that we need more federal oversight of Indian Point, so I am pleased NRC Commissioner Jaczko is making this trip. NRC must take this opportunity to do more to make sure there is a feasible plan in place to protect our communities in the event of a disaster,” said Congresswoman Nita Lowey (NY18). “The emergency response plans still include longstanding deficiencies.”“Even though I have repeatedly called for closing Indian Point, while it remains open we must do everything in our power to ensure that it is safe and that our citizens are prepared in the event of an emergency. I commend NRC Commissioner Jaczko for making this trip to Indian Point and look forward to hearing his observations,” said Congressman Eliot Engel (NY17).“It is my sincere hope that Commissioner Jaczko uses his visit to Indian Point next week for more than a photo opportunity with the press," Congressman Maurice Hinchey (NY22) said. “New York residents living and working near Indian Point need real action from the NRC on the safety of the plant and not just comforting rhetoric. It would be a wasted visit if Commissioner Jaczko doesn't come away from his visit to Indian Point with a clear understanding that a lot of work has to be done to investigate the plant's operations and evacuation plans in order to safeguard the people of New York and the surrounding areas.”Commissioner Jaczko, one of five NRC commissioners, will come to the area for stakeholder meetings, a visit to the Traffic Management Center, and a tour of Indian Point on February 22nd and 23rd.Lowey and other Members today asked Commissioner Jaczko to examine several problems with the facility and the emergency response plan, including:* The failure of the plan to include a fast-release scenario caused by a terrorist attack;* Shortcomings in interoperable communications capabilities among first responders;* The likelihood of self-evacuation rather than compliance with the directions of government officials;* The lack of first responder confidence in the plan, in part driven by a shortage of appropriate equipment;* The geographic and transportation limitations which constrict evacuation; and* Inadequate public education both inside and outside of the 10-mile evacuation zone. ###Dear Commissioner Jaczko:We are writing today to thank you for your recent decision to visit the Indian Point Energy Center and meet with state and local officials at the Traffic Management Center at Hawthorne, New York. As you know, emergency planning for Indian Point is one of our highest priorities, and we have a number of concerns about the viability of the current emergency plan.The preponderance of evidence shows that the plan is fundamentally inadequate and that NRC ought not to recertify it. Former Federal Emergency Management Agency Director James Lee Witt, who completed an evaluation of the plan in 2003, uncovered glaring deficiencies, and local and state officials have now repeatedly refused to certify the plan on the grounds that it would not be effective during an emergency.It is not sufficient to primarily examine the ability of local first responders to execute their roles in an emergency; the plan must also be evaluated for its overall likelihood of success. We request that, as part of your visit, you examine whether the myriad problems raised in the Witt report as well as the concerns of local officials have been addressed. Specifically, we request that you investigate:*The failure of the plan to include a fast-release scenario caused by a terrorist attack;*Shortcomings in interoperable communications capabilities among responders;*The likelihood of self-evacuation rather than compliance with the directions of government officials;*The lack of first responder confidence in the plan, in part driven by a shortage of appropriate equipment;*The geographic and transportation limitations which constrict evacuation; and*Inadequate public education both inside and outside of the 10-mile evacuation zone.It is our strong belief that the orderly and successful implementation of the current emergency plan would be impossible given the population, geography, and transportation challenges in the surrounding area. As a result, the NRC must take action now to address these unique circumstances and begin the process of seriously evaluating Indian Point’s place in our community.We hope that you will use this visit and meeting to investigate these concerns and to draw on the expertise of local officials in preparation for the NRC’s pending decision on recertification of Indian Point’s emergency response plan. We look forward to your findings. ###
02.08.2006	WASHINGTON, DC – Yesterday, Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) joined congressional colleagues and Administration officials in a table top exercise to test the nation’s preparedness for an avian flu pandemic. The exercise was organized by the National Strategic Gaming Center at National Defense University.“I have long believed that our nation is simply not ready for an avian flu pandemic,” said Lowey. “We need to do much more to identify gaps in our current preparedness efforts and provide the resources to fill those gaps. Exercises like this are absolutely critical in allowing us to test the current limits of our preparedness plans and provide information as to how a pandemic could spread.”Yesterday’s exercise, titled Global Tempest, provided a forum for information exchange and collaborative decision-making in the context of a major national public health crisis. Participants examined the gravity, complexity, and difficulty inherent in responding to the outbreak of pandemic flu at home and abroad. The exercise examined responses to various hypothetical scenarios including the emergence of a pandemic flu strain overseas, the presentation of the first cases in the United States and the eventual development of a full blown pandemic worldwide. Immediately following the exercise, Members of Congress, including Lowey, shared their insights and policy recommendations with officials from the Department of Defense.Two senators and eight U.S. Representatives participated in the exercise, along with representatives of numerous executive agencies, including the Departments of Defense, Homeland Security, Health and Human Services, and Agriculture, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, and the National Institutes of Health.“This exercise was an excellent opportunity to share information across party lines and throughout the federal government,” said Lowey. “While I saw firsthand the possible devastating effects of a pandemic and how much must be done to prepare, I am hopeful that we can still make progress in improving our national and international readiness. I will continue to push in Congress to provide our federal, state and local governments with the resources they need to respond to a pandemic.”Congresswoman Lowey is the author of several pieces of legislation to prepare for an avian flu pandemic. Most recently, she introduced the Pandemic and Seasonal Flu Act which would provide a comprehensive approach to preparedness by focusing on improving international surveillance, strengthening the production of seasonal flu vaccines, and increasing funding for state and local public health preparedness. ###
02.06.2006	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, the President unveiled his budget proposal for fiscal year 2007. Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) said that the budget raises serious concerns about programs that are important to New Yorkers.“When I talk to residents of the 18th Congressional District, I continually hear about the need for more federal support for important priorities. Schools, hospitals and first responders rely on federal assistance, yet this budget doesn’t meet those needs. Instead, it will increase the burden on local governments, resulting in higher taxes for New Yorkers.Lowey outlined several areas of concerns in the budget:Health Care· The Preventive Health Services Block Grant provided almost $9 million to New York just last year. This funding was used for diverse initiatives such as the Healthy Heart program, diabetes coalitions, child lead poisoning prevention, asthma prevention, and rape crisis services. This year, the program has been slated for elimination.*Medicare has been targeted fro $36 billion in cuts over the next five years. Hospitals, skilled nursing facilities, and other health care providers will receive lower reimbursements under the budget.“In Westchester and Rockland Counties, hospitals are already struggling in the face of funding shortfalls,” said Lowey. “These cuts are going to exacerbate existing problems and hurt patients throughout our area. The President instead should have re-evaluated his expensive Medicare prescription drug program and sought to hold down prices by allowing the reimportation of drugs and bulk pricing negotiations with drug companies.”Education* The 21st Century Afterschool Learning Centers Program has been cut by $10 million despite a recent report’s finding that 25 states, including New York, will not be able to create any new afterschool programs without increased funds.* Programs that help prepare students for college, such as TRIO and GEAR UP, are also hit hard in the President’s budget. Funding for TRIO is cut by more than half from $828 million to $380 million and GEAR UP has been completely eliminated.Homeland Security* While the budget proposes increases to the Urban Area Security Initiative and the State Homeland Security Grant Program, the elimination of the Law Enforcement Terrorism Prevention Program will result in an overall decrease in homeland security funds available to state and local governments.* The widely popular FIRE Grant program will be cut almost in half, from $575 million in FY06 to $293 million in FY07.“Over the last three years, 16 fire departments in the 18th Congressional District have received more than $1.4 million in fire grants,” said Lowey. “This is just one example of critical community support that will be difficult to maintain in the face of huge cuts.”“Unfortunately, this bill of goods is being sold to the public as a way to lower the skyrocketing deficits accumulated under this Administration. However, even these drastic cuts will do nothing to improve our nation’s fiscal health. In FY06, the budget deficit will reach a record high of $423 billion, and the new budget’s projected $354 billion deficit does not include any spending for military operations in Iraq and Afghanistan,” said Lowey. “Under this budget, vital programs will be cut, local governments will be under even greater strain, and we’ll still have record deficits. As a Member of the Appropriations Committee, I’m going to work with my colleagues to create a budget that will meet important community needs while putting our nation back on the fiscally responsible path.” ###
02.06.2006	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, President George W. Bush released his fiscal year 2007 budget proposal. The proposal includes more than $23.7 billion for foreign assistance programs. Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY18), the Ranking Member of the House Foreign Operations Appropriations Subcommittee, issued the following statement on the foreign operations budget:“While I am pleased that the President’s budget provides a 14% increase overall for Foreign Operations, I have serious questions about the priorities it represents. I appreciate and support the President’s commitment to combating HIV/AIDS. However, the FY2007 bill continues an Administration trend to scale up funding for Presidential initiatives such as the Millennium Challenge Account and HIV/AIDS by cutting or neglecting core development priorities.“This budget is bad news for non-HIV/AIDS and malaria health initiatives, as well as for key priorities such as basic education. The President has proposed major cuts to child survival and maternal health programs and assistance for vulnerable children, and he has reneged on his own pledge to fund international family planning programs at $425 million per year. The FY07 budget would actually cut these lifesaving programs by at least $80 million.“Despite clear evidence that providing basic education in developing countries is key to alleviating poverty, improving health, and promoting democratic societies, this budget would actually cut basic education initiatives in the Development Assistance account by over $100 million. And, at a time when the U.S. should be paying more, rather than less, attention to the national security imperative of a stable and secure Latin America, the President is proposing cuts of nearly 30% to development assistance funds for that region. These cuts are simply shortsighted – its bad policy to wait until destabilization in Latin America threatens us imminently to take action.“In the face of continued evidence that the reconstruction effort in Iraq is over budget and behind schedule, it is not surprising that the President has requested more money for this purpose. However, we have yet to see a comprehensive strategy to complete reconstruction priorities and stabilize the country, and we have no clear indication of what American taxpayers have gotten for the more than $20 billion we have provided already. We cannot allow the Administration’s bumbling of Iraq reconstruction up until now to dominate funds needed elsewhere around the world.“I believe it is the prerogative of every Administration to reevaluate existing programs and propose new initiatives. I am pleased the President understands that foreign assistance is, along with diplomacy and defense, part of a complete national security strategy. However, the President has repeatedly pledged that funding for new initiatives will be in addition to, rather than in place of, existing programs. In proposing cuts to most health and development initiatives, the FY07 budget request does not honor this promise.“I will work with Foreign Operations Appropriations Chairman Kolbe and my colleagues to craft a foreign assistance spending bill that treats our priorities around the globe more equitably.” ###
02.03.2006	WASHINGTON, DC – This week, Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) joined the effort to restore integrity to the Republican-led Congress by co-sponsoring the Honest Leadership, Open Government Act, an aggressive reform package to protect the public trust.“Over the past several years, the American public has witnessed shameful abuses of power by some Members of Congress. These actions have made Congress less responsive to the needs of the public and more beholden to special interest groups,” said Lowey. “I believe we must take steps now to restore the integrity of the legislative branch of government so that our constituents know we are all working to make this nation a better place.”The Honest Leadership and Open Government Act will focus sweeping government reforms on four key areas: * Banning travel and gifts from lobbyists and those who employ them, and requiring lobbyists to disclose campaign contributions; * Reducing the unprecedented political access given to corporations and lobbying firms and prohibiting Members from giving legislative favors to lobbying firms in exchange for hiring Members and staff of their same party; * Ending special interest deals in the “dead of night” and requiring disclosure of earmarks, so that the public can see exactly what elected officials are doing in Washington; and * Halting the revolving door between government and lobbyists by extending the lobbying ban to two years. “We can and should pass fundamental reform in Washington,” said Lowey. “This bill will make the legislative process more transparent and diminish the influence of lobbyists. I’m proud to support the effort to end corruption and return Congress’ focus to the people’s business.”###
01.31.2006	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY18) issued the following statement on President George W. Bush’s State of the Union address:“The American people are very concerned that our country is on the wrong track. Gas and oil prices remain near record highs. Real wages have fallen over the past three years. The war in Iraq continues, and gaps remain in our homeland security defenses. The President needed to show leadership and set a new course for our nation, but he didn’t do that tonight.“Instead, we heard more of the tired rhetoric so prevalent in past speeches. There were few new ideas for improving wages for working families, making higher education more affordable, or reducing crime in our neighborhoods. The President focused on energy and health care, but these are two areas where he has already failed. Just last year, his Administration successfully pushed an energy plan that provides far more in benefits to oil and gas producers than it does to research alternative fuels or lower prices for American families. And the failures of the Medicare prescription drug program should serve as a warning for any initiative he pushes on health care.“Most worrisome is the President’s continued mismanagement of the war in Iraq where the insurgency remains strong and the reconstruction effort falters. Here at home, homeland security resources are diverted from proven vulnerabilities, while the Administration ignores the lessons of the failed response to Hurricane Katrina.“We must put our nation back on the right path. I will work with my colleagues to resolve these challenges so that we can build a better country for all of our families.” ###
01.27.2006	WHITE PLAINS, NY – Hurricane Katrina sharply illustrated how flawed and inadequate evacuation plans can lead to devastating consequences in the event of an emergency. The evacuation plans for communities surrounding the Indian Point power plants have been consistently deemed inadequate by experts and local officials alike.Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) today joined local officials in calling on the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) to refuse to recertify the evacuation plans, which have already been rejected by Westchester, Rockland, and Orange Counties.“Indian Point sits in the middle of a densely populated area. Our roads are overwhelmed during routine commuter traffic, yet the Indian Point evacuation plans depend almost entirely on roads and highways. If FEMA again certifies these evacuation plans, it will be turning a blind eye to common sense and serious safety concerns,” said Lowey.A review of emergency preparedness at Indian Point completed by former FEMA Director James Lee Witt in 2003 uncovered glaring deficiencies, including traffic-related challenges that would likely result during an evacuation. Wind storms seriously impeded travel flow throughout the area last week when one major artery was compromised, causing congestion on roadways miles away.Today, Lowey joined Representatives Maurice Hinchey, Eliot Engel and Sue Kelly in urging FEMA to refuse to certify the Indian Point evacuation plans. The Members further asked FEMA to release the criteria used for making decisions about recertification so that local officials and residents can better understand FEMA’s review of the plans. (Please see attached letter.)Congressman Eliot Engel, a member of the Energy and Commerce Committee, said, “FEMA can not in good conscience recertify the emergency response plan for Indian Point. Even in the best of circumstances, an orderly and safe evacuation of the area in the event of an accident or, worse, a terrorist attack, is impossible. The recent storms in the area, which blocked some roads and rendered some alert sirens inoperable, demonstrate this. The people who know the area best, the County Executives of Westchester, Rockland, and Orange Counties, refused to certify the plan. FEMA should follow their lead and refuse recertification.”“It would be an outrage if FEMA were to certify an Indian Point evacuation plan that has been rejected by the surrounding counties as inadequate,” Congressman Maurice Hinchey said. “If ever there were a time the Bush Administration ought to listen to local input, this is it. No one knows better about whether an evacuation plan for Indian Point makes sense than the leaders of the surrounding counties. FEMA needs to listen and work with, not against, local leaders to identify an evacuation plan for Indian Point that would adequately protect residents and prevent mass chaos if an evacuation were needed.”“The concerns in the Witt Report that have gone unaddressed and the inefficient response to Hurricane Katrina have given local officials practical reasons not to certify these plans. FEMA needs to acknowledge these flaws and work more closely with our local communities to put adequate emergency preparedness plans in place,” said Congresswoman Sue Kelly.“We appreciate all the efforts Congresswoman Lowey has made in order to protect the people of Westchester County from what could take place at Indian Point. We are gratified by her support of our position that the evacuation plans would not be effective should there be a fast-breaking scenario. It is for that reason that the county has not given its certification, and nothing proves the point more than the problems caused by the recent windstorm, when, should there have been an incident at Indian point at the same time, people could not have been evacuated safely. For that reason I will continue to push for the closure of the facility,” Westchester County Executive Andy Spano."We fully support Congresswoman Lowey's efforts and join her in calling for disclosure from FEMA on evacuation criteria that has been kept hidden from the public. The safety of our residents must come first. They are entitled to a plan that works," Rockland County Executive C. Scott Vanderhoef said.“When a wind storm can reduce traffic to a standstill, we must seriously question whether our roads can handle an evacuation many times the size of everyday commuter travel,” said Lowey. “Again and again, experts have told us that these plans won’t work. FEMA must reject them now and work with local officials to put in place safeguards that will truly protect our communities.”###Mr. R. David PaulisonActing DirectorFederal Emergency Management AgencyDear Acting Director Paulison:We are writing today in reference to the recent decisions of Westchester, Rockland, and Orange Counties to refuse to certify the emergency response plans for the Indian Point Energy Center. In light of these decisions, which these Counties have made based upon assessments of how to best protect their residents, we are asking you to release the criteria that you plan to use in making your own decision on certifying the plans. Based upon a preponderance of evidence that the plans are fundamentally inadequate, we urge you to refuse to certify them until adequate response plans are put in place.The Gulf Coast hurricanes of last year convincingly demonstrated that a large scale evacuation of densely populated areas is extremely difficult. The Federal government’s failure to provide timely assistance did nothing to inspire further confidence, and the challenges posed by the number of people and unique geography of the area surrounding Indian Point make the orderly and successful implementation of the current emergency plan impossible. It is time the agency recognize what local officials have known all along: the existing emergency response plans would not protect the public in the event of a nuclear catastrophe at Indian Point.As you know, a thorough review of emergency preparedness at Indian Point completed by former FEMA Director James Lee Witt uncovered glaring deficiencies. The logistical challenges that could result from traffic congestion during an evacuation were recently laid bare by wind storms that swept the New York area last week. When one major artery was compromised, ramifications were felt on roadways miles away. While this storm constituted an emergency in and of itself, the demonstrated limitations of the transportation system around Indian Point concern us even more. If traffic complications that are minor in comparison with an evacuation can result in the gridlock witnessed during these wind storms, it is clear that the consequences of ordering an evacuation with any roadway closures or delays would be catastrophic.Refusing to acknowledge the flaws in the emergency response plans is dangerously irresponsible. We believe that FEMA must take action now to acknowledge this problem and begin the process of seriously evaluating Indian Point’s place in our community.Public disclosure of your certification criteria and a refusal to certify in the face of clear concern from local communities and officials would be important first steps toward this end. We look forward to your response. ###
01.26.2006	WHITE PLAINS, NY – Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY18), the Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Foreign Operations, issued the following statement on the results of yesterday’s Palestinian parliamentary elections:“Regardless of the Palestinian people's motives for supporting Hamas, the projected results of the Palestinian parliamentary elections are very disturbing. Hamas needs to immediately disarm, denounce terror and violence, recognize Israel's right to exist, and commit to future negotiations if it wants to be seen as, and treated as, a legitimate political party.“The U.S. has not, does not, and will not negotiate with terrorists. We must maintain this stance, and resolve to give Israel the space it needs to secure its own people in light of this troubling development.” ###
01.25.2006	PORT CHESTER, NY – President George W. Bush will soon release his fiscal year 2007 budget plan. Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland) believes it must include increased funding for afterschool programs. Yesterday, she joined local educators, parents and students in discussing the importance of these initiatives and the critical need for more federal funds.“Afterschool programs not only provide children with a safe haven after the school day is done, they contribute to higher test scores and greater student achievement. Millions of children are enrolled in these programs, and we should do more to reach underserved areas,” said Lowey. “Unfortunately, federal funding for afterschool programs has been level since 2002. This year we must put kids first and increase this investment.”A study by the Afterschool Alliance found that while 6.5 million children are enrolled in afterschool programs, another 14 million American children are alone after the school bell rings at 3:00 pm. This is especially troubling because the hours between 3:00 and 6:00pm can be a dangerous period for children spending time alone. The need for expansion is great, yet another study by the Afterschool Alliance revealed that 25 states, including New York, will not be able to fund any new afterschool programs this year.The main federal afterschool program is the 21st Century Community Learning Centers (21st CCLC) program. Congresswoman Lowey was among the Members of Congress who helped create 21st CCLC, which currently funds afterschool programs for 1 million children, including more than 96,000 in New York State. Unfortunately, its funding has not been increased since 2002.Yesterday, Congresswoman Lowey released a letter to President Bush urging him to increase funding for 21st CCLC in his upcoming budget. She was joined by local educators who credited afterschool programs with helping to improve test scores.“Right now more than four hundred students are involved in extended day programs in Port Chester. These programs provide a safe haven for our children and an opportunity to enhance and enrich the academic program. They must be expanded so we can reach even more children. From the perspectives of educators, parents and students, funding must be increased, so I totally support Congresswoman Lowey’s efforts to expand this program across the country and certainly in New York State,” said Dr. Charles Coletti, superintendent of Port Chester public schools.“Supplemental afterschool instruction, provided to 500 children in 7 elementary and 2 middle schools in our district, is pivotal in assuring that all children in our district from our long-time resident to recent immigrant, from the wealthy to those in need of financial assistance, meet the higher learning standards and mandates of NCLB. We have a track record of success. This necessary funding provides a measurable demonstration of a federal commitment to the mandates of NCLB. With this funding, the federal government has matched its actions with its values,” said Linda Kelly, superintendent of New Rochelle public schools.“I have heard from parents and teachers firsthand about the importance of afterschool initiatives. Students in these programs do better in school, are less likely to get into trouble and are more likely to realize their dreams,” said Lowey. “I urge the President to work with me to increase funding for these programs and help ensure that more students have the resources they need to succeed.” ###
01.03.2006	WHITE PLAINS, NY – The Department of Homeland Security today unveiled a new strategy for the distribution of Urban Area Security Initiative (UASI) grants. This program was created to direct federal funds to those urban areas most at-risk for a terrorist attack. Under the new formula, funds will be distributed on the basis of risk, but unlike in past years, risk from natural disasters will also be considered.Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-Westchester/Rockland), who has led the fight in the House to allocate funds on the basis of risk, released the following statement on the new initiative:“Risk should be the primary factor when allocating our scarce resources to prevent and prepare for terrorist attacks. I am pleased that the Department of Homeland Security is moving toward a risk-based assessment to distributing UASI funds and I will continue fighting to enact risk-based formulas for other programs, such as the State Homeland Security Grants Program (SHSGP), which provides far more funding to low-risk states on a per capita basis.“I am concerned that DHS will rely heavily on a critical infrastructure database that is flawed and inadequate. Scheduled to be completed at the end of 2004, it is unfinished and plagued by discrepancies due to vague guidance to state and local officials. Without a comprehensive database with standardized criteria, DHS won’t have a complete picture to assess risk. “Furthermore, including catastrophes other than terrorism could dilute the impact of this important grant program. We all agree that we must address failures such as those in the response to Katrina; however we shouldn’t rob Peter to pay Paul when it comes to national security.“Risk-based funding is absolutely necessary to prepare for a possible attack: Congress must carefully evaluate the new distribution of funds to make sure DHS can carry out the goals announced today.” ###
